
	Texas Forest Service











LAW ENFORCEMENT - HOME









[ Print | 

 ]



Arson and other uncontrolled wildland fires pose a serious threat to lives, property, and natural resources in rural and sub-urban communities. Conditions are particularly hazardous in the wildland urban interface (WUI), where structures and other human developments meet, or intermingle, with forests and grasslands. Nationally, the damage associated with wildland arson, acreage and dollar losses, is more than all other causes associated with wildland fires.Since its inception in 1915, one of the primary missions of TFS has been to enforce all laws pertaining to the protection of forests and woodlands and prosecute violations of those laws. To accomplish this, the TFS Director may appoint up to 25 employees who are qualified peace officers certified by the Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education to fulfill those duties. One of the primary rolls of a TFS law enforcement (LE) officer is to provide wildfire arson investigation and training as requested by TFS personnel, local fire departments, the State Fire Marshal’s Office or other law enforcement agencies. TFS LE officers work both misdemeanor and felony investigations. Two years ago, the department was expanded to include an arson-tracking dog. The department also maintains an arson hotline to enable reporting of suspected wildland arson. LE officers also work with timber theft cases both by direct investigation and by serving as subject matter experts for other state or local law enforcement units. The agency maintains a Timber Theft Hotline to allow public reporting of suspected timber theft activity. As demand for these services has increased, the agency has slowly converted more of its officers to full-time LE duties. Today, the agency has nine full-time LE officers, with others serving as “additional duty LE officers”.TFS LE officers also provide: Security and investigation of activity on state forests and agency propertyInternal investigations, including missing propertyMission property investigations for federal excess property assigned to fire departmentsAccident investigation on vehicles insured through the Volunteer Fire Department Vehicle Liability Insurance programQuicklinksArson AnnieTimber TheftWildland Arson Hotline 








