
	Texas Forest Service











ABOUT CERTIFIED FOREST STEWARD AWARDS FOR LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



Texas landowners now have another opportunity to brag about the good things they are doing on their property. They realize that owning land is a right valued by many, but with this right comes the responsibility to take care of it for the future. The Texas Forest Stewardship Program now recognizes these good stewards of the land with the Certified Forest Steward award.
This award is presented to any Texas landowner that meets the qualifying requirements of owning at least 10 acres, having a written Stewardship plan, and implementing aspects of that plan. It comes in the form of a metal sign for your property and a certificate signed by the State Forester. There are no timelines or deadlines to meet to receive this award and nominations can be made by anyone.
This federal/state partnership is beneficial to all Texas landowners, regardless of where their property might be located. The program stresses written objectives and recommendations tailored to be site specific, and is based on each individual landowner’s goals.
Foresters with the Texas Forest Service or other natural resource professionals will help develop a Stewardship plan for your property, a 10-year course of action, outlining step-by-step measures to keep your land productive now and in the future. Other benefits may result from these recommendations, such as cleaner air and water, healthy populations of fish and wildlife, quality outdoor recreation, and profitable forest products.
Many landowners are already practicing good stewardship on their land. A few examples of this are using voluntary Best Management Practices, reforestation, and installing food plots.
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program is here for you, whether you’re working on increasing the productivity of your land or improving your conservation efforts. Together, we can move toward a brighter future with thriving forest lands and healthy economic rewards.








