Firefighting	67	.com ambulance arson Building construction Christopher Naum Collapse Command Fire Apparatus County Dave Statter destroyed emergency EMS EMS 12-Lead ems12lead.com EMT engine extrication fdny fire Fire Critic FireCritic.com firefighter firefighters firefighting Fires fire service Fire Truck Blog firetruckblog.com fossilmedic Glenn Usdin House Fire leadership LODD Maryland paramedic Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog rescue Rhett Fleitz safety Sellfiretrucks.com South Carolina STATter911.com tactics Tom Bouthillet Training video This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network.
Firefighting	58	.S. should have declared victoryGerman police detain 2; search Islamic centerAl Jazeera journalist not allowed to film at Texas high school football gameGargantuan 21-foot crocodile caught in Philippines Loading... World News India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blast SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that More India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blastSRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that killed 12 people in New Delhi, senior police sources in Kashmir told Reuters.Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crash YAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane More Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crashYAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane crash that killed 43 people.Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoy AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy More Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoyAMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy protests, activists and residents said.South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll lead SEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three More South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll leadSEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three years.Egypt court to hear testimony from top officials CAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next More Egypt court to hear testimony from top officialsCAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next week that could prove decisive in determining the fate of the ousted president.
Firefighting	24	.S. should have declared victory Loading... World News India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blast SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that More India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blastSRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that killed 12 people in New Delhi, senior police sources in Kashmir told Reuters.Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crash YAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane More Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crashYAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane crash that killed 43 people.Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoy AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy More Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoyAMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy protests, activists and residents said.South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll lead SEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three More South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll leadSEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three years.Egypt court to hear testimony from top officials CAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next More Egypt court to hear testimony from top officialsCAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next week that could prove decisive in determining the fate of the ousted president.
Firefighting	22	.com ambulance arson Building construction Christopher Naum Collapse Command Fire Apparatus County Dave Statter destroyed emergency EMS EMS 12-Lead ems12lead.com EMT engine extrication fdny fire Fire Critic FireCritic.com firefighter firefighters firefighting Fires fire service Fire Truck Blog firetruckblog.com fossilmedic Glenn Usdin House Fire leadership LODD Maryland paramedic Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog rescue Rhett Fleitz safety Sellfiretrucks.com South Carolina STATter911.com Tom Bouthillet Training video Willie Wines Jr.
Firefighting	21	.S. should have declared victoryIran warns Turkey about NATO's defense systemGargantuan 21-foot crocodile caught in Philippines Loading... World News India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blast SRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that More India detains 3 people in Kashmir linked to Delhi blastSRINAGAR, India (Reuters) - Indian police detained three people for questioning on Thursday, including the owner of an Internet cafe, over an email allegedly claiming responsibility for a bombing that killed 12 people in New Delhi, senior police sources in Kashmir told Reuters.Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crash YAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane More Russia mourns loss of hockey team in plane crashYAROSLAVL, Russia (Reuters) - Candles flickered beside mounds of red carnations at the stadium of one of Russia's top ice hockey teams on Thursday after almost the entire team was wiped out in a plane crash that killed 43 people.Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoy AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy More Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoyAMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy protests, activists and residents said.South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll lead SEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three More South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll leadSEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three years.Egypt court to hear testimony from top officials CAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next More Egypt court to hear testimony from top officialsCAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next week that could prove decisive in determining the fate of the ousted president.
Firefighting	18	.gonzalescannon.com RealNewsReporter.com is now reporting that volunteer firefighters who had in some cases driven all night to reach Bastrop county were turned away by the feds, who claimed that since local officials never made a "formal request" for volunteers, the volunteers could not be "activated.
Firefighting	16	.Actress Reese Witherspoon was struck by a car while jogging near Los Angeles on Wednesday morning and suffered minor injuries.Bon Jovi in 9/11 encore sings for NY firefighters Rocker Jon Bon Jovi returned to a Manhattan fire house Wednesday to pay tribute to firefighters marking the 10-year anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Firefighting	12	.... Bastrop Texas fire Bastrop Texas fire 0:35 Smoke from the fire billowing over our house just east of FM 304 on FM 2571... Lost Pines firestorm Bastrop TX Sept 4 2011.mp4 Lost Pines firestorm Bastrop TX Sept 4 2011.mp4 7:23 I was returning to my home in Houston on Sunday, September 4, 2011 when I ran into a firestorm in the Lost Pines forest, east of Bastrop, Texas on Highway 71.... Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report 7:08 [Federal agencies seize control on Tuesday] Hundreds of firefighters from all the surrounding counties worked two days and nights in a heroic effort to contain the fires, but high winds Sunday night and all day Monday thwarted their efforts.
Firefighting	11	are extinguished and the
Firefighting	8	... Austin News Austin News Austin firefighters reflect on ten year anniver... Texas fire destroys 1,554 homes, 17 people missing Austin school district pumps life back into hig...
Firefighting	6	.com/Press_conference_from_Bastrop_TX_-_wildfire_update__part_1 Bastrop Texas fire Order: Reorder Duration: 0:35 Published: 2011-09-05 Author: Hbhmini Smoke from the fire billowing over our house just east of FM 304 on FM 2571 http://wn.com/Bastrop_Texas_fire Lost Pines firestorm Bastrop TX Sept 4 2011.mp4 Order: Reorder Duration: 7:23 Published: 2011-09-05 Author: leoguylanejr I was returning to my home in Houston on Sunday, September 4, 2011 when I ran into a firestorm in the Lost Pines forest, east of Bastrop, Texas on Highway 71. http://wn.com/Lost_Pines_firestorm_Bastrop_TX_Sept_4_2011mp4 Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report Order: Reorder Duration: 7:08 Published: 2011-09-08 Author: TheAlexJonesChannel [Federal agencies seize control on Tuesday] Hundreds of firefighters from all the surrounding counties worked two days and nights in a heroic effort to contain the fires, but high winds Sunday night and all day Monday thwarted their efforts.
Firefighting	6	on extinguishing hotspots and
Firefighting	5	.11.11 A week of devastating wildfires, 09.11.11 Reader wildfire photos Pursuing Sainthood Central Unit prison in Sugarland closes Thea Bryant's earthbag house Woman survives night in collapsed chair First day of school 2011, 08.22.11 Remembering Cactus Pryor, 09.02.11 Readers staying cool in heat wave, 2011 Photos of the Day, August 2011 Batfest, 08.27.11 Readers' Pflugerville fire photos, 08.25.11 Mandatory watering restrictions in Pflugervil Hurricane Irene, 08.26.11 Dry season, 08.28.11 Brush fire near Oak Hill, 08.24.11 First day of school in Central Texas MOST POPULAR LCRA directors may ask for OK to cut water for farmers ACC makes sense for Horns for many reasons With new water rules, Austin residents cutting back, tattling on neighbors West Lake Hills man disappears during trip to Port Aransas Sources: Texas has three viable realignment options Horns' run defense eager to make amends vs. UCLA Latest AP Texas news No more dancing around issues in feminine hygiene 23 mins ago 3 suspicious deaths, burned San Antonio house 5:51 a.m. Tyler man killed by falling tree in his yard 5:32 a.m. AP News: Texas | Nation | World | Sports | Biz From our news partners Teen in custody after rocket launcher found in car Police: Slain Ga. mom missing both ears Woman suing Toyota for 'stalker' ad campaign Teens accused of egging cars in cause $10K in damage Mothers charged; accused of telling daughters to fight Fellow SF supervisor pokes fun at Wiener's public nudity legislation Man gets 6 months for touching plane passenger Rapper T.I.
Firefighting	5	... World News Libya fighters amass near pro-Gaddafi town WISHTATA, Libya (Reuters) - - Libya's new rulers sent a column of extra fighters toward the tribal bastion of Bani Walid overnight, preparing a showdown with supporters of ousted leader Muammar Gaddafi, More Libya fighters amass near pro-Gaddafi townWISHTATA, Libya (Reuters) - - Libya's new rulers sent a column of extra fighters toward the tribal bastion of Bani Walid overnight, preparing a showdown with supporters of ousted leader Muammar Gaddafi, possibly including his sons or even Gaddafi himself.Dozens dead in Russian hockey team plane crash TUNOSHNA, Russia (Reuters) - A passenger plane carrying a Russian ice hockey team to a season-opening match crashed after takeoff from a provincial airport on Wednesday, killing 43 people and plunging More Dozens dead in Russian hockey team plane crashTUNOSHNA, Russia (Reuters) - A passenger plane carrying a Russian ice hockey team to a season-opening match crashed after takeoff from a provincial airport on Wednesday, killing 43 people and plunging the Russian and international sports world into grief.Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoy AMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy More Syrian forces attack Homs, Arabs send envoyAMMAN (Reuters) - Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 20 civilians in the city of Homs on Wednesday in one of the fiercest military assaults on urban centres to crush six months of pro-democracy protests, activists and residents said.South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll lead SEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three More South Korea presidential frontrunner loses poll leadSEOUL (Reuters) - Park Geun-hye, daughter of the founder of modern-day South Korea, has been bumped off the top place in opinion polls of potential candidates for president for the first time in three years.Egypt court to hear testimony from top officials CAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next More Egypt court to hear testimony from top officialsCAIRO (Reuters) - The court trying Hosni Mubarak over the killing of protesters in January Wednesday summoned the head of Egypt's ruling military council and other top officials to give testimony next week that could prove decisive in determining the fate of the ousted president.
Firefighting	4	... More Obamas, Bushes Pay Respects at Ground Zero Moment of silence at 8:46, moment first plane hit (Newser) - President Obama opened a sun-splashed day of solemn remembrance today by honoring the 9/11 dead with a visit to ground zero, bowing his head at the cascading pools of the North Memorial Pond created in the footprint of the demolished north tower of the World Trade Center.
Firefighting	4	.Only player to survive Russian plane crash diesSeptember 12, 20117:12 AM ETMOSCOW (AP) The only member of a top Russian hockey team to survive a plane crash that killed 44 people died Monday of his injuries in a Moscow hospital.LYNN BERRY APCopyright 2011 The Associated Press.
Firefighting	4	... Real-Time News Related Forums NCAA Basketball NBA NHL MLB Golf Soccer More Sports... Saturday Sep 10 | Posted by: roboblogger String of blazes takes toll on Texas firefighters Full story: Log Cabin Democrat The flames of the massive wildfire that had swallowed nearly 1,400 homes in Central Texas had been tamed, but Webster Fire Chief Patrick Shipp and his crew - veterans of a fire season pushing his team to the limit - know the danger doesn't end there.
Firefighting	4	.tpwd.state.tx.us... Lost Pines firestorm Bastrop TX Sept 4 2011.mp4 Lost Pines firestorm Bastrop TX Sept 4 2011.mp4 7:23 I was returning to my home in Houston on Sunday, September 4, 2011 when I ran into a firestorm in the Lost Pines forest, east of Bastrop, Texas on Highway 71.... Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report 7:08 [Federal agencies seize control on Tuesday] Hundreds of firefighters from all the surrounding counties worked two days and nights in a heroic effort to contain the fires, but high winds Sunday night and all day Monday thwarted their efforts.
Firefighting	3	.5M acres charred this year (NEWSER) - Wildfires continued to ravage Central Texas yesterday as firefighters battled the most devastating single fire in Texas history, the Los Angeles Times reports.
Firefighting	3	... 9/11 firefighters have higher cancer risk: study A 'frustrated' President Obama looks to turn thing... UN probe backs Israel's Gaza blockade World leaders gather to discuss Libya transition 4.3 earthquake rumbles across Los Angeles 4.2 earthquake rumbles across Los Angeles No major damage reported from 4.2 earthquake Obama aide: Speech will not conflict with football...
Firefighting	3	.,... A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the burning remnants of a barn destroyed in a wildfire which broke out Friday, Sept. 9, 2011, west of Lilbert, Texas, in a wooded area north of Farm Road 343.
Firefighting	3	... Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report Bastrop County Texas Seized by FEMA - Infowars Report 7:08 [Federal agencies seize control on Tuesday] Hundreds of firefighters from all the surrounding counties worked two days and nights in a heroic effort to contain the fires, but high winds Sunday night and all day Monday thwarted their efforts.
Firefighting	3	... California Wildfire - Firefighter Dedication California Wildfire - Firefighter Dedication 5:20 My husband has fought these fires along side many other dedicated firefighters.
Firefighting	3	.co/hY4wuC sacca Meanwhile Texas firefighters are paying out of pocket for protective gear.
Firefighting	3	.com Blogs Home | Video | NewsPulse | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Top stories: On the Radar We break down what s on the agenda with a look at the stories you need to know about each day Battle for Libya Hunt for Moammar Gadhafi continues, missiles looted from Tripoli arms warehouse Hurricane Season 13th named storm forms in Atlantic; Katia makes waves while Lee dumps rain Syria Unrest Ferocious crackdown against demonstrators persist, but actions threaten relations with neighbors Overheard on CNN.com Collections of comments from CNN.com readers on the biggest stories of the day Elite team to help search in huge Texas wildfire September 7th, 2011 11:15 AM ET Share this on: Facebook Twitter Digg del.icio.us reddit MySpace StumbleUpon Share Comments (3 comments) Permalink Tweet An elite search team was set to arrive Wednesday in Bastrop County, Texas, where firefighters were battling a huge blaze that has killed at least two people.
Firefighting	3	... Locker steps up for Titans in battle of backups Gadhafi, in hiding, vows no surrender in Libya Factbox: Rick Perry's fundraising prowess FEC agrees to Giffords' campaign security request ... Titans, running back agree to contract extension APNewsBreak: Nigeria government freed bomb suspect... Ohio is 1st in US to sell prison to private co. Apple Suppliers Causing Environmental Problems, Ch... Pro-Bachmann PAC Goes After Perry Gasoline close to record high before Labor Day EU to seek ban of sale of Syria oil to Europe - AP... Producers Defend Casting of Chaz Bono on 'Dancing ... Asian Stocks Rally Following Gains onWall Street Rebels believe they're closing in on Qaddafi Germany Rejects Full-body Scanners, for Now; Trave... Obama Jobs Address Moved to Next Thursday After Fl... Texas wildfire's new path helping firefighters Perry s rugged Texan image can send conflicting me...
Firefighting	3	.my friends son flys a cargo plane to bring meds and food and water in and they shoot at the plane.
Firefighting	3	... Obama, Republicans have date troubles Boehner, Obama step up gamesmanship as 2012 pressu... Obama Changes Speech Date After Dust-Up With GOP Libya Rebels Claim Qaddafi Foreign Minister Caught... Texas wildfire's new path helping firefighters Libya's rebel leadership to outline goals at Paris... Infrastructure bank could be part of jobs package Obama date to address Congress on jobs rejected August (875) July (1000) June (596) May (121) Copyright 2011 US Daily News Blog | All Rights Reserved.
Firefighting	3	... Reinforcements, weather aid firefighters in Oklaho... Syrian protesters vow death before humiliation - A... Bank of America Shares Slump in Tokyo Trading on L... China says ConocoPhillips hasn't ended Bohai spill... Virginia Wines Are Catching On Beyonce, Jay-Z's baby-to-be is already a star with... FAQ: AT&T, T-Mobile, the DOJ Samsung Electronics Would Never Pursue Purchase ...
Firefighting	3	.S. Open 2011 The tenth anniversary of 9/11 Republican debate at the Reagan Library Tropical Storm Lee soaks New Orleans Military plane crash in Chile Most Popular 1.
Firefighting	3	.S. Open Final Afghanistan Afghan militias, police accused of abuses Home Forums Top Stories Popular Local 9/11 Anniversary US Politics World Sports Entertainment Offbeat Other Non-Profit News Forums & Polls Tribute to firefighte... Real-Time News Thursday Sep 8 | Posted by: roboblogger Tribute to firefighters canceled due to wildfires Full story: KAUZ A spokeswoman with the Texas Wildfire Relief Fund says the group's ceremony, scheduled for Sunday on the steps of the Texas Capitol, has been canceled.
Firefighting	3	.S. Open title is epic in scale Japan sends endangered red-crown cranes to Taiwan Djokovic bests Nadal to win U.S. Open Nevada National Guard to pay tribute to 3 comrades... Ex-NBA player accuses restaurant of discrimination... Only hockey player to survive Russian plane crash ... Nevada Guard honors comrades slain in shooting Analysis: Alaska gains under Obama's jobs proposal... Gadhafi vows to fight as loyalists strike oil hub Reese Witherspoon badly spooked by car accident Paris police hear Strauss-Kahn in French rape case... USS Ronald Reagan Returns to San Diego Fierce resistance by Gadhafi loyalists slows Libya... NATO strikes pro-Gadhafi areas in Libya Vermont Is A State I Love: Coolidge s words and Ir... Arsenal beats Swansea to earn first win San Francisco Giants' Buster Posey begins rehab by... 9/11 is marked worldwide with reflection, prayers Obama pushes for unity on 9/11 anniversary Wildfire evacuees look to go home Inside the Flyers: Revamped Flyers are ready to st... 650 firefighters now battling Wash. blaze Use of Illegal Drugs Up in America Djokovic, Nadal head to U.S. Open final - Chicago ... Pot dealing teacher to go to prison 9/11 widow copes with faith, humor Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - A...
Firefighting	3	... that families have to rub shoulders with thousands to go see the remains," said Rosemary Cain, who lost her 35-year-old firefighter son, George, on 9/11.
