
	Texas Forest Service











GSA WILDLAND FIRE PROGRAM









[ Print | 

 ]



The Texas Forest Service is pleased to announce the launch of a pilot project for certain Texas fire departments. It is called the GSA Wildland Fire Program. The program will allow qualified Texas fire departments to purchase fire equipment directly from the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA). The U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) permits non-federal organizations to purchase wildfire suppression equipment and supplies directly from its Federal Acquisition Service. The purpose is to help fire departments acquire standardized equipment, supplies, and vehicles in support of wildland fire suppression efforts. It is a consolidated purchasing program designed to support national efforts to improve firefighter safety, protect property, and save lives with respect to catastrophic wildland fire and other national and international emergencies. WHAT IS ELIGIBLE FOR PURCHASE…Wildland fire equipment and supplies as listed in the current GSA Wildland Fire Equipment Catalog are eligible for purchase. Other equipment and supplies may also be eligible with advance approval by GSA.WHO IS ELIGIBLE…For the purpose of this pilot project, any fire department that is not eligible for participation in the Texas Rural Volunteer Fire Department Assistance Program (HB 2604 Program) is eligible. This includes fully paid departments and combination part-paid part-volunteer fire departments with 21 or more paid members. HOW TO ENROLL…Participation in the program requires a signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the participating fire department and the Texas Forest Service. Upon receipt and approval of the signed MOU, the Texas Forest Service will request a federal Activity Address Code (AAC) for the fire department through the USDA Forest Service. Once the AAC is activated, the fire department may then work directly with GSA for all purchases. The GSA point of contact for this program is:Mr. Bill HicksFire, Disaster, and Mandatory Source Coordinator, GSAFederal Acquisition ServiceSouthwest Supply Operations Center (QSDL1)819 Taylor StreetRoom 6A00Fort Worth, Texas 76102www.gsa.gov/fireprogramwilliam.hicks@gsa.gov The role of the Texas Forest Service is to provide enrollment sponsorship only. Following the assignment of the federal AAC, all business transactions and communications going forward are solely between the fire department and GSA. To participate in this program, please complete and return 2 signed copies of the Memorandum of Understanding to the following address:Texas Forest Service2127 South First StreetLufkin, Texas 75901Attn:  GSA Fire ProgramFor additional information, please contact the following personnel in Lufkin:Kelly Scott 936-639-8100 kscott@tfs.tamu.edu Brian Aldredge936-639-8100baldredge@tfs.tamu.edu








