
	Texas Forest Service











FEDERALLY LISTED ENDAGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES









[ Print | 

 ]




Louisiana Black Bear
Red-cockaded Woodpecker
Southern Bald Eagle

Management Guidelines for the Red-cockaded Woodpecker  

Landowners with Red-cockaded Woodpeckers can implement management practices that enhance survival, regardless of the size of their property. However, because these birds forage over large areas, forest conditions on adjacent land may ultimately determine the fate of the birds. On larger tracts, particularly those 200 acres or larger, these birds can be maintained with greater assurance. Successful management for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers must do five things:

retain existing cavity trees,
provide trees for new cavities,
provide adequate foraging habitat,
control hardwood and pine midstory in the cluster site, and
provide for future cluster sites.

Cluster Site 
Do not remove or damage active cavity trees. Selective cutting within cluster sites can be used to maintain the desired basal area. However, thinning within a cluster site should not be done if stocking is below 50 square feet of basal area per acre of stems 10 inches DBH or larger. Also, all potential cavity trees (older, relict pines) within the cluster should be retained for replacement cavities. Do not isolate cluster sites from foraging areas of pines 4 inches or greater in diameter. Burning or otherwise treating cluster areas to control midstory vegetation is vital. Do not allow midstory to exceed 6 feet in height, especially within 50 feet of the cavity trees. In cluster sites lacking past hardwood control, the fuel load may be too great to burn without destroying the cavity trees. In these cases, it may be necessary to remove them by cutting or use of herbicide. Raking to remove mulch at the base of cavity trees is also helpful in preventing fire damage. Regular, periodic prescribed burning should be implemented to control midstory growth and maintain the open forest preferred by the birds.
Pine stands surrounding cluster sites should be thinned to 50 to 80 square feet of basal area per acre. Maintain groups of larger pines (10 to 12 inches or larger DBH) within the surrounding forest for future cluster sites. Leave some dead and abandoned cavity trees of both pine and hardwood for other cavity nesters, to reduce competition for the Red-cockaded cavities. Maintain a spacing of 20 to 25 feet between trees to maintain stand vigor and minimize the probability of southern pine beetle infestation and spread.
Foraging Area 
Provide adequate foraging habitat to support existing clusters and to facilitate establishment of new territories. A minimum of 3,000 square feet of pine basal area (10-inch DBH or larger) should be provided on at least 60 acres and up to 300 acres for each active cluster. Avoid isolating cluster sites from foraging areas. Most of the foraging acreage should be adjacent to (within 300 ft.) or within 1/4 mile of the cluster site. Thin sapling and pole stands to improve diameter growth and open the pine stand to a condition more favorable for the woodpecker. Prescribe burn for hardwood control. When regenerating stands, plant pines at 10x10 or 12x12 foot spacing to encourage rapid stand development. Use natural regeneration, such as seed tree, shelterwood, and group selection to develop an open park-like stand of pines. Favor longleaf pine over loblolly and shortleaf whenever possible.
Rotation Age 
Generally, the longer the rotation age, the greater the opportunity the Red-cockaded Woodpecker has to maintain existing clusters and to create new ones. Rotation cycles of 80 to 120 years are encouraged. When it is not feasible to have long rotations over the entire ownership, setting aside smaller acreages of older pines will benefit the bird. Also, leaving old-growth remnant groups of trees well distributed throughout younger stands, and maintaining small remnant stands or patches of old-growth pines throughout the forest are helpful.
For More Information Contact 
For detailed timber management guidelines, private landowners are referred to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Draft Red-cockaded Woodpecker Procedures Manual for Private Lands, by Ralph Costa. A number of management options are available for landowners with Red-cockaded Woodpeckers on their land. Contact the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department at (800) 792-1112 (Austin), (512) 912-7011 (Austin), or (409) 564-7145 (Nacogdoches); or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service at (409) 639-8546 (Lufkin) for more information.

Southern Bald Eagle

Habitat Management Guidelines for Bald Eagles in Texas 
The following guidelines were developed to help landowners and managers maintain or improve their land for the benefit of the Bald Eagle. Information is also provided so that landowners may recognize and avoid or minimize human-related disturbance to eagles, particularly nesting pairs.
Nesting Habitat 
The protection of an actual nest is important, but so is protection of the nest area and all the surrounding habitat factors that attracted the nesting pair to the area. Once the eagles establish a suitable breeding territory, they will return to the same area year after year, often using several nests within the territory during different years. When a given nest or the tree that it is in falls, a pair generally returns to the same territory to begin another nest. If one member of a pair dies, the nest may go unused for several years and then be recolonized by the surviving member returning with a new mate. Nesting territories can even be inherited by offspring. Therefore, protection of nesting territories should apply to "abandoned" nests for at least five consecutive years of documented nonuse.
The following habitat management guidelines are based on two management zones surrounding each nest site, with certain restrictions recommended for each zone.
Primary Management Zone For Nest Sites 
This zone includes an area extending 750 to 1,500 feet outward in all directions from the nest site. It is recommended that the following activities not occur within this zone. 

Habitat alteration or change in land use, such as would result from residential, commercial, or industrial development; construction projects; mining operations.
Tree cutting, logging, or removal of trees, either living or dead.
Use of chemicals labeled as toxic to fish and wildlife.
Placement of above-ground electrical transmission lines or distribution lines. Since collision with powerlines and electrocution on powerline structures remain an important cause of death, placement of underground lines is recommended near Bald Eagle nests and winter concentration sites.
Helicopter or fixed-wing aircraft operation within 500 feet vertical distance or 1,000 feet horizontal distance of the nest site during the nesting season (October-July).
Activities which create minimal disturbance, such as hiking, fishing, camping, and bird- watching can be carried out safely during the non-nesting season if there is no physical alteration of the habitat within the zone. Traditional farming, ranching, and hunting activities which are existing practices and have occurred historically on the site can be carried out safely during the non-nesting season as long as habitat alteration is avoided.

Human presence within this zone should be minimized during the nesting season, especially during the early nesting period from October-April. Traditional agricultural activities and low impact recreational activities are generally not a problem even during the nesting season as long as they do not appear to be adversely affecting nesting success, there is no increase in the level of disturbance from historic levels, and physical alteration of the habitat is avoided. However, activities of any kind should be stopped if it becomes apparent that the birds are suffering from disturbance. The key point is whether the activities keep the breeding birds away from the nest, eggs, or young for extended periods of time. If they do, they are harmful. In general, it is important to protect the nest from human disturbance during very hot or very cold weather, since the parents' absence at these times can be particularly deadly for the eggs or young.
Secondary Management Zone For Nest Sites 
This zone encompasses an area extending outward from the primary zone an additional 750 feet to 1 mile. Recommended restrictions in this zone are intended to protect the integrity of the primary zone and to protect important feeding areas, including the eagle's access to these areas. The following activities are likely to be detrimental to Bald Eagles at any time, and in most cases should be avoided within the secondary zone:

Development of new commercial or industrial sites.
Construction of multi-story buildings or high-density housing developments between the nest and the eagle's feeding area.
Placement of electrical transmission or distribution lines between the nest site and the eagle's feeding area.
Construction of new roads, trails, canals, or rights-of-way which would tend to facilitate human access to the eagle nest.
Use of chemicals labeled as toxic to wildlife.

Certain activities that involve only minimal alteration or disturbance to the habitat can be carried out safely in the secondary zone during the non-nesting season. Examples of these activities include: minor logging or land clearing, minor construction, seismographic exploration employing explosives, oil well drilling, and low-level aircraft operation. However, these activities should avoid major alteration or loss of Bald Eagle habitat as much as possible.
If logging is done, it is best to retain as many large trees as possible for roost and perch trees. Retention of at least 10 to 15 live trees per acre is suggested. Ideally, the trees left uncut should be the largest in the stand, preferably those with open crowns and stout lateral limbs. Selective forestry practices such as seedtree, shelterwood, and single tree selection are recommended over clear-cutting.
Minimal disturbance recreational activities (hiking, fishing, camping, picnicking, bird-watching, hunting) and everyday farming and ranching activities that cause no new alteration of habitat can be safely carried out in the secondary zone at any time.
Feeding Areas 
The use of toxic chemicals in watersheds and rivers where Bald Eagles feed should be avoided as much as possible. Where agricultural herbicides and pesticides are used within the watershed, label directions should be strictly followed, including those describing proper disposal of rinse water and containers.
Alteration of natural shorelines where Bald Eagles feed should be avoided or minimized as much as possible. Degraded or eroded shorelines should be revegetated whenever possible.
Winter Roost 
Concentration Areas 
Logging or land clearing activity should be avoided within 1,500 feet of a roosting concentration area. Disruptive, noisy, or out-of-the-ordinary land use activities should be avoided near communal roost sites. Normal agricultural activites which have occurred traditionally on the land are generally acceptable near these roost sites as long as they do not appear to be affecting roosting eagles. However, it is best to avoid even normal activities during evening, night, and early morning hours.
For More Information
Landowners and managers can contact the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service (formerly Soil Conservation Service), or Texas Agricultural Extension Service for technical assistance in managing habitat and protecting Bald Eagle nest sites.

Louisiana Black Bear
(Ursus americanus luteolus) 

Louisiana Black Bears are active from April to November. After emerging from dens in spring, bears may initially be in a "semi-fasting" state as they continue to utilize remaining winter fat reserves. At this time they eat succulent, easy-to-digest vegetation. During the summer they eat mostly berries, insects, and carrion. In order to gain weight for the winter, bears eat nuts such as acorns and pecans which are high in carbohydrates and fats. They hibernate in the winter in large hollow trees, downed logs, or in ground nests which are shallow depressions lined with vegetation. Denning bears exhibit varying degrees of awareness, but most can easily be roused if disturbed. 
Date of Listing:
Threatened, 1992 
Reason for Concern:
Habitat loss has been the main reason for the bear's decline. Reservoir construction has flooded many miles of former bottomland hardwood habitat. In addition, many bottomlands forests have been cut and converted to agricultural areas or housing developments. Today, efforts are being made to restore the Louisiana black bear to its former range in areas with suitable habitat. 
Size:
120-400 lbs.; 4.5-6.5 feet long; adult males are larger than adult females 
Diet:
Acorns, pecans, berries, persimmon fruits, palmetto, insects, carrion
Habitat (where it lives):
Primarily in bottomland hardwoods and floodplain forests, but also upland hardwoods, mixed pine/hardwoods, coastal flatwoods, and marshes 
Range (where found in Texas):
East Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi 
Life Span:
Up to 30 years 
Reproduction:
Litter sizes range from 1 to 3 cubs; females have a litter every other winter while denning, and the young cubs usually spend their first 1.5 to 2 years with their mother before dispersing 
Population Numbers:
Improving
Interesting Fact:
Although not true hibernators, bears generally do not eat, drink, urinate or defecate in winter. They have a unique metabolic process to recycle waste products during winter dormancy.









