
	Texas Forest Service











LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS









[ Print | 

 ]



Cattle management in the Pineywoods is a critical factor affecting deer and most other wildlife populations. Stock cattle at the NRCS (formerly SCS) recommended rate, and where possible rotate cattle in one herd through 3 - 10 pastures, letting pastures rest for at least as long as they are grazed. Exclude cattle from forested areas unless the area is being grazed to achieve a specific habitat management objective, such as a reduction of understory vegetation. Rotate cattle out of forested areas beginning in late August (when berries on American beautyberry begin to ripen). Exclude cattle from the forested areas until early Spring, when the native vegetation is actively growing. This will minimize the competition between cattle and deer for browse and forbs that deer require for maintenance and growth. Keys plants include American beautyberry, greenbrier, winged elm, yaupon, rattan, and grape.
Fences can be constructed of 3-strand barbed wire to discourage access by cattle. The bottom wire (this can be a smooth wire) should at least 18 inches above the ground to permit deer to travel under the fence instead of having to jump over. Upper wires should be at least 12 inches apart.
A single electric wire fence 30 inches above the ground is usually enough to discourage cattle, but will permit deer easy access. Cost of electric fencing, using a solar powered battery, is about one-third the cost of barbed wire fencing. Moderate to light stocking rates for this area are generally: one animal unit (cow with calf) per 8 - 15 acres on native grass; 3 - 6 acres on tame pasture; 50 - 75 acres on wooded areas.
Grazing Management Plan should include:

Kind of Livestock: Brahman, Hereford- Brahman Cross, Angus, Horses, etc.
Type of Livestock: Cow/calf, Steers, etc. Stocking rate: One animal unit per _____acres.
Type of Grazing System: Three Pasture, Eight Pasture, Planned Deferment 1-2 years, etc.
Intensity and Duration: High Frequency-Short Duration, Controlled Grazing, etc.

Because "weeds" (broadleaved herbaceous plants) compete with grasses for growing space, nutrients, and moisture, their presence in rangeland plant communities is usually considered to be undesirable by most range managers, but they are important for wildlife. A well planned livestock grazing system allows for a greater plant diversity, including a good component of forbs.
A range that has not been grazed for a long period of time, and is otherwise not periodically disturbed, can almost "stagnate" and become dominated by relatively few species of plants and exhibit limited variety and diversity. Therefore, total long-term deferment from livestock grazing is not normally recommended for optimum range and wildlife habitat management. Several growing seasons of deferment may be needed to allow an abused range to recover, but grazing should again be implemented after sufficient recovery is made.
Livestock should be considered as "tools" that can be used to maintain good wildlife habitat. A well-planned livestock grazing system is one which allows adequate rest periods for plants to recover after grazing. Most domestic livestock are selective grazers and consume the most nutritious and palatable plants first. Whenever a plant is eaten, there is not only a reduction in top growth but also a reduction in root growth. This reduces the plant's ability to rapidly regrow following defoliation. During the growing season, herbaceous plants need at least 30 to 60 days of rest to recover from grazing. Woody plants need as long as 4 to 6 months of rest to allow for regrowth. The recovery periods depend upon the severity of defoliation, moisture conditions, and temperature.
During continuous year-long grazing when livestock are left in a pasture for 365 days of the year, the most palatable plants are repeatedly defoliated. Frequent, repeated use will not allow seed production or plant recovery. Continuous grazing, even at light to moderate stocking rates, will remove the most desirable and palatable plants while the least preferred/least palatable plants that receive less grazing pressure become more dominant because of a reduction in competition. The result is a change in the species composition and an overall reduction in plant species diversity. Continuous grazing should not be used as a grazing method if the land manager's desire is to improve habitat for wildlife.
Several livestock grazing methods and systems have been developed which provide adequate periods of rest and allow vegetative recovery. There are many variations of these systems and the land manager needs to select the one that fits his particular situation. Some commonly used deferred-rotation grazing systems are: three pasture/one herd rotation, four pasture/one herd rotation, high intensity/low frequency (HILF), short duration, and four pasture/three herd rotation, or rest rotation. Regardless of the type of deferred-rotation grazing system used, the length of time that an individual pasture should be grazed, and the length of time that it would need to be rested before being grazed again, would be dependent on the size of the pasture, its grazing capacity, the time of year (growing season versus non-growing season), the amount of rainfall received since being grazed, and the class of livestock. Grazing schedules and livestock stocking rates for pastures within a grazing system need to be flexible and continually reevaluated based on rainfall patterns, seasons of the year, and local range conditions. Knowing how long to graze and how long to rest is more an art than a science, dependent more on environmental factors and the on-site conditions than on the calendar.








