
	Texas Forest Service











WHITE-TAILS - LEARN ABOUT THEM









[ Print | 

 ]



What do deer eat?
Deer eat mostly browse (leaves, twigs, young shoots of woody plants and vines) and forbs (weeds and other broad-leafed flowering plants). They eat some grass, but only when it is green and succulent. Sheep, goats and other big game exotic species compete directly with the whitetail for preferred deer foods. Deer food shortages usually occur during late summer and winter months. Adequate forage is usually available during spring and fall seasons. A variety of foods and habitat types are essential to good deer production and survival. The following plants are examples of some good native deer foods in Texas, which are readily eaten by deer when they are available.
Food examples

Browse: oak leaves and acorns, yaupon, greenbriar, prickly pear and fruit, hackberry, mulberry, rattan or supplejack, sumac, mesquite beans and dried leaves, hawthorns, American beautyberry, wild cherry and plum, wild grape, honeysuckle, dogwood, elm, blackberry and dewberry, gum elastic (chittum), acacias, walnut, guaycan, wild chinaberry, kidney wood, Brasil and other condalias.
Grasses: rescue grass, Texas winter grass, Ozarkgrass, fall witchgrass, panic grass, sedges and rushes.
Forbs: bundle flower, euphorbia(s), whorled nodviolet, bayflower, oxalis, wooleywhite, tickclovers, filaree, clover, verbena, arrowleaf sida, wild lettuce, wild onions, old man’s beard, wildbean, snoutbean, lespedezas, spiderwort, vetches (milkvetch, etc), lamb’s quarters, plantain, groundcherry, pigweed or carelessweed and partridge peas.

How long do deer live?
Deer in controlled situations have been known to live 15 to 20 years. It is unusual, however, for deer in the wild to live more than 10 years, because its teeth usually wear out during the eighth or ninth year.
How can the age of a deer be determined?
Is the number of antler points one method? Deer age is determined by both tooth replacement and tooth wear of the premolars and molars (back teeth) of the lower jaw. Unlike sheep, deer cannot be aged by their front teeth, and age cannot be determined by antler characteristics.
Does a buck deer keep the same set of antlers each year?
No. A buck grows a new set of antlers (not horns) each summer. The size of the antlers depends primarily on the quality and quantity of food the buck eats and his age. The more nutritious the food and the more there is of it during the antler-growing season, the better his antlers will be. With favorable conditions, antler size and spread will increase with deer age. After the sixth year, however, antlers usually decline in size due to the deer’s inability to properly chew and digest food.
What happens to the antlers each year?
Buck deer shed their antlers following the mating season each year. Antler shedding is triggered by the end of production of a hormone which also terminates the breeding season. Most bucks in Texas shed their antlers during late January and February. Shed antlers quickly deteriorate or are eaten by rodents and other animals for their calcium content. New antlers start growing and become noticeable in velvet during May and June. Good nutrition during this period is critical for good antler growth.
How many fawns will a doe have?
Normally, a doe deer in Texas will have her first fawn, which is usually a single, when she is two years old. Thereafter, if food conditions are adequate, the doe should normally have twin fawns almost every year until her six or seventh year, when the reproductive rate will begin to decline. Triplet fawns are uncommon, but do occur. Quadruplets have been reported. The gestation period for deer is seven months. According to reproductive studies, old barren does, or does that have never produced fawns are uncommon and are no problem to deer herd management. The key to maximum production is adequate supply of nutritious natural food.








