
                            Generous donations pour into Smithville for wildfire victims | 
                kvue.com Austin    

SMITHVILLE, Texas -- Generous donations are pouring in for the thousands of wildfire victims across Central Texas. In Smithville, the donated items are being stored in five buildings.
The distribution center for wildfire victims to pick up needed belongings is located at 210 Main Street in Smithville. City officials worked with volunteers to make the donation drive happen.
 
“This distribution center two days ago was an empty building. In eight hours it was filled,” said Smithville City Council member Robert Tamble.
 
Some people drove for miles to donate to wildfire victims. Cindy Naiser traveled from Garwood with a truck full of donations.
 
“I just felt like I needed to help out,” Naiser said.
 
The goal is to give wildfire victims the items they need the most. Many are left with nothing but the clothes they are wearing.
 
“All of my neighbors are gone; they lost all of their homes,” said fire evacuee Tony Levermenn.
 
Levermenn is living at a shelter for fire evacuees away from his belongings and relying on the kindness of strangers. He learned Tuesday his home survived the flames, but his parents’ house located next to his own burned down.
 
“They have nothing, nothing at all,” Levermenn said.
 
That is why strangers are pitching in, giving back, and trying to help replace what the fire consumed.
 
Organizers said clothing and furniture are no longer needed.
 
Medical supplies including eye drops, allergy medicine, and Tylenol are needed. Men’s work gloves are needed as well as new pillows, air mattresses, school supplies, pet food, pet kennels, and new packages of underwear for all ages.
 
Affected school districts are asking for gift cards to give to families in coming weeks. You can drop them off at the distribution center at 210 Main Street or mail them to the Smithville Ministerial Alliance, attention Cheryl Burns at P.O. Box 743, Smithville, TX, 78957.
 
The distribution center is also helping families dealing with a boil order. There are 500 cases of bottled water and 2,400 bags of ice available at 210 Main Street. It is open from 6 a.m. until 10 p.m.
 
Volunteers have set up a Facebook page to coordinate needs and requests. It is called the Distribution Center for Victims of Bastrop County Fires.
