Gov. Perry back on campaign trail, even as Texas wildfires continue to rage - The Washington Post

But after two-plus days monitoring the firefighting effort and talking to residents evacuated from some of the hardest-hit areas, Perry said he could safely return to the campaign trail.  He was scheduled to participate in a televised debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., Wednesday night, then remain in the West for two days of fundraisers in San Diego, Los Angeles, Fresno and other cities.Some Republican observers argued that Perry’s decision won’t cost him as long as the firefighting operation is well managed. Calmer winds have helped authorities gain a measure of control of the largest blazes in Central Texas, which have scorched 33,000 acres and destroyed more than 1,000 homes in the past three days alone. “The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman,” said veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush’s re-election campaign. “Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate.”When asked about being outside Texas when the worst wildfires started over the weekend, Perry said, “we’ve been multitasking in this state for a long time.”Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, who is acting governor in Perry’s absence, said he will sign a request that the federal government declare Texas a major disaster area. “I’m in constant communication with Gov. Perry,” Dewhurst said.The political risk for a chief executive who does not personally oversee disaster response was underscored in 2005 when President Bush was sharply criticized for the troubled federal relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina. Since then, governors and presidents have taken a visible role at disaster sites, and many expected Perry to leave his campaign on hold longer than he did.The wildfire response “gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring,” said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant. He added, however, that “you can’t do anything that looks, sounds or smells even remotely political.”But Perry’s calculation changed as the presidential debate approached. For his campaign, it was a prime opportunity for a candidate who, while leading the Republican field in recent polls, is an unknown quantity for most voters outside Texas.
