BBC News - The independent coffee republic of Totnes


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports




















7 August 2012
Last updated at 06:51 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





The independent coffee republic of Totnes

By Jon Kelly
BBC News Magazine





Continue reading the main story


In today's Magazine


Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'


Why Mali's nomads are lying low


Decoding facial hair in the Arab world


Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch



 A very British insurrection is under way over plans to bring the first branch of a major coffee chain to a small Devon town. But why are coffee chains such a battleground?
At half nine on a bright morning the aroma of arabica gently percolates through Totnes's narrow lanes and alleys.
That smell of roasting beans is difficult to escape. In this settlement of fewer than 8,000 souls there are 41 different places to buy a hot cup of the stuff.
And yet plans to open just one more coffee outlet have provoked fury - opening up a dispute as bitter as the darkest espresso.
The latest addition to the town's High Street will be a branch of Costa - the first coffee chain to breach the citadel of a community fiercely proud of its independently owned outlets.
So far 5,749 people - equivalent to three-quarters of the town's population - have signed an anti-Costa petition and pledged to boycott the new branch. Its approval by South Hams District Council was greeted by a 150-strong group of placard-wielding demonstrators who marched through Totnes's streets in protest.


Totnes boasts 41 independently owned coffee outlets

Though they have no recourse to appeal, the campaigners stubbornly refuse to give in amid apocalyptic warnings that Totnes risks becoming a "clone town".
Posters bearing the legend Clonestopping - featuring local baristas posing in the style of the film Trainspotting - adorn windows of homes and commercial premises.
A glance at the Yellow Pages might have given the council warning. With names like Totnes People's Cafe, Food For Thought and The Curator Cafe, many of the coffee shops share an aesthetic of nonconformism. 


Some of the many shops Totnes residents can visit for a caffeine fix

Totnes is not exactly typical of a small British town. Like Hebden Bridge or Glastonbury, it has long hosted incomers attracted by its eco-friendly and New Age reputation.
Shops along its High Street selling crystals, alternative therapies and joss sticks easily outnumber those with the shopfronts of major retail brands. The building earmarked by Costa was previously occupied by Greenlife Organic Wholefoods, which had to vacate the site for larger premises.


Anti-Costa campaigns have gained support in Totnes

And yet it is precisely this distinctiveness that opponents of Costa's arrival fear is at risk. Far from being virulent anti-capitalists, most insist they are anxious to preserve the town's unique selling point.
Totnes's 70-year-old Mayor Pruw Boswell is a stern critic of Costa - along with every other member of the town council - and is in opposition to the district authority, whose planning committee approved the chain's arrival.
Over a freshly infused white filter coffee in a cafe called Brioche, she argues that the town's 120,000 annual visitors come precisely because it caters to a gap in the tourist market.
"As a woman, when I go on holiday I want to go for a chocolate cake and a coffee and let my hair down," she argues. "I don't want to do all the things I can do at home. What makes us different is the number of independent places here."

Continue reading the main story Drinking it up






 As of December 2011, UK has over 15,000 coffee outlets, including nearly 5,000 branded coffee shops (up from 748 in 1999) and about 5,500 independently owned coffee shops
 Costa is the largest branded chain, with 1,390 UK stores - more than its two closest competitors combined
 Two-thirds of consumers, and three in four 16-24-year-olds, buy coffee and other hot drinks when out and about, according to GMI/Mintel survey
 Nearly half of consumers drinking hot drinks out of home reported that convenient location is more important to them than brand of coffee chain
 But two in three users think that quality is the most important decision-making factor when choosing where to buy hot drinks
 Source: GMI/Mintel and Allegra Strategies


Coffee shop revolution continues to stimulate the high street  - The Guardian
The surprising history of London's lost coffeehouses - Telegraph

 There is something about coffee that puts it at the vanguard of protest movements. Naomi Klein's anti-corporate bible No Logo was harshly critical of Starbucks conduct in particular. 
The chain has faced protests over accusations that it ran sites at a loss to squeeze out the opposition and the chain's shopfronts are often among the first to be smashed when anti-capitalist protests turn violent. Starbucks has consistently denied doing anything improper and argues that its expansion increases overall demand for coffee.
In the US, many neighbourhoods have fought similar battles to that in Totnes. But a free market advocate would note that if people don't want chain shops spoiling their town there's a simple solution - don't patronise them. 
On both sides of the Atlantic there seems to be an emotional resonance over coffee shops that doesn't apply to other businesses. Pubs have something of the same status in the UK. 
A cynic might question why no-one in Totnes protested about the arrival of WH Smith, say, and its impact on the town's independent newsagents.
"The difference is that WH Smith is never going to be a community hub," says Holly Tiffen, 40, organiser of the Totnes Independent Coffee Festival and a leading light in the campaign to have Costa's planning application rejected.
For some people cafes play a place in social life which might be fulfilled elsewhere by the pub, town hall or community centre.
In 2009, Ian Gregory, 47, left his previous career as an account manager at a shower door manufacturer, seeking a change in the pace of his life. He moved to Totnes to open up the Fat Lemon Cafe and devote his life to coffee.

Continue reading the main story Getting the right blend





Fifteen years of being a barista shows me people love their coffee. People define themselves around the small ritual of making coffee. The recent speciality coffee boom has been bubbling for a long time but has only shown its head in the last three years. 
We can try different farms, varieties and processing methods from small artisan local roasters at a very reasonable price. 
It's wrong to say it's just about the caffeine. The actual taste cannot be dismissed and there are other things in coffee, like chlorogenic acid - which is both an antioxidant and an upper - which makes us feel good. 
It's easy to upset people when trying to enhance their coffee experience by contradicting old practices or suggesting the coffee they like is really not that good and they should try something else.
Gwilym Davies 
UK Barista Champion, 2009

 "It's an art," he says. "The expectations are high. You really have to know what you're doing, especially because there's so much competition around here."
Gregory fears his expertise will have been acquired in vain, however, when Costa comes to town. He believes it offers a homogenised, lowest common denominator brew.
There is some evidence to support the idea that a significant proportion of consumers are risk-averse when it comes to coffee. A recent study for the market research company Mintel found 32% said they were "not very adventurous" when it came to ordering drinks, 33% stuck to a favourite brand and 31% "don't tend to choose anything new/different".
For its part, Costa insists its new branch "will not be a threat and instead aims to add new vibrancy by complementing the local offering". South Hams District Council says the decision to approve the building's change of use from a retail unit to a cafe was made on "planning grounds alone".
Many of the passers-by along the High Street outside the proposed Costa, however, are opposed.
"I shall never go in there," barks artist Ishvara D'Angelo, 81. "Chains like this suck the life out of communities," argues Alexander Hodgson, 50, an environmental consultant. Retired Rick Hughes-Weston, 68, shakes his head: "We're going to become like everywhere else."
Some visitors, too, express dismay. "I love Costa," says 66-year-old social services worker Sue Downton, a regular of the chain in her native Plymouth. "But not here. People come through to Totnes because it's different."
The closest expression of anything other than outright hostility comes from Andy Garner, 55, owner of Totnes Television and Electrical - and his attitude towards Costa is of resignation rather that enthusiasm.
"It's a difficult one," he shrugs. "At the end of the day, it's within the law. Whatever happens, it's going to be a wake-up call for the town."
Not that Totnes needs to wake up in order to smell the coffee. As this Ealing comedy-like conflict intensifies, that scent of espresso still filters through the air.

Below is a selection of your comments.


 I agree with the people of Totnes. Britain's high streets are all the same. Same shops, same, cafes, same fast food outlets. There is no creativity or variety. One town is like any other. We should be using Totnes as an example of how the rest of the country should be, not trying to turn them into a clone of Anywhere UK.

Claire Cassady, Nottingham


 Although a fan of independent business, I hate this kind of protectionism. If all the independent coffee shops are so fantastic; if it is what visitors love about Totnes, a Costa here will fail. Let the market decide, and the residents and tourists of Totnes vote with their wallets. But don't ban businesses from setting up shop there out of (basically) snobbery.

Hannah, 


 The main problem is that the arrival of one national multiple will be the thin end of the wedge for rents. They have deeper pockets than independents and will be less worried about the rent they pay. Whatever they agree will be used to wind up the rents in the vicinity and it will be this that drives the indigenous retailers to the margin.

Stuart Donald, Rowlands Castle, UK


 I'm neither an advocate of "the free market", especially when vested interests are powerful enough to stop it being really free, nor do I think distinctiveness is best achieved by blocking branded chains - Totnes is unique, with or without Costa. Some visitors will be inclined to try Brioche, others will prefer a tried and tested chain. Coffee shops are like other products in  the sense that a limited real choice is good - in this case both local and chain, but too little or too much choice is not. 

Aldo, Richmond, Surrey


 Chains can afford to pay higher rates and charge lower prices.  It's not just coffee shop chains, but all big chains, that force others out of business. It's a sad state of affairs. 

Gayl Rodger, St Ives, Cornwall


 I come from Seattle, land of coffee, home of Starbucks coffee shops across the street from other Starbucks coffee shops (near Pike Place Market there are something like five or six Starbucks within a fairly small radius), and I find the proliferation of such chain shops to be rather disheartening. Fortunately there are also plenty of independent local shops who hand-pick baristas with proven skill at making coffee, because (let's face it), Seattle runs on coffee. Whenever possible I visit one of these independent places and test their skill at making a peppermint mocha (like many others who drink coffee or alcohol, I found my drink of choice and I stick with it).

Kitty, Seattle, WA


 Have they purposefully used someone else's brand to campaign for their own identity? Using the world famous, massively reproduced theme of Trainspotting's 'choose life' for this campaign seems ironic. Was that deliberate?

Chris, Redbourn, UK


 I will still continue to support this wonderful town Totnes, but I will actively discourage as many people as possible from using this outlet.  Let them stay on the motorways and in cloned cities if they must.

Bob Lloyd, Dartmouth, Devon


 I love Costa, I love Totnes, but I know that the lovely individual cafes and homemade and homely cakes of Totnes will entice me so much more than Costa when I next go there and see Costa. This may be the town they wish they hadn't opened in!

Lyn Harris, Chudleigh Knighton, Devon, UK


 Costa opened up in my small Devon market town recently.  I've never used it, preferring the independents just like the Totnes folk.  However I can't say that it's had a detrimental effect on our town, which is still dominated by quality independent retailers of many kinds.  I'm happy if any business, whether independent or national, is prepared to set up and invest in the high street, rather than draw people out of town - that's where the worst car-dependent clone developments are to be found.

John, Tavistock, Devon


 Good for the citizens of Totnes!  If only more towns (and their district planning councils) in the UK had considered the degrading and demoralizing effect that big chains like Costa have on communities.  Let's hope they keep Costa and others like them out of the town, ensuring that Totnes will remain a place with real atmosphere, welcoming friendly people and unique reasons to make it worth visiting and spending time there.

Thor Windham, London


 I agree that big chain coffee shops are, or have  squeezed out the more interesting, personal Coffee sellers but main main problem with Costa, Starbucks and the like is that the Coffee is absolutely terrible. I don't understand how they can get the primary purpose of the business so wrong. 

Liz, London





More on This Story


In today's Magazine
	      






Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'

Kathy Etchingham recalls her relationship with musical legend Jimi Hendrix.










Why Mali's nomads are lying low

Mali's Tuareg nomads live in fear of reprisals after the jihadis, who joined their rebellion in the north of the country, have melted away










Decoding facial hair in the Arab world

In the Arab and Muslim world, facial hair means far more than just style and grooming, according to Cairo-based journalist Ashraf Khalil. 









Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch

For the week ending 1 February, here is a look at the news in America - all in 140 characters or fewer. 









Smoke on the Water legend among those who passed

Our regular column covering the passing of significant - but lesser-reported - people of the past month.









Related Internet links


No to Costa in Totnes


Costa Coffee - United Kingdom


Totnes Town Council


South Hams District Council



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: Man charged with Sasha's murder



8: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



9: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



10: Car park dug up around parked car



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Russia marks Stalingrad anniversary  Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



10: Russell Brand on Savile scandal Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





