 Sam\’s Fun Time Website!


Sam\’s Fun Time Website!
Just another pointless weblog

Home
About Me
Reviews
Other Stuff
Links


jump to navigation



Angry Review: Why I Hate that movie of Chuck and Larry.
March 28, 2008

Posted by samtaco in Reviews, Thoughts.

add a comment 

Bored out of my wits one day and not in the mood of watching my DVDs, I decided to watch something new. So I looked on the telly for enjoyment and the movie “I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry” was about to play. “Hmm I remember them promoting this”, I thought, and I’d now set my mind to watch it.
It was very very deadly bad.
Here’s a list why:
1. Adam Sandler’s character is very unlikeable jerk, but yet everyone loves him and girls want to have sex with him. I guess the writers wanna to make it tough for him to be gay while he’s all for the ladies, but they go over the top with it (He’s sleeping with 12 girls??).
2. When they want us to feel sad for Larry’s wife passing, they fail as it’s just not that type of movie to make you feel any sadness (more pissed off or smarter).
3. Strange characters (like the Asian Minister) that have to appear in every Sandler movie, really didn’t need to be in this movie. It’s could had been a silly comedy film, but they had to make it in yet another crappy Sandler film with that and fart jokes.
4. As stated in reason 1, Sandler’s character is somehow loved by everybody, so Jessica Biel somehow feels he can make a great friend that is gay and wants to hang out with him all the time. I just can’t see why he gave her that impression.
So all in all I hated this movies and I really don’t hate movies, but this one is filled with stuff that makes me wonder how anybody felt that this would be liked by anybody. And no Jessica Biel’s butt (as some thought) did not save this film.
Sam.


Update comin’ soon.
March 23, 2008

Posted by samtaco in Uncategorized.

add a comment 
Hey friends, in a couples of days, more fun will be posted!


XMAS GIFTS!
December 25, 2007

Posted by samtaco in DVD, MST3K, Thoughts.

add a comment 

Wow this was a great Xmas for me! I got some great stuff from the awesome family! Here they are:
Evil Dead- Ultimate 3 Disc Set Edition (From the mother)
This brand new re-re-re-release of Sam Raimi’s cult classic Evil Dead, contains three discs: Disc One is the movie widescreen with a brand new hour documentary with the cast and crew (minus Sam and Bruce Campbell) and the old laserdisc commentary with Sam Raimi and Rob Tapner. Disc Two with the movie fullscreen, some lost footage/outtakes/deleted scene that had been recently found, and old commentary with Bruce Campbell. and Disc Three with lots of brand stuff mainly with the cast (with the lost Scotty and Ted Raimi!) at a convention talking about their experience of the movie and fans they met. While it’s cool they got some nice features with the cast, I kind of wish that Sam Raimi was involved in these features (I’m guessing they made the extras while he was working on Spider-Man 3). But still a great set and includes a Evil Dead poster!
The Three Stooges Collection- Volume One 1934-1936 (From the sister)
This set includes the first 19 shorts of the Three Stooges all in their original form! That’s pretty much it, no extras or main menus just the shorts, which is all I need! Can’t wait for Vol 2!
Sansa (from the Pop)
(See this post)
Army Of Darkness Action Figure Ash! (From the mother)


Action figure of Ash in Army of Darkness (aka Evil Dead 3) during the graveyard scene. With changeable head, boom stick, and book of the dead! Come get some baby!
The Big Lebowski Dude’s Bowling TV Shirt! (from the parents together)
This awesome shirt is made up to look like the Dude’s bowling shirt from the cult Coen brother’s film The Big Lebowski! I’m totally gonna wear this every where I go now!
100 Bucks (From the parents)
YAY Moneyz!
AND THE GRAND DADDY OF THEM ALL….
Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie (100% OOP DVD) (From the Suzanne)

This is the pure highlight for this Xmas! I always had a bootleg of it and now I have the real thing!! It’s one the earlest DVDs, so there’s no extras or main menu, just movie and scene menu.
HUZZAH! MY COLLECTION OF OFFICIALLY MST3K DVDS IS CURRENTLY COMPLETE!!

So all in all a great XMAS! Hope ya had a great one like me!
Sam


Early Xmas Gift: Sansa!
December 23, 2007

Posted by samtaco in MST3K, Music, Thoughts.

1 comment so far 

Thanks to my old man, I now can listen to music anytime! When I’m eating, sleeping, using the men’s room and when sombody is talking to me that I have no care for! Also I can upload me some videos (as seen above with the classic MST3K segment Idiot Control Now)! While I have about nearly 50 songs on it already, I still need to fill it up with some great songs.
Here’s a couple that are/soon to be on this Ipod type thingie:
They Might Be Giants
Weird Al
Adam Ant
Aphex Twin
B-52′s
Beatles
Beck
Dead Milkmen
Dee-Lite
Devo
Frank Zappa
Jefferson Airplain
Kinks
Madness
Offspring
Oingo Boingo
Pixies
Queen
Spin Doctors
Sublime
Talking Heads
Toadies
Violent Femmes
Ween
XTC
and many many more.
Just 3 more days till Xmas!
Sam!


DVD Craze Hunt Fun 2: DVDs from the past month (by memory/highlights)
December 11, 2007

Posted by samtaco in DVD, Reviews, Thoughts.

add a comment 
Well it’s been early September since I posted about my DVD craze hunt. I’ve gotten a lot of DVDs in the past three months and I haven’t even kept you, the loving viewers info about it! So here’s some I either just got or highlights of what I got from the past months. Again all from my sister’s store where I get them cheep!

Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas – Criterion Collection
Price: $20
I got this Gilliam film around late September. Based on Hunter S. Thompson ‘s novel, this classic is about Raul Duke and his lawyer, Dr. Gonzo as they travel to Las Vegas to cover a bike race and at the same time think how the 60′s “American dream” is no more which is helped in large part by the huge amount of drugs and alcohol. The DVD itself is another Criterion classic with commentary with Thompson, interviews, Documentaries about Thompson, and so much more.
Naked Lunch – Criterion Collection
Price: $16
Got this around October, this David Cronenberg film based (kind of) on William S. Burroughs’ novel is about an exterminator as he gets a addiction to his bug powder, accidentally kills his wife, and gets involved in a secret government in Africa run by giant bugs. One the oddest films ever that makes not sure if I want to read the book! The DVD is great with the extras mainly about Burroughs. Good Stuff Criterion!
Videodrome- Criterion Collection (with missing cover sleeve)
Price: $20
Also got this in October, another David Cronenberg film, as James Woods, a cable TV operator loses his mind after founding a program called Videodrome. Classic Cronenberg and one of the best Criterions! The extras are top great with making of the movie, all the fake clips, commentaries and many more.
Silence of The Lambs – Criterion Collection (OUT OF PRINT)
Price: $9
Got this last week, this rare and very early Criterion is not the best verison of the film on DVD, but it’s Criterion so you can forgive it.
Brazil – Criterion Collection
Price: $30
November is when I got this baby by Terry Gilliam. A bureaucrat in a retro-future world tries to correct an administrative error and himself becomes an enemy of the state. Again a early Criterion that has three disc: Disc one is the version that Gilliam intended, disc two is extras, and disc three is the studio edited of the film. So the best version you’re ever gonna get of the film!
Spider-Man 2
Price: $5
Best of the three Spidey films and has some nice extras!
Hot Fuzz- Three Disc Collectors Edition
Price: $30
Just got it yesterday! Made by the Shaun of the Dead guys, London cop is transferred to a small town and paired with a witless new partner and the pair stumble upon a series of suspicious accidents and events. This one has a TON of extras! So many to name! But this IS the BEST version yer gonna get of this classic.
Superbad – 2 Disc Edition
Price: $20
Just got this yesterday also. Two high school seniors are forced to deal with separation anxiety after their plan to stage a booze-soaked party goes awry. Being a fan of Freaks and Geeks and Knocked Up, I though this was great and list of extras are awesome fun.
Well that’s some of the few DVDs I’ve gotten so far. Also I got this cute little puppy named Gypsy! More on her on a future post and more on the DVDs later!

Sam


Four Bizarre Music Videos From the 90′s
November 30, 2007

Posted by samtaco in Music, Thoughts.

add a comment 
It was the year 1999 and boy I miss it. Everything was just right for me back then. Not to say I don’t like what’s going down with my life in this year 2007 (soon 2008), but 1999 was when I really had no worries. Anyways in 1999, I used to watch MTV (back when it was okay) and midnight on Friday nights they played “120 Minutes”, a segment of music videos mainly of the alternative gene that I was big fan of back then (and still do). Anyway my sister and I would enjoy watching theses music videos and she recorded them on a tape one day. Well nearly 8 years later, my sister gave me the tape to look at and boy does it bring back the memories. Here’s some of the videos (thanks to You Tube) that stand out from the tape. WARNING: SOME OF THESE VIDEOS ARE QUITE BIZARRE!
Lamb – B-Line

This one really freaked me out back in the day. How the hell did they come up with idea for this music video?!
Blur – Coffee and TV

This is one of my favorite music videos of all time. I remember loving this one the most when it first came out.
Radiohead – Paranoid Android

This video was made back when Radiohead was a really big huge hit (they still are, but not as they once were). It’s also uses characters from a cartoon called Robin.
Aphex Twins – Windowlicker

This is one odd video. This is also a much longer version of the video than the one on the tape. I like the beat and the stupid guys talking stupids.
Anyways I still can’t believe it’s been sooo long since all this. 120 Minutes is no longer on MTV, as MTV airs nothing but crappy reality shows and crappy music videos. *sigh* I miss the crazy odd music videos from the late 90′s
Sam


MST3K: 10 Gold Episodes
November 23, 2007

Posted by samtaco in MST3K, Reviews, Thoughts, TV Shows.

1 comment so far 
Mystery Science Theater 3000 is one of the greatest shows ever made. There’s nothing that can make you say no. If a show that has every single cast member change and run for 11 years, that can still be awesome, then you know right there it’s gold. Some episodes I can watch for days straight and they can never get old. Here’s a list of some of my 10 random favorite episodes that are just a hoot and show why MST3K is the greatest and also help for the poor soul-less people who have yet to see the show.
 
822- Time Chasers
Nick Miller a nerdy hockey hair Castleton snob, invents a time machine! But not out of a De Lorena, no Nick makes it out of his plane! Soon Nick gets a deal with a big evil company named Gen-Corp to buy the time plane and at the same time, meet up with Lisa, a girl he knew from high school. After realizing that the evil Gen-Corp company IS in fact evil, Nick and Lisa have to go back in time and stop his past self from being greedy and stupid, before the head Gen-Corp CEO stops them. This is a classic episode from season eight that never gets old. The riffing from Mike and the bots is super. Also the host segments are really great, with Crow going back in time to stop Mike’s dim past self from getting the temp job that cause him to be shot into space and in the end making it worst for both Mike and the bots! Again like I said, it’s a classic and should not be missed.
207- Wild Rebels
After wrecking his car to nothing but flames, stock-car driver (and semi lame) Rod decides to get out of the racing biz. He hitchhikes to bar where he dances like dork and meets the biker gang called Satan’s Angels. They invite him back to their crib and tell him about their plan of a bank robbery (which they do “for kicks”) where he helps by driving the get away car. Rod declines and heads out, but bumps into the police. The cops have been trying to get them Satan’s Angels for all the bad things they’ve done (for kicks) and want Rod to help get the wild rebels. But can our hero do it? This is my favorite episode from season two, I can’t stop watching it. Maybe of it’s grindhouse feel or the great riffing from Joel and the bots. The host segments also tell what Gypsy does for the SOL and makes Joel get this funny feeling inside (don’t ask). All in all the best of the season two “Biker” movies.
521- Santa Claus
This messed up Mexican film is about a evil little devil named “Pitch” as he dances around like a idiot and trys to ruin Christmas by trying to stop Santa from giving all the presents to all the good boys and girls. At the same time we meet poor little Lupita, who all she wants is a life-size doll and trys her best not to have the urge to steal one. The most bizarre Christmas film ever made! This changes a lot back story of Santa as he makes kids of different regions work on the toys- not elfs, has creepy robot deer, and lives in outer space! It’s the second Xmas themed episode with Mike a host, and out of the two, I have to pick this one as the best. RHINO NEEDS TO RELEASE THIS ON DVD!
110- Robot Holocaust (with short: Commando Cody Pt 9)
In some post-apocalyptic future where robots control the air and humans are slaves to them (I think. It’s hard to tell really what the plot is). Some guy for some reason is kidnapped by this unintelligible (German?) girl, who wants to give him to the air god (who knows). It’s up to the guy’s daughter and some other guys (plus a annoying robot) to stop the evil girl and some lobster robot from killing her dad (maybe). Man this movie didn’t really make any sense. It’s one of the earliest 80′s film MST3K did (if you do/don’t count the ones from KTMA). While the short was dull and thankfully was cut off, I thought they did a decent job riffing this mess. The host segments are like-able too with them playing Robot Holocaust and Servo getting way into it. This is my favorite episodes from season one and needs to be on DVD soon.
810- The Giant Spider Invasion
A meteor lands on earth near farmer redneck trash Dan Kester’s farm and contains eggs with little spiders in them. A doughy NASA scientist meets up the town scientist Barbara Hale to found what that meteor was. Meanwhile town sheriff Alan Hale Jr. does… nothing, yes really nothing but tell crappy jokes and eat. Soon more and more little spiders come out and attack the Packer loving town folks along with Dan and his alcoholic wife Eve. It’s up to the dull old scientists, and Alan Hale (not really) to stop the spiders and it’s giant spider leader from attacking the town (if that’s not a bad thing). A crappy 70′s monster movie by Bill Rebane (Monster A Go-Go fame) that completely lacks a single sympathetic character. Again it’s one of the episodes that I watch a ton. Mike and the bots really show their pride for the state of Wisconsin and trash it. While the riffing was great, the host segments were “meh” with pods takeover the Mads and trying to takeover the SOL crew is kind of a bore. But other than that, a solid episode.
424- Manos: The Hands of Fate (with short: Hired Pt 2)
A family is a on vacation and soon get lost to found themselves near a odd house and a odd person named Torgo, who “takes cares of the place while the master is away”. The family decides to spend the night at the Master’s place until morning, but then the pet dog is mysteriously killed and Torgo hitting on the wife, makes the family want to get out of there. But what the hell? The car out of no where doesn’t work! And to make matters worst the Master awakes (along with his wives) and wants the family females to become part of his wives (gross)! Also there’s some guy and girl that make out for the whole movie! One of, if not THE worst movie ever made! Also one the classic episodes of MST3K ever. Joel and the bots riff the second part of the short Hired is quite grand and then the movie itself, dear god it’s amazing they didn’t fail because of the horror of the film. So what’s there to say that’s hasn’t been said? I liked it very much and watch it–if you dare!
820- Space Mutiny
Beefy pilot Dave Ryder must save Southern Sun, from the evil and always having a good laugh, Kalgan, who plans to destroy the ship. At the same time buff Ryder makes out of with Southern Sun’s captain Santa Claus looking Cameren Mitchell’s really old looking daughter Lea and scream like a girl and rides around in golf carts. Plus the mind talking Bellerians kind of, but not really help chunky Ryder by dancing around and killing some of bad guys. Yes it’s the eighties! God how can you not love this episode?!? It’s such a cheesy movie, that Mike and the bots don’t even have to try to make fun of it and make you laugh till you kill something inside your body! While the host segments are on the soft spot, this is a awesome episode from the Sci-if era.
303- Pod People
While members of a 80′s rock band are camping in the woods, poachers (Huzzah!) nearby discover a stash of huge eggs and begin smashing them. One baby alien escapes while the mother takes her revenge, first on the poachers and then on members of the band (why not?). The baby, a furry creature with an elephant-like trunk, is lost in the woods and is found by pale, a high pitched sounding boy named Tommy, who lives in a secluded house with his mother and mean uncle. Tommy nicknames him “Trumpy,” and they become playmates (play Simon and making it worst). As the dangerous mother alien continues looking for her child, the rock band seeks out Tommy’s house for refuge. Will the mother kill them all (I wish…)? The Film Ventures movies MST3K did were the best and this best out of all of them. This is indeed my all time favorite MST3K episode. The movie is cheesy bad, the riffing is perfect, and the host segments are gold. I love this episode.
907- Hobgoblins
Whiny loser Kevin, who works as a security guard for a old movie studio, stupidly lets out a group of puppets, who allow you to live out your fantasies but kill you in the process. His boss is too old to help him, so Kevin has to get his crappy idiot friends: Amy, his stupid non-supportive girlfriend, Kyle, a red short wearing perv, Daphne, a sex-crazed slut, and Nick, Daphne’s brainless army boyfriend to help get the hobgoblins back to the studio before sunrise. This is such a stupid, stupid movie! It’s my second favorite episode all time of MST3K. The movie is a stupid thrill ride, the riffing is pure grand, and the host segments are really funny! A must see for people who love pure bashing.
512- Mitchell
Joe Don Baker is Mitchell, a chubby and unlikable detective, that tries to take down John Saxon, for killing a burglar for kicks and not self-defense, and a guy named Cummings, who’s connected somehow to a shipment of heroin coming in from Mexico. Also we get to see Mitchell have sex with Linda Evans (a prostitute that John Saxon for some reason paid to have sex with Mitchell), drink beer, eat, and sleep! This is Joel’s final episode as host and boy what a send out! The riffing is so awesome and they do such a great job. A great farewell to the best era of MST3K.
So there you have it. Ten awesome episodes that never get old in my book. The type of movies, the certain era, and feel can help a episode. Now that we have The Film Crew (maybe) and Cinematic Titanic, we can relive this feel.
Sam


Review: MST3K Volume 12
November 10, 2007

Posted by samtaco in DVD, MST3K, Reviews, TV Shows.

1 comment so far 
This has been a big month for MST3K! Rifftrax with Mike, the brand new MST3K.com, and Joel, Trace, Josh, Frank, and Mary Jo all are making Cinematic Titanic! To celebrate these different forms of MST3K, I will review the new Volume 12 DVD!
EPISODES
419- THE REBEL SET ****
The episode starts with a short about a kid named Johnny as he gets lost from his parents while at the state fair. The riffing on this by J&tBs is excellent which is why this is one of my all-time favorite shorts. The movie itself is about a Beatnik Jazz Club owner that brings three unemployed loser beatniks to help him pull off a heist of $1 million.  They all agree and help successfully pull off the robbery of a armored truck, but then deceit and double-crossing starts to happen on the train trip to Newark after the heist. I actually thought this was a half-way decent film.  I mean, besides some goofy beatnik scenes, I thought it really held together.  The riffing on this was great, as usual, for a Season Four episode and the host segments were also pretty funny. Overall, this is a very enjoyable episode.
504- SECRET AGENT SUPER DRAGON ****
The great super-spy, Secret Agent Super Dragon is called out of pool-side retirement to investigate a secret organization that apparently is smuggling a new type of chewing gum. It’s a somewhat confusing spy movie in this episode, but still fun to watch.  Good riff and some pretty good host segments make for a good overall episode.  I especially like the “James Bond” rip-off secret agent flicks seen on MST, so I liked this one a lot for primarily that very reason.
612- THE STARFIGHTERS *****
The most sexually charged movie MST has ever done! I never knew that footage of jet fighters could be so naughty. Filled to the brim with frequent scenes of planes taking off and refueling and landing and refueling and bombing rectangles and refueling. Due to the static nature of the film, this is a toughie to riff on and required premium effort from the writing staff. So it’s pretty impressive that when they do fire with the funny, they generally strike their targets with pinpoint accuracy. From the variety of quips on the redundant refueling, to rollicking jests’ on “Poopie Suits”. Toss in the superb skits where we witness Crow’s frustrated attempts to log onto the information super highway, observe a bold commercial for Ricochet BBQ sauce and thrill to the wonderful Servo Chorus – and “Starfighters”, while not A+ perfect, still offers up sample laughs.
811- PARTS: THE CLONUS HORROR *****
This film (which Michael Bay ripped off) is about Richard, who founds out that he is part of a cloning project run by powerful individuals in the country that clones the wealthy and powerful people so that they can have replacement body parts and live a much longer life (is also stars Peter Graves!). The riffing by M&tBs on this film is great – it’s some of the best on-target riffing of season 8.  The host segments were also enjoyable.
EXTRAS
INTERVIEW WITH ACTOR DON SULLIVAN ****
Don Sullivan (George Leland on Rebel Set) talks about how he got into Hollywood, making of the movie, and his thoughts on MST3K. While he talks about MST for 30 seconds, he seems like a nice guy and admits that the films are B movies. Good Stuff.
MST HOUR WRAPS FOR SECRET AGENT SUPER DRAGON *****
Introductions and concluding remarks that Jack Perkins (Played by Mike) did when Secret Agent Super Dragon (along with others) was broadcast in two parts on the Play MST Hour. A great extra (they need to release all the MST Hour intro for the episodes Rhino have already released).
MST3K VIDEO JUKEBOX, VOLUME 3***
This extra includes 10 more songs from the series:

Creepy Girl
A Michael Finestein Gamera
Whispering Christmas Warrior
Doughy Guys
Mystos
Cosmic Freight Train
The Best of Digger Smolken
The 70′s Song
Sir Thomas Neville Servo Quartet
The Rain Song

It’s gone to the point where they’ve ran out of songs and just put all the songs from already release episodes (even one from the last jukebox!). While fun, it’s no point to make another one.
INTERVIEW WITH DIRECTOR ROBERT FIVESON *****
Parts: The Clonus Horror director Robert Fiveson talks about the making of Clonus, Michael Bay’s ripoff “The Island”, MST3K, and the Uncut DVD of Clonus. Out of all the interviews with the crew of the movies, this is the best one Rhino has made. Fiveson gives alot of great info and says nice stuff of MST3K. Highlight extra on this set.
TRAILERS FOR THE MOVIES (except The Starfighers) ****
Fun little extras too set you in the mood for the movie (or lie about the movie).
FINAL WORD
This is one of the best set that Rhino has made so far. Great Episodes, really awesome extras, and while I like menus better from previous sets, these menus are pretty good too. Also the boxset art is quite awesome too. All in all the best set out of the two release this year.
5/5
Sam!


A Horrible Memory Of School.
October 19, 2007

Posted by samtaco in Thoughts.

add a comment 
 
A giant ruler is not good.
One day in the 9th grade, I was going to my last class of the day (I also think it was on a Friday) which was English, and acting like it was a normal day, going up the steps and what not. It was still passing period and I saw my friend (who’s name is now lost in my memory) sitting at his desk and head out to talk to him about a show that we liked (once again I forget the name of the show) and quote it. I saw that the teacher was not there and so my friend told about a scene which I stared to quote out load. Since I have a horrible memory I totally forgot what I said, but I suppose it was not good, since my friend didn’t laugh and there was silence and I turn to see my teacher right there looking at me with a disapprove look. “Sam” she said with disappointment in her voice “get out of my class, I’ll send your referral with you to the office”. I was shocked to hear this. I was a good kid; I never went to office for anything, but if I wanted to skip class by going to the Nurse’s Office to see if my mom would picked me. I slowly went out of her class (the bell didn’t go off yet for everybody to be in there class) standing next to the door as it open and shut with kids going in, looking at me wonder why I was just standing there. After about 15 minutes standing there thinking what the hell just happen and what’s to become of me, the open and my teacher appeared with the referral in hand.
To be continued!
Sam.
(More DVD reviews comin’ soon)


DVD Craze Hunt Fun
September 3, 2007

Posted by samtaco in DVD, Reviews, Thoughts.

2 comments 
Sorry for lack of post. But I’ve been in a DVD Craze Hunt. Here’s just from this past week:

I’ve spent about only $150 in all for this, thanks to my sister working at the awesome video store Moving Trading Company and giving me great deals on them.
Here’s what I got:
Robocop – Criterion Collection (Out of Print!)
Price: $15
The version I have is the “Criterion Collection” edition. It’s a shame that this one is so hard to find, because I do think this is the best version out there. Not only is it loaded with some very cool features, it’s also the unrated director’s cut that offers a few extra seconds of extra gore in two specific scenes. (I think it’s only two.) Now, that’s not a very big deal and doesn’t really add much to the movie, but it is something at least. And the picture and sound is great. I am aware that the newer version is supposed to look a lot better than this one, but that DVD doesn’t appear to have ANY special features on it.
Monty Python and the Holy Grail
Price: $15 at Tom Thumb
What can I say it’s a classic. Most nerds know it from heart (as we know from Freaks and Geeks and Weird Al’s White and Nerdy). The DVD itself is less than awesome as it does have some nice extras, but it could have been better. I think they’ve re-released the movie with a extra 3rd disc, so I might go back and get that one for high gay times, but for now I will enjoyed this DVD simply for the movie.
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (Special Edition)
Price: $9.99
If you have the bare-bones DVD version of TCM 2 then you need to buy the Gruesome Edition now. Comparing Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 to the original or the other sequels/remakes is pointless because this film is a beast all its own. It was made to be different than the first and Tobe Hooper lived up to it. It is quite obvious that this film is camp, but thats what makes it so great. Bottom line is that this DVD is a must have. Nuff said.
The Fly 1986 (Two-Disc Collector’s Edition)
Price: $9.99
This is another Cronenberg classic about man vs. science. A better re-make than the original. This is classic horror/science fiction. Few horror films elicit any feeling or sympathy for the creature, but this one does. A great story, with great performances by Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis. This is a must have for horror buffs and for film collectors.
The Night Of The Hunter
Price: $2.99
Night of the Hunter is one of those rare films that hasn’t won any awards and simply got stored as a film that doesn’t seem to get much play on television. Yet, NOH passes the test of time in such formidable ways. The storyline and believability of the plot and characters remains strong, as does the top-notch cinematography. My only reservation with this otherwise superb DVD is the warning at the beginning that “This film has been modified from its original version. It has been formatted to fit your TV”. Either that’s flatly untrue (as Night of the Hunter looks perfectly at home in 4:3), or MGM has cheated us by not giving a true American classic its due.
The Simpsons Season Nine
Price: $20 at Amazon
Mike Scully’s reign of terror has begun! This season has a lot of great episodes. Probably not the greatest Simpsons season of all, but definitely the last great Simpsons season. Plus you get audio commentary on EVERY episode as well as those other extras that fans of the DVDs have come to expect.
The Nightmare on Elm Street Collection
Price: $20.00
The Freddy movies are so campy and corny that there awesome. I’ve never been scared of them (really only the first was the closest) but they make me laugh. This set has every single movie in the series. It has numbers 1 through 5, “Freddy’s Dead: The Final Nightmare,” and “Wes Craven’s New Nightmare.” All of them ready to pollute the DVD player and contaminate the TV screen. Freddy’s waiting for ya, don’t you know?
Freddy Vs Jason
Price: $1.50
I had to complete my Freddy collection by getting this turkey. I myself don’t care for the Friday the 13th series as I found them to boring and dull. So when will we see Bruce Campbell kill Jason and Freddy? Hopefully soon.
Stanley Kubrick Collection
Price: $60
The Stanley Kubrick Collection features 9 amazing DVD’s, eight of them films. The films include Lolita, Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, Barry Lyndon The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, Eyes Wide Shut, and the documentary Stanley Kubrick: A Life In Pictures. Every Kubrick fan should own this item!
So I blew most all my money for the month and maybe the year. But I hope to report on more of my amazing DVD hunt.
Sam.
« older posts



search




Blogroll

WordPress.com
WordPress.org


5 Most Recent DVD Buys:
(Updated: 3/28/08)
1. Brazil- 3/19
2. Labyrinth- 3/14
3. Batman Begin- 3/07
4. Tommy Boy- 2/27
5. Falling Down- 2/27

Archive Adventures!
 Select Month  March 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 




Feeds
Full
Comments



Theme: Regulus by Binary Moon.
Blog at WordPress.com.
Top







Follow

Follow “Sam\'s Fun Time Website!”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.









Powered by WordPress.com








