BBC News - What's the point of presidential speeches?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




kattykay







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















7 September 2011
Last updated at 19:38 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Katty Kay

Presenter, BBC World News

More from Katty
Follow Katty on Twitter



What's the point of presidential speeches?
 


FDR's speeches are the benchmark, but few live up to them today

For the last 15 years I've covered American presidents. That's 42, 43 and 44. From those three administrations I can remember precisely two speeches. 
They are President Bush's second inaugural and candidate Barack Obama's speech on race. And to be totally honest I can't even remember them in great detail; it's more the flavour than the specific words that stay with me. 
Now I have a really abysmal memory, but only two speeches in 15 years? Even I ought to be able to do better than that. If those speeches were so important, wouldn't I be able to recall them better? Which got me thinking (a little hopefully, perhaps). Maybe it's not my addled brain but the speeches themselves. Maybe presidential speeches are unmemorable because they don't have much lasting impact.  
Changing times
Ever since the days of Franklin D Roosevelt's fireside chats we like to think words uttered from the most powerful man in the world will change history. After all, if the guy in the Oval Office can't bully his way out of the pulpit with nifty speeches, who can? Indeed, Roosevelt's 30 presidential radio addresses really did change events. Historians now credit much of the success of the New Deal with both the content and the delivery of Roosevelt's evening chats. 
But times have changed, and so have we journalists. 

“Start Quote
Grand promises notwithstanding, that speech did not mark a radical change in US policy... The meek, I'm sorry to say, are still scrapping over the crumbs of a measly inheritance”
End Quote
 We esteemed members of the fourth estate make a big deal of a set piece speech by an American president. We get reporters to cover the event, we schedule extra air time, pray for extra ads, and dissect every line for its "newsiness". 
But maybe we're wrong. Presidents no longer change America by giving a great speech. They don't even shift the needle on public opinion in support of one policy or another. 
For his book On Deaf Ears: The Limits of the Bully Pulpit, political scientist George Edwards studied the major speeches of every recent American president. "If the point of presidential speeches is to move public opinion - and that's certainly what most of us think - they simply don't work," he writes.
Public opinion, Mr Edwards argues, shifts because of events, not words. This suggests the fireside chats were the exception, not the rule. In fact, even FDR couldn't rely on swaying the country solely with words. "It was true even with Franklin Roosevelt before World War II. The country moved when Hitler did things, rather than when FDR made a speech." 
Frozen weather, fiery warnings
So let's take the two speeches I do recall as test cases of whether a presidential address really matters. Why do I remember those two speeches more than others? Was there a consequence to those words which made them more memorable, more significant?  







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























"We will stand with you", President Bush declared.



 On the freezing morning of his second inauguration, George W Bush promised fire and brimstone on anyone in the world who didn't sign up to the freedom agenda. It was a post 9-11 speech, positioning America on the side of angels around the world. Again, that's flavour, not words. What Mr Bush actually said was, "it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world."

Memorable presidential speeches


There have been hundreds throughout history, but only a few stand out 

 George Washington's farewell address (1796)  The first president offered a roadmap for the new nation, including a warning to "steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world"  
 Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg address (1863) "Four score and seven years ago" is the legendary beginning to one of America's most famous speeches. At only 272 words, the pithiness packed a punch 
 Franklin Roosevelt's first inaugural address (1933) By reassuring Americans that "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself" FDR sought to calm nerves during a time of economic depression
 John F Kennedy's inaugural address (1961) JFK's command to "ask not what your country can do for you" inspired a generation of service-minded citizens
 George Bush's inaugural address (1988)  The phrase  "thousand points of light" entered the public consciousness in part because George Bush Sr used it in several different speeches, most notably his inaugural. But it also was a feature of Dana Carvey's Bush impersonation on Saturday Night Live


 He followed with an equally bold promise that America would indeed ensure that the meek inherit the earth, or, in the president's own words "All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know: the United States will not ignore your oppression, or excuse your oppressors. When you stand for your liberty, we will stand with you."
Grand promises notwithstanding, that speech did not mark a radical change in US policy. America continued to befriend Egypt and Uzbekistan, to name just a couple of unsavoury relationships, whilst it also continued to allow the innocent citizens of Darfur to die in what a senior administration official called a genocide. The meek, I'm sorry to say, are still scrapping over the crumbs of a measly inheritance. 
The reason I remember that speech is because even as I stood there, shivering on the Washington Mall, warning bells rang clear and loud in my mind. Here was the gulf between America and her allies. As much as the interventionist ideals promised in that address would be lauded by those who had voted for Mr Bush's re-election, it would send shivers of horror down the spines of the growing ranks of people around the world for whom America had become dangerously unilateral. 
I'm not passing judgement on whether the reactions of either side were justified, but that speech symbolised the alarming gap in trans-Atlantic relations that came to be known as anti-Americanism. 
Dog-whistle politics
It was a period of my time in the United States that I found particularly upsetting. Maybe that's why I remember the 43rd president's second inaugural so clearly - not for the policies that ensued but for what it said about that moment in history. 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Candidate Barack Obama made a major speech on race relations in the US.



 What about Barack Obama's campaign speech on race? I defy anyone, whether they voted for him or not, to say that wasn't moving and powerful. For a black candidate in an era of dog-whistle politics, it was a gamble: tackling head on one of the trickiest subjects in America. And he did so with grace and generosity, from the unique standpoint of someone of mixed race. 
He described his white grandmother, who raised him and who he loved, being scared of black men. She was "a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed by her on the street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made me cringe." No white candidate could have said that this openly. 
Mr Obama didn't shy away from talking about black resentment either. "That anger may not get expressed in public, in front of white co-workers or white friends. But it does find voice in the barbershop or around the kitchen table... occasionally it finds voice in the church on Sunday morning, in the pulpit and in the pews."
The speech ended with a call to unity and was generally deemed inspiring, but did it change race relations in America? Not really. Nor did it lift millions of African Americans out of poverty or change the fact that US prisons are so disproportionately populated with black men. 
It may have helped Barack Obama get elected, and that may have afforded some African-Americans an enduring sense of pride, but the link to the speech itself is tenuous. And many black Americans would today complain that Mr Obama has not done enough to fulfil their hopes that he would transform their lives for the better. 
Once again, the reason this speech is memorable is not because it changed America - it didn't. What it did do was address the most hyper-sensitive issue in this country with unique frankness. It was the candour as much as the result that made it stick in my mind. 
Back-room deals
Poll numbers agree with my poor memory. Presidential speeches aren't important because they don't change public opinion or policy. That's almost certainly true of President Obama's speech on jobs. It doesn't matter what he says. All that matters is what he does. 
I realise that sounds trite, but the only thing that will create jobs are hard-won policies that result from hours spent negotiating with Congress on legislation that will stimulate growth. Legislation, for example, to reform taxes and mortgage policy. Yes, I hear you yawn. 
Back-room deals struck in the grey corridors of Washington office blocks aren't nearly as glamorous as beautiful words delivered to the illustrious Houses of Congress, but they are a lot more effective. 

 





Article written by Katty Kay
Katty Kay

Presenter, BBC World News

More from Katty
Follow Katty on Twitter



@KattyKayBBC via Twitter
THE challenge of our time. Where do jobs come from in robotic world? http://t.co/F6oWbhGI #FT








       Comments    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.       Join the discussion...  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 21       Order by: Oldest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1.  Gerge Kay  8th September 2011 - 4:29   Fair words cost nothing, and the tongue of man is a twisty thing    Report this comment (Comment number 1) Link to this (Comment number 1)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 2.  neelsn  8th September 2011 - 5:15   Speeches and related events are important only in that they give the media something to talk about. In this country, political ads are integral to the profit of media companies. Hence, politics gets a lot of coverage.    Report this comment (Comment number 2) Link to this (Comment number 2)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 3.  BeebLeeMoore  8th September 2011 - 6:40   There's no harm in Presidential speeches. They don't cost anything. It's Presidential action you want to worry about. That costs a fortune. Let Obama flap those lips every evening till January 2013, just as long as (a) I don't have to listen and (b) he stops spending other people's money like it's going out of fashion.    Report this comment (Comment number 3) Link to this (Comment number 3)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 4.  M Bergman  8th September 2011 - 8:06   "Suit the word to the action; the action to the word."  (Wm. Shakespeare)Shakespeare had it right.  Words only mean something when the actions that follow them support the same intention.  Otherwise, what you have is a big,fat insult to your intelligence--or exactly the pablum you were looking for.    Report this comment (Comment number 4) Link to this (Comment number 4)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 5.  Andy_Wilts  8th September 2011 - 12:38   Hearing the views of these ultra-conservative Republicans leaves nobody in any doubt. Come 2013 Obama's legacy will be wiped clean... Healthcare - will exist, but only those who can afford it. The Tea Party machine will rumble on, ensuring the mega-rich get richer, and the poor starve.The Republicans are as far away from progressive politics , as they've ever been.. possibly further away.    Report this comment (Comment number 5) Link to this (Comment number 5)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 6.  Drew Evans  8th September 2011 - 13:21   Do Prime Minister's Speeches mean anything? I get the point... but to marginalize my President (who I didn't even vote for) is once again insulting. Yeah, they all lie, but he's our liar! I suppose Churchill, Macmillan or any other was useless as well. Only history will tell who's speeches deserve recognition, not some bitter society looking on.    Report this comment (Comment number 6) Link to this (Comment number 6)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 7.  Annapolis George  8th September 2011 - 14:26   When all is said and done alot more will be said then done......    Report this comment (Comment number 7) Link to this (Comment number 7)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 8.  RedFox  8th September 2011 - 15:00   What does a presidential speech really signify anyway?  Firstly the president doesn't usually write it.  Secondly it is proofed by a multitude to take out anything too contraversial.  Finally it is distributed ahead of time to the press, the opposition etc etc - so it isn't even 'new' any more.  When they can give me a speech, off the cuff, that surprises everybody, then it may be worth hearing.    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 9.  JohnH  8th September 2011 - 16:26   When speeches counted, as with FDR, there were few and even less 'comment'.These days we are bombarded with speeches, comments, opinions, facts that show this, other facts that show the opposite. Is it any wonder speeches do not matter.Today it doesn't matter whether your left or right, just talk & talk about how your way is best, select facts to suit, & say your opponent is lying.    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 10.  cobalt  8th September 2011 - 16:30   Nobody, except left wing radicals supporting Obama and Clinton, have given a crap about anything a President has said since the 80s with Reagan. They're all blowing smoke and covering up the fact that no matter who you vote for the non wealthy lose.    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 11.  cg  8th September 2011 - 16:44   If a President were to announce a major new policy in a speech, then fulfill that new policy, it would matter and mean something - and we'd remember the speech. But they are too terrified of being seen to do something specific themselves, and later accountable for it whatever its result or efficacy, to do anything other than announce everything beforehand and not follow up anyway.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 12.  BillyBobClinton  8th September 2011 - 18:10   5.Andy_Townender writes "The Republicans are as far away from progressive politics , as they've ever been.. possibly further away."Thank God for that ... "progressive politics" is simply a quaint tern for neo marxism. Not all of us want to give up personal freedoms to suckle on the bosom of a nanny state.    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 13.  Lee  8th September 2011 - 18:13   Words are empty, actions  are meaningful.    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 14.  Davis Thanjan  8th September 2011 - 22:37   How many times President Obama speak about economic incentives. Everytime he speaks the stock market and the economy goes down and the unemployment goes up. I am interested in what he does rather than his speeches. Formation of a bank for reconstruction is too late. This was the priority when the economy was going down in the drain two years ago. Where is the money for the bank?    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 15.  DoctorJohnChronos  9th September 2011 - 4:47   Presidential speeches matter. Ms. Kay is unfortunately generalizing based upon a limited and impoverished sample. Speeches of Kennedy and Reagan are memorable even now. For Reagan, those speeches were effective tools to lead over the heads of a Congress controlled in both houses by Democrats.  Maybe the question should not be the point of the speeches, but why have they become so unmemorable?    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 16.  Migster  9th September 2011 - 9:07   I'm sure that 'spin doctors' have been around since the start of time.However, in the last 10-15yrs, spin doctoring has become a fine tuned machine.Sadly, as a result, I don't think a lot of people really trust what is being said, whether that be from the president of the US, the Prime Minister of the UK or any other world leaders.As somebody else has said, it's the actions that mean more.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 17.  Migster  9th September 2011 - 9:18   @ 6. Drew Evans That seems like an disproportionally bitter response??You president is supposed to give speeches that effect the world, and he has just made a speech, hence the timing of this article I'm sure.Nothing to do with marginalising him.I'm quite sure us Brits have exactly the same view of our Prime Ministers speeches and those of other world leaders.    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 18.  illizit  9th September 2011 - 10:43   Simply, NO!Well, that is only for me personally. Weak minded people are the masses, and commercials and nonsense affects them so much.    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 19.  Raj Mani  9th September 2011 - 12:55   Katty is right I am sure - so far as country itself is concerned. Outside of the US, the voice and atttitude of the leader matters a great deal. The days of the stereotypical "John Wayne" are past in the world outside the US.The frankness and candour of Barack Obama should make the difference to US and the free world.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 20.  jakartaman  9th September 2011 - 14:49   Yes presidential speeches in some instances have a profound effect ie Reagan's-Berlin, kennedy's inauguration Lincoln's Gettysburg etc. Unfortunately our present socialist leader gives a speech every other day and its just words with no action or substance. All he is a a spending liberal that has forced his Nanny state policies trying to make us like the failed Europeans healthcare system.    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)         Page 1 of 2    Older 1 2 Newer      This entry is now closed for comments  


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French jets target Mali rebel bases


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Match played in England 'fixed'


Charges over US sniper's murder


Spain's Rajoy pledges to battle on









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: What happens at an atheist church?



5: Malala: 'I am getting better'



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The bloody last moments of a king



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Canada stops distributing pennies



5: What happens at an atheist church?



6: Charges over US sniper's murder



7: Killer Dutroux asks to be freed



8: Gazza attends treatment centre



9: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



10: Can testosterone make you live longer?



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



2: Earth's close brush with asteroid Watch



3: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



4: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



5: Alabama hostage stand-off continues Watch



6: Dutroux asks for early release Watch



7: India's appetite for meat grows Watch



8: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



9: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



10: Space probe's asteroid pictures Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





