BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 1368.  Alex Penn  7th January 2013 - 16:30   1212.geoff ...  we all spent/borrowed to much. We were all to greedyIn managing THEIR risks, banks had a duty to lend responsibly, yet they encouraged rampant consumerism and easy credit. Gullible consumers trusted their ‘expertise’ – and we ended up bailing them out.Not all consumers are financially astute – which was why loans used to be refused once upon a time!    Report this comment (Comment number 1368) Link to this (Comment number 1368)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 1367.  Bastiat  7th January 2013 - 16:30   1346. Tonester_7"... with comments like this what you fail to understand is basic maths. Most unemployed people are unemployed because there are not enough jobs, in Edinburgh there were 350 people who applied for one basic administrative position where I work. I am sick of hearing Bastiats type of attitude - GET REAL."=If there were no minimum wages, there'd be jobs aplenty. Real enough? :D    Report this comment (Comment number 1367) Link to this (Comment number 1367)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1366.  surpluspop1  7th January 2013 - 16:30   Labour, LibDems, Tories..... it doesn't matter what the flavour is, they all taste the same.All have the same political agenda - screw everyone, let's make loads of money.Take a look at Tony Blair, war profiteer.    Report this comment (Comment number 1366) Link to this (Comment number 1366)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 1365.  AndyC555  7th January 2013 - 16:30   "1341.FR_Andrew  I cannot afford to buy a house, even though I have a PhD in Nuclear Physics and have a good job. Estimates of a housing crash this year say that houses could fall by 40% to 60%"So you're anticipating house prices will fall by up to 60% but are comlpaining that you can't buy one.A PhD in Nuclear Physics but not even a GCSE in common sense.    Report this comment (Comment number 1365) Link to this (Comment number 1365)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1364.  Clarkster  7th January 2013 - 16:23   David Cameron is very good at mentioning all the issues people are most affected by,childcare costs,mortgages,increased living costs etc..Thank you for pointing them out. He gets us excited that the coalition will put something in place to help us with these issues. Brilliant.They then forget about these PR speeches,they never go into any detail about their proposals and move onto something else.    Report this comment (Comment number 1364) Link to this (Comment number 1364)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1363.  Bob Clarke  7th January 2013 - 16:29   We as the the electorate and the true custodians of power need to wake up an show these wasters who is in charge. They rule because we the majority allow them to. Its time they knew it. Nick you sold your sole to the Devil and a fire pit awaits you in 2015. You will burn and vanish. These lot have no mandate any more. Call an election we've had it the lot of you.    Report this comment (Comment number 1363) Link to this (Comment number 1363)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 1362.  Ian Duncan Smurf  7th January 2013 - 16:29   I think i can speak for the large Majority of people not just on HYS but in the country, David and Nick hope you two have a lousy new year because that is what we are all going to face this year. These two are like Pinky and the Brain, minus the brain.    Report this comment (Comment number 1362) Link to this (Comment number 1362)     Comment number 1361.  Removed  7th January 2013 - 16:29    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 1361) Link to this (Comment number 1361)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1360.  bigmouth strikes again  7th January 2013 - 16:28   1327. An Eton Mess 'They do nothing but privatise vital services, selling everything we own to their mates'And of course Labour thought they were so important they re-nationalised none of them during their 13 year tenure. Perhaps Ed and Old Labour or Nu Labour (I get confused who he represents now), will. ps Without Unions and BBC Labour would struggle to exist    Report this comment (Comment number 1360) Link to this (Comment number 1360)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 1359.  Andrew Davis  Comment number 1359 is an Editors' Pick 7th January 2013 - 16:28   As much as I consider myself a fan of Labour, a coalition seems to be a practical way of dealing with addressing peoples different needs. Dare I say it, but the libdems are learning to stand their ground on social matters, while the torys are doing their best to fix the economy. There are no ideals in this tough climate, but I'd rather we had a balanced coalition than an unfocused majority party.    Report this comment (Comment number 1359) Link to this (Comment number 1359)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1358.  Tc1234  7th January 2013 - 16:28   The coalition have been in power for 2 years and they in the eyes of labourites are single handedly responsible for all the wrongs in the world past present and future. It must be really depressing supporting labour as they have nothing positive to say about anything (or a policy either)    Report this comment (Comment number 1358) Link to this (Comment number 1358)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 1357.  spam spam spam spam  7th January 2013 - 16:28   Whatever.It could be worse.Instead, it could have been the 2 Eds dribbling their mid term spin up there & thinking about it, it is a relief that these 2 are there instead, not that theres any other real choice.Choices-Ed & Ed & the PC crewDave & Nick - best of the worstFarage - pure numptyism    Report this comment (Comment number 1357) Link to this (Comment number 1357)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 1356.  Little_Old_Me  7th January 2013 - 16:28   1340.bulekingfisherYou may be right on the money  -  though one has to wonder with his type of person.........they are usually brought to believe they can do no wrong, what we know these days as the "entitlement culture," so his tantrums/red face when he doesn't get his way may be a manifestation of that......    Report this comment (Comment number 1356) Link to this (Comment number 1356)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 1355.  liarbbc  7th January 2013 - 16:28   There's not any part of the Labour party involved in the coalition............that's good enough for me!    Report this comment (Comment number 1355) Link to this (Comment number 1355)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 1354.  Mr Sherm  7th January 2013 - 16:27   1328. What part of Singapore was that exactly?  Did you actually go there and see this yourself?  Most of the low skill level jobs are indeed not carried out by Westerners or even those indiginous to Singapore, but are instead carried out by asian and indonesian immigrants who work there because there is no work back home. I can't recall ever seeing any kids though.    Report this comment (Comment number 1354) Link to this (Comment number 1354)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 1353.  roger48  7th January 2013 - 16:27   13053.Child tax credits Paid to those who do not need them5.‘Record exam results in schools’ And an ever decreasing level of literacy6.More police officers then ever before  Filling in paperwork8.2 million more jobs than in 1997 Mainly non jobs in the public sector9. Peace in NI  Apart from the flag riots and assinationsOh, you forgot the massive debts they left.    Report this comment (Comment number 1353) Link to this (Comment number 1353)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 1352.  Assynt  7th January 2013 - 16:27   1023.Norman BrookeLeft wing spin & lies! Rich to Poor inequality is widely measured by the Gini coefficient. This currently this sits at 0.34 it's lowest level since 1990. It rose under Labour to 0.36 but has reduced under the Condems with the biggest reduction occurring in 2010-2011. Inequality as measured by the 90/10 and 50/10 ratios indicate the gap top be at it's lowest level since 1987!    Report this comment (Comment number 1352) Link to this (Comment number 1352)                 rate this     +12      rate this     +12   Comment number 1351.  Keith B  7th January 2013 - 16:27   The only thing that will improve the political landscape of Britain is a revolution, not a coalition.    Report this comment (Comment number 1351) Link to this (Comment number 1351)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 1350.  trevore  7th January 2013 - 16:27   So PR dave and his poodle Clegg are happy pals again. I hope they enjoy the next few years in government because it will be over come the next election.    Report this comment (Comment number 1350) Link to this (Comment number 1350)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1349.  aussiepat  7th January 2013 - 16:27   If either Mr Cameron or Mr Clegg think that they and their parties will win the next election they truly out of touch with the wider community. After so much damage to people's lives i doubt it. I can't see labour winning either so who are we left with. People's memories aren't that short that in 2015 they will allow them back in power    Report this comment (Comment number 1349) Link to this (Comment number 1349)         Page 8 of 76    Newer 1 ... 6 7 8 9 10 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Piracy problem

How Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal sharing 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: French jets bomb northern Mali 



6: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



7: Richard III dig skull image shown



8: France guards Niger uranium mine



9: Can testosterone make you live longer?



10: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



4: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



5: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





