BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1408.  Rodders AKA Dave  7th January 2013 - 16:44   1398.BastiatI know about the supposed "power of the market", however the market is nigh on collapsing in the UK as there is a massive oversupply of labour for any work going, hence unemployment and low wages.The low wages mean many don't participate in many markets (essentials only), and when they do, they are forced to the cheapest (outsourced) end, destroying our own internal market.    Report this comment (Comment number 1408) Link to this (Comment number 1408)                 rate this     +12      rate this     +12   Comment number 1407.  Yoda  7th January 2013 - 16:44   If we want a privatised health-service vote Cons. If we want privatised councils - vote the ConsIf we want our schools to go down the pan - vote the Cons.If we want 99% of us to pay while the 1% get even more wealthy - vote the ConsIf we want to see even more media corruption - vote the ConsIf we want to see our disabled be subjected to even more ridicule and disrespect - vote Cons    Report this comment (Comment number 1407) Link to this (Comment number 1407)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1406.  checkdaherefordz  7th January 2013 - 16:44   This 'Mid Term Review' was only 46 pages long? Most undergraduate dissertations are longer than that. There obviously isn't much to celebrate in it.    Report this comment (Comment number 1406) Link to this (Comment number 1406)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1405.  SeeDubya  7th January 2013 - 16:44   I think Labour have a cunning plan. A week is a very long time in politics and we have two and a half years to wait for an election. There is therefore no point at all getting rid of the unelectable Eds for at least two years. Why put in a new leader for the tory media to ridicule all that time? The talking horses will be put out to grass around Christmas 2014.    Report this comment (Comment number 1405) Link to this (Comment number 1405)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 1404.  glasshouse  7th January 2013 - 16:44   The Majority of Government politicians are Liars and thievesLiying to get your votes then do the complete opposite,and they thieve from the tax payer putting in false claims etcDont trust any of them    Report this comment (Comment number 1404) Link to this (Comment number 1404)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1403.  steve   7th January 2013 - 16:43   Does anyone really believe this country will suddenly get better when Milliband, Balls and co take over?-Well let's face it they would have to work bloody hard to be any worse!Oh BTW 1387 Prices in Parts of the UK  (Northern Ireland  and the North West have already  fallen by 40% since 2008,Tax evading foreign nationals want to come to London to pretend to work is what you mean    Report this comment (Comment number 1403) Link to this (Comment number 1403)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 1402.  derek powell  7th January 2013 - 16:43   but it also says on the ronseal tin if it dose not work bring it back for a full refund    Report this comment (Comment number 1402) Link to this (Comment number 1402)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 1401.  Mr Sherm  7th January 2013 - 16:43   There are lots of complaints on having no faith in the system or in the politicians, some of you even suggest change is needed.  We seem to be very good at making a fuss, but we severely lack the backbone required to actually do anything about it, which is so typical of todays society.  I am actually a little ashamed to be English right now.    Report this comment (Comment number 1401) Link to this (Comment number 1401)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1400.  WhatsThis  7th January 2013 - 16:42   As i read through these comments of dismay, i wonder how many of them voted in Cameron and have "seen the light"In my 55 years I've seen it all and its deja vu over and over again. And we still see them in the commons bantering on blaming the other for its failures. They call it Prime ministers Questions, I call it comedy half hour!Why don't they grow up!    Report this comment (Comment number 1400) Link to this (Comment number 1400)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 1399.  Who8allthepies  7th January 2013 - 16:41   Who do they think they're kidding? Come election time in 2015, or, hopefully, sooner, we will see just how much "unity" there is in this dysfunctional farrago.  The gloves will be off and the fight will be to the death.  With a bit of luck there will be no survivors.    Report this comment (Comment number 1399) Link to this (Comment number 1399)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1398.  Bastiat  7th January 2013 - 16:41   1374. Rodders AKA Dave Good point. There were a variety of systems of wage controls focused on specific industries under the Trade Boards Act 1909.I wonder what the unemployment rate would have been had we had minimum wage laws applying to us all? How many youths would have been priced out of the labour force?Here's a man who destroys your sophistry.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6e8Pa6-IZU    Report this comment (Comment number 1398) Link to this (Comment number 1398)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 1397.  cheekymonkey  7th January 2013 - 16:41   Watching and listening to this pair now just makes me cringe...    Report this comment (Comment number 1397) Link to this (Comment number 1397)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 1396.  coram-populo-2010  7th January 2013 - 16:40   Is it just me that's noticed, with each passing month, that Clegg's suits are looking more expensively hand-made, shinier and more, err,  blue??    Report this comment (Comment number 1396) Link to this (Comment number 1396)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1395.  Alan B  7th January 2013 - 16:40   Coalitions do not work in peace time. Pray that this one ends soon and will never be repeated. Lets get back to first past the post.Remember, neither of these parties won out right but stole the goverment between them. Lets get back to a single party who governs.There was no manifesto for most of the rubbish this coalition has brought in. They done,by and large,what the Cons wanted.    Report this comment (Comment number 1395) Link to this (Comment number 1395)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 1394.  Naughtie Spoonerism  7th January 2013 - 16:39   Clegg has no morals, and will do anything for power.Her certainly does "go the distance", if you know what I mean :-)    Report this comment (Comment number 1394) Link to this (Comment number 1394)     Comment number 1393.  Removed  7th January 2013 - 16:39    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 1393) Link to this (Comment number 1393)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1392.  All for All  7th January 2013 - 16:38   Assynt @1352Gini "spin & lies"Fixated on "left wing" v. motherhood & apple-pieMissing basis of democracy, shareable freedom, living 'in conscience'Bar 'envy', no real problem 'for democracy' if a few 'afforded' (modest) tiaras, or a change of gold carriages (within reason), even if 'for use' in private as well as public entertainmentReal point: inequality precludes representativeness    Report this comment (Comment number 1392) Link to this (Comment number 1392)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1391.  roger48  7th January 2013 - 16:38   1362Please do not assume that you speak for anybody other than yourself.1368Banks do not force anybody to borrow.  If you borrow too much, it is your own fault, nobody elses.    Report this comment (Comment number 1391) Link to this (Comment number 1391)     Comment number 1390.  DAVID  7th January 2013 - 16:38    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 1390) Link to this (Comment number 1390)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 1389.  John Petrie  7th January 2013 - 16:37   Do some of those making comment seriously believe that a Milliband Balls combination is the solution.  Seriously?    Report this comment (Comment number 1389) Link to this (Comment number 1389)         Page 6 of 76    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Piracy problem

How Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal sharing 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: French jets bomb northern Mali 



6: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



7: Richard III dig skull image shown



8: France guards Niger uranium mine



9: Can testosterone make you live longer?



10: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



4: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



5: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





