BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1388.  pdb-econ  7th January 2013 - 16:37   Cross party politics has worked for years, eg select committees, they just don't get recognised as such. The problem is when you get extreams of both sides being in power, eg Thatcher. The middle ground is lost. At least with the more modern politics of recent years the middle ground has had some recognision.The Condems wont survive, but maybe we might get more cohesive thinking iin the future    Report this comment (Comment number 1388) Link to this (Comment number 1388)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1387.  Z1A900  7th January 2013 - 16:37   1341.FR_Andrew..houses could fall by 40% to 60%==I'm sorry to disappoint you but houses in UK will never fall by that much,  too many people want to come here to live and work. I think you are thinking of Spain or Greece.That said I agree houses are too expensive and I look to them as part of my pension when I downsize, but it does not take away the problem for the next generation.    Report this comment (Comment number 1387) Link to this (Comment number 1387)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1386.  waofy  7th January 2013 - 16:37   I find it strange how, despite the coalition doing the polar opposite of what the people want, no other party is offering a distinct alternative. Have MPs lost their balls or has corruption caused them to bow to the wishes of their "masters" instead?    Report this comment (Comment number 1386) Link to this (Comment number 1386)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 1385.  GARYMAC  7th January 2013 - 16:37   Does what it says on the tin eh? This forced marriage is not working and its time for an annulment. As Cameron clearly puts it "I want to be the leader of the government next time and I want a Conservative majority" - i.e. I dont want Clegg hanging around my neck longer than necessary.    Report this comment (Comment number 1385) Link to this (Comment number 1385)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1384.  Binky  7th January 2013 - 16:36   1331.the-gannet Can we please just find an island and dump them all on it.///////They are on an island. We all are. Together.    Report this comment (Comment number 1384) Link to this (Comment number 1384)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1383.  Matthew  7th January 2013 - 16:36   Whens the divorce, come on it’s like a sham marriage.    Report this comment (Comment number 1383) Link to this (Comment number 1383)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1382.  pete  7th January 2013 - 16:36   with regret another PR stunt to distract from stupid errors they have made, it is with regret we have this group for another 2.5 years, then it will be a giveaway group to buy the suckers in whom have little intelligence to what influence politics have in this country and their lives, ohh that sounds good group...does it sound good now?    Report this comment (Comment number 1382) Link to this (Comment number 1382)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 1381.  JohnS  7th January 2013 - 16:36   Does anyone really believe this country will suddenly get better when Milliband, Balls and co take over?Labour and Tory. Both as bad as each other. Show the lot of them the red card.    Report this comment (Comment number 1381) Link to this (Comment number 1381)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 1380.  Kristal Tips  7th January 2013 - 16:36   They may have a full tank of gas, it's dark and they're not wearing sunglasses, it's full on blinkers to the plight of the people.  They just changed "hit it" to "hit them" - which is everyone who is not a multi millionaire pal.    Report this comment (Comment number 1380) Link to this (Comment number 1380)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 1379.  Sadgit  7th January 2013 - 16:34   Can the nation really bring itself to trust or believe these guys any more,The same old "look at us were the good old boys" trying to save the nation ,Cameron is out of his depth as PM and he,s a bit like Jonah swallowing the whale and getting indigestion then letting his belly rumble and calling  it a policy document ,and what doe,s Nick Cleggdo to earn seat at the top table.    Report this comment (Comment number 1379) Link to this (Comment number 1379)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 1378.  countryboy  7th January 2013 - 16:33   i hate torys but how can i vote labour with the two eds in charge , there is 2 years of this lot to come, enough time to change the leadership of the labour party . or do i vote respect instead . please god forgive me    Report this comment (Comment number 1378) Link to this (Comment number 1378)                 rate this     +15      rate this     +15   Comment number 1377.  Ghandi  7th January 2013 - 16:33   God help the people of UK!    Report this comment (Comment number 1377) Link to this (Comment number 1377)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 1376.  Tez  7th January 2013 - 16:33   The 'Commitment' that Tories & LibDems agreed to deal with the deadly crisis that Labour left behind  (Remember Labours smirking comment from Liam Fox - 'There's NO money left') was on an equivalent to WW2 Austerity.The Coalition cannot be said to be be acting in Labours ever-populist way - can they?Do we REALLY want Labour to take us into this mess AGAIN...?    Report this comment (Comment number 1376) Link to this (Comment number 1376)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1375.  steve   7th January 2013 - 16:33   So let me get this right it makes sense to take away child benefit from  a one parent family where the only earner is a Ward Sister because they are "rich" .But it also sensible to introduce help with childcare costs which is available to families who earn £1 million+ a year?No wonder the not so dynamic duo looked even more bemused than normal  they can't even understand their own policies!    Report this comment (Comment number 1375) Link to this (Comment number 1375)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1374.  Rodders AKA Dave  7th January 2013 - 16:33   1367.BastiatIf there were no minimum wages, there'd be jobs aplenty.Real enough? :D___Looking back at the 80's and 90's when there were periods of high unemployment and no minimum wage? No, not real. :D    Report this comment (Comment number 1374) Link to this (Comment number 1374)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 1373.  Yoda  7th January 2013 - 16:33   Does this mean they have only achieved 50% damage so far?  Let's look forward to the media propaganda in the 3 months before the election where Milliband is depicted as a devil and the media gloss over the figures.....My hope is that in this age of the internet, less people are gullible to being conned by the cons though.    Report this comment (Comment number 1373) Link to this (Comment number 1373)                 rate this     +16      rate this     +16   Comment number 1372.  ken kirk  Comment number 1372 is an Editors' Pick 7th January 2013 - 16:27   I once believed the lie that we have the best democratic system of government in the world. It has become apparent that whichever political party is in power they are only remembered for their ineptitude, the Coalition will be no different. Party Politics has been the downfall of this nation, the system is bankrupt and the political class has no credibility. When will we say enough is enough?    Report this comment (Comment number 1372) Link to this (Comment number 1372)     Comment number 1371.  Theresa Mayhem  7th January 2013 - 16:32    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 1371) Link to this (Comment number 1371)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 1370.  Paul D  7th January 2013 - 16:32   I cannot see the coalition lasting beyond the next election. A lot of the votes picked up by Nick Clegg last time must have been from disaffected Labour voters who were horrified when he 'buddied up' to Cameron and will never make that mistake again. It will be a straight fight between the Tories and Labour and, whichever side you are on, that seems to be more honest than what the LibDems did.    Report this comment (Comment number 1370) Link to this (Comment number 1370)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 1369.  Paul Barrett-Brown  7th January 2013 - 16:31   1351. Keith B"The only thing that will improve the political landscape of Britain is a revolution, not a coalition."Totally agree with you Keith - but how do we do it?  I for one do not fancy another Civil War.    Report this comment (Comment number 1369) Link to this (Comment number 1369)         Page 7 of 76    Newer 1 ... 5 6 7 8 9 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Piracy problem

How Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal sharing 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: French jets bomb northern Mali 



6: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



7: Richard III dig skull image shown



8: France guards Niger uranium mine



9: Can testosterone make you live longer?



10: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



4: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



5: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





