BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated    Comment number 1448.  CantSilenceMe  7th January 2013 - 17:00    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 1448) Link to this (Comment number 1448)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1447.  Rodders AKA Dave  7th January 2013 - 17:00   1426.BastiatThe trouble is wages don't reflect remotely the skills of any particular worker, or even the risks of their job.Also, by wishing to employ lower skilled people to "make cheaper products", you're advocating the waste of resources on poorer quality items, leading to a collapse of the higher end markets that reduce their standards to compete, as we currently see globally anyway.    Report this comment (Comment number 1447) Link to this (Comment number 1447)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 1446.  paul tapner  7th January 2013 - 17:00   Hey! You two! We've been telling you for almost three years that we don't want your parties in a coalition together! why won't you listen?    Report this comment (Comment number 1446) Link to this (Comment number 1446)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 1445.  anthonygh  7th January 2013 - 16:59   Someone said something along the lines of 'the problem with elections is the next day, a bunch of politicians will be in power'...which exactly sums up my feelings after 40 yrs.Or as a close relative said to me recently.....'whoever you vote for...you are voting for the establishment...the winners main aim will be to maintain the establishment...whatever their party!!'    Report this comment (Comment number 1445) Link to this (Comment number 1445)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1444.  Harry Lime  7th January 2013 - 16:59   Sorry boys, but I don't believe a word of it.    Report this comment (Comment number 1444) Link to this (Comment number 1444)                 rate this     +13      rate this     +13   Comment number 1443.  Yoda  7th January 2013 - 16:59   The economy was not in a bad state because Labour paid the unemployed enough to survive, it wasn't in that state because of single mothers, or the disabled...Unregulated capitalism created our economic problem, and this is Tory policy in a nutshell.  Be ready for more propaganda, more inequality, more blame, more lies, and more behaviour that would qualify any human to be diagnosed a psychopath.    Report this comment (Comment number 1443) Link to this (Comment number 1443)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1442.  ihopethisoneworks  7th January 2013 - 16:58   1365.AndyC555"So you're anticipating house prices will fall by up to 60% but are comlpaining that you can't buy one.A PhD in Nuclear Physics but not even a GCSE in common sense."--------------Oh dear oh dear! FR_Andrew can't afford to buy a house today. Obviously, if prices dropped by 60% tomorrow he/she might well be able to afford one.    Report this comment (Comment number 1442) Link to this (Comment number 1442)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1441.  Carse  7th January 2013 - 16:58   For an educated man who speaks of democracy, I thought the Prime Ministers attempt to just riducule UKIP, betrayed that he is no smarter than the students they churn out on £30,000 debt with the Daily Mail line as thier best argument for anything they disagree with.    Report this comment (Comment number 1441) Link to this (Comment number 1441)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 1440.  bigmouth strikes again  7th January 2013 - 16:58   1407. An Eton MessAnd if you want to believe pure hyperbole without any evidence to back up your arguement vote 14071435. john_L  'falling to standards of poverty not seen since the depression of the 1930's'Utter rubbish    Report this comment (Comment number 1440) Link to this (Comment number 1440)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 1439.  countryboy  7th January 2013 - 16:58   i dont remember which idiot it was but some prime minister gave us the right to buy our own council houses thus creating a shed load of debt , then another one said that council rents had to be paid to central govt , this led to a shortage of social housing and the rise of the private landlord and his exorbiant rents . this led to rises in house prices and more debt , any clues what happened next    Report this comment (Comment number 1439) Link to this (Comment number 1439)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1438.  Ex Tory Voter  7th January 2013 - 16:58   "1417.bigmouth strikes again'I think Labour have a cunning plan'That sentance is incorrect. Replace 'a cunning' with no."Well, it'll be interesting to see what does happen. Gideon & Cameron have set 'cunning' traps for Labour (e.g. 1% benefits increase) that Labour haven't fallen into or be cowed by. I'm no fan of Labour, but they are at least not firing incoherent policies from the hip.    Report this comment (Comment number 1438) Link to this (Comment number 1438)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 1437.  Binky  7th January 2013 - 16:57   The Swiss have had coalitions term after term for yonks now. Seems to work fine. Similarly the Dutch, althought to a lesser extent. Coalitions actually make sense, if done correctly. It takes skill. Ours is built on a gamble (by the LibDems) that's gone horribly wrong.    Report this comment (Comment number 1437) Link to this (Comment number 1437)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 1436.  Mike P  7th January 2013 - 16:56   The hopuse of commons should be dispanded, give more power back to the monarchy and have the house of lords to take on a larger role    Report this comment (Comment number 1436) Link to this (Comment number 1436)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1435.  john_L  7th January 2013 - 16:56   We are the basket case of Europe rapidly falling to standards of poverty not seen since the depression of the 1930's. We need a General Election now to get rid of this rabid collection of posh boys who are trying to remake the country in the image of a Trollop novel.    Report this comment (Comment number 1435) Link to this (Comment number 1435)     Comment number 1434.  roger48  7th January 2013 - 16:56    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 1434) Link to this (Comment number 1434)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1433.  Smark  7th January 2013 - 16:55   They keep saying the Falkland’s have the right to self-determination, under UN charter.The people of England do not have self-determination; we have PM’s of Scotland, Wales and NI interfering with England, when the English MP’s do not have a say in their “Devolved” Areas.Only London is devolved leaving 50million people not living in a DEMOCROCYEnglish Parliament now!    Report this comment (Comment number 1433) Link to this (Comment number 1433)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 1432.  Isitonlyme  7th January 2013 - 16:55   1401.Mr Sherm "We seem to be very good at making a fuss, but we severely lack the backbone required to actually do anything about it, which is so typical of todays society. I am actually a little ashamed to be English right now".--Don't be ashamed.  Sadly we're the product of generations of social engineering - where the expectation is we swallow all the S**** our rulers want us to swallow    Report this comment (Comment number 1432) Link to this (Comment number 1432)                 rate this     -11      rate this     -11   Comment number 1431.  blackie1947  7th January 2013 - 16:55   Left Whingers out in force again, May all the Gods of the ancoient Romans and Ancient Britons curse on them ! A bunch of no hopers !    Report this comment (Comment number 1431) Link to this (Comment number 1431)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 1430.  joe-g  7th January 2013 - 16:46   so does clegg and Cameron own ronseal????    Report this comment (Comment number 1430) Link to this (Comment number 1430)                 rate this     +13      rate this     +13   Comment number 1429.  RonGraves  7th January 2013 - 16:54   Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time..The only reason they will stand the test of time is that any future government is going to find it very hard, financially, to undo the damage.    Report this comment (Comment number 1429) Link to this (Comment number 1429)         Page 4 of 76    Newer 1 ... 2 3 4 5 6 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Piracy problem

How Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal sharing 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Richard III dig skull image shown



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



6: France guards Niger uranium mine



7: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



8: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



4: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



5: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





