Hatha yoga - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia











Hatha yoga




From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia






					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2011) 





Wikiversity has learning materials about Yoga oracle#83. How to practice Yoga?




An article related to


Hinduism







Hindu
History






Deities


Trimurti
Brahma
Vishnu
Shiva
Devis and Devas
Saraswati
Lakshmi
Parvati
Shakti
Durga
Kali
Ganesha
Subrahmanya
Ayyappa
Rama
Krishna
Hanuman
Prajapati
Rudra
Indra
Agni
Dyaus
Bhumi
Varuna
Vayu








Scriptures
Vedas

Rigveda
Yajurveda
Samaveda
Atharvaveda
Divisions
Samhita
Brahmana
Aranyaka
Upanishad

Upavedas

Ayurveda
Dhanurveda
Gandharvaveda
Sthapatyaveda

Vedangas

Shiksha
Chandas
Vyakarana
Nirukta
Kalpa
Jyotisha

Upanishads

Rig vedic
Aitareya
Yajur vedic
Brihadaranyaka
Isha
Taittiriya
Katha
Shvetashvatara
Sama vedic
Chandogya
Kena
Atharva vedic
Mundaka
Mandukya
Prashna

Puranas

Brahma puranas
Brahma
Brahmanda
Brahmavaivarta
Markandeya
Bhavishya
Vaishnava puranas
Vishnu
Bhagavata
Naradeya
Garuda
Padma
Shaiva puranas
Shiva
Linga
Skanda
Agni
Vayu

Itihasas

Ramayana
Mahabharata

Other scriptures

Bhagavat Gita
Dharma Shastra
Manusmriti
Artha Shastra
Yoga Vasistha
Sutras
Stotras
Tantras
Yoga Sutra
others

Classification of scriptures

Śruti
Smriti

Timeline

Hindu texts








Practices
Worship

Puja
Japa
Bhajana
Tapa
Dhyana
Yajna
Homa
Tirthadana
Naivedhya
Temple
Vigraha
Bhakti

Samskaras

Garbhadhana
Pumsavana
Simantonayana
Jatakarma
Namakarana
Nishkramana
Annaprashana
Chudakarana
Karnavedha
Vidyarambha
Upanayana
Praishartha
Keshanta
Ritushuddhi
Samavartana
Vivaha
Antyeshti

Varnashrama Dharma

Varna
Brahmin
Kshatriya
Vaishya
Shudra
Ashrama
Brahmacharya
Grihastha
Vanaprastha
Sanyasa

Festivals

Navaratri
Vijayadashami (Dasara)
Deepavali
Shivaratri
Holi
Kumbha Mela
Ratha Yatra
Vishu
Bihu
Baisakhi
Puthandu
Ganesh Chaturthi
Onam
Rama Navami
Janmashtami
Raksha Bandhan








Philosophers


Ancient
Gautama
Angiras
Ashtavakra
Jaimini
Kanada
Kapila
Pāṇini
Patañjali
Uddalaka
Raikva
Satyakama Jabala
Valmiki
Vyasa
Yajnavalkya
Nayanmars
Alvars
Medieval
Adi Shankara
Basava
Dnyaneshwar
Chaitanya
Gangesha Upadhyaya
Gaudapada
Jayanta Bhatta
Kabir
Kumarila Bhatta
Madhusudana
Madhva
Namdeva
Nimbarka
Prabhakara
Raghunatha Siromani
Ramanuja
Srimanta Sankardeva
Vedanta Desika
Tukaram
Tulsidas
Vachaspati Mishra
Vallabha
Vidyaranya
Modern
Aurobindo
Coomaraswamy
Dayananda Saraswati
Gandhi
Krishnananda
Narayana Guru
Prabhupada
Ramakrishna
Ramana Maharshi
Radhakrishnan
Sivananda
U. G. Krishnamurti
Vivekananda
Yogananda
Ramachandra Dattatrya Ranade
Sri Sri Ravishankar








Other topics


Hindu denominations
Hinduism by country
Mythology
Hindu calendar
Hindu law
Hindu iconography
Hindu nationalism
Hindutva
Hindu pilgrimage sites
Persecution
Criticism
Glossary








 Hinduism portal
 Hindu Mythology portal







v
t
e





Hatha yoga (Sanskrit: हठयोग haṭhayoga, IPA: [ɦəʈʰəˈjoːɡə]), also called hatha vidya (हठविद्या), is a system of yoga described by Yogi Swatmarama, a Hindu sage of 15th century India, and compiler of the Hatha Yoga Pradipika.
The Sanskrit term haṭha refers to the use of persistence or force, and haṭhayoga is translated by the Monier-Williams dictionary as "a kind of forced Yoga or abstract meditation (forcing the mind to withdraw from external objects; treated of in the Haṭha‐pradīpikā by Svātmārāma and performed with much self‐torture, such as standing on one leg, holding up the arms, inhaling smoke with the head inverted &c.)." [1]
Swatmarama introduces his system as preparatory stage of physical purification that the body practices for higher meditation or Yoga. It is based on asanas and pranayama (breathing techniques, also known as shatkarma). As opposed to the traditional practice, physical focus on Yoga became popular in the west beginning in the second half of the 20th century, and is often referred to simply as "Hatha Yoga" in the context of health and physical exercise.




Contents


1 Origins

1.1 Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati


2 Concept
3 Prāṇāyāma
4 Health benefits ascribed to yogasana practice
5 References
6 Bibliography




[edit] Origins
The most comprehensive text of hatha yoga is the Hatha Yoga Pradipika by Yogi Swatmarama. This work is nonetheless derived from older Sanskrit texts on yoga besides Yogi Swatmarama's own yogic experiences. It includes information about shatkarma (purification), asana, pranayama (subtle energy control), chakras (centers of energy), kundalini (instinct), bandhas (muscle force), kriyas (techniques; manifestations of kundalini), shakti (sacred force), nadis (channels), and mudras (symbolic gestures) among other topics.
Traditionally, Lord Shiva is credited with propounding hatha yoga. It is said that on a lonely island, assuming nobody else would hear him, he gave the knowledge of hatha yoga to Goddess Parvati, but a fish heard the entire discourse, remaining still throughout. Lord Shiva took mercy on the fish (Matsya) and made him a siddha, who came to be known as Matsyendranaatha. Matsyendranaatha taught hatha yoga to Chaurangi, a limbless man who was given hands and feet by Matsyendranaatha just by looking at him. Hatha Yoga Pradipika mentions Adi Natha, Matsyendranath, Gorakshanath and many other yogis who became famous hatha yogis.
Many modern schools of hatha yoga derive from the school of Tirumalai Krishnamacharya, who taught from 1924 until his death in 1989. Among his students prominent in popularizing yoga in the West were K. Pattabhi Jois, famous for popularizing the vigorous Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga style, B. K. S. Iyengar who emphasizes alignment and the use of props, Indra Devi and Krishnamacharya's son T. K. V. Desikachar who developed the Viniyoga style. Desikachar founded the Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram in Chennai, with the aim of making available the heritage of yoga as taught by Krishnamacharya.
Another major stream of influence was Swami Sivananda of Rishikesh (1887-1963) and his many disciples including, among others, Swami Vishnu-devananda - founder of International Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centres; Swami Satyananda - of the Bihar School of Yoga; and Swami Satchidananda - of Integral Yoga.
[edit] Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati
The Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati is a very early extant Hatha yoga Sanskrit text attributed to Gorakshanath by the indigenous tradition which contains much content on the avadhuta, as Feuerstein (1991: p.105) relates:

One of the earliest hatha yoga scriptures, the Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati, contains many verses that describe the avadhuta. One stanza (VI.20) in particular refers to his chameleon-like capacity to animate any character or role. At times, it is said, he behaves like a worldling or even a king, at other times like an ascetic or naked renunciant.
—[2]

[edit] Concept
Traditional hatha yoga is a holistic yogic path, including disciplines, postures (asana), purification procedures (shatkriya), gestures (mudra), breathing (pranayama), and meditation. The hatha yoga predominantly practiced in the West consists of mostly asanas understood as physical exercises. It is also recognized as a stress-reducing practice.
Hatha yoga is one of the two branches of yoga that focuses on the physical culture, the other one being raja yoga. Both of these are commonly referred to as sadanga yoga, i.e., yoga of six parts ('sad' meaning six and 'anga' meaning limbs). Svatmarama emphasizes many times in his Hathapradipika text that there is no raja yoga without hatha yoga and no hatha yoga without raja yoga. The main difference is that raja yoga uses asanas mainly to get the body ready for prolonged meditation, and hence focuses more on the meditative asanas: Lotus Posture (padmasana), Accomplished Posture (siddhasana), Easy Posture (sukhasana) and Pelvic Posture (vajrasana). Hatha yoga utilizes not only meditative postures but also cultural postures. Similarly, raja yoga's use of pranayama is also devoid of extensive locks (bandha).
Hatha represents opposing energies: hot and cold (fire and water, following similar concept as yin-yang), male and female, positive and negative. Hatha yoga attempts to balance mind and body via physical postures or "asanas", purification practices, controlled breathing, and the calming of the mind through relaxation and meditation. Asanas teach poise, balance and strength and are practiced to improve the body's physical health and clear the mind in preparation for meditation. However if an individual has too much phlegm or fat then purification procedures are a necessity before undertaking pranayama.[citation needed]
Ashtanga is the yoga of Patañjali, the compiler of the Yoga Sutras. It is composed of eight limbs: yama and niyama, which are ethical observations; asana; pranayama, which is breath control; pratyahara, which is sense withdrawal; dharana, which is concentration; dhyana, which is meditation; and samadhi, which is a high state of concentration, mastery of the mind.[3] The eight limbs are more precisely viewed as eight levels of progress, each level providing benefits in and of itself and also laying the foundation for the higher levels. Frequently ashtanga yoga of Patanjali is being confused with raja yoga, Patanjali nowhere in his sutras uses the term raja yoga.
Hatha yoga consists of six limbs focused on attaining samādhi. In this scheme, the six limbs of hatha yoga are defined as asana, pranayama, pratyahara, dharana, dhyana and samādhi. The basic text of hatha yoga is Hathapradipika by Swatmarama, a grand disciple of Sahajananda (from the lineage of Sopana, the younger brother of Dnyaneshwar Maharaj of Alandi near Pune). An important part of hatha practices is awakening of Kundalini. The signs of success in hatha yoga are slenderness of the body, cheerful face, hearing mystical sound, bright eyes, sense of well-being, control over the bindu, increase in gastric fire and purification of the nadis.[citation needed]
[edit] Prāṇāyāma
The words prāṇa (life-force) and ayāma (to lengthen or regulate) make up prāṇāyāma. Prāṇāyāma seeks to lengthen, control and regulate the breath. In one variation, the rechak (exhaled air), poorak (inhalation) and kumbhak (retention during normal inhaling and exhaling) are the three parts of the breath that are regulated. Pranayama is practiced to develop mental, physical and spiritual strength.




Students in Supta Badha Konnasana, or Reclining Bound Angle pose; sometimes called Bound Butterfly


[edit] Health benefits ascribed to yogasana practice
See also: Yoga as exercise or alternative medicine
Yoga's combined focus on mindfulness, breathing and physical movements brings health benefits with regular participation. Yoga participants report better sleep, increased energy levels and muscle tone, relief from muscle pain and stiffness, improved circulation and overall better general health. The breathing aspect of yoga can benefit heart rate and blood pressure.[4]
The 2008 "Yoga in America" survey, conducted by Yoga Journal, shows that the number of adult practitioners in the US is 15.8 million, and 9.4 million people will definitely try yoga within the next year.[5]
[edit] References


^ Gandhari Dictionary Project. "A Sanskrit English Dictionary - Monier Monier-Williams". http://gandhari.org/a_mw.php. Retrieved 25 August 2011.
^ Feuerstein, Georg (1991). 'Holy Madness'. In Yoga Journal May/June 1991. With calligraphy by Robin Spaan. Source: http://books.google.com/books?id=lekDAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA105&dq=Siddha+Siddhanta+Paddhati&hl=en&ei=46hfTZ3TIJGovQPp073dAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CE0Q6AEwCDgK#v=onepage&q=Siddha%20Siddhanta%20Paddhati&f=false (accessed: February 29, 2011)
^ Mayo, DeBarra, Runner's World Yoga Book II, (1983) Chapter 1, The Origin and Nature of Yoga, pages 13-16 ISBN 0-89037-274-8
^ Jaloba, A. Nursing Standard. 2011. Vol 25, Iss. 48, p20-21.
^ Yoga Journal. "Yoga Journal Releases 2008 ‘Yoga in America’ Market Study" February 2008.


[edit] Bibliography

Swami Sivananda Radha, Hatha Yoga: The Hidden Language, Secrets and Metaphors, Timeless Books (May 1, 2006), ISBN 1-932018-13-1.









v
t
e


Yoga






Rāja yoga

Yoga Sutras of Patanjali  ·  Eight Limbs: (1) Yama (2) Niyama (3) Āsana (4) Pranayama (5) Pratyahara (6) Dhāraṇā (7) Dhyāna (8) Samādhi · Samyama






Hatha yoga

Hatha Yoga Pradipika · Gherand Samhita · Shiva Samhita · Yoga as exercise or alternative medicine  · Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga · Mudras · List of asanas  · list of styles






Hindu views on monotheism
and reform movements

Three Yogas (Karma, Bhakti, Jñāna)  · Kriya Yoga · Kundalini yoga · Satyananda Yoga · other styles and schools






Contemporary yoga styles and schools

Anusara Yoga  · Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga  · Bikram Yoga  · Forrest Yoga  · Hatha yoga  · Hot yoga  · Iyengar Yoga  · Jivamukti Yoga  · Kripalu Yoga  · Kundalini Yoga  · Power Yoga  · Sivananda Yoga  · Viniyoga  · Vinyāsa









 Book
 Category
 Portal










 


				Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hatha_yoga&oldid=523945856"				


Categories: Hatha yogaYoga stylesSanskrit words and phrasesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2011All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Sanskrit language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2012 








Navigation menu




Personal tools

Create accountLog in 





Namespaces

Article
Talk







Variants










Views

Read
Edit
View history





Actions








Search


  














Navigation


Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia








Interaction


Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact Wikipedia






Toolbox


What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page 





Print/export

Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 




Languages


Alemannisch
Български
Česky
Deutsch
Español
Esperanto
Français
हिन्दी
Hrvatski
Italiano
Lietuvių
മലയാളം
मराठी
Nederlands
日本語
Polski
Português
Русский
Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Suomi
Svenska
Türkçe
Українська
Tiếng Việt










 This page was last modified on 20 November 2012 at 01:43.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.Contact us


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Mobile view


















