BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 768.  CURTAINS 2012  7th January 2013 - 13:06   It's not just a stock take that we want, it's the full accounts of UK without any accountants tweaks or "taking a view".    Report this comment (Comment number 768) Link to this (Comment number 768)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 767.  FedUp With PC  7th January 2013 - 13:06   731.CantSilenceMe This coalition made me unemployedThis coalition should compensate me for making me unemployed, ie, with benefits. It's what I paid N.I for. I notice N.I payments have increased, yet the chance of using the safety net when you need it as dwindled to zero.++++++This is the German system & they do well enough on it!    Report this comment (Comment number 767) Link to this (Comment number 767)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 766.  mushroomfarmer  7th January 2013 - 13:05   Supporting working families! What, at the end of a rope? Protecting the NHS! What, in a wooden coffin? Helping the unemployed! What, to  become poorer? Dignity in old age! What, at 70 or 75? Help the disabled! What, close Remploy? More freedom! What, to be sacked? Steadfast and united! What a joke, full tank of gas! Car's gone, couldn't afford one! Come 2015 so will you two!!!    Report this comment (Comment number 766) Link to this (Comment number 766)     Comment number 765.  Removed  7th January 2013 - 13:05    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 765) Link to this (Comment number 765)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 764.  NSBlake  7th January 2013 - 12:59   @ jgm2. Great comment - ignore the negative score. It's great to have a government that has decided to not listen to the majority of the people. They are having a go at sorting out the problems the muppets left us in in 2010....if you gave "the people" the choice we would continue to spend more than we took in in taxes. Radical choices are needed to ensure a great long term future.    Report this comment (Comment number 764) Link to this (Comment number 764)     Comment number 763.  Andy Sapir  7th January 2013 - 12:56    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 763) Link to this (Comment number 763)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 762.  Hedburst1  7th January 2013 - 13:05   Irrespective of your views of how well the current administration is working or not it was 10 years of the previous government who dumped us in this mess and the coalition who are trying to clear it up! Labour deserve years in the wilderness for their disgusting and disgraceful lack of contrition.    Report this comment (Comment number 762) Link to this (Comment number 762)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 761.  casper  7th January 2013 - 13:04   The Laurel and Hardy of politics, another fine mess you have gotten me into dave,I see dave is spouting military action against Argentina  as in his response we have the fifth largest military budget in the world,  paid for by the massive cuts and drops in the living standards of the people of GB well as long as we can posture on the world stage,we can always sell the NHS for a task force.    Report this comment (Comment number 761) Link to this (Comment number 761)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 760.  BadlyPackedKebab  7th January 2013 - 13:04   730.Howesyourview'I've said it before, I'll say it again. We need to set up the "HYS party". We, who comment on the BBC HYS sections actualy seem to know what we are talking about'But who will be PM? Maybe Trout, lostdot, ravenmorpheus or the underdog of the bunch CantSilenceMe?    Report this comment (Comment number 760) Link to this (Comment number 760)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 759.  Tchernobog  7th January 2013 - 13:04   Old fashioned social conservatives probably hate the new conservatives more than the Labour party do. That's because we've been disenfranchised by Cameron and his money grubbing traitors. They don't represent us, they don't represent local conservative associations. A good example is the EU referendum. Ed Miliband has much more in common with old conservatism; he comes across as having principles.    Report this comment (Comment number 759) Link to this (Comment number 759)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 758.  Merry  7th January 2013 - 13:04   I'm all in favour of coalition government until we get a viable political party prepared to work in the best interests of the people and not just their personal political careers and ideological prejudices.    Report this comment (Comment number 758) Link to this (Comment number 758)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 757.  Bossuk  7th January 2013 - 13:03   730.HowesyourviewA fun idea but not really workable. the HYS party all want lower taxes but higher benefits, they want higher minimum wage, but a return to manufacturing(uncompetitive in a global market). They want lower taxes, but a better NHS, they want lots of jobs, but have no idea how to generate them.The condems aren't exactly winning me over, but I'm under no illusion it isn't easy.    Report this comment (Comment number 757) Link to this (Comment number 757)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 756.  C_O_L_I_N  7th January 2013 - 13:03   ConMoron & Clueless Clegg - the most useless out of touch pair of politicians this country has ever seen, roll on 2015 when we see the back of theses grubby pair.The whole coalition is just smoke, mirrors & spin, absolutely no substance.    Report this comment (Comment number 756) Link to this (Comment number 756)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 755.  stan howard  7th January 2013 - 13:02   It's no good nor right to blame Labour this is a Tory Lib Dem mess, created by them, they cut too far too fast (as warned not to do by Labour)thus stunting growth which is the only way out of the mess.    Report this comment (Comment number 755) Link to this (Comment number 755)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 754.  Sibbwolf  7th January 2013 - 13:02   @TMR, The EU is currently (re)proposing the same measure but open to non-eurozone members. DC already stated his plans to keep Britain out.It's our elected officials trying to make sure that they are not the fallguys if they make a mistake.Accountability, responsibility are just words to these people. They've got special advisers to take the fall for them, even if it ain't their fault.    Report this comment (Comment number 754) Link to this (Comment number 754)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 753.  UKStinks  7th January 2013 - 13:02   They would be respected if:1. Made the Rich pay the taxes they owe (no need for a 50% rate)2. Made the companies pay the tax they owe (corp tax on UK profit)3. Stop benefit cuts for the Disabled and genuine claimants4. Stopped telling us inflation is at 3% when food/gas/elec gone up at least triple that.5. referendum on EU with real facts6. visibility on MP salaries and expenses    Report this comment (Comment number 753) Link to this (Comment number 753)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 752.  Bell  7th January 2013 - 13:02   The coalition keep on carping about what they took over from the labour govnt. They are now celebrating 2.5 years and have done nothing at all other then put 90% of the people through hell and at the lowest ebb for several generations - I say well done..........NOT    Report this comment (Comment number 752) Link to this (Comment number 752)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 751.  Nickjg  7th January 2013 - 13:02   So its full steam ahead for the wrong policies, attacks on the poor, disintegration of public services, privatised health service, division in education and withdrawal of opportunity and the inevitable triple-dip recession. Clegg will still be the tail trying to wag the dog and Cable will still bluster about how he helped keep a government in power that no-one wanted for the voters' own good!    Report this comment (Comment number 751) Link to this (Comment number 751)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 750.  JasonEssex  7th January 2013 - 13:02   719.Divots We up the proverbial creek whatever way you look at. Anyone who could possibly vote for labour/tories/lib dems in the next election probably needs their heads examined!    Report this comment (Comment number 750) Link to this (Comment number 750)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 749.  Cosmologic  7th January 2013 - 13:01   420. Plant_Smith COMMENT NUMBER 420 IS AN EDITORS' PICKDon't they realise that this kind of self aggrandising PR stuff is exactly what puts the electorate off politicians. Would be better if they just came out and told us by when they think they will have really made a difference and how we, the electorate will be able to tell.-#-For that you'll have to vote for the Nirvana Pary.    Report this comment (Comment number 749) Link to this (Comment number 749)         Page 38 of 76    Newer 1 ... 36 37 38 39 40 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Wrong place, wrong time

Musicians who play for Mexico's drug gangs -  voluntarily or not 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: France guards Niger uranium mine



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



7: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



8: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



9: French jets bomb northern Mali 



10: Can testosterone make you live longer?



Video/Audio




1: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



4: Assad: Israel 'destabilising' Syria Watch



5: Director seeks answers with Bible Quiz documentary Watch



6: 'China hackers' hit NY Times Watch



7: Building winning muscles aged 93 Watch



8: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: UK personnel sent to Mali Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





