BBC News - Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















7 January 2013
Last updated at 12:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Coalition to go the distance, Cameron and Clegg insist
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























David Cameron: "It's not a marriage. It does what it says on the tin"




Continue reading the main story


More from Politics


Osborne backs bank break-up powers


Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Clegg's masochism strategy



 David Cameron and Nick Clegg have said their coalition will last a full five years, giving Britain "strong, stable and determined leadership".
Mr Cameron promised help on childcare costs, care costs for the elderly and investment in roads as they marked the halfway point of their government.
The PM and deputy PM described their agreement as a "Ronseal deal" which "does what it says on the tin".
Ed Miliband accused the government of making "empty promises".
Nick Clegg said the coalition had brought about "big, bold reforms" that would stand the test of time.
Before the Budget
Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the 46-page Mid-Term Review lists what the government says it has achieved in meeting its coalition agreement and outlines further reforms to come.
The full document was presented to the cabinet for the first time on Monday morning.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
The coalition was, the official line goes, always a business partnership forced on both sides by events. ”
End Quote



Nick Robinson Political editor





Read more from Nick

 During a joint press conference with his deputy, Mr Cameron said: "Some people thought our coalition wouldn't make it through our first Christmas, but this government is now well into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not some short-term arrangement."
Asked if their coalition was like a marriage, Mr Cameron said: "To me it's not a marriage, it's a Ronseal deal, it does what it says on the tin - we said we would come together, we said we would form a government, we said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what we've done."
Mr Clegg added: "Ronseal deal, you could call it the unvarnished truth."
A number of future plans which had been expected to be included in the Mid-Term Review document after being trailed in the media, are mentioned only briefly in the foreword.
But Mr Cameron said that before the Budget in March the government would set out details, including:

 New investment to help working families cut the cost of childcare.
 More help for families who cannot raise a deposit for a mortgage.
 Measures to limit state powers and extend personal freedoms.
 "Big new steps" on issues including pensions and "capping the potentially huge cost" of social care.
 Consulting on how to get private investment into motorways and trunk roads.
 Extending the HS2 high-speed rail line from Birmingham to the north of England.
 He promised the coalition would continue to go "full steam ahead" in reforming the economy and tackling the deficit.
Mr Clegg said it was right that the coalition parties had set aside their differences in the national interest and insisted the government was making the right reforms to help the economy continue to heal.
'Full tank'
"We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy, reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working families through tough times. And on all of these key aims, our parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and united," Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg write in a joint foreword to the review.
"Of course there have been some issues on which we have not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more. That is the nature of coalition. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Mason
Political correspondent



Each standing in front of a lectern sporting the slogan "Coalition Government: Mid Term Review," David Cameron and Nick Clegg published their 46 page document.
It amounts to the Westminster equivalent of a domestic 'to do' list: some items ticked off, others not. 
The half time score card is actually longer than the Coalition Agreement itself.
It trots through the staples of government: the economy, schools, the NHS, defence, etc.
But there is very, very, little detail. 
Those in Downing Street had emphasised in advance that today wasn't meant to be about the nuts and bolts of specific policy detail, but instead about illustrating drive and direction.
The challenge now will be translating that rhetoric into policies both Conservative and Liberal Democrat backbenchers can support.


Stephanie Flanders' mid-term review
Key points: Coalition mid-term plans

 "But on the things that matter most - the big structural reforms needed to secure our country's long-term future - our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if anything, grown over time.
"Our mission is clear: to get Britain living within its means and earning its way in the world once again."
Mr Cameron highlighted education reform, the changes to university funding, transport modernisation, public sector pensions and banking regulation as examples of the coalition's achievements.
The deputy prime minister championed changes to the tax allowance, closing tax loopholes and the pupil premium, which provides additional money for the poorest children.
In the review's foreword they add: "Two-and-a-half years ago, our parties came together in the national interest and formed a coalition at a time of real economic danger. 
"This government's most urgent job was to restore stability in our public finances and confidence in the British economy. In just two years we have cut the deficit by a quarter and have set out a credible path towards our goal to balance the current budget over the economic cycle."
But the Labour leader attacked the government's economic record, adding that the review had "no real substance and no real detail".
"All the promises they made to us about what they would achieve about economic growth haven't come true. They are struggling to reduce the deficit this year, the central promise that they made to the country," Mr Miliband said.
The SNP's Angus Robertson said: "Since David Cameron and Nick Clegg's infamous rose garden media appearance, the Westminster government's promises on issue after issue lie in tatters. 
"Pledges on meeting borrowing reduction targets, on reversing years of decline to Scotland's defence footprint and on reforming the House of Lords - to name but a few - have all been abandoned."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Ed Miliband says the coalition's plans have "no real substance and no real detail"



 John Cridland, director general of the Confederation for British Industry, said: "The coalition deserves high marks for its commitment to tackle the deficit and its plan for growth.
"But... growth-boosting measures like house, road and rail building are getting too bogged down in the planning and procurement process. We don't need a flurry of new announcements, but we do need to see the coalition's ideas translated into action now."
Unlock Democracy, which campaigns for democratic reform, criticised the government's record on political reform and said the review did little to take forward earlier commitments on regulating lobbyists, recalling MPs and reforming the funding of political parties.
"Overall, this is a far cry from Nick Clegg's early promise of the 'biggest shake-up of our democracy' since 1832," the group said.
On plans to increase private investment in roads, the Campaign for Better Transport - which supports sustainable transport - said the lack of detail on the plans showed the policy was "unworkable". 

 



More on This Story


More from Politics
	      






Osborne backs bank break-up powers




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn




Clegg's masochism strategy




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU









Related Stories



Key points: Coalition mid-term audit

09 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



The 2010 coalition programme

21 MAY 2010,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Big Society progress 'too slow'

07 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Who's who: Coalition government

30 OCTOBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Cameron outlines mid-term plans Watch

06 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



What to expect in 2013?

27 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1508       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 708.  Howesyourview  7th January 2013 - 12:44   It's easy to run this country. Get a large furnace, get a shovel, use the shovel to place money into large furnace. Save some money to give over sea's to help countries like India as they cannot cope even if they have a space program. Suck up to other countries and be pushed around to keep up "good relations" forget about the British people/taking their money. Simple    Report this comment (Comment number 708) Link to this (Comment number 708)                 rate this     +15      rate this     +15   Comment number 707.  Luddite1811  7th January 2013 - 12:44   'Described by Downing Street as a "stock take", the mid-term review will also look at how successful the government has been in meeting its coalition agreement promises'....to reduce welfare for the poor, reduce the living standards of 'the masses', and increase the profits for their rich chums and banking masters at the top.  Going pretty well so far eh Camerclegg?    Report this comment (Comment number 707) Link to this (Comment number 707)                 rate this     +23      rate this     +23   Comment number 706.  Rayboto  7th January 2013 - 12:43   They made Labour the single scapegoat for the financial crash so they could let their banker pals carry on regardless in the same reckless vein. They have bottled Leveson due to pressure from big business publishers despite Cameron's explicit promise that this wouldn't happen. This government simply doesn't care about the people of this country. They have no concience of sense of equality.    Report this comment (Comment number 706) Link to this (Comment number 706)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 705.  Jackdslipper  7th January 2013 - 12:43   663. solar 1: Who should we blame - the disabled?2: I much prefer out of touch rich boys3: Its long gone - lets concentrate on current gross incompetence4: Like high speed trains to transport toffs!5: Should the rich not be taxed? - Are you George?6: You are George!Have I missed any?Yep - care about people!    Report this comment (Comment number 705) Link to this (Comment number 705)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 704.  milvusvestal  7th January 2013 - 12:43   Why should my taxes be used to help families pay for their childcare costs?  I didn't bring their children into the world, they did, and it should be their responsibility, not mine.  As for those families who are finding the costs too much, then maybe one or other spouse should give up their job and look after their own offspring.  Who knows, they might just start to recognise each other.    Report this comment (Comment number 704) Link to this (Comment number 704)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 703.  toomtabard  7th January 2013 - 12:42   Thankfully it seems more and more likely that this is the last Tory government (even a tory government with a yellow streak) that Scotland will ever have to put up with. These evil hacks are exactly why we'll be moving to full independence before the 2015 election (if there even is one, as it would be pointless in Scotland post a yes vote). Uk might get them for another year by default!    Report this comment (Comment number 703) Link to this (Comment number 703)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 702.  Rotherham Lad  7th January 2013 - 12:42   698. Human"Isn't it about time we got rid of the whip system anad let MPs vote with their beliefs ethics and morals (if they have any)."How about taking the view of their constituents into account?    Report this comment (Comment number 702) Link to this (Comment number 702)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 701.  Kevin  7th January 2013 - 12:42   Thankfully the only plausible outcome in 2015 based on the current trend of opinion polls is an outright Labour majority of 96 seats. We can then start undoing the damage the ConDems have done to this country.    Report this comment (Comment number 701) Link to this (Comment number 701)                 rate this     -29      rate this     -29   Comment number 700.  Clive Hamilton  Comment number 700 is an Editors' Pick 7th January 2013 - 12:42   I actually think that the coelition is the right thing for UK plc right now and anticipate one after the next election.Having the right and left debate in public is good for us all - sure that they'll never please everybody all the time.This is far better than a single party riding roughshod over the electorate which we've had for the previous 31 years    Report this comment (Comment number 700) Link to this (Comment number 700)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 699.  UKStinks  7th January 2013 - 12:41   Biggest shower of sh** ever. Not fit for purpose and if it was a private company it would be bankrupted.What fails me is the british public voting conservative, labour, conservative, labour when we all know it because of both these parties the country is in so much debt. It's easy for a country to balance its books based on the taxes it receives - The Government just have to become honest.    Report this comment (Comment number 699) Link to this (Comment number 699)                 rate this     +12      rate this     +12   Comment number 698.  Human  7th January 2013 - 12:41   Isn't it about time we got rid of the whip system anad let MPs vote with their beliefs ethics and morals (if they have any).    Report this comment (Comment number 698) Link to this (Comment number 698)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 697.  Binky  7th January 2013 - 12:40   663.solar Have I missed any?//////You haven't hit any, that's your problem. If you're unhappy that there is a majority on HYS that expresses an opinion other than yours, feel free to go to a site where you can all bleat in unison.    Report this comment (Comment number 697) Link to this (Comment number 697)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 696.  disgruntled  7th January 2013 - 12:40   How about this as a policy,Double minimum wage and lower the tax on whoever will suffer from it? A bit of liberal policy and conservative in one...genius.Cameron is no true Conservative, otherwise benefits would not exist by now or minimum wage.    Report this comment (Comment number 696) Link to this (Comment number 696)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 695.  FatPeace  7th January 2013 - 12:39   644.Nigel "food prices are going up"Just you wait until 'they' introduce fat taxes on the back of the 'obesity' moral panic we've all heard so much about over the last few days. There's very little to choose between blue and red except that Labour are probably even WORSE where nannying and bullying is concerned. I forsee a far-right (UKIP) takeover and civil war.    Report this comment (Comment number 695) Link to this (Comment number 695)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 694.  europhile  7th January 2013 - 12:39   They can do whatever they like so long as The Uk stays in The EU, with further integration.    Report this comment (Comment number 694) Link to this (Comment number 694)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 693.  ihopethisoneworks  7th January 2013 - 12:39   634.gertomos'What positive thing have they done since they've been in power.?'649.bigmouth strikes againStopped Labour.---------........from pursuing an economic strategy that saw the economy growing up until the election, and forcing us into a double dip recession instead.    Report this comment (Comment number 693) Link to this (Comment number 693)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 692.  Boudicca12  7th January 2013 - 12:39   I would invite all disaffected voters, everyone sick of the games these career politicians play, to read the Ragged Trousered Phianthropists, recognise themselves, and start the revolution.    Report this comment (Comment number 692) Link to this (Comment number 692)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 691.  SaveourCountry   7th January 2013 - 12:39   Well Dave and Nick there are now 500 comments on here that mostly disagree that you both are "doing a great job" so what are you both going to do about it. Being in denial wont make the problem go away. Simple take your ear plugs out and start listening !    Report this comment (Comment number 691) Link to this (Comment number 691)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 690.  Nelly  7th January 2013 - 12:38   All tosh, same old spin. Roll on when we get a party that rises from the people rather than this Blue, Red and Yellow. Clearly the tory party are for the rich and their donors where the other two are middle and working. There are no genuine parties for the people, all inclusive who can embrace all including both ends of the scale and ANSWERABLE TO THE PEOPLE.    Report this comment (Comment number 690) Link to this (Comment number 690)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 689.  Sibbwolf  7th January 2013 - 12:38   @667, If this gvt had lived up to its promise of sorting out the taxes and benefits systems, and indeed being transparent, that situation would cease to exist.Instead, they want to slam benefits, and apply a band-aid for two broken legs!@663, Sorry, the facts support the case Labour was not as bad as people have been lead to believe - facts that come from the ministries themselves.    Report this comment (Comment number 689) Link to this (Comment number 689)         Page 41 of 76    Newer 1 ... 39 40 41 42 43 ... 76 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Osborne backs bank break-up powers

Banks will be broken-up if they fail to follow new rules to ring-fence risky investment operations from High Street operations, the Chancellor is set to announce.



Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay




Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


France guards Niger uranium mine


Super Bowl XLVII: Ravens v 49ers Live


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Fidel Castro votes in election









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Wrong place, wrong time

Musicians who play for Mexico's drug gangs -  voluntarily or not 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: France guards Niger uranium mine



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Police 'used IDs of dead children'



7: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



8: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



9: French jets bomb northern Mali 



10: Can testosterone make you live longer?



Video/Audio




1: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



4: Assad: Israel 'destabilising' Syria Watch



5: Director seeks answers with Bible Quiz documentary Watch



6: 'China hackers' hit NY Times Watch



7: Building winning muscles aged 93 Watch



8: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



9: Memorials for Brazil fire victims Watch



10: UK personnel sent to Mali Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





