BBC News - The Queen & children


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education




















12 May 2012
Last updated at 22:18 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Your memories of the Queen's 60 years




Accession day


Children who met the Queen


From the Commonwealth


Past jubilees


Memories


Neighbours






By Amber Dawson
BBC News




Throughout the Queen's Diamond Jubilee year we are featuring some of your memories of meeting and seeing Queen Elizabeth II.
While children have formed an important backdrop to the various celebrations and landmarks of the Queen's 60 years on the throne, it is impossible to predict what a child will do -  whether it is waving a flag or breaching security.
Many of you have sent in your recollections of meeting the Queen when you were a child, or of seeing your own children meet her.
Here are some of the memories you shared:
Lesley Smith, Glasgow, in 2002 


Lesley Smith, with her husband Garry

The Queen was coming to George Square in Glasgow as part of her Golden Jubilee tour and my husband and I decided to take our two children, Emma and Garry, to see her. 
While we waited we got talking to some elderly and disabled people standing inside the barricade and they asked if our two children wanted to stand with them so they were closer for seeing the Queen. 
When she came out, my seven-year-old daughter Emma just started to run with her flowers to the Queen, shouting at her 10-year-old brother Garry to follow.
The security men were quick to put their hands on the children and stop them - and the crowd started to chant "Let the children go! Let the children go!"


Emma and Garry meeting the Queen in 2002, and as they are today

The Queen must have heard the commotion, because she turned round and waved for Emma and Garry to come on to the red carpet to meet her. 
The children went forward and she spoke to them and took the flowers from Emma. Then they walked back to us with the crowd cheering and clapping.
The roar of the crowd on that day will stay with me always.
Lesley Smith, 40, lives in Sandford, South Lanarkshire
Emma Smith, Glasgow, in 2002
I was only seven and was so small I couldn't see over the barriers, so the disabled people on the other side of the barrier said to me and my brother to join them.


The album Emma received from the Queen, commemorating her 60 years on the throne

When the Queen came out of the marquee I got really excited and just wanted to give her my flowers.


Emma's letter from the Queen 

So I ran towards her and called to my brother "come on, let's go over", but then the security guards stopped us. 
The crowd were chanting at the guards to let us go and the Queen saw there was a commotion and said something to a lady who was with her.
She then waved for us to come forward, so we went right up to the Queen.
I curtsied and my brother said "Thank you for letting us come over." I remember she said to us, "Are you enjoying your day?"
I was completely tongue-tied so I gave her my bouquet and then ran back to my parents. 
I remember that she was lovely. She wasn't snobby, just really down to earth and happy that everyone was there to support her. 
I wrote to her this year to say I'd met her in Glasgow during her Golden Jubilee visit and she wrote back, saying thank you and that she remembered meeting me.
She included a booklet with photos of her throughout her reign, a collage of new and old photos which is really lovely.
Emma Smith, 17, lives in Sandford, South Lanarkshire
George Rix, Germany, in 1967


George Rix as a boy, and as he is today

I met the Queen in Germany in August 1967, I was 10 years old.
My father was stationed there as a sergeant in the 2nd Royal Tank Regiment, part of the Royal Armoured Corp of the British Army. 
It was the regiment's 50th anniversary and the Queen was to watch and inspect the Parade with German Chancellor Keisinger. 
All married soldiers had their names put in a hat and a number were drawn out to be introduced to the Queen. My dad was one of them.
No monarchist, he wasn't happy but couldn't refuse. He also knew my excited mum would want new clothes for herself, two sons and two daughters - it was going to be expensive. 
It also meant he would have to get out of his tank suit and into best uniform in a hurry and hours would be spent polishing his best army boots to ceremonial standards.

Continue reading the main story BRIEF MEMORIES

“Start Quote
I saw the Queen in a HUGE  Rolls, driving through Tangmere where we lived. She had been to see the Duke off at the airbase there and when her car got to me, standing all alone waiting by the road, it slowed right down and she waved! She was dressed all in bright buttercup yellow, including her hat and it all looked like gold. I had holes in my socks and shoes so she looked like a fairytale.”
End Quote
Susan Caldwell, Wisbech


 The day came and after the parade the Queen went to lunch while we got ready to meet her an hour or two later. 
I ended up playing football with tin-cans with other boys of the regiment. 
By the time I got back to the gathering circle l wasn't what Mum had planned - I was sweaty, the knees of my new trousers were green from slides on the grass. 
Her frantic efforts to clean them with a hanky were wasted.
Not that the Queen looked at my knees when the colonel told her my name and we shook hands. I got a smile back off her for the broad grin on my own face and I remember it as clear as a bell.
George Rix, 55, lives in London
John Strachan, Botswana, in 1979
I was at the high school in Francistown in Botswana when the Queen visited in 1979 because my father was working there. I was 13. 
Before the visit we spent a couple of weeks at school creating British memorabilia, British flags and red, white and blue hats and caps.
Everyone was extremely excited about her visit. 
On the day she arrived the entire school - around 400 children - walked to the airport, which took approximately three hours.
The walk was a really jolly affair. We had on our school uniforms and our red, white and blue flags and hats.

Continue reading the main story BRIEF MEMORIES

“Start Quote
 I was born in New Zealand and when the Queen did her Coronation world tour I wrote to her whilst she was in Australia and at 12 years old was ecstatic to get a reply. The Coronation was also on my 12th birthday so I thought, wow, she must have chosen that day because it was my birthday.”
End Quote
Peter Gadsby, Burton-upon-Trent


 There were children from other schools there and we all waited for around two hours for her plane to land. It was like a festival.
We sang the British national anthem, waving our memorabilia and cheering for the Queen. We were at the railings waving and cheering and she waved back to us.
She was there for about 30 minutes, changing from the large plane she arrived in to a smaller one used by the President of Botswana. 
After she left, I found out that the runway in the capital Gaberone wasn't long enough for the Queen's plane to land, so she had to change to a smaller plane in Francistown.
It made for a special memory.
John Strachan, 46, lives in London
Susan Davey, London, in 1986
The Queen's 60th birthday was magical for me.  I share her birthday, 21 April, although I was born the same year as Prince Charles.


The children's daffodil parade down The Mall for the Queen's 60th birthday

My three children belonged to the local scout band and were asked if they wanted to take part in the Queen's birthday parade down The Mall.
My sons played in the 14th Southgate Band, one on trumpet and one on the bell lyre, and my daughter was in Southgate Gold, which was their colour guard, carrying the flags.  

Continue reading the main story BRIEF MEMORIES

“Start Quote
I remember being taken to see the Queen arrive at Leeds Town Hall. A gent in the crowd lifted me on to his shoulders and I carry the snapshot memory of a young Queen resplendent in white evening wear and tiara sitting in the back of a huge black car with lots of glass at the back. That memory must be nearly 60 years old now, but it is one of my most treasured.”
End Quote
Elaine Storey, Wakefield


 There were three bands and lots of children walking behind - they were all carrying daffodils.
The sight of so many children waving bunches of daffodils was glorious, The Mall was a sea of yellow!  Her Majesty looked wonderful and was dressed in yellow too.
I felt so proud as I watched the children celebrating the Queen's birthday.
I'm not as excited this year for the Diamond Jubilee, and my children aren't taking part in anything, but I think it's fantastic that she has served so long. 
I can remember watching her coronation on television when I was five and thinking how lucky were were to have such a pretty queen.
Susan Davey, 64, lives in Enfield
Tina Davey, London, in 1986


Tina Davey at the Queen's 60th birthday parade in 1986 and now

I'm not sure why our band was chosen to take part in the procession, but I do remember we had to draw straws for each band's order in the parade and we were really lucky that our band was drawn first, so we led the whole parade.
We all gathered in Horse Guards Parade. It was really noisy, with children everywhere. Lots of excitement and anticipation!

Continue reading the main story BRIEF MEMORIES

“Start Quote
One of my special childhood memories was sitting on my father's shoulders waving the union jack with all my strength, so excited at being able to get a glimpse of our new Queen when she visited us in the Fiji Islands after her Coronation. I felt the same excitement when I saw her at the Devon County Show some 17 years ago.”
End Quote
Ruth Wadey, Exeter


 The songs we did were all regular songs from church parades, like St Louis Blues and Trumpet Voluntary, so we knew them really well.
I remember thinking it was a real privilege to go inside Buckingham Palace and be on the other side of the gates. 
The Mall is a long stretch, but to be honest it was like one minute we were at Horse Guards Parade and the next at the end of The Mall, singing happy birthday to the Queen and giving her our daffodils.
I can't wait for the Diamond Jubilee celebrations. My parents took us to London for the Silver Jubilee in 1977 and I can't wait to take my children up for the Diamond Jubilee celebrations so they can see a part of history.
Tina Davey, 41, lives in Enfield
Steve Mann, Chelmsford, in 1957
I was a nine-year-old schoolboy waiting with 90 others at a Chelmsford roadside in around 1957. We were delighted to get out of the classroom so there was lots of noise and extreme excitement at the imminent arrival of the Queen's entourage.


Steve Mann aged nine, and as he is now

None of us had ever seen the Queen "live" and didn't know how she was going to arrive. 
All of a sudden the crowd erupted in noisy celebration and cheering. Over the throng and the wildly excited sea of heads, school caps and union flags, we saw what appeared to be a hut on the back of an approaching lorry. 
As it slowly passed, the cheering reached a crescendo as we all expected the Queen to be waving from one of the hut's windows. 

Continue reading the main story BRIEF MEMORIES

“Start Quote
The Queen visited my school on its 600th anniversary. It was ludicrously choreographed. I was instructed to sit at a desk poring studiously over a learned-looking tome. When the Queen arrived, she politely asked me, "Are you studying hard?" "No," I replied. "I'm just pretending for your benefit." The headmaster looked daggers, but the Queen chuckled gaily, nodded, and smiled. I've been an admirer ever since.”
End Quote
Duncan, Kings Langley


 Not until it had passed, did we all realise that it was just a lorry and garden shed released from the cordon early and just ahead of the Queen's procession. 
The memory of the pleasure and excitement when she passed moments later, waving to the crowds on either side, is etched forever.
It was the early days of television and part of the excitement was we hadn't ever seen the Queen, except on biscuit boxes or coffee tins or in newspaper photographs. 
Nowadays, everyone sees her on television regularly and I don't have the same excitement I had then, royalist though I am.
Steve Mann, 63, lives in Burnham-on-Crouch




More on This Story


The Diamond Jubilee
	      



Latest news



Royals end Australia Jubilee trip




Camilla's hug with orphaned joey




Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea




Duchess makes first speech abroad




Prince wishes for 'two children'




Charles and Camilla visit Jersey







In pictures and video



In Pictures: Royal diamonds




McGuinness used 'bloodstained hand' Watch




Queen's 1953 NI visit in colour Watch




God Save the Queen sung Watch




In pictures: Jubilee concert




See how the UK celebrated







Features



NI jubilee: 1977 versus now




A final flourish




A day at the pageant




In pictures: Millennium artists at the Jubilee pageant




Diamond Jubilee: Avoiding the hype




France switches on to Jubilee













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Mars rover hammers down into rock



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: Why Mali's nomads are lying low



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: Malala recovering after operation



10: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: The art looking death in the face Watch



5: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



6: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



7: Apology over police beating footage Watch



8: Is 'dirty' archaeology in the past? Watch



9: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



10: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





