Yahoo! 2011 Year In Review - Extreme Weather





New User? RegisterSign InHelpMake Y! Your HomepageYahoo!MailMy Yahoo!NewsFinanceSports  Search       Web Search     








2011 YEAR IN REVIEW 





Extreme Weather










 






1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  






Extreme Weather


1. New Year Blizzards2. Drought and Wildfires in Oklahoma3. Spring Tornado Outbreak4. Joplin Tornado Disaster5. Missouri and Mississippi River Floods6. Summer Heat Wave7. Hurricane Irene8. Wallow and Bastrop Fires9. October Nor’easter10. Late Fall Storms









Extreme Weather

New Year BlizzardsDrought and Wildfires in OklahomaSpring Tornado OutbreakJoplin Tornado DisasterMissouri and Mississippi River FloodsSummer Heat WaveHurricane IreneWallow and Bastrop FiresOctober Nor’easterLate Fall Storms 


This year has been another record-breaker when it comes to extreme weather events. Along with late 2010, it was a La Nina year, in which cooler oceanic surface temperatures led to shifts in the jet stream and weather patterns. In the U.S., this normally causes wetter than normal conditions for the East Coast and Midwest, and drier ones in the Southeast. Some of the weather we had was to be expected, but the extent to which it unfolded ended up being historical on many fronts.
In 2011, the United States had the most extreme tornado season of all time, one of the worst droughts since the dust bowl days, severe flooding, record-shattering heat, and several tough storms that hit the East Coast. Consequences of this year's heat and drought were seen in what also became one of the worst years on record for wildfire outbreaks.
By November, there were a record-breaking 14 weather disasters that cost over a billion dollars each in damage. This was already five more than the previous record, held by 2008.  The most expensive disaster this year was the super tornado outbreak of late April, racking up $9 billion in damages and claiming 321 lives -- the deadliest tornado outbreak in recorded U.S. history (figures from the Weather Underground and NOAA).
Climate change debate
Given the expected weather pattern shifts due to La Nina, is there cause to bring climate change into the extreme weather debate? The Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) believes so. The Nobel prize winning group released a report on November 18 focusing on extreme weather events, linking their increase in frequency to climate change.
What science tells us is that over the past 40 years, oceanic temperatures have risen by 1 degree Fahrenheit, which is enough to start a chain reaction. Warmer water evaporates more quickly, and when combined with warm air and the extra energy it retains, potential for extreme weather increases. Though climate scientists cannot pin specific events on climate change, the trend of increasingly severe weather and severe rainfall over the years has been linked to human influence, and could continue to get worse in coming years.
A positive step to take for the planet's future would be to pursue more preventive measures to deal with such inevitable disasters once they come our way, to lessen the blow. This includes rethinking our engineering to rebuild flood plains to allow waters to expand, and modernizing and strengthening our infrastructure (dams, levees, roads, bridges). At the very least, we ourselves can make the effort to be more prepared on a personal level.
Global events
In 2011, the U.S. was not alone in extreme weather events. There was drought in Africa, deadly floods during Thailand's monsoon season, and historically severe floods in Colombia. Queensland, Australia, also experienced floods, its most expensive disaster on record. This harsh weather, coupled with the massive earthquakes in Japan and Turkey, as well as the destructive tsunami, gave Planet Earth (and its inhabitants) quite a thrashing.
The following is a look at the weather that hit us hardest in the U.S., starting with New Year blizzards.
Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco, where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.


As the new year rolled in, a series of snowstorms buried the mid-Atlantic states and Midwest in a thick blanket of snow and ice. Records were broken in New York City, Tulsa, and Dallas. These dramatic storms brought extremes all across North America, from Canada to northern Mexico.
The mid-Atlantic, January 25-27:

19 inches of snow fell in  New York City, helping to make January the city's second snowiest month on record with 36 inches.
Cleanup costs in Philadelphia from this storm are estimated at $6 million.
Washington, D.C., suffered power outages and tough commutes, leaving some stuck in gridlock for 13 hours.
Major travel delays occurred along the eastern seaboard, including a Metro-North train that was derailed in New Canaan, Conn. (No injuries were reported.)
Two fatalities were reported.

Even though Punxsutawney Phil predicted an early spring, the following snowstorm, which has been dubbed "The Great Groundhog Day Blizzard," left his followers rightfully skeptical.  The early February blizzard was one of the most extreme on record.
The Midwest, February 1-3: 

Chicago was under 20.2 inches of snow in blizzard conditions with 60 mph winds, the third largest snowfall in its history.
Icy conditions lead to hazardous roads, power outages, and travel disruptions as Amtrak services were stopped and 1,100 flights were canceled at O'Hare.
Trucks towed six lots full of abandoned cars from Lake Shore Drive in Chicago to be found and claimed by owners after the storm let up.
Widespread blizzard conditions reached St. Louis, Cleveland, Detroit, Oklahoma City, and New York City.
Snowstorms traveled as far south as Albuquerque and Dallas.
Temperatures in northern Mexico dropped below zero degrees Fahrenheit, causing havoc in unsuspecting remote communities.
Tulsa broke its all-time record for February snowfall with 14 inches.
Dallas-Fort Worth schools were out for a record-setting five days straight.
Thirty-six people were killed in events related to the storm.
Damages from the storm are estimated at close to $4 billion.

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco, where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
Spring was a season of excessive polarity for the nation. While the Midwest and Mississippi areas were bracing for record river levels and rainfall, the Southwest was experiencing historic drought levels. The season was set to provide some of history's most extreme weather events including fires, tornadoes, and floods.
In March, while public attention was on the tragic earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan, a large swath of grass fires burning in Central Oklahoma received little mention in the national news. With 30 fires in all, a state of emergency was declared in all 77 counties, and hundreds of residents were evacuated as windy conditions caused flames to spread. The most high-profile of the fires started March 11 in Harrah, a suburb of Oklahoma City. The fire destroyed at least 30 homes and caused several injuries.
By the end of March, 1.7 million acres had burned in wildfires nationwide. The drought that had begun would only continue to worsen and cause some of the worst fires in U.S. history. This time-lapse map from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) graphically illustrates the severe drought in the Southwest as 2011 progressed with still worse fires to come.
Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco, where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
The drama of the year's extreme weather began to truly show itself in the spring, as the nation experienced extremes on many climate levels. While record drought and fires were still gripping the Southwest, flooding and record rainfall were hitting the Midwest. The most severe weather of the month took its toll in the Southeast, as it was hit with an onslaught of tornadoes.
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), April set the record as the most active tornado month in history with 753 tornadoes causing 364 fatalities. This new record shattered the previous of 542 held by May 2003.  Some have connected these outbreaks with La Nina, drawing comparisons to a devastating outbreak under similar conditions in 1974.  May and June are normally the busiest months of tornado season, but this year the season grew deadly a month earlier.
From April 14 to April 16, 178 tornadoes were recorded in 16 states, with a death toll of 43. Not only was this supercell of tornadoes out of the ordinary, it also caused major events in places outside the usual "Tornado Alley." North Carolina, which averages 19 tornadoes a year, had 25 in just one weekend. The state also suffered the highest death toll (22) from this particular outbreak. This midmonth outbreak of tornadoes set a new record for number of tornadoes in the month of April, only to be broken by an even bigger outbreak two weeks later.
World record

The second outbreak of tornadoes hit the Southeast from April 24 to April 29. This five-day outbreak is now the greatest in recorded world history. It had double the number of tornadoes (353 in 21 states) than the previous record, which was set just two weeks earlier, and killed 321 people. On April 27 alone, there were 188 confirmed tornadoes, including the devastating EF-4 that hit Tuscaloosa -- one of the most damaging of all time.
Tornadoes are caused by cold air colliding with warm moist air over the jet stream. This spring’s unusually strong jet stream aided the updrafts in the atmosphere that caused such an abundance of tornadoes. According to Jeff Masters of the Weather Underground, climate change is expected to cause a weakening of the jet stream in coming years, so there is no telling if this type of extreme weather is expected to increase in the near future. A perfect storm of circumstances can cause these events to increase in any given year, though the warming, increasingly wet atmosphere can lead them to become more dangerous in the future.
Ongoing relief efforts:

N.C. Triangle Area Red Cross
Give Tuscaloosa
Habitat for Humanity Tuscaloosa
American Red Cross for Tuscaloosa
Tuscaloosa Tornado Relief
Fight On, Tuscaloosa

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
On May 22, an F-5-rated tornado tore through southwest Missouri, destroying one-third of the town of Joplin. With winds over 200 mph and a path spanning nearly a mile wide and six miles long, if left behind utter destruction. It claimed the lives of 157 people, making it the deadliest tornado since official records started being kept in the 1950s. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), it is also the seventh deadliest in U.S. history based on estimates dating to the 1800s.  2011 became the fourth most lethal tornado season on record.
In the weeks after the storm, there were five more deaths and many became ill from a rare and aggressive fungal infection caused by debris spread by the storm. Scientists also warned of the environmental impacts of the storm and potential health hazards such as ground water contamination.
An outpouring of support for Joplin came through Facebook groups, charities, and a benefit concert and telethon. Social networks like Facebook were a gathering place for people who wanted to help. The Joplin Tornado Recovery page gained publicity with the help of Oprah and the United Way, raising $1.7 million for the stricken community. With assistance from FEMA, charities, and fundraisers, the long rebuilding process is now under way in Joplin.
Damages from the tornado are estimated at $7 billion.
Ongoing relief efforts:

Rebuild Joplin
Heart of Missouri United Way
American Red Cross
Joplin Habitat for Humanity

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
 
 
 
 
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has had a busy year. It has been filled with tough choices when it comes to managing and diverting dangerous amounts of destructive floodwater. This year, levees were blown up and dam floodgates and spillways were opened.
Missouri River:

Nearly a year's worth of rain fell in the area over the Missouri River basin in the end of May alone.
In June, all six of the major dams along the Missouri River released record amounts of water to try to alleviate damage caused by the excess water from the record snowfall and snowmelt in the winter and spring.
Levees were raised as well as breached in Kansas, Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, and North and South Dakota, flooding the river basin.
Bridges were closed for 100 miles between Omaha and Kansas City.
The Garrison Dam released record amounts of water into its spillway to divert floodwaters beginning in early June.
The Souris River broke record flood stage levels on June 24 in Minot at 9.5 feet above flood stage with waters flowing over the levees.
More than one-quarter of the population of Minot have been displaced, and are bracing for a tough winter.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has announced plans to change its approach to floodwater management in 2012, hoping to avoid such devastating conditions by releasing water earlier in the season.
On one sunny note, some of the river flooding might help restore some of the surrounding natural wetlands and even support endangered wildlife.
Mississippi River:

April: Heavy rains and snowmelt cause Mississippi River levels to rise.
Early May: Flooding begins in Illinois, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
May 3: The Missouri River is levee blown up by the Army Corps of Engineers to save the town of Cairo, Illinois, from  destruction. The consequence is the flooding of nearby countryside along with the loss of homes, crops, and fields.
May 6: Historic river levels are recorded in Memphis.
May 11: The Mississippi River reaches an all-time record crest in Natchez, Miss., 135 miles north of New Orleans.
May 14: Army Corps of Engineers opens the Morganza Spillway in Louisiana to divert floodwaters away from New Orleans and Baton Rouge.

Long-term effects
Frank Heitmuller, a geography professor at the University of  Southern Mississippi, explained that the floodwaters could help in some  cases to restore wetland environments, but that the nation should  re-evaluate the placement of levees and spillways in order to make them  more beneficial. He suggests studying low-lying countries such as the Netherlands to learn how to avoid sediment buildup, which can cause levee failure.
The cost of the Mississippi floods totaled over $4 billion.
Relief efforts:

Missouri Agriculture Disaster Relief Fund
South Dakota Community Foundation
American Red Cross
United Way

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
The U.S. had its second hottest summer on record this year, and July was blazing hot, breaking or tying 2,676 records for highest daily temperatures. If you include nighttime high and low temperatures, the month of July broke nearly 9,000 heat records nationwide.
Newark, N.J., reached 108 degrees on July 22, beating the previous record from August 2001 by 3 degrees. The mercury hit a remarkable 117 degrees in Childress, Texas, and heat indices across the country were causing millions to seek air-conditioned shelter. Even the Potomac River couldn't keep its cool as it reached a record temperature of 96 degrees.
Oklahoma and Texas had their hottest month of July this year, and most of the rest of the country felt the heat as well. One commentator on a news site said, "It's been so hot in Texas, the devil packed his bags and left!" In Dallas, it was over 100 degrees for all but one day in the month of July. Meanwhile, the drought in the Southwest grew continually worse with yet another month of summer to come.
Struggles in the heat:

Pressure on the U.S. power grid caused all-time highs in utility bills, being especially stressful for low-income families.
An increased strain was placed on emergency rooms.
141 million Americans were under heat advisories.
Infrastructure -- roads buckled and split, train rails warped and bent, and water mains in Oklahoma broke under heat strain.
As the drought worsened, a Texas lake nearly dried up and turned bright red.
Dust storms moved through Arizona.
Agriculture -- the heat and drought took their toll on crops and became a factor in rising food prices, especially in the corn, dairy, and cattle industries.

Causes
Fingers are being pointed once again at La Nina for the excessive heat and drought this summer. As for global warming, it can sometimes take 30 years of data to discover and prove trends in the effects of climate change, so isolated events such as tornado supercells and excessive heat are not easy to explain as direct effects of global warming. Only time and science can give us those answers.
As hot as it was this summer, we are reminded by Christopher C. Burt at Weather Undergound that it still wasn't as bad as the great heat wave of 1936.
Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
In the final days of August, Hurricane Irene hit the East Coast with severe winds and intense rainfall, causing widespread flooding and damage. The hardest hit was Vermont, swamped with its worst floods in 75 years, cutting power, ruining fall harvest crops, and destroying roads and historic bridges.
Hurricanes are less common in this part of the country, and can cause more damage due to its densely populated areas. When all is recovered, this disaster is estimated to be one of the top 10 costliest in U.S. history.

Irene's wrath across the Northeast:


Agricultural losses: In Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia, and Massachusetts. Many pumpkin crops were wiped out in the heavy rains and floods.
Environmental impact: Chesapeake Bay experienced an influx of sediment plumes that affect water quality and aquatic life, such as oysters.
Historic structures: More than a dozen of Vermont's 100 covered bridges were damaged in the storm, and the 141-year-old Bartonsville Bridge was swept away. The town is making plans to rebuild, and across the state, there is renewed respect for these historic icons.
Flood damage: Thousands of residents were left displaced, and storm damage is estimated to be between $7 billion and $10 billion.
Power outages: 5.5 million homes and businesses were without power, some for up to a week after the storm.
Travel and tourism:  Air travel came to a halt, and New England's tourism season suffered.

In the wake of Hurricane Irene, some argue that the nation needs to strengthen the U.S. infrastructure so that such events do not have such a severe impact in the future. This feeds the debate about the consequences of a future with potentially worse weather outbreaks, and draws attention to the political discussions taking place in Washington.
Relief efforts:

Network for Good -- Hurricane Irene Fund
Greenmarket's Hurricane Irene Relief Fund (includes very cute veggie posters -- every little bit helps)
Vermont Floods

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
On May 30, an abandoned  campfire became the largest wildfire in Arizona history. The Wallow fire raged  under severe drought conditions, and spread rampantly through the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest, burning 500,000 acres in Arizona and New Mexico before it was contained on July 8.
 
The record drought conditions that fueled this fire were widespread, causing fires across several states as well as dust storms in Phoenix. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,  Arizona suffered its fourth driest June in 2011, while New Mexico had  its driest. In Texas, which also had numerous wildfires, 91 percent of the  state was in extreme or greater drought.
The fire had a large impact on the local economy, which  depends on recreational tourism. Woes were also felt in neighboring areas where livestock were displaced due to the burnt  terrain. Local farmers banded together to donate hay to ranchers who lost grazing land in the fire.
While the long-term effects of the fire are hard to pinpoint, recovering from this enormous fire will take many lifetimes.
Relief efforts:

Wallow Fire Relief
United Way of Northern Arizona

The Bastrop Fire
On September 4, winds powered by Tropical Storm Lee knocked trees into electric power lines, causing sparks that propelled themselves into the most catastrophic wildfire in Texas history. By the time the Bastrop fire was extinguished 34,068 acres of land had burned, 1,649 homes were lost, and two people were dead. The firestorm destroyed 10 times more homes than the previous record of 168 set recently in April.
A strong year for La Nina brought record-breaking drought and blistering heat. It was the hottest summer on record for Texas, as well as many other states. Thirty-four percent of the nation's wildfires this year have been in Texas, which has seen the lowest rainfall since 1895.  In some areas, man-made lakes have completely dried up to reveal rather shocking historic finds including a graveyard and space shuttle debris.
The Los Angeles Times reported that since November 2010, 45,359 homes have been destroyed. Since last year, nearly 4 million acres have burned in Texas.
Firefighting heroes
Three-quarters of Texas fire departments are run by volunteers. These brave individuals, sometimes ill-equipped for the job, are on call 24/7 to serve their communities. They are the heroes who helped to finally put this fire out, even as some of their own homes were consumed by the blaze.  As well as gaining respect and admiration from residents, those who diligently fought the blaze were commended in a resolution by The Texas Forestry Association.
Also, amid the chaos, was the heart-warming story of a couple who stayed behind to help save hummingbirds.
Relief efforts
In mid-October, Willie Nelson headlined Fire Relief: the Concert for Central Texas, which raised $725,000. The event famously featured the first reunion of the Dixie Chicks since 2008. Local organizations also helped raise money, including the Austin City Limits Festival.
The damage estimates have reached $250 billion. FEMA has already provided millions in disaster assistance, fire debris removal, and temporary housing, and other relief efforts are still under way.
Bastrop resident Dave Harmon aptly describes the scene: "The spooky, postwildfire quiet of the Lost Pines has been replaced with the buzz of a nascent recovery."
 
How to help:

Texas Wildfire Relief Fund
American Red Cross of Central Texas
Bastrop Wildfire Relief

Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
An early and historic snowstorm hit New England in late October just before Halloween, leaving 3 million without power and facing freezing temperatures from Pennsylvania to New Hampshire. Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Jersey were especially hard hit, with some residents without power for nearly a week.
The snow levels broke October records in New York City and several other northeast towns, with some areas getting up to 30 inches of snow. In one day, 32 inches fell in Peru, Massachusetts, while Washington, D.C., beat a 121-year-old record by 1.5 inches.
Damages and tolls:

In New York City's Central Park, the heavy, wet snow killed 1,000 trees, leaving crews scrambling to clean up the mess before the New York Marathon the following weekend. Many trees throughout the Northeast that had already been weakened by Hurricane Irene did not survive the wintry blast.
48 Boston-bound Amtrak passengers were stranded overnight. With power, food, and water, they fared much better than the passengers on a diverted JetBlue flight in Hartford, Conn. The 200 passengers were stuck on the tarmac with clogged toilets and no food or water for 7 hours.
A week after the storm, with a general election taking place, nine towns in Connecticut that were still without power had to reassign polling places so that voters would not be left in the dark.
The death toll is estimated at 22.

Nor'easters can be more damaging along the Atlantic coast than hurricanes, especially when snow is involved. This nor'easter may turn out to be one of the most expensive of the year, exceeding the costs related to Hurricane Irene.
Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
As the year draws to a close, extreme weather events have somewhat calmed in comparison to earlier months, but have not settled down completely. In early November, mother nature hit Oklahoma with a one-two punch, delivering an earthquake and tornado within six hours. Just days later, an epic storm was brewing in the Bering Sea, heading for Alaska.
Oklahoma
On November 5, Oklahoma was hit with a damaging 5.6 earthquake, significant aftershocks, and a tornado -- all in one day. The state, while used to tornadoes, was blindsided by the earthquake, which was the biggest on state records. Fortunately, there were minimal injuries, as well as damages to homes and roads.  At the time of the earthquake, The National Weather Service recorded a radar image of birds and insects fleeing the area.  Later that day, an EF-4 tornado touched down in Tipton, Oklahoma -- the largest November tornado for the area on record. It added to an already busy year of record-breaking extremes in the state, including hailstones, high and low temperatures, snowfall, and drought.
Farther north and heading inland was Alaska's biggest storm in four decades.
Alaska
The epic storm hit the western shores of Alaska on November 9 with snow, 90-mph winds, and icy waves of up to 20 feet. The severe weather caused flooding, power outages, and building damage along the coast, mostly in remote areas. Local emergency shelters were set up, and in the northwest village of Point Hope, 20 vehicle headlights were cleverly used to line an airstrip for an incoming plane carrying repair workers.
These end-of-the-year storms, while less extreme than the storms earlier in the year, hint at the possibility of more extreme weather to come. On November 18, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released a summary of its report on climate change in relation to extreme weather. The Nobel Prize-winning group, made up of 220 scientists from 62 nations, worked on the report for over two years, and its conclusions are not sunny. The report summary concludes that extreme weather events can be linked to the changing climate, can be expected to continue, and can possibly worsen in the future. The findings highlight the greater consequences of extreme weather in the developing world, and focus on the importance of storm preparation worldwide.
Becky Uline is an editor and musician living in San Francisco,  where she  enjoys digging into Yahoo! data as a sidekick to  trend-finding sleuth  Vera H-C Chan.  Most of her writing is of the  musical variety for her  band, the Northerlies.
 



Previous New Year BlizzardsNextPreviousExtreme Weather Drought and Wildfires in OklahomaNextPreviousNew Year Blizzards Spring Tornado OutbreakNextPreviousDrought and Wildfires in Oklahoma Joplin Tornado DisasterNextPreviousSpring Tornado Outbreak Missouri and Mississippi River FloodsNextPreviousJoplin Tornado Disaster Summer Heat WaveNextPreviousMissouri and Mississippi River Floods Hurricane IreneNextPreviousSummer Heat Wave Wallow and Bastrop FiresNextPreviousHurricane Irene October Nor’easterNextPreviousWallow and Bastrop Fires Late Fall StormsNextPreviousOctober Nor’easter Next 





Categories // 2011 Year in Review





Top 10 Searches








Top News Stories








Heroic Acts








Top Viral Photos of 2011








Extreme Weather








End of an Era








Caught?








Obsessions








Futurecasting








Where Are They Now?




 















2011 YEAR IN REVIEW GLOBAL COVERAGE
 Argentina Brasil Canada Deutschland   España   Español   France 香港 India  Indonesia Italia 한국 México Philippines 台灣 United Kingdom United States  












                Copyright © 2012 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
            

                 | Yahoo! - ABC News Network | 
            

Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy








 
 







