Police up death toll to 245 in Brazil club fire - Yahoo! News

Police up death toll to 245 in Brazil club fireAssociated Press – Sun, Jan 27, 2013

A man carries an injured man, victim of a fire at the Kiss club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. Firefighters say that the death …more  toll from a fire that swept through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil has risen to 180. Officials say the fire broke out while a band was performing. At least 200 people have been injured.

BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) — A fire swept through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, killing at least 245 people and leaving at least 200 injured, police and firefighters said.
Police Maj. Cleberson Braida told local news media that the 245 bodies were brought for identification to a gymnasium in the city of Santa Maria.
That toll apparently would make it the deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade.
Braida said the club had only one working exit, and the majority of victims died trampled in an attempt to flee.
The cause of the blaze was still under investigation but authorities told local reporters that fireworks, perhaps shot off by the band, erupted in the midst of the performance and one hit the roof.
Michele Schneid, a 22-year-old cashier, told local news media that people began to shout "Fire!," setting off the stampede.
"Many people ran for the bathrooms and wound up dying suffocated," he said.
The newspaper Diario de Santa Maria reported that the fire started at around 2 a.m. at the Kiss nightclub in the city at the southern tip of Brazil, near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay.
Ezekiel Corte Real, 23, was quoted by the paper as saying that he helped people to escape. "I just got out because I'm very strong," he said.
Police estimated 900 people were in the club when the fire broke out.
The fire led President Dilma Roussef to cancel a series of meetings she had scheduled at a summit of Latin American and European leaders in Chile's capital of Santiago, and was headed to Santa Maria, according to the Brazilian foreign ministry.
"It is a tragedy for all of us. I am not going to continue in the meeting (in Chile) for very clear reasons," she said.
"Sad Sunday", tweeted Tarso Genro, the governor of the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul. He said all possible action was being taken and that he would be in the city later in the day.
Santa Maria is a university city with a population of around a quarter of a million.
A welding accident reportedly set off a Dec. 25, 2000, fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309.
At least 194 people died at an overcrowded working-class nightclub in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 2004.
A blaze at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, Russia, broke out on Dec. 5, 2009, when an indoor fireworks display ignited a plastic ceiling decorated with branches, killing 152
A nightclub fire in the U.S. state of Rhode Island in 2003 killed 100 people after pyrotechnics used as a stage prop by the 1980s rock band Great White set ablaze cheap soundproofing foam on the walls and ceiling.

Arrests made in Brazil fire, funerals begin WPVI – Philadelphia People help an injured man, victim of a fire in a club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state,  Brazil,  Sunday, Jan. 27,  2013.  According to police more than 200 died in the devastating nightclub fire in southern Brazil.  Officials say the fire broke out at the Kiss club in the city of Santa Maria while a band was performing. At least 200 people were also injured. (AP Photo/Agencia RBS) APFirefighters: 180 dead in Brazil nightclub fire AP Death toll more than 230 in Brazil club fire KGO – San Francisco ALTERNATIVE CROP OF XSI103.- People help an injured man, victim of a fire in a club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state,  Brazil,  Sunday, Jan. 27,  2013.  According to police more than 200 died in the devastating nightclub fire in southern Brazil.  Officials say the fire broke out at the Kiss club in the city of Santa Maria while a band was performing. At least 200 people were also injured. (AP Photo/Agencia RBS) APA look at notable deadly nightclub fires AP At Least 233 Dead in Brazil Nightclub Fire hulu videos A victim of a fire in a club is carried in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state,  Brazil,  early Sunday,  Jan. 27,  2013.  According to police more than 200 died in the devastating nightclub fire in southern Brazil.  Officials say the fire broke out at the Kiss club in the city of Santa Maria while a band was performing. At least 200 people were also injured.  (AP Photo/Deivid Dutra/Agencia Freelancer) APHere's a look at some of the most deadly nightclub fires in recent memory AP A fire that swept through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday appears to be the deadliest Raw: Nightclub Fire in Brazil Kills Hundreds Associated Press Videos Firefighters work to douse a fire at the Kiss Club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. Firefighters say that the death toll from a fire that swept through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil has risen to 180. Officials say the fire broke out at the club while a band was performing. At least 200 people were also injured. (AP Photo/Agencia RBS) APMore than 90 dead in nightclub fire in Brazil AP BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) — Firefighters say that the death toll from a fire that swept through a crowded. Some 200 killed in night-club fire Reuters Videos A man carries an injured man, victim of a fire at the Kiss  club in Santa Maria city,  Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013.  Firefighters say that the death toll from a fire that swept through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil has risen to 180. Officials say the fire broke out  while a band was performing. At least 200 people have been injured. (AP Photo/Agencia RBS) AP Fire in nightclub kills at least 90 people, injures 200 in southern Brazil AP BRASILIA, Brazil - A fire in a nightclub in southern Brazil killed at least 90 people early Sunday, …  Brazil club fire kills over 230 people in smoke, stampede WLS – Chicago Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff comforts victim's relatives in Santa Maria, southern Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013.  Rousseff cut short a visit to Chile early Sunday to go to Santa Maria after a deadly nightclub fire. Flames raced through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, killing more than 200 people as panicked party-goers stampeded toward the exits and gasped for air in the smoke-filled space, authorities said. It appeared to be the world's deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade. AP Nightclub fire kills 233 in Brazil Reuters Bouncers initially blocked people from leaving club Reuters Videos Relatives of victims react in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. A blaze raced through the crowded nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, killing more than 200 people as the air filled with deadly smoke and panicked party-goers stampeded toward the exits, police and witnesses said. It appeared to be the world's deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade.
More World News Suicide bomber kills guard at U.S. embassy in Turkey 5 hrs agoMexico probes if blast was attack or accident, 33 dead 3 hrs agoSuicide bomb kills 22 near mosques in northwest Pakistan 16 hrs agoIran escalating efforts to destabilize region - Panetta 3 hrs agoOne dead, dozens hurt as police clash with Egypt protesters 7 hrs agoEnvoy makes "last appeal" for Syria as officials meet 6 hrs ago Stalingrad victory offers Putin patriotic platform 7 hrs ago 

