BBC News - America's commutes start earlier and last longer


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports



















11 October 2011
Last updated at 22:17 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





America's commutes start earlier and last longer
 

By Franz Strasser
BBC News, Maryland








Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Catherine Fortney describes her commuting experience from rural Maryland to Washington, DC




Continue reading the main story


Altered States


Tough choices Watch


A death in Chicago Watch


Armed and less dangerous? Watch


Cowboy crimes Watch



 Working in the city and living on one's own land far out in the countryside has always been a goal for many Americans. The recession has turned hours of commuting to and from work into a reality that's hard to escape.
Every morning, Catherine Fortney's alarm rings at 03:30 and by the time the clock strikes 06:00, she must be at the nearby bus stop. 
Her commute to a law practice in downtown Washington DC will take 90 minutes to two hours each way. 
Ms Fortney is far from alone on the road at that time. Almost every third working person in Southern Maryland commutes over an hour. In the last 10 years no other state grew faster in this category, according to US Census data.
As a single mother, Ms Fortney jumped on the chance to double her salary as a legal assistant when her former boss opened an office in Washington. The bus she takes is often cold and crowded, she says, and it broke down entirely not too long ago.
But the $10 (£6.48) round-trip bus ticket is cheaper than the $20 for gasoline per trip and the $13 for parking her car in the city, she says. 
Recession impact
America has always liked its wide-open spaces and has had a preference for big homes on large plots with no neighbour in sight. 
In the 1990s, ex-urban areas in the US grew twice as fast as their respective metropolitan areas overall, according to the Belgian Science Policy Office.
Between 1982 and 1997, the US converted more than 24m acres (10m ha) of natural habitat into developed land.
In the past, people were willing to accept a long commute for a taste of residential freedom, and cities built the infrastructure to assist them.
Most commuters showed a remarkable ability to accommodate the long distances to their work place, says Patricia Mokhtarian, professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of California, Davis.
But the tide has turned on many who sought comfort in the distance.

Continue reading the main story Cost of congestion






 Based on wasted time and fuel, congestion cost about $115bn (£74.5bn) in 2010
 1.9 billion gallons of fuel were wasted while standing idle, which would fill 38 super-tankers
 Source: Texas Transportation Institute

 "A reasonable choice a few years ago is now hard to escape and has become the albatross around the neck," says Ms Mokhtarian.
The limited amount of good-paying work has forced many job seekers to look further away from home. The housing market collapse has left home owners stranded in the countryside.
"Historically in this country people have been able to get up and go, but that has been impeded, and it has really hurt us in this recession," says Alan Pisarski, author of Commuting in America.
The houses on the fringe of cities and their suburbs were the ones most likely to be subjected to bad loans and risky financing, Mr Pisarski says.
"Many people are stuck. Their houses are under water [in negative equity], they can't sell and they can't get out."
Psychological toll
A big chunk of the population still leaves home between 06:30 and 08:00, but that number has fallen from 43.2 to 38.1% over the past two decades. 
At the same time the share of people leaving before 06:00 has grown from 8.9% to 12.6%, according to Census data.



More cars on US streets for a longer period of time have resulted in a yearly delay of 34 hours per average commuter in 2010, according to the Texas Transportation Institute. That number is expected to rise to almost two full days by 2020.
All those hours in congested traffic is less time spent relaxing and more time spend worrying, psychologists say, and the effects from stress spill over into workplace and home.
"Stuck in traffic we often ruminate over how awful traffic is. We worry about an upcoming meeting, we go over stressful things in our heads, and that's not ideal," says Dr Jonathan Kaplan, a New York psychologist and author of Urban Mindfulness.
Most commutes are out of one's control and unpredictable, which make them hard to handle psychologically, Dr Kaplan adds. 

Continue reading the main story Commuter voices





"If the commute is over two hours then I take a deep breath and shut the car door." - Chris Platt
"It's fatiguing, trying to get somewhere at a certain time, trying to be at school events at a certain time." - Jen Smith
"It is a long day and I just want to come in, have a drink, have nobody talk to me and decompress." - Beth Clifton

 Studies have shown that the most stressed commuters were women with children at home, says Richard Wener, a professor of environmental psychology at New York University. 
"There is a deadline getting to work and there's a deadline getting home."
Traditionally people have switched jobs more often when they showed greater dissatisfaction with their commute, explains Mr Wener. Now those people are afraid to change the job.
"You're not only in a bad commute, but you're stuck in the commute, and you resent it because you don't want this job anyway."
Community involvement
With a third of the population spending large amounts of time travelling to and from work, the counties in Southern Maryland have long ago stopped having community meetings before 18:00. 
They now start later in the night to give the community a chance to get home and have dinner, or very early in the morning, which carries its own risks.
"Throughout the meeting they stare at their watches and Blackberrys, worried if they should get on the road," says Jessica Andritz, the district chair of the local Boys Scouts, which meets in Charles County.
"People have less time and are less psychologically willing," Mr Wener adds.
Even if Catherine Fortney was willing, she'd already be on her way to work. 
At 06:02 she boards the 902 commuter bus at the car park of a nearby church. 
The bus usually stays very quiet on the 50-mile trip (80km) alongside gas stations and strip malls, giving Ms Fortney enough time to sleep or text message her friends.
Are there any hidden advantages in being on the go this early?
"I get to see a lot of pretty sunrises," Ms Fortney says.

 



More on This Story


Altered States
	      






Tough choices Watch

Inside Mississippi's last abortion clinic




A death in Chicago Watch




Armed and less dangerous? Watch




Cowboy crimes Watch




Un-forbidden fruit Watch




Flower-power border Watch




Change from within Watch




No to 'machismo' Watch




Forced adoptions Watch




Family fortunes Watch




Will Virginia back Obama again? Watch




Rise of the superweeds Watch




New start Watch










Vive le Quebec libre! Watch




Mules fight fires in California Watch




Baltimore invites immigrants in Watch




Inside town on fire for 50 years Watch




Can California afford bullet trains? Watch




Winning small Watch












       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 228       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 168.  Caralete  12th October 2011 - 15:20   For two years, I commuted to Los Angeles to get to school, it took me four hours each way (though I only did it on two days a week).  I did this so I could keep my job and live at home to save on rent, since the state of California was certainly not going to help me pay for school.  I don't regret it, and even enjoyed those long drives (although most of it was in complete gridlock traffic).    Report this comment (Comment number 168) Link to this (Comment number 168)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 167.  Mike_in_Boston  12th October 2011 - 15:27   People need to more carefully select where they live.  I am fortunate enough to live a half-mile from my train station, travel on a line that goes 85 MPH and stops only once during the 40 mile journey and work across the street from the terminus of that line.  My door-to-door commute is about 40 minutes long during which time I luxuriate in the peacefulness of a reasonable commute.    Report this comment (Comment number 167) Link to this (Comment number 167)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 166.  nagivatorjan  12th October 2011 - 15:26   She's lucky she can get a bus at that time ... For my daily commute to take place by bus I'd have to get one at 0915 and be extremely late for work - and I can't get to the railway station by bus any more as the first bus from my local bus stop into town is 35 minutes after the train I need leaves ..... Doh!    Report this comment (Comment number 166) Link to this (Comment number 166)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 165.  Mike  12th October 2011 - 15:08   I leave at five AM, so I can speed along at 80 MPH with the other crazies.  I don't listen to talking books or twelve speakers' worth of music.  I just concentrate on my driving, since my life depends on it.  I love being immersed in the powerful purring of my V6, the whining of her gears, the rumble of her wheels and the whistling of the wind being pushed aside.  Ah, this modern life!    Report this comment (Comment number 165) Link to this (Comment number 165)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 164.  Basic_Facts  12th October 2011 - 15:11   Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha The American DreamHa ha ha ha ha ha ha haMillions of years of evolution for this.Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha haWhat is sad about this report is how many readers don't realise how sad it is.She is pitiful - really! Says her kids feel secure and she is 'keeping it together' - her kids are VERY lonely and she 'lost it' - but with no social safety net she can't risk change    Report this comment (Comment number 164) Link to this (Comment number 164)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 163.  Den in Noo Yawk  12th October 2011 - 15:05   It's not necessarily the bigger houses. My wife and 2 kids and I left Manhattan because of the chaotic public school system, which provides a spectacularly good education free if you're one of the lucky one in 20 kids who apply to the great schools. Our school in the suburbs is decent, dull, but we know NOW where they will be going to middle school and high school.    Report this comment (Comment number 163) Link to this (Comment number 163)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 162.  Daedalus  12th October 2011 - 15:09   Of far more significance than white suburbanites are the legions of low-pay menial workers who now live well outside the cities where they work, because of the lack of affordable apartments, and commute in using bus and rail.  Some of the bus services make jitneys look reliable.    Report this comment (Comment number 162) Link to this (Comment number 162)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 161.  The Uncivil Servant  12th October 2011 - 15:08   I commute on average 150 minutes each way every workday, York to Manchester by train and bus. And yes, days when there is a delay are a pain but all in all I like the quality time to relax and reflect on the days that's comming or what has happened. Oh and the trains are hellishly crowded and the fares are rediculous (about £450 a month) but use a car or motobike? No thanks.    Report this comment (Comment number 161) Link to this (Comment number 161)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 160.  robert  12th October 2011 - 15:01   I bet they don't put up with feeble excuses and their trains keep going even with 16 inches of snow.    Report this comment (Comment number 160) Link to this (Comment number 160)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 159.  Homesuds  12th October 2011 - 14:50   I've read about others saying they have no choice. There are always choices. My commute was for hours just to chase the "almighty dollar". I eventually burned out. We have downsized everything, and we are so much happier. We won't go back to that absurd way of life, ever.    Report this comment (Comment number 159) Link to this (Comment number 159)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 158.  brazilwatcher  12th October 2011 - 14:47   If the commuter bus she travels on is full, why doesn't she try finding 3 other people on it, who could share her car. The daily cost would be reduced to $8 each and it would be a lot more convenient/comfortable than the bus.    Report this comment (Comment number 158) Link to this (Comment number 158)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 157.  jbraxton3065  12th October 2011 - 14:45   When I was looking at house to buy two years ago. I chose not to buy the bigger cheaper house that was further out of town. The main factor was the cost of fuel and time spent on the road. Now my commute is 15 minutes. If traffic gets snarled on the freeways I can be home in 25 minutes on surface streets. In the long run this was the more practical solution.    Report this comment (Comment number 157) Link to this (Comment number 157)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 156.  Greg  12th October 2011 - 14:44   Motorcycles are a good answer to problems like these.Much less traffic congestion, cheap or free parking, cheaper insurance, and 60-120mpg figures are easily achievable. The other option is car sharing, or sitting alone in your car complaining about the congestion, petrol prices etc. (for me it would be the bike every time though)    Report this comment (Comment number 156) Link to this (Comment number 156)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 155.  slightly_annoyed_from_Reading  12th October 2011 - 14:42   Probably been said but, I think the fact that she's in a car in the picture gives away the part of the story the author failed to point out... The 3:30 start is to begin her long drive to the bus stop (as it states she parks up in a church car park) think extended park and ride. Not as people seem to be suggesting, a 2.5 make up session... haha!    Report this comment (Comment number 155) Link to this (Comment number 155)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 154.  RiceOwl  12th October 2011 - 14:35   To all those saying that British commutes can be equally long.... don't forget that American working hours are longer (my working day is a minimum 90 minutes longer than it ever was in Britain), and leave is significantly lower.  A glorious 12 (yep, TWELVE) days a year for many, many, Americans.  So add on a gruelling commute, and it really is a problem.    Report this comment (Comment number 154) Link to this (Comment number 154)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 153.  Neutron Jack  12th October 2011 - 14:33   After years of gridlock aggravation, I stopped driving to work and started taking public transport.  I transfer buses in downtown and have developed activities around the transfer points.  In the mornings I stop off for coffee and breakfast, in the evenings I stop off for dinner and drinks.  Since the truck is left at home, I am getting more exercise, through walking and bicycle riding.    Report this comment (Comment number 153) Link to this (Comment number 153)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 152.  Mike   12th October 2011 - 14:32   Commuting is ultimately a lifestyle choice and so these people have nothing to complain about. It would be good if businesses were better at promoting home working though.It does however make one appreciate the freedom of being self employed. Work from home, have no commute, own boss and cannot remember the last time I woke before 10.00 never mind 7.00!    Report this comment (Comment number 152) Link to this (Comment number 152)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 151.  Rufus McDufus  12th October 2011 - 14:28   "128.konaboy2275I love my commute, I drive 2 or 3 days and cycle 2 or 3 days. An hour peddling through the woods ...."I presume you meant 'an hour pedalling' !    Report this comment (Comment number 151) Link to this (Comment number 151)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 150.  MaidstoneMum  12th October 2011 - 14:15   The commute to work in the UK varies due to the  often poor,public transport system regardless of where you chose to work. Our local rail service was very good but now its a 4 hour round trip even though the job in London has remained un-changed for 20 years.    Report this comment (Comment number 150) Link to this (Comment number 150)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 149.  Bellatori  12th October 2011 - 14:21   #142. Indefiinable Nope... its the British when they run out of things to say about weather.!?    Report this comment (Comment number 149) Link to this (Comment number 149)         Page 4 of 12    Newer 1 ... 2 3 4 5 6 ... 12 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



9: Mini helicopter drone for UK troops



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Apology over police beating footage Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



6: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



7: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: A fruity guide to American football Watch



10: Brothers head-to-head at Superbowl Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





