BBC News - Ayn Rand: Why is she so popular?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports



















17 August 2012
Last updated at 05:51 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ayn Rand: Why is she so popular?

By Tom Geoghegan
BBC News Magazine





Continue reading the main story


In today's Magazine


Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'


Why Mali's nomads are lying low


Decoding facial hair in the Arab world


Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch



 A Russian-American writer who died 30 years ago is still selling hundreds of thousands of books a year, and this week one of her former devotees, Paul Ryan, became Mitt Romney's running mate in the US presidential election. So why is Ayn Rand and her most famous work, Atlas Shrugged, so popular?
It's 1,200 pages long and was panned by critics when it was published 55 years ago.
Yet few novels have had an impact as enduring as Atlas Shrugged, a dystopian allegory in which captains of industry struggle against stifling regulations and an over-reaching government and one by one close down production, bringing the world economy to its knees. 
Rand's philosophy, which she called objectivism, tapped directly into the American ideals of freedom, hard work and individualism. In novels like Atlas Shrugged, and her non-fiction like The Virtues of Selfishness, Rand argued for the removal of any religious or political controls that hindered the pursuit of self-interest. 

Continue reading the main story From Russia with love






 Born Alisa Rosenbaum in St Petersburg in 1905
 Falls in love with New York long before she arrived there in 1926
 Chance encounter with Cecil B DeMille in Hollywood leads to a part in his film
 Marries actor Frank O'Connor in 1929
 Becomes a bestselling author, thanks to The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged
 Begins long affair with devotee Nathaniel Branden, her friend Barbara's husband
 O'Connor, who consented but was said to be devastated, dies in 1979, three years before Rand


 As she explained in a 1959 television interview: "I am primarily the creator of a new code of morality which has so far been believed impossible - namely, a morality not based on faith, not on emotion, not on arbitrary edicts, mystical or social, but on reason." 
She believed, she added, that man's "highest moral purpose is the achievement of his own happiness, and that he must not force other people, nor accept their right to force him, that each man must live as an end in himself and follow his own rational self-interest."
Atlas Shrugged is her magnum opus, set in an undated American future, although it is reminiscent of the 1950s. The strike by millionaire tycoons is orchestrated by the Christ-like figure of John Galt, who towards the end of the novel makes a 60-page speech that took Rand two years to write.
Her voice and ideas are clearly present in the noble characters of Galt, railway heiress Dagny Taggart, copper magnate Francisco d'Anconia and steel tycoon Hank Rearden. 
This quartet are idealised figures, capitalist high-fliers who must defeat Rand's "looter" enemies - unions, lobbyists, government officials and any supporters of altruism and welfare. 
Continue reading the main story









			Characters
					

			Key quotes
					





Mystery surrounds the identity of John Galt, who persuades the greatest minds in business, music and science to withdraw to a mountain hideaway.


"I swear - by my life and my love of it - that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine."




The novel's protagonist is Dagny Taggart, vice-president of Taggart Continental railroad company, who has an unwavering commitment to her work. She also has complete sexual freedom, having affairs with Galt, Rearden and D'Anconia.


"Francisco, what's the most depraved human being?" 
(He answers:) "The man without a purpose."




Hank Rearden is a steel magnate who finds his ability to produce is continually limited  by over-regulating lawmakers who seize the property of capitalists in order to redistribute the country's wealth. Rearden's struggle, clearly articulated when he appears in court, illustrates the over-reaching of government and the dangers of altruism.


"I work for nothing but my own profit, which I make by selling a product they need to men who are willing and able to buy it. I do not produce it for their benefit at the expense of mine, and they do not buy it for my benefit... we deal as equals by mutual consent to mutual advantage - and I am proud of every penny I have earned in this matter."




Francisco d'Anconia is a childhood friend and first love of Dagny's, also an heir to the world's biggest copper company. But he deliberately runs down his company to keep it out of state hands.


"There's nothing of any importance in life - except how well you do your work. Nothing. Only that. Whatever else you are, will come from that. It's the only measure of human value."




Continue reading the main story Rand herself saw this struggle play out in the most traumatic way.  
Born into a Jewish family called Rosenbaum in St Petersburg, she was just 12 when she witnessed her father's pharmacy being seized by the Bolsheviks. 

Continue reading the main story Don Draper's reading list





Ayn Rand has become shorthand in popular culture for "ruthless selfishness, intellectual precocity, or both", says historian Jennifer Burns in her Rand biography Goddess of the Market.
In Mad Men, Bertram Cooper, senior partner at ad agency Sterling Cooper, is an avowed Ayn Rand fan. While giving his protege Don Draper a hefty bonus, he encourages him to read Atlas Shrugged. "Take $1.99 out of that $2,500 and buy yourself a copy."
In Dirty Dancing, womanising waiter Robbie urges Baby to read The Fountainhead as she confronts him about getting dancer Penny pregnant. "Some people count and some people don't," he shrugs.
"Ooo, The Fountainhead!" coos Marge appreciatively in The Simpsons. "Mom! Isn't that book the bible of right-wing losers?" chides daughter Lisa.
A previous Simpsons episode saw Maggie placed at the Ayn Rand School for Tots, where "A means A".

 "Many scenes from Atlas Shrugged are transmuted and re-enacted scenes from Rand's childhood," says biographer Anne Heller. "When the government comes to take Hank Rearden's patent from him and he refuses, that is what she wished would have happened to her father."
She never forgot that injustice and humiliation, says Heller, author of Ayn Rand and the World She Made, even when she arrived in the US eight years later.  
"They [her family] were told it was for the good of the people, but she saw that people who worked hard like her father had to sacrifice years of hard work for people she thought had not educated themselves. She saw the same forces at work in the US when FDR's New Deal got a foothold." 
Her novel, The Fountainhead, about an architect, was a word-of-mouth success and made into a film starring Gary Cooper. 
It drew a committed group of supporters to Rand, some of whom gathered every Saturday at her New York apartment to read extracts from her next book. Among them was an economic forecaster called Alan Greenspan, who became her close friend and eventually chairman of the US Federal Reserve. 
Despite this dedicated following, reviews of Atlas Shrugged in 1957 were not favourable, and its message united both left and right in condemnation. Gore Vidal described it as "almost perfect in its immorality".

Continue reading the main story Atlas Shrugged inspired me



Anne Omrod
President and CEO, John Galt Solutions



I read Atlas Shrugged when I was 26 and it connected with me greatly, especially the heroine. I identified with Dagny Taggart, the way she was very good at her job. A year later, when I was setting up the company and discussing with someone who also read the book what it should be named, the answer was John Galt, because of the way he represented the coming together of great minds.
We have a lot of strong-minded, independent individuals and each individual has a goal on a team, but we are all moving in the same direction.

 But this didn't stop it from becoming an international bestseller, as millions were drawn to her central message of individualism and unfettered capitalism, even if they didn't buy into her whole philosophy. In the 1990s, a survey by the Library of Congress named Atlas Shrugged as the most influential book in the US, after the Bible.
And more than 50 years after publication, sales are booming. According to Nielsen BookScan, more than 300,000 copies were sold in the US in 2009, pushing sales for all her works past the half-million mark that year.  
The extent of her influence was demonstrated this week when Paul Ryan joined the Mitt Romney ticket, although he has now distanced himself from her work.
In 2005, Ryan told the Atlas Society how Rand "taught me quite a bit about who I am and what my value systems are". But earlier this year, he told the National Review that as a Catholic he rejected her atheism.
Beyond politics, the novel also had an impact in Silicon Valley, where entrepreneurs identified with its emphasis on heroic individuals and their work ethic. Some have named their companies or their newborn children after the author or her characters. 


Rand has a following in India

Rand's popularity is not confined to the US, however, with healthy book sales in the UK, India, Australia, Italy and South Africa. 
But she speaks most directly to American conservatives, says Timothy Stanley, a British historian at the University of Oxford who writes about US politics for the Daily Telegraph.
"American Conservatism is fundamentally about the relationship between the individual and the community, about jealously protecting the individual's liberty. 
"British Conservativism is about the Queen, the Anglican Church and rituals like tea. It's less about the economy or your relationship with government, so there is very little in Ayn Rand that they could identify with."

Continue reading the main story Rand's views


Supported:

 Unfettered markets
 Civil rights
 Right to choose (abortion)
 Sexual freedom
 Rejected:

 Homosexuality
 Welfare
 Beards and moustaches
 Robin Hood
 Religion
 Vietnam War/miltary draft
 Income tax


 Paul Ryan genuinely fell out of love with Randian ideas, says Stanley, and that comes with age. 
"Atlas Shrugged was a very exciting book to read when you're young but then you grow up and get a family and develop a relationship with God.
"Rand teaches you that the individual is in complete control of their life and adolescents are terrified of being told what to do. 
"She tells students that when they leave college they will work for liberals who will take their taxes and don't know anything. She massages the egos of juveniles."
The emergence of the Tea Party - a wing of the Republican Party which favours a shrinking of the state - appears to be driving her recent resurgence. John Galt is often referred to on placards and T-shirts.



"She's become a more dominant influence than she's ever been and that's bad because she's made it cool to be selfish. It's bad for the people outside her favoured elite, the 99%. And it's bad for the morality of the US," says Gary Weiss, author of Ayn Rand Nation: The Hidden Struggle for America's Soul.
In Rand's later life, her followers turned away from her - some were appalled to learn she had been conducting a 14-year affair with her associate Nathaniel Branden, apparently with the consent of her own husband and Branden's wife, Rand's close friend Barbara.

Continue reading the main story In praise of objectivism


Objectivism is designed as a guide to life, and celebrates the remarkable potential and power of you, the individual. Objectivism also challenges the doctrines of irrationalism, self-sacrifice, brute force, and collectivism that have brought centuries of chaos and misery into the lives of millions of individuals. It provides fascinating insights into the world of politics, art, education, foreign policy, science, and more, rewarding you with a rich understanding of how ideas shape your world. Those who discover Objectivism often describe the experience as life-changing and liberating.
The Atlas Society


Read more from the society

 Others were put off for other reasons. One former acolyte, Jerome Tuccille, recalls supporters being "robotic" in their admiration and after two or three years, he turned his attention to less "flawed" libertarian causes.
"She could give a great speech but she was very harsh and very vindictive to anyone who challenged her. She wasn't open to debate but trounced them as irrational, altruistic and hopeless.
"Rand's world was black and white. You are either all good or all bad. Her world is a good fictional representation but it doesn't work in reality in terms of human beings."
This difficulty was most clearly illuminated in Rand's final, lonely years when she claimed social security - an act her critics saw as inherently hypocritical but others said was her due.




More on This Story


In today's Magazine
	      






Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'

Kathy Etchingham recalls her relationship with musical legend Jimi Hendrix.










Why Mali's nomads are lying low

Mali's Tuareg nomads live in fear of reprisals after the jihadis, who joined their rebellion in the north of the country, have melted away










Decoding facial hair in the Arab world

In the Arab and Muslim world, facial hair means far more than just style and grooming, according to Cairo-based journalist Ashraf Khalil. 









Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch

For the week ending 1 February, here is a look at the news in America - all in 140 characters or fewer. 









Smoke on the Water legend among those who passed

Our regular column covering the passing of significant - but lesser-reported - people of the past month.









Related Internet links


Timothy Stanley


Gary Weiss


Jerome Tuccille



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Malala recovering after operation



8: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



9: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



10: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



Video/Audio




1: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



6: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



7: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



8: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



9: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





