BBC News - High-stakes gambling machine crackdown rejected


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















11 January 2013
Last updated at 04:54 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





High-stakes gambling machine crackdown rejected
 


The machines, located in betting shops, can accept stakes of as much as £100


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


NI gambling laws to be overhauled


Gambling laws outdated, say MPs



The government has ruled out a crackdown on high-stakes gambling machines from betting shops despite warnings about their addictive nature.
The machines can accept stakes of up to £100 and offer prizes of £500.
Culture minister Hugh Robertson said there was little evidence they caused serious problems despite an MP calling them the "crack cocaine" of gambling.
The Campaign for Fairer Gambling said the casino-style machines were often used by people with problems.
In a Commons debate on Thursday, Mr Robertson rejected the idea of creating new laws to restrict fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs) or the betting shops where they are located.
The minister said he would only change the law if there was new evidence.
A recent Commons Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee report recommended that local authorities should be able to allow bookmakers to operate more than the current limit of four high-stakes machines per shop.
The Campaign for Fairer Gambling said the machines should be banned from betting shops on the High Street with immediate effect.
'Addictive product'
The organisation, backed by psychologist Prof Jim Orford, said they were too addictive and should be restricted to casinos only.
Matthew Zarb-Cousin, a former addict who lost about £16,000 on gambling machines, works with the Campaign for Fairer Gambling. He told the BBC that the maximum £100 stake encouraged dangerous patterns.
He said a maximum stake of £2 should be introduced, effectively banning the high-stakes machines from prominent locations.
"What we've seen here is what looks like an addictive product, a harmful product to the consumer, that's been allowed to go onto the market without knowing how harmful that product is. 
"All we have is this anecdotal evidence that these machines are harmful and it doesn't look like the government are taking this issue seriously, especially with the stigma that surrounds problem gambling," he said.
However, Mr Robertson said the government would be prepared to bring in new laws to clamp down on the spread of betting shops.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
This is one of those quite tricky areas where common sense suggests there is a major problem but there is a lack of evidence to back this up”
End Quote
Hugh Robertson MP
Culture minister
 Ciaran O'Brien, from bookmakers Ladbrokes, denied FOBTs were a major problem and said the industry takes action to fund "research, education and treatment" for addicts.
He said the average spend on a gambling machine was just under £7, while the average stake on a betting slip is £8.40.
"The vast majority of people enjoy their... experience and do it very responsibly. Where there is problem gambling its important the industry acts responsibly and we have a very good track record at doing so," Mr O'Brien added.
Meanwhile, Dirk Vennix, chief executive at the Association of British Bookmakers (ABB), said the "vast majority" of the gambling industry's eight million customers spend "safely and responsibly".
He told BBC Radio Five Live: "They are adults who think about what they spend and how much they can lose - they are not stupid."
Mr Vennix denied that betting shops were becoming more prolific on Britain's high streets, saying bookmakers constituted just 4% of retail space in town centres.
Labour MP Kelvin Hopkins wants the government to take a tougher stance.
He said: "The most addictive form of gambling is on fixed-terminal... machines. They are indeed described as the crack cocaine of problem gambling. Is the government seriously concerned about gambling addiction and when are they going to address the problem?"
Culture minister Mr Robertson said the Responsible Gambling Trust was carrying out an investigation into the use of fruit machines and problem gambling.
But he said any new laws would be based on research not anecdotal evidence.
"This is one of those quite tricky areas where common sense suggests there is a major problem but there is a lack of evidence to back this up," he said.
"I very much hope that the major research project that is being undertaken will give us the necessary evidence that we need and absolutely, once that is proved, the government will act."

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



NI gambling laws to be overhauled

10 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                NORTHERN IRELAND



Gambling laws outdated, say MPs

24 JULY 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS






Related Internet links


Department for Culture Media and Sport


Culture, Media and Sport Committee


Campaign for Fairer Gambling


Responsible Gambling Trust



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 175       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 55.  Oldskool-90  11th January 2013 - 10:43   @ 35....not a clue.Those profits aren't for greedy Tories, unless you count our pension pots as greedy Tories....Lack of proper wages.....yet gambling and drinking on the increase? Stop believing all you read on these posts , and Socialist Worker and join the real world    Report this comment (Comment number 55) Link to this (Comment number 55)     Comment number 54.  Tanglefoot  11th January 2013 - 10:42    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 54) Link to this (Comment number 54)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 53.  TPS  11th January 2013 - 10:42   Mr Vennix's implication that problem and compulsive gamblers are 'stupid' beggars belief, and contradicts all scientific research into the phenomenon of gambling addiction. There are a series of complex factors which can contribute to gambling addiction, and intelligence, or lack of intelligence, is certainly not one of them.    Report this comment (Comment number 53) Link to this (Comment number 53)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 52.  koolkarmauk  11th January 2013 - 10:42   46.SwampPuppet Jaguar, British Telecom, the remainder of Cable & Wireless and British Aerospace, Britoil and British Gas. British Steel, British Petroleum, Rolls Royce, British Airways, water and electricity. British Coal, as well as electricity generating companies Powergen and National Power, and British Rail.Selling the above initially stabilised the 80's economy, not Thatcher.    Report this comment (Comment number 52) Link to this (Comment number 52)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 51.  spam spam spam spam  11th January 2013 - 10:41   Nothing to say on this that has already been said by many, repeatedly.Gambling is basically funding financial Al Queda, social terrorists who dont give a stuff about anything & damage they cause, except themselves & lining their pockets.Just say no.    Report this comment (Comment number 51) Link to this (Comment number 51)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 50.  Peter_Sym  11th January 2013 - 10:40   37. Urban_Monk I enjoy gambling and occassionally play slot machines and do not feel this is a problem. The public are losing thousands on the stock markets & in houses (negative equity).--Negative equity is only the same if you only bought the house to make money. I bought mine to live in. Its value relative to other properties only matters one iota when & if I choose to sell & move on.    Report this comment (Comment number 50) Link to this (Comment number 50)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 49.  Rebecca Riot  11th January 2013 - 10:39   Getting a quick fix, a buzz, is a capitalist addiction. The live for today, get a wad of money & don't give a damn about the consequence of what you do. What does it matter if your dead tomorrow, you had a great time today, so enjoy it ??It is like boom & bust, riches to poverty, Reckless folk at all levels in society think this is way to carry on. The result is starving children, war & death    Report this comment (Comment number 49) Link to this (Comment number 49)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 48.  news_monitor  11th January 2013 - 10:38   Those who think that gambling is Money For Nothing are in dire straits.    Report this comment (Comment number 48) Link to this (Comment number 48)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 47.  Pancha Chandra  11th January 2013 - 10:36   Gambling is most certainly addictive. Money is the root of all tension, friction within families.There are casinos for big-time gamblers.The gamblers know the risks.Having gambling machines to lure unsuspecting citizens should be discouraged. The government does not need to entice the average citizen into gambling and out of frugal ways! The Chancellor should find other means of raising revenues.    Report this comment (Comment number 47) Link to this (Comment number 47)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 46.  Bye Auntie  11th January 2013 - 10:34   @35 You have a real Thatcher problem, don't you?She actually got Britain back on its feet after a financial collapse. And that's more than the current clowns from any party will do.She stabilised the graph below and stopped us going broke.http://www.aboutinflation.com/_/rsrc/1320833758875/inflation-rate-historical/uk-inflation-rate-historical-chart/UK_Inflation_Rate_Historical_1956_2011.png    Report this comment (Comment number 46) Link to this (Comment number 46)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 45.  b223dy  11th January 2013 - 10:33   In everything in life there are excesses. The gamblers who gamble all they have are to blame and the govt or bookies have no questions to answer. Alcohol & cigs are stacked in our shops and we have addicts where is the call to ban these items. Computer games are in shops, they have addicts, where is the call to ban them? The notion that failings of a few should affect us all is wrong & should stop    Report this comment (Comment number 45) Link to this (Comment number 45)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 44.  Panic  11th January 2013 - 10:24   Can these gambling machines be made to accept these new "Benefit Credit Cards" that people are banging on about ? What a time saver !    Report this comment (Comment number 44) Link to this (Comment number 44)                 rate this     +13      rate this     +13   Comment number 43.  aphoristic  Comment number 43 is an Editors' Pick 11th January 2013 - 10:32   I think it's an absolute disgrace that the government allows advertising for gambling sites on prime time TV, and worse still, many channels, even big name ones, actually function as gambling channels late at night. it sickens me....    Report this comment (Comment number 43) Link to this (Comment number 43)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 42.  Z1A900  11th January 2013 - 10:32   Gambling is a terrible thing for those not having the will to control it.Funny I seem to remember Labour going all out to build Super Casinos despite people not wanting it.    Report this comment (Comment number 42) Link to this (Comment number 42)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 41.  annieavatar  11th January 2013 - 10:31   35.Rebecca Riot So right.  This lot do not care about people.  They are cold blooded, concerned only with the great God Money and the deity Profit to fund rich lifestyles. Gambling  promises easy money. Even more worrying is the rise of on-line bingo aimed at the bored housewife - pretty pink colours etc.  They also have virtual gambling machines and are addictive. Free membership and money trap    Report this comment (Comment number 41) Link to this (Comment number 41)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 40.  10downingst  11th January 2013 - 10:30   I've never seen a poor bookie but I have seen plenty of broke mug punters.The house always wins because the odds are in it's favour and gamblers always come back and lose their winnings.    Report this comment (Comment number 40) Link to this (Comment number 40)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 39.  frankiecrisp  11th January 2013 - 10:29   the goverment should keep out of this if you play these machines you deserve to lose your money Ive not got any sympathey for the pathetic fools who feed these machines    Report this comment (Comment number 39) Link to this (Comment number 39)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 38.  David Horton  11th January 2013 - 10:28   Gambling is a social issue, probably a medical issue, but not (Rebecca) a political issue.I don't understand why people become addicted to anything, but they clearly do.Listening to a bookie on the radio this morning I came to the conclusion that the only difference between a tobacconist, publican, drug dealer or bookie, is the product they sell.    Report this comment (Comment number 38) Link to this (Comment number 38)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 37.  Urban_Monk  Comment number 37 is an Editors' Pick 11th January 2013 - 10:26   I enjoy gambling and occassionally play slot machines and do not feel this is a problem. The public are losing thousands on the stock markets & in houses (negative equity). All these investments/bets are a form of gambling with risk; so do not view betting in a bookies as not any different..    Report this comment (Comment number 37) Link to this (Comment number 37)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 36.  BadlyPackedKebab  11th January 2013 - 10:26   26.dave'.....typical of this govt as long as they get the money they do not care about the misery they can cause'Do you think all these machines were all installed in bookies in May 2010? The surge of getting them put in was during the last Labour govt but whenever it was and who was in is irrelevant. People have had gambling addictions since before these came along same as drink, drugs etc    Report this comment (Comment number 36) Link to this (Comment number 36)         Page 7 of 9    Newer 1 ... 5 6 7 8 9 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



4: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



5: French jets bomb northern Mali 



6: Mars rover hammers down into rock



7: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



10: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Apology over police beating footage Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



6: One-minute World News Watch



7: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Why 2013 is game on for girls  Watch



10: Naming the dead: Identifying murdered teenagers in 33-year-old cold case Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





