BBC News - The free schools set to open in 2011  


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Education & Family







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















1 September 2011
Last updated at 06:08 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





The free schools set to open in 2011  

Continue reading the main story


Academies and free schools


Q&A: Academies  


Academies: Heads for and against


Can two schools share one site?


Q&A: Free schools 



 A total of 24 new free schools are now preparing to open this September under the government's flagship policy of allowing parents, teachers and other groups to set up schools in England.
Free schools are semi-independent schools paid for by the state which are set up by groups including parents, faith groups and charities - including trusts set up by groups already running academies in England.
They are set up according to the same model as academies -  funded directly from central government rather than via local authorities, with increased control over the curriculum, teachers' pay and opening hours.
The Department for Education said it had received 323 applications in the first round. 
As of August 2011, 41 had been given approval to develop their business cases.
Of these, 24 have now signed funding agreements, or contracts, with the government, paving the way for them to open in September 2011:
Aldborough E-ACT Free School, Redbridge
A primary school set up by education provider E-ACT, through a trust (registered charity) in a former school building which is being refurbished. E-ACT sponsors several academies in England. The school was one of the first to open - with 60 pupils in reception, plus 60 pupils in Year 1. 
The school's website says it will be a local school and take children according to the local authority's admissions criteria.  Children there will have a shorter summer holiday but two longer half-terms.  
All Saints Junior School, Reading
This non-faith school for children aged 7 - 11 will admit up to 25 children per year, opening initially in a renovated church hall. It is run by the educational trust CfBT, which already sponsors two academies and is working on two further free school proposals. The organisation also owns six independent schools in the UK, and provides education services and consultancy in countries such as Abu Dhabi, India and Singapore.
ARK Atwood Primary Academy, Westminster
Run by the academy sponsoring chain ARK, this primary school will open on a temporary site in the Queen's Park area of north Westminster in September. It will operate an extended school day - from 0830 to 1600, and focus on mathematics and the performing arts.
ARK Conway Primary Academy, Hammersmith & Fulham
The school is being set up in a former Library belonging to the local council, by the Ark education charity, which runs other academies in England.  It will be one-form entry and is opening to reception children.   
Batley Grammar School, Kirklees
Founded in 1612, this mixed private school is transferring to the state sector through the free schools programme.  Publicly-funded for many years, it became an independent fee-paying school in 1978. As a free school, it will be non-selective and open to children of primary and secondary school age.  It aims to admit about 600 pupils - up from its present roll of about 350. 
Bradford Science Academy
Known locally as King's Science Academy, this will be a new secondary school, taking 140 children a year. The project is led by Bradford-born teacher Sajid Hussain. The school will open in a temporary home in an independent school before moving to new premises the following year. 
The school's website says it "aims to offer a first class education in socially deprived or disadvantaged areas" and will offer "an academic curriculum with a focus on scientific and critical thinking skills".
Bristol Free School, Bristol
The Bristol Free School is a secondary school which grew out of a campaign by parents. It will open to Year 7 pupils in temporary buildings. An educational trust, set up by "school improvement providers" Education London, will help run the school.       
Canary Wharf College, Tower Hamlets
This Christian school will have average class sizes of 20. It will open with classes for reception, Year 1 and Year 2.  Places are also open to non-Christians.  The school says its aim is to "live, share and celebrate the love of learning" and that there will be a strong emphasis on maths, technology and science, together with a high level of creative arts and physical education.
Discovery New School, West Sussex
This is a Montessori primary school with a "Christian character in the Anglican tradition", though faith plays no part in its admissions policy, those behind it say. It will be set up in a renovated grade II listed building in parkland, and will be open to children from reception to Year 3 from September.
Eden Primary, Haringey, North London
This will be a Jewish primary school. It says it will be independent of any synagogue authority and open to all members of the Jewish community.  Its website says if the school is over-subscribed, 50% of its places will be available to those who practise the Jewish faith and 50% will be open and allocated on proximity to the school. It will open with a reception class.
Etz Chaim Jewish Primary School, Mill Hill, London  
A Jewish primary school, with a nursery, which says it has a very strong link with the local community and Mill Hill United Synagogue. It will have space for 28 children in reception and will open in temporary accommodation. Up to half of the intake will be admitted on the basis of faith, with the remainder of places going to children who live nearest to the school.
Krishna Avanti Primary School, Leicester 
This Hindu faith school will be run by sponsors the I-Foundation, which promotes state-funded Hindu education in the UK.  Its website says there will be "an emphasis on academic achievement, with daily Hindu prayers, a vegetarian diet and opportunities to practice yoga, meditation and the arts".  The school says it welcomes Hindus and non-Hindus alike and that when it is over-subscribed it will offer 50% of places without reference to faith. It will have space for 60 children in reception and opens in a former school building, Evington Hall, a grade II listed building.
Langley Hall Primary Academy, Slough 
This primary school has been set up by husband and wife team Chris and Sally Eaton, who claim 25 years experience in running independent schools and nurseries and also run a childcare training company. It says it is underpinned by "Christian principles" and is being set up in the Grade II listed Langley Hall.
Maharishi School, Lancashire
This independent school for children aged 4 - 16 is transferring to the state sector under the free schools programme. The non-selective school attributes its exam results primarily to the teaching of transcendental meditation as part of its "consciousness-based education" philosophy.
Moorlands School, Luton
An independent prep school for fee-paying children since 1891, Moorlands School will re-open in September as a state-funded primary. The 172 existing students will be guaranteed places, while a further 115 places are available to new applicants - with priority for those with siblings at the school and 20% of the remaining places allocated to children from some of the town's most deprived areas.  
Nishkam Free School, Birmingham
This primary school run by the Nishkam Education Trust describes itself as "the first state-funded, Sikh ethos, multi-faith school in the Midlands". It plans to open to 180 pupils, initially offering reception, Year 1 and Year 2 classes, with an ethos based on "spiritual and moral dispositions" such as "contemplation", "creativity" and "compassion".
It will give priority for 50% of places firstly to Sikh children and then to children of other faiths. The other 50% will be allocated by "random selection". The school says it is restoring a Grade II listed building with help of community donations, the Heritage Lottery Fund and investment from the Department for Education.
Priors Free School, Warwickshire
This small school serving the villages of Priors Marston and Priors Hardwick became independent in 1996, when the council decided to end its state-funded status. Local residents created a charity, which enabled children from the two villages to attend the school for free - although others from the surrounding area attended on a fee-paying basis. Free school status will enable it to offer all of its 60 places for free.
Rainbow Free School, Bradford
Set up by the social enterprise body Asian Trade Link, and with support from cricketer Imran Khan, the Rainbow School  says it aims to turn round educational under achievement in inner-city areas of Bradford. It stresses community cohesion among its aims and is recruiting from a wide range of ethnic backgrounds. But concerns have been raised about one of its backers who had previously written a report apparently recommending separate education for Muslim children.
Sandbach School, Cheshire East
This boys' school dates back to 1677 and has previously been a charity and then a state-funded grammar school. Most recently, it held an unusual status where all its places were state-funded and free, but it was independent and retained the right to charge fees. 
St Luke's Church of England Primary School, Camden, north London.
This Church of England primary plans eventually to  accommodate 105 children aged between 4 and 11, with just 15 in each year group. Set up in an existing church hall, St Luke's will open with just a reception class, and has received 52 applications for September 2011.
Places are allocated on the basis of how close a child lives to the school.
Stour Valley Community School, Suffolk
An 11-16 secondary school being set up on the site of an existing middle school, which was due to close in July. It follows a four-year campaign for a secondary school in the village of Clare by parents whose children would otherwise have had to travel 10 miles to the nearest secondary school, as the local council rearranged local schooling. The school aims to take 450-600 pupils by 2015, and says it is building links with local businesses to give pupils opportunities for "work-related learning".
The Free School, Norwich
This will be a primary school for 4- 11-year-olds, aiming to "support working parents" by providing out-of-hours childcare from 0815 to 1745, including during school holidays. There will be a charge for the service but this will be "kept to a minimum", the school says. It aims to take 168 children, with class sizes limited to 24, and will operate in an old Georgian house which was previously used as offices. 
Its principal, Tania Sidney-Roberts, told the BBC the school had received four times as many applications as it had places.
West London Free School, Hammersmith, London
The proposal for this mixed, parent-led secondary school taking 120 pupils a year was led by the writer and broadcaster Toby Young. It aims, he says, to be a "non-selective grammar school" with a "classical curriculum", in which all children study Latin up to the age of 14.
A  "significant percentage" of places will be allocated on the basis of proximity to the school, the rest will be awarded by two lotteries - one for those within a three-mile radius of the school, another for those within five miles. The school will have a music specialism and 10% of its places will be awarded to children on the basis of aptitude for the subject.
There were 445 applications for September 2011.
Woodpecker Hall Primary Academy, Edmonton, London  
Woodpecker Hall is the new "sister school" to the over-subscribed Cuckoo Hall Academy in Edmonton, which converted to academy status in September last year and will open next to it. Both will be run by Cuckoo Hall Academies Trust, under the leadership of executive principal Patricia Sowter.  Nursery and reception classes will open in September. Woodpecker Hall will eventually have 420 pupils.




More on This Story


Academies and free schools
	      


Features and Analysis



Q&A: Academies  

The BBC News website examines key questions about the spread of academy schools in England.




Academies: Heads for and against




Can two schools share one site?




Q&A: Free schools 




Free schools: What will they change? 




Setting up a free school







Key Stories



Bristol Free School opens doors




England's first free schools open




Sikh-ethos 'free' school to open




Councils academies cuts to double




Property battle for free school




Everton FC's free school proposal




Rules tightened on free schools







International lessons



Charter schools: Winning tickets?

US charter schools are cited as model for free schools, but what do they offer? Sean Coughlan watches a lottery draw for high-demand places. 




Parents warn over charter schools




Do free schools work in Sweden?









Related Stories



Free schools with funding named

10 JUNE 2011,    
                                                ENGLAND



Who will benefit from the new school admissions code?

27 MAY 2011,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY



Q&A: Free schools 

02 SEPTEMBER 2012,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY



Can two schools share one site?

13 MAY 2011,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY



Priority plan for poorest pupils

27 MAY 2011,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY



First free school gets go-ahead

02 MARCH 2011,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY



Everton FC's free school proposal

16 JUNE 2011,    
                                                LIVERPOOL



Legal threat against free school

13 JUNE 2011,    
                                                BRISTOL



Volunteers to run primary school

20 MAY 2011,    
                                                HEREFORD & WORCESTER



Pros and cons of new 'free schools' Watch

06 JUNE 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Property battle for free school

14 JUNE 2011,    
                                                EDUCATION & FAMILY






Related Internet links


Department for Education


Partnership for Schools


New Schools Network


Anti Academies Alliance



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Education & Family stories
RSS




Grayling defends child smacking

Justice Secretary Chris Grayling says he smacked his own children when they were young and defends the right of parents to smack. 



School buildings deals announced 




Warning over world schools rankings












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: French jets bomb northern Mali 



8: Paraguay candidate Oviedo killed 



9: Mars rover hammers down into rock



10: Mini helicopter drone for UK troops



Video/Audio




1: Apology over police beating footage Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: Many dead in Iraq police HQ blast Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



7: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



8: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



9: Gazza on drink driving and Raoul Moat Watch



10: The art looking death in the face Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





