BBC News - Horsemeat scandal: Tesco drops supplier over horsemeat in value burgers


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















30 January 2013
Last updated at 08:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Horsemeat scandal: Tesco drops supplier over horsemeat in value burgers
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.




























Live: MPs are taking evidence on the contamination of beef burgers



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Inquiry into horsemeat in burgers


Withdrawn burgers found on sale


What is actually in a value burger?



Meat in Tesco burgers which was found to contain horse DNA did not come from a list of "approved suppliers", the supermarket chain has claimed.
The retailer has dropped Silvercrest, part of the ABP Food Group, as a supplier, saying the "breach of trust [was] simply too great". 
Tesco said it would introduce a DNA testing system for meat products to "ensure the quality" of its goods.
ABP said it had "let customers down" and apologised for the failures.
An internal investigation by Tesco also found meat used by at the Silvercrest facility in County Monaghan, in the Republic of Ireland, originated from outside the UK and Ireland, contrary to the supermarket chain's policy.
Horse and pig DNA was also found by Ireland's food safety authority (FSAI) in value burgers sold by Lidl, Aldi, Iceland and Dunnes Stores.
'New standard'
Tim Smith, group technical director at Tesco, said the supermarket would introduce a "comprehensive system of DNA testing across our meat products" to stop horsemeat from entering the food chain again.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
We have also established comprehensive DNA testing procedures - we will become an industry leader in this area”
End Quote
Paul Finnerty
Chief executive, ABP Food Group
 "Ultimately Tesco is responsible for the food we sell, so it is not enough just to stop using the supplier," he said in a statement.
"These checks will set a new standard. It will be a significant investment for Tesco, borne by Tesco. 
"We want to leave customers in no doubt that we will do whatever it takes to ensure the quality of their food and that the food they buy is exactly what the label says it is."
In response, Paul Finnerty, chief executive of ABP Food Group, said the firm had "learnt important lessons" and was "determined to ensure this never happens again".
He added: "We have put in place new procedures to audit all our third party suppliers. We have also established comprehensive DNA testing procedures - we will become an industry leader in this area."
He said Silvercrest remained closed and the management had been changed.
Tesco's planned DNA checks were welcomed by MPs during a Westminster Hall debate on Wednesday morning.
Environment Minister David Heath said supermarkets had a legal and moral responsibility to ensure they know where their products come from.
"Certainly there is the suggestion from Tesco today in this case their supplier had been using produce from a non-registered, a non-approved forward supplier," he said.
"That must be of concern to them in their regulation of their food supply chain."
'Unreserved apology'
Shadow environment minister Huw Irranca-Davies also approved of the move, insisting that food checks "need to be far more rigorous" than in the past.
Tesco issued an "unreserved apology" in full-page spreads of several UK newspapers on 16 January in the wake of the scandal.
In one sample from a Tesco beefburger, horsemeat accounted for approximately 29% of the meat content, the FSAI said.
Tesco withdrew the affected products from sale. They included its Tesco Everyday Value 8 x Frozen Beef Burgers (397g), Tesco 4 x Frozen Beef Quarter Pounders (454g) and a branded product, Flamehouse Frozen Chargrilled Quarter Pounders.
In total, about 10 million value beefburgers were withdrawn from sale across all of the supermarket chains implicated.
The environment food and rural affairs committee is due to hear evidence from the government, Tesco and the Food Standards Agency on Wednesday. 

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Inquiry into horsemeat in burgers

16 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                EUROPE



Withdrawn burgers found on sale

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                OXFORD



What is actually in a value burger?

18 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                MAGAZINE









       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 627       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 547.  Mr Wobblehead  Comment number 547 is an Editors' Pick 30th January 2013 - 14:49   I simply fail to see what the problem is. Particularly when you see the garbage that goes into food by way of rendered, reconstituted  and mechanically reclaimed meat. Pet food manufacturers by way of contrast, exercise far stricter control over their products than those prescribed for human food. Ironic?, I would say so.    Report this comment (Comment number 547) Link to this (Comment number 547)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 546.  Killer Boots Man  30th January 2013 - 14:49   If someone offered me a horse burger I'd probably eat it. It's the choice part that's the key though, obviously. Food should always be labeled properly and have massively high standards at production level.We never know what we're eating though. A friend worked in a cake factory and still won't eat cakes years later as he "knows what happens to them."    Report this comment (Comment number 546) Link to this (Comment number 546)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 545.  questining  30th January 2013 - 14:48   It is not merely a question of horse-meat. I for one o NOT want to eat meat from animal slaughtered according or Jewish rituals and I do not want to eat Beef. I would want the method of slaughter to be on the label and I would want the label to state clearly, the animal species from hitch the meat AND the casing is derived.    Report this comment (Comment number 545) Link to this (Comment number 545)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 544.  simplelogic  30th January 2013 - 14:46   Indeed, seeing how much corporations go to to save a buck, perhaps we really should go back to the old local grocers, butchers etc. Being local the cost of delivery would be a lot lower and we would have much less waste as you wouldnt need a tonne of packaging.    Report this comment (Comment number 544) Link to this (Comment number 544)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 543.  JPublic  30th January 2013 - 14:46   @304.gfr1 Where was Tesco's quality control in the first place?Right at the bottom of Tesco's list of priorities with PROFIT at the very top.    Report this comment (Comment number 543) Link to this (Comment number 543)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 542.  Nick  30th January 2013 - 14:44   Jamie Oliver and Hugh Fern.......whatever will be loving this, proves that you should be buying local and knowing where the produce comes from.I dont think anyone buying these type of burgers can complain, by the very nature of the purchase, if you buy "value, frozen burgers" you really cant care much about what you eat. Please no "some people cant afford blah blah", its burgers for F sake.    Report this comment (Comment number 542) Link to this (Comment number 542)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 541.  Phil  30th January 2013 - 14:43   who cares? if the food tastes ok and I don't die, I really don't care which animal it came from    Report this comment (Comment number 541) Link to this (Comment number 541)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 540.  SAB  30th January 2013 - 14:43   Irrespective of standards and regulations (they are not fool proof) if you want to know what you’re eating, mince it yourself or get your butcher to do it in front of you.    Report this comment (Comment number 540) Link to this (Comment number 540)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 539.  Newquay_Loyal  30th January 2013 - 14:41   Does it taste good ? Is it cheap ? Is it fit for human consumption ?The three questions any parent will or should be asking, if it fails on any of the above, then it should not be on the shelves of any store, anywhere.    Report this comment (Comment number 539) Link to this (Comment number 539)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 538.  mocker  30th January 2013 - 14:41   If anyone in the food industry thinks a re-branding strategy might be necessary to restore customer confidence,how about...'Champion Value Range.'NO??    Report this comment (Comment number 538) Link to this (Comment number 538)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 537.  Ppuj  30th January 2013 - 14:40   528. FergeeI have to strongly disagree with you. If somebody tells me my food is beef, regardless of its cost, and it turns out to be something else then that is fraud and needs to be challenged in court.Though I dislike Tesco they have been wronged. I hope they take this company to court and the company get a huge fine that will put off any other companies from corrupting the food chain.    Report this comment (Comment number 537) Link to this (Comment number 537)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 536.  eclecticelaine  30th January 2013 - 14:39   Direct your anger to the right place.  Who was it that sourced the animals and put them in the processing plants and presumably falsified paperwork to make it look like beef.  This is criminal, not simple mislabelling.  Pets, road kill, chemicals - what else is in there?!    Report this comment (Comment number 536) Link to this (Comment number 536)     Comment number 535.  The Bloke  30th January 2013 - 14:38    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 535) Link to this (Comment number 535)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 534.  Jedi  30th January 2013 - 14:37   @Shazzle. It appears that you can lead a horse to slaughter but you can't make it think. You can make it into burgers though.Some people miss the point, it isn't the product, it is the lies and the penny pinching. What if it had been rat or mouse, would they still be asking what the fuss is about?    Report this comment (Comment number 534) Link to this (Comment number 534)     Comment number 533.  Mark  30th January 2013 - 14:38    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 533) Link to this (Comment number 533)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 532.  1magnify_3SA  30th January 2013 - 14:37   Horse meat like ostrich meat whale meat or squirrel meat is a niche market in this country and I believe should remain so. As for horse meat being healthier than beef so is venison, yet we don't see the supermarkets use that in meat products. I'm sure most consumers would find venison far more  acceptable than horse meat. Horse meat may be more acceptable on the continent, It should stay that way.    Report this comment (Comment number 532) Link to this (Comment number 532)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 531.  Longsocks  30th January 2013 - 14:36   It's all well and good saying they will DNA test food. What they won't say is how long horse was in their food products, what contaminants it contained and how long we were exposed to it. Horses are treated with drugs not fit for humans such as phenylbutazone that causes cancer and Danazol that deforms babies. Tesco are deleting comments off their Facebook page so it's obviously a major issue.    Report this comment (Comment number 531) Link to this (Comment number 531)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 530.  JPublic  30th January 2013 - 14:36   And how much do we pay for all this food regulation which suppossed to prevent this happening in the first place?All I know is a minority few rich wealthy individuals are very rich from screwing the public over combined with their sheer incompetence.    Report this comment (Comment number 530) Link to this (Comment number 530)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 529.  Howesyourview  30th January 2013 - 14:35   468.Giles Jones You are something that the BBC mods would not allow to display. Perhaps you should do a little research into the effects of phenylbutazone on humans, work out the level at which it is consumed (how many mg per g of horse meat and how much g of horse meat per burger) then you would discover that it will not give you cancer or any ill effects. Standing in the sun does more damage    Report this comment (Comment number 529) Link to this (Comment number 529)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 528.  Fergee  30th January 2013 - 14:34   If you keep squeezing suppliers for savings then this is always going to happen. So many of us complain about the decline of the high street and the rise of the supermarket, but still we continue to buy cheaper and cheaper from them. You only need look in the mirror for the root cause of the british high street and farming decline.    Report this comment (Comment number 528) Link to this (Comment number 528)         Page 5 of 32    Newer 1 ... 3 4 5 6 7 ... 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: French jets bomb northern Mali 



7: Mini helicopter drone for UK troops



8: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



9: Car park dug up around parked car



10: Man charged with Sasha's murder



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



3: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



6: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



7: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: BMW owners hit by hi-tech theft  Watch



10: Hadrian's Wall being 'worn away'  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





