BBC News - When schools are casualties of war


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Business







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies



















3 July 2012
Last updated at 19:22 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





When schools are casualties of war

By Brendan O'Malley
        ­                      ­                             ­                           ­     ­­



A temporary learning centre in Peshawar, Pakistan. Pic: Save the Children


Continue reading the main story


Knowledge economy


Downward mobility hits US education


Hong Kong's 'tutor kings and queens'


Qatar recycles oil into knowledge


The world's low-cost English teacher



 Avegaile Escano will never forget the day that Muslimin, 16, entered her class in a hut in southern Philippines. 
The hut had bamboo walls and coconut leaves for a roof and had been built to give children who had fled fighting between government troops and armed militants in Maguindanao.
It was meant to provide a safe and friendly learning space where children could regain a semblance of normal life and continue to develop through learning.
But for some children leaving their troubles behind was too much to ask and the stress sometimes manifested itself in peculiar ways.
In Muslimin's case, he sought comfort in a white plastic chair. Each morning he would come into class holding the same chair and carry it around with him all day, wherever he went. He would not let it go. 
Holding on
During lessons he would frequently pace up and down along the inside of the bamboo walls of the classroom, always carrying the chair. 


With a gun and teddy bear rucksack, Sierra Leone in 2003: Only 13% of schools survived the war

"When a volunteer asked him to sit down, he sat but after a while he would get up and walk again, bringing his chair," says Ms Escano, 30, a former education project leader with Save the Children International in Central Mindanao.
The education volunteers are trained how to communicate with stressed children.
Bit by bit they earned the confidence of Muslimin and he began to share his experiences and counselling was brought in.
At first he said both his parents were dead. All he remembered was the sound of heavy gunfire, not knowing where to run and then seeing shots being exchanged.
Later the volunteers discovered that Muslimin's mother was still alive, but his father had died of a heart attack brought on by the stress of fleeing their thatched house, which had been caught in cross fire and gone up in flames.
"He was clinging on to his chair as his protection," says Ms Escano, "because he wanted to make sure it will not be lost again, like his father, like his house. It comforted him."
Displaced children
Muslimin's symptoms are one of many displayed by children suffering psychologically from the impact of war, whether from seeing fighting all around them or experiencing direct attacks themselves.


This primary school in South Sudan was destroyed in an attack in December Pic: Save the Children

Disturbed behaviour, wetting themselves, staring into space, restlessness, naughtiness and violence are common. 
And in schools and temporary learning shelters the first challenge of the teachers is to try to bring back a sense of normal life which in turn can help lead to normalised behaviour. 
Another is to identify those children who need to be referred for expert medical treatment - if such treatment is available.
War reporting focuses on gunfights and shelling, the immediate effects such as death and injuries, displacement of civilians and the political significance of the battles won and lost. But when the fighting is over the cameras move on. 
Little attention is paid to the catastrophic effect war can have on students and teachers. It can undermine for years the crucial role of education as a foundation stone for building peace and bringing economic and social development.
Schools in rubble
In poor countries wars are rarely a short sharp military operation.


Students check the bags of other students at a high school in Kabul in Afghanistan

They last 12 years on average, according to UNESCO. For all that time head teachers and teachers can be battling in difficult conditions to keep any semblance of education going as schools are destroyed and families and teachers are forced to flee their homes to avoid the fighting.
For the education system, tracking the whereabouts of teachers and ensuring they are allotted to a nearby school and are getting paid is a serious challenge. Rebuilding and re-supplying schools can takes years to complete.
In the meantime, whole age cohorts of children in conflict areas may miss out on their schooling.  
In Sierra Leone in 2001 only 13% of schools were deemed usable after the 12-year conflict. Many had been reduced to rubble. Three years later 60% of primary schools still needed major repair work or complete reconstruction. 
Worldwide 28 million children are missing out on primary education in conflict-affected countries.
In many wars education is not just collaterally damaged but has become a target for attack itself with classrooms deliberately shelled and teachers tracked down and assassinated.
Direct attacks
In June, the UN Secretary General's Annual Report to the Security Council on Children and Armed Conflict reported that in 2011 there was a pattern of direct attacks on schools, students and teachers in more than 15 countries affected by conflict, with Afghanistan, Cote d'Ivoire, India, Pakistan and Yemen among the worst affected.


Books smoulder at Ban Ba Ngo Elementary School, Pattani, Thailand. Pic: HRW/ Bede Sheppard

Incidents included full-scale military assaults on schools; the bombing, burning and shelling of school buildings; the shooting or abduction of students and teachers; and the seizure of schools for use as sniper posts, torture and interrogation centres or military bases.
For the first time the secretary general named and shamed five armed groups or forces responsible for perpetrating such attacks, including the Taliban in Afghanistan and the Syrian Armed Forces.
There are two avenues for action to try and tackle this problem. One is to try to hold perpetrators to account. 
To this end Zama Coursen-Neff, chairperson of the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack and children's rights director at Human Rights Watch, has welcomed the inclusion of parties guilty of attacks on schools on the UN's new "list of shame". 
She said: "From now on, warring parties who target schools, students, and teachers should know that they will land on the Security Council's radar and could face targeted sanctions."
The Security Council may also refer them to the International Criminal Court for investigation and possible prosecution.
Community defence
The other avenue is to ensure better steps are taken to prevent the targeting of education and ensure timely recovery once conflicts are over.


Refugees from DR Congo: As conflicts displace communities, children can miss years of school

The global Education Cluster, a UN body that co-ordinates and guides education responses in conflicts and other crises, is working with humanitarian agencies and government officials in countries affected by conflict to pilot training in how to protect education. 
Measures include improving community defence of schools, encouraging armed forces and armed groups to avoid using schools in the battlefield, changing unfair education policies that provoke ethnic tension and can make schools a target for attack.
They could also change the curriculum to ensure that education works for peace and ensure adequate support is provided to help children and teachers cope with stress and trauma.
At a piloting session in Pakistan, education and development officials simulated negotiations between leaders of a village, teachers, religious leaders and the local Taliban commander. 
Their mission was to reach agreement that locals schools should not be blown up - or attacked in any other way.
More than 1,200 schools have been damaged or destroyed in their country in the past few years and mostly in the north-west, where Taliban groups have been fighting the Pakistan army and retain a strong influence in some areas.
Peace zone
The role-play exercise draws on the real experience of communities in Nepal who negotiated for the conflict between Maoist and Royalists to be left outside of the school gates.


A principal in Pattani, Thailand holds spent bullet casings. Pic: HRW/ Bede Sheppard

In Pakistan the heated discussion centred on parents' fears for their children's lives and the religious leader and Taliban commander's concerns that schools were not teaching or working by Islamic principles. 
The head teacher sought to steer all parties to agreeing to respect schools as a zone of peace in return for reassurances that certain Islamic principles would be met. 
For instance, although girls and boys could attend the school they would only do so in separate shifts one after the other.
Among the key aims of the Education Cluster training is to try to find ways to persuade military commanders to change the way they conduct war on the battlefield by ending the use of schools as military bases, which makes them a target for attack, puts children at risk of being caught in the crossfire, and causes long-term damage to education provision.
"Schools should be safe places, where parents know their children can play and learn, and prepare for the future," says James Sparkes, the Education Cluster co-ordinator.  
"Anything we can do to help protect them will improve the chances of those communities being able to rebuild when the conflict ends."
Brendan O'Malley is author of Education under Attack, UNESCO's study on targeted political and military violence against education.




More on This Story


Knowledge economy
	      






Downward mobility hits US education




Hong Kong's 'tutor kings and queens'




Qatar recycles oil into knowledge




The world's low-cost English teacher




Online tactics for human rights




Stopping online students cheating




World's oldest undeciphered writing




Gordon Brown protests for Malala




Global pledge on school missed




End of empire for western universities?




New York's tech-shaped future




MIT + Harvard = edX




Italian university switches to English




China: The world's cleverest country?




Ancient Greek help for debt crisis




Poland overtakes the west




Qatar's wealth of knowledge




Singapore schools 'cut the cramming'




UK students switch to US universities




New York schools enter the iZone




Online academy's global classroom




Digital textbooks for South Korea




China winning the school race




Education laureate's fairness challenge




Disabled children miss out on school




UK tech show's Abu Dhabi move




Global best school buildings




Turning knowledge into jobs




Africa out of the loop




Pocket-sized global university




Qatar's global ambition




Turning ideas into industries




International students record numbers




Germany: Top for overseas students




Blair's global ideas battle




India: University superpower?




Graduates - the new measure of power









Related Internet links


Save the Children


UNESCO



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Business stories
RSS




Dow at five-year high on jobs data

The main US share index closes on Friday at a five-year high, buoyed by data showing the economy added more jobs than previously estimated at the end of 2012.



Pound in big fall against euro




Google settles French news dispute












Top stories



France vows to help rebuild Mali


Spain PM denies corruption claim


Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter


Twitter account hack affects 250,000


Google boss labels China 'IT menace'









Features & Analysis




Digital artists inspired by the gif's resurgence Watch

A digitally ancient file format is finding new uses among artists who value the gif's limitations. 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Ancient wisdom 

How Timbuktu's residents have always saved their manuscripts 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Twitter account hack affects 250,000



2: Decoding facial hair in the Arab world



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



5: French MPs endorse gay marriage



Read




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



2: Car park dug up around parked car



3: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



4: Decoding facial hair in the Arab world



5: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



6: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



7: France vows to help rebuild Mali



8: The history of the future in 10 images



9: India rape accused 'not guilty'



10: Google glasses exposed in FCC report



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



2: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



3: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



4: A fruity guide to American football Watch



5: The science behind zombies Watch



6: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



7: French PM Hollande visits Mali Watch



8: Superdome returns after Katrina Watch



9: Mali students return to school Watch



10: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



Click Watch

A project to map our brains and develop artificial intelligence in computers plus other tech news




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





