BBC News - David Cameron promises in/out referendum on EU


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















23 January 2013
Last updated at 11:50 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





David Cameron promises in/out referendum on EU
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























PM David Cameron: "We will give the British people a referendum with a very simple in or out choice"




Continue reading the main story


Cameron speech on EU


PM's EU plan 'implausible' - Clegg


Businesses divided over EU speech


Commentators' verdicts on speech


EU viewpoints on Cameron's Europe speech



 David Cameron has said the British people must "have their say" on Europe as he pledged an in/out referendum if the Conservatives win the election.
The prime minister said he wanted to renegotiate the UK's relationship with the EU and then give people the "simple choice" between staying in under those new terms, or leaving the EU. 
The news was welcomed by Eurosceptics who have long campaigned for a vote.
France and Germany both warned the UK could not "cherry pick" EU membership.
During noisy Prime Minister's Questions exchanges in Parliament, Labour leader Ed Miliband said Mr Cameron was "running scared" of the UK Independence Party, whose poll ratings have been rising.
Mr Miliband, who said he opposed holding an in/out referendum, said Mr Cameron was "going to put Britain through years of uncertainty, and take a huge gamble with our economy."
In his long-awaited speech, welcomed by many Conservative MPs, Mr Cameron pledged to hold a referendum during the early part of the next parliament - by the end of 2017 at the latest - if the Conservatives win the next general election.
He said it would be a decision on the UK's "destiny" and, if he secured a new relationship he was happy with, he would campaign "heart and soul" to stay within the EU.
"It is time for the British people to have their say," he said. "It is time to settle this European question in British politics. I say to the British people: this will be your decision."
However, Mr Cameron did not spell out what powers he would like to see the UK take back as part of a new settlement or what would happen if the negotiations did not go his way. 
'Very simple choice'
The Conservative leader has been under pressure from many of his MPs to give a binding commitment to a vote on Europe.

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Iain Watson
Political correspondent, BBC News



It has taken quite some time for the prime minister to go from promising a major speech on Europe to delivering it.  
But today marks the beginning of a process, not the end. 
The many Eurosceptics in his party will be pleased that he is offering an in/out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU - although some will regard the timescale as tardy. 
But there are important hurdles. He has to win the next election with an overall majority. His European partners will have to be willing to renegotiate Britain's relationship.
And while the promise of a referendum will unite many in his party this side of an election, the process of renegotiation might  re-open divisions. What the PM didn't say today is what would he do if the negotiations deliver less than he would like.
Would he still proceed with an in/out referendum? Would he still argue for a yes vote? Would others in his party who would be prepared to stay on the EU on the right terms defect to the No camp if they don't like the deal the PM strikes with Brussels?
Labour and the Lib Dems say David Cameron is creating damaging uncertainty for business, but he has thrown down the gauntlet to them.
Can they allow him to be the only major party leader to offer voters a say on EU membership after the next election?


Annotated transcript: Cameron speech

 Mr Cameron said "disillusionment" with the EU was "at an all-time high" and "simply asking the British people to carry on accepting a European settlement over which they have had little choice" was likely to accelerate calls for the UK to leave.
"That is why I am in favour of a referendum," he said. "I believe in confronting this issue - shaping it, leading the debate. Not simply hoping a difficult situation will go away."
Setting out the conditions for a future poll, he said he would seek a "mandate" for a renegotiation and a referendum in the next Conservative election manifesto.
"And when we have negotiated that new settlement, we will give the British people a referendum with a very simple in-or-out choice to stay in the EU on these new terms; or come out altogether.  It will be an in/out referendum."
But he said holding such a referendum now would be a "false choice" because Europe was set to change following the eurozone crisis and it would be "wrong to ask people whether to stay or go before we have had a chance to put the relationship right".
Mr Cameron said he understood "the appeal" of Britain going it alone and he was sure the UK would survive outside the EU. But, he said, the UK must think "very carefully" about the implications of withdrawal for its prosperity and role on the international stage.
"If we left the European Union, it would be a one-way ticket, not a return," he added.
The prime minister rejected suggestions that a new relationship was "impossible to achieve", adding that he would prefer all other EU countries to agree a new treaty but would be prepared to seek negotiations on a unilateral basis. 
Continue reading the main story






				'In/out referendum'
				Watch02.18





				Farage: 'Why wait?'
				Watch02.24





				Clegg: 'Not in national interest'
				Watch02.22





				Miliband: 'They want to vote no'
				Watch07.06





				UK businesses split
				Watch02.16





				Johnson: Cameron 'bang on'
				Watch01.30





				Should Britain leave EU table?
				Watch02.57





				Frosty reception from Europe
				Watch02.16



 However French foreign minister Laurent Fabius warned: "You can't do Europe a la carte... to take an example which our British friends will understand - imagine Europe is a football club and you join, once you're in it you can't say 'Let's play rugby'".
German foreign minister Guido Westerwelle said Germany wanted the UK to "remain an active and constructive part of the European Union... but cherry picking is not an option" before adding that Europe needed more, not less, integration.
Conservative MPs who want a looser relationship with the EU said Mr Cameron's promise a "watershed" moment. 
Douglas Carswell told the BBC it was the speech he had "been waiting to hear from a Conservative prime minister all my adult life", while Mark Pritchard said it was "a major triumph" and would unite his party.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Nigel Farage: 'The attempt to kick the can down the road for five years is not good enough'



 Mayor of London Boris Johnson said the British people had not been consulted on Europe since 1975, and it was "high time" they were.
But the former European commissioner and Labour cabinet minister Lord Mandelson told the BBC that Mr Cameron was putting forward a "completely bogus and rather phoney set of demands and circumstances" designed to appease critics in his party.
Shadow foreign secretary Douglas Alexander added: "We understand the need for change but I don't honestly believe the best way to get change in a club of 27 is to stand at the exit door demanding change or threatening to leave."
Former Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair said it was a worrying that the UK had put its departure from the EU "on the table".
He told BBC Radio 4's The World at One: "It reminds me a bit of the Mel Brooks comedy Blazing Saddles where the sheriff, at one point during it, holds a gun to his own head and says: 'If you don't do what I want I'll blow my brains out.' - you want to watch that one of the 26 (other EU members) don't say just go ahead."
'Threatening to leave'
The Lib Dems, who are the junior partner in the UK's governing coalition, say pursuing a wholesale renegotiation of the UK's membership will cause uncertainty.
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, who is also deputy prime minister, said "years of uncertainty" caused by a future referendum would hit jobs and growth and this "was not in the national interest".









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Nick Clegg: "In my view it's not in the national interest"



 And former Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy told the BBC he could not see his party agreeing to a referendum if the Conservatives failed to win a majority at the next election and approached it to form another coalition.
The UK Independence Party said the "genie was out of the bottle" about a possible exit from the EU.
"Winning this referendum, if and when it comes, is not going to be an easy thing but I feel that UKIP's real job starts today," the party's leader Nigel Farage said.
John Cridland, director-general of employers' group, the CBI, said "closer union of the eurozone is not for us" but Mr Cameron "rightly recognises the benefits of retaining membership of what must be a reformed EU".
John Longworth, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said the announcement showed Europe had to take the PM seriously, but added: "The lengthy timescale for negotiation and referendum must be shortened, with the aim of securing a cross-party consensus and the outline of a deal during this Parliament."
The BBC's Steve Evans in Berlin said opinion was hardening in Germany and France, with many politicians believing that those opposed to further European integration would be better off "leaving gracefully".
The speech, which has been in the planning for six months, had been scheduled for last Friday in the Netherlands, but was postponed because of the Algerian hostage crisis.

 



More on This Story


Cameron speech on EU
	      


Latest



PM's EU plan 'implausible' - Clegg




Businesses divided over EU speech




Commentators' verdicts on speech




EU viewpoints on Cameron's Europe speech




Cameron rebuffs referendum critics




Q&A: Beginner's guide to speech




Round-up of EU reaction 




In quotes: UK reaction




Labour opposes in/out referendum




Key quotes from Cameron speech




As it-happened: PM's Europe speech




European media sceptical







Analysis



Analysis: Problem solved or delayed?

Referendum pledges have, in the past, got political leaders off some pretty painful hooks. But often they have managed to bring themselves only temporary relief.




Nick Robinson: PM's Europe test




Gavin Hewitt: Europe wary




James Landale: 1990s nostalgia?







Background and features



Annotated transcript: Cameron speech




EU speeches: Churchill to Blair




EU budget for 2013




UK and the EU: Better off out or in?




In-depth: Inside Europe







Watch/Listen



'This will be an in/out referendum' Watch




'Cheering because they want to vote no' Watch




Johnson: Cameron 'bang on' over EU Watch




Farage: 'Why wait five years?' Watch




Clegg: 'It's not in the national interest'  Watch




Blair: Potential EU exit 'a worry' Listen




Mandelson: 'It's not what we signed up for' Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1081       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 841.  David Mills  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   If Nick Clegg says : "In my view it's not in the national interest" then I would assume the opposite - that it is in the national interest to leave the EU - nothing that Nick Clegg has said or campaigned for so far has been right or  in the national interest    Report this comment (Comment number 841) Link to this (Comment number 841)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 840.  truthhurtspainfully  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   a total cop out from Cameron. 5 years to wait is ridicilous, at least another £100 bn in EU contributions by then, plus god knows how much in benefits to immigrants.This doesn't end UKIP in the slightest, just adding fuel to the fire. Why do we have to wait 5 years?, if he wins the next election he'll obviously scrap this promise, labour won't do it if they win. Farage should go for the jugular    Report this comment (Comment number 840) Link to this (Comment number 840)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 839.  elefans66  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   By what confounded arrogance do yesterday's people think Britain can still influence the rest of Europe?   If the Armada, Napoleon or the Nazis came for us now, we would lose.    Report this comment (Comment number 839) Link to this (Comment number 839)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 838.  Aussiejay  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   David Cameron has said the British people must "have their say"Isn't that what democracy is about!?But why change the habit of a lifetime. The politicians will have it their way irrespective of what the British people say.It's the politicians job to make you believe they are doing what you want them to do - want it or not.Does the public really want such extreme austerity measures?    Report this comment (Comment number 838) Link to this (Comment number 838)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 837.  NewsPuffin  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   To 789. Europhile -'How can one trust the UK electorate when the biggest selling news paper is The Sun?'Out of a population of 60 million, 2 million buy The Sun newspaper or less then 5%. By your reasoning, there shouldn't even be General Elections in the UK as none of us can be trusted. Maybe we could let the EU determine our next Prime Minister?    Report this comment (Comment number 837) Link to this (Comment number 837)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 836.  Robbo  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   745.pollitt1986  'I think I need to naturalise as a French Citizen. The UK is a dead weight, about to sink.'I'm sure they'll welcome you with open arms. And if you do really well you'll be able to aspire to being taxed at 75%. I wish you well, so you don't incur any medical fees, and hope you pick up the language quickly.    Report this comment (Comment number 836) Link to this (Comment number 836)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 835.  BistroBear  23rd January 2013 - 16:53   Hmm, Well to those who say any vote would be 'out' - only if someone failed to point out to the football fans it would mean a lot less 'foreign' players... Just one of those 'businesses' that would get hammered by the change...    Report this comment (Comment number 835) Link to this (Comment number 835)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 834.  Dirk  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   @799"The only people in this country who want to continue in the EU gravy train are career politicians."Are you talking about Nigel Farage, wining and dining in Strasbourg, complaining that he can't smoke his cigars anymore in his favourite European restaurants?    Report this comment (Comment number 834) Link to this (Comment number 834)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 833.  cardiff996  23rd January 2013 - 17:00   I really dont see the problem.  Lets see the facts, lets hear the arguements from all sides.  The EU set up has chaged, and we get a lot of false information flying around regards this.  I do worry about further control going to a faceless Euro set up.  But also recognise we need contact with the EU.    Report this comment (Comment number 833) Link to this (Comment number 833)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 832.  Sam Darton  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   Methinks Little Cameron doth punch above his weight...Britain is not a world power, and barely a European one. If Cameron wants to behave like a petulant child with the continental grown-ups I suspect he will be sent to bed with no supper.But seriously, this shouldn't be about what we can get out of the EU and what it can do for us, but about the Union and what we can do for it.(Thanks JFK)    Report this comment (Comment number 832) Link to this (Comment number 832)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 831.  Richie  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   No-one in their right mind would allow Cameron to lie AGAIN. I have usually voted Labour but next time it will be UKIP. The sooner we take back the responsibility for the running of the UK the better. We can then say who and how many foreigners can enter the UK. Proper taxes so the rich pay more and the needy get better help and the NHS/Police/Military services are improved and not destroyed.    Report this comment (Comment number 831) Link to this (Comment number 831)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 830.  maestaf  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   Years of uncertainty over Britain's membership, because the Conservatives want to have the right to force employees to work an average of more than 48 hours a week for 18 consecutive weeks. All we ever hear about the EU is negative; never a word about the benefits.    Report this comment (Comment number 830) Link to this (Comment number 830)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 829.  John Palmer  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   Cameron is offering us "Jam Tomorrow". What we need is "Bread Today". If we stay in, we will always be outvoted by the Nett Takers who have no interest in a slimmed down EU. They will accept any conditions in order to get their hands on our hard-earned money, and the unelected bureaucrats will continue to prosper. We have to stop this now. 2017 is not acceptable.    Report this comment (Comment number 829) Link to this (Comment number 829)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 828.  ahj1966  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   Let's just have a common market! Oh, we need common rules for that. Who's going to make the rules? Erm, national governments aided by an executive, let's call it a commission, oh, and we'll have a parliament but we don't want to give it too much power because then each national government will still want to be able to blame it all on Brussels...or the Bulgarians, or the Roumanians,...but not us.    Report this comment (Comment number 828) Link to this (Comment number 828)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 827.  jock o the north  23rd January 2013 - 16:50   If it is such an important task for the PM lets have it now! It shouldn't be a reward for voting him back in and in any case there is no guarantee it would ever happen by 2017! Too long to wait too much uncertainty think of the country for once not yourself PM.    Report this comment (Comment number 827) Link to this (Comment number 827)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 826.  HaveARostbratwurst  23rd January 2013 - 16:59   759:All GB has is the City of London and its financial products.There is no industry, no high-tech investigation, no nada.Oh, I forgot something GB has: nice investors buying and ruling your football clubs. Respect....    Report this comment (Comment number 826) Link to this (Comment number 826)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 825.  roger  23rd January 2013 - 16:58   i have a better idea Dave, LETS VOTE IN SOMEONE WE CAN TRUST    Report this comment (Comment number 825) Link to this (Comment number 825)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 824.  John badger  23rd January 2013 - 16:58   The poisonous response from many around Europe, about British selfishness and the need to tow the line, makes it clear to me that I should vote NO to EU membership in any referendum. We should be out of this club.    Report this comment (Comment number 824) Link to this (Comment number 824)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 823.  mike  23rd January 2013 - 16:58   No Dave, it's not our choice, not when there are many possible options and we only get two. Many on this page (myself included) would just like to see a reduction to the amount we pay in and an end to the politicisation and the militarisation .    Report this comment (Comment number 823) Link to this (Comment number 823)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 822.  Owlsoflaughter  23rd January 2013 - 16:58   @734.FR_Andrew"I think I speak for most Europeans that I would like to see England (Not Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland) leave the EU."I think I speak for most English people when I say we hope you get your wish.    Report this comment (Comment number 822) Link to this (Comment number 822)         Page 13 of 55    Newer 1 ... 11 12 13 14 15 ... 55 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




No married tax break in Budget

The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it emerges.



Jobless 'pushed to self-employment'




RBS must meet Libor fines - Osborne












Top stories



UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Netanyahu asked to form coalition









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



5: Hillary Clinton's long journey



6: Russia invites anti-Assad leader



7: UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks



8: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



9: Why did men stop wearing high heels?



10: Pret withdraws 'Virgin Mary' crisps



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



4: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



5: Last day for Hillary Clinton Watch



6: 'Anne' in Les Mis spoof and more news Watch



7: Mexican stray dogs 'kill four' Watch



8: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



9: French forces take Mali's Kidal Watch



10: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





