BBC News - Picture power: The price of war


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




In Pictures







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports

















18 December 2012
Last updated at 20:08 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Phil Coomes

Picture editor

More from Phil



Picture power: The price of war
 






More from Phil


New Orleans and the 'Super Gras'


Life behind the sea wall


The life and death of Tim Hetherington


Uncovering the past



 In the third of a series of five articles where photographers are invited to talk about the back story to one of their pictures taken this year, Associated Press photographer Bernat Armangue speaks about how he obtained this moving picture during the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas.
On 14 November 2012 Israel launched its offensive against militants in Gaza, following an escalation of cross-border violence which has raged between the two sides for years. At least 158 Palestinians and six Israelis were killed in the eight-day conflict, which Israel said was aimed at halting rocket fire from the Palestinian territory.
Armangue has covered the unrest between Israel and the Palestinians for a number of years. 
Bernat Armangue
When Israel killed Hamas military chief Ahmed Jabari on 14 November I was in Cairo working on a project about Egypt's Coptic community. I remember I was editing my pictures on my computer when suddenly all the TVs in our office began showing footage of fire fighters trying to extinguish the flames of the Hamas car wreckage.
When I first arrived in Jerusalem, one of the most important things my colleagues told me was, "you can't predict in the Middle East". Even though when I realized that Jabari was the target my stomach immediately told me, "move now, this will be a big one". 

Bernat Armangue 





Originally from Barcelona, Bernat Armangue started his career freelancing for Spanish newspapers and since 2005 has been a staff member of The Associated Press.
As an international news agency photographer Armangue has covered all kind of news events: from Summer Olympic Games, Fifa World Cups or Gran Slam tennis competitions to top political stories such as the post election violence in Kenya in 2008, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the war in Libya or the Egyptian political transition.


www.bernatarmangue.com

 In 2008, during the Operation Cast Lead, Israel closed access into Gaza, so most of us had to cover the conflict from the Israeli side. This time I was worried that something similar would happen so I prepared the paperwork to cross into Gaza from Rafah (on the Egyptian side) but also decided to gamble on taking an early flight to Tel Aviv just in case I needed to cross in from Israel. This time it was different and on 15 November I managed to enter Gaza through Erez (an Israeli controlled border crossing).
I took this picture a few days later at the end of a long Sunday spent taking pictures of Palestinian rescue workers pulling out bodies from beneath the rubble. As it began to get dark, I decided to visit the morgue of the main hospital in Gaza City. 
There, four bodies of children were lying on a metallic table. I took some pictures of them and when I thought I had enough I decided to move on. 
But just then a group of men stormed into the room and their gaze fell on a different cadaver, it was someone they knew. They surrounded the body and began shouting and wailing, as they tried to process the idea that someone they cherished was gone. 
I began taking pictures of them, realising they were not likely to even notice me, so immersed were they in their grief. I saw one of them, grasping and kissing the hand of this dead man while whispering goodbye. After a few seconds, I knew my job was done and I left the room. I guess I witnessed a sad moment of love.
No matter which side of a conflict you are covering, nobody enjoys taking pictures in moments like this. For years, I've covered both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian problem and I've seen people from both sides mourning their lost ones. I guess this is what this picture shows: the price of war, no matter who or where you are.

 





Article written by Phil Coomes
Phil Coomes

Picture editor

More from Phil



New Orleans and the 'Super Gras' 
17:21 UK time, Friday, 1 February 2013
Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores the streets of New Orleans ahead of the Super Bowl weekend.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Phil
	      






New Orleans and the 'Super Gras'




Life behind the sea wall




The life and death of Tim Hetherington




Uncovering the past




Inside Haiti's Iron Market




Untold Story of Urban Refugees




The year in pictures




Running for gold




Collapsed bridge













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 42       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 42.  olive  19th December 2012 - 19:49   38. Shailesh What a crass and inhumane comment.  Every life has value.  You have absolutely no idea who this man was so you can't make a judgment on his life.   Unless that is you believe there is no value to ANY Palestinian life.  War is horrific and this photo shows the unspeakable horrors of war full stop.    Report this comment (Comment number 42) Link to this (Comment number 42)     Comment number 41.  haye  19th December 2012 - 14:44    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 41) Link to this (Comment number 41)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 40.  DavidinUSA  19th December 2012 - 14:50   Shallow and sentimental reportage.Why should a photographer appear as having any unique insight into human tragedy?I find this to be voyeurism of the worst kind.    Report this comment (Comment number 40) Link to this (Comment number 40)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 39.  Beeeater  19th December 2012 - 14:03   It has always been completely incomprehensible to me how people can want to kill other people, randomly, simply because they were born in another country. Isn't it really about time world leaders learned to settle their differences without such barbarism? These photographs simply convey the utter absurdity and inhumanity of such situations.    Report this comment (Comment number 39) Link to this (Comment number 39)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 38.  Shailesh  19th December 2012 - 13:34   If a photograph could talk, this is it isnt it...Talks volumes about the pain involved in losing someone you love. But it still falls short...Every life has a purpose. Not sure if that life served its purpose.    Report this comment (Comment number 38) Link to this (Comment number 38)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 37.  Garry Harriman  19th December 2012 - 11:52   War photography is an art form in non verbal communication. It`s more powerful and persuasive than words or political justification ever could be. It`s an abstract way for people to make up their own minds about what they see based on how they experience and process the images before them. In conclusion, it serves as a reminder to all decent human beings that war should be a crime against us all.    Report this comment (Comment number 37) Link to this (Comment number 37)     Comment number 36.  HooHum  19th December 2012 - 11:51    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 36) Link to this (Comment number 36)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 35.  Leo  19th December 2012 - 11:50   31. AndyEsbjergWhile I agree there is a fine line between respect and intrusiveness with respect journalism, the publication of violence is not the problem. When I see pictures and read articles such as above, and has been written of Newtown, it makes me even more determined to never bring such suffering upon a fellow human being. Since none of us can know our future, this is enough for me.    Report this comment (Comment number 35) Link to this (Comment number 35)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 34.  plushpuppy8  19th December 2012 - 11:26   Re. 28 What the Taliban do in other countries has little bearing on the conflict in the Middle East. There the slaughtered are usually Palestinians, as in the last conflict where the total was 158 to 6. Imagine the uproar if there the Israelis had 158 people to mourn.    Report this comment (Comment number 34) Link to this (Comment number 34)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 33.  Knut Largerson  19th December 2012 - 11:24   Less than 200 dead isn't a war. It's just a squabble between two Countries who should know better.    Report this comment (Comment number 33) Link to this (Comment number 33)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 32.  Graphis  19th December 2012 - 11:16   It's little unfair to accuse a war photographer of bias: he can't be in two places at once. And he could take hundreds of pictures of one side in a war, and only one of the other, but if the one is a better photograph, then that will get more attention from media and public, thus distorting the perception. All bias is in the eye of the viewer, not the lens.    Report this comment (Comment number 32) Link to this (Comment number 32)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 31.  AndyEsbjerg  19th December 2012 - 11:03   Whilst this type of photography brings home the horror of war, irrespective of who started what, it doesn't seem to temper the the leaders of the various factions, whom seem to be ready to sacrifice their people!The coverage of the killings in Newtown, USA has been all to intrusive, and gices the perpertrator far too much publicity.Maybe we give too much publicity to all, perpetuating the violence    Report this comment (Comment number 31) Link to this (Comment number 31)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 30.  WHL_Nick  19th December 2012 - 11:01   @27. Leo. Well stated.@All: The way to stop the crooks, religous bigots (all brands), power mad rulers etc is to expose them. These pictures should ruffle feathers with what is really happening to people. Support the REAL photographers/journalists.The sad thruth about this and all other conflicts is the human tragedy not the long lost rights and wrongs we argue for ever about.    Report this comment (Comment number 30) Link to this (Comment number 30)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 29.  silenytata  19th December 2012 - 10:44   I remember as a child in the 60's seeing TV pictures from Vietnam showing the full horror of war. This has given me an anti war outlook that persists. We do not get these pictures anymore in such graphic details. We should see more of the real effects of war so we have an informed choice when we vote.    Report this comment (Comment number 29) Link to this (Comment number 29)     Comment number 28.  potato  19th December 2012 - 10:44    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 27.  Leo  19th December 2012 - 10:42   Please let us not turn this into a pointless argument about Israel vs Palestine, as Tony of Britain (and others) would seem to want us to. This article is about the horror of war and that is what we should be commenting on.    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 26.  qualia  19th December 2012 - 10:33   If the Israelis stop thinking of themselves as gods chosen people and stealing other peoples land then maybe just maybe we could have some peace!    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 25.  WHL_Nick  19th December 2012 - 10:32   Some people aren't reading the whole article. I repeat: this is one of a series of articles about the work of photographers and social injustice victims in the world. We should be helping the photographers and journalists to continue their work in all social conflicts. Which is what the BBC are doing.Is the gutter press supporting this type of work? Only if celebs are involved.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 24.  alan  19th December 2012 - 10:23   The true enemy of humanity - religious fundamentalism. I thank my grandad for telling me his stories of his time in the trenches (such has having to bayonet men with "Gott Mit Uns" on their belt buckles) in the Great War that turned him (Irish Catholic) and me into staunch atheists.    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)     Comment number 23.  Removed  19th December 2012 - 10:17    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)         Page 1 of 3    Newer 1 2 3 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Twitter account hack affects 250,000



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Mars rover hammers down into rock



9: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



10: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



4: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



5: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



6: One-minute World News Watch



7: Gore's problem with politicians Watch



8: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



9: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



10: The art looking death in the face Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





