BBC News - Happy Birthday, Breakfast - and newsroom computers


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Technology







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















17 January 2013
Last updated at 09:29 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Rory Cellan-Jones

Technology correspondent

More from Rory
Follow Rory on Twitter



Happy Birthday, Breakfast - and newsroom computers
 






More from Rory


Samsung, Apple, Nokia and the smartphone dogfight


EE finds 4G a hard sell


Facebook’s Graph targets Google


Facebook, Apple - and the psychology of markets



 Happy Birthday to BBC Breakfast. It is 30 years since the UK's first early morning television news programme went on air - and it has got me feeling pretty nostalgic. Because it was at Breakfast Time - as it was then called - that I first got my hands on a computer back in 1983.
I'd arrived in a job as a sub-editor in the BBC TV newsroom at Television Centre, from a regional newsroom where the air was thick with cigarette smoke and the sound of clattering typewriters. The TV Centre operation was much bigger - but the technology was hardly any more sophisticated. 
Middle-aged men (news was still mostly male), puffing away on pipes, often wrote scripts in longhand and then dictated them to a typist. Graphics were made using card and Letraset, with "animates" involving the operator simply pulling out a strip of cardboard to reveal what was underneath.


An excerpt from a BBC engineers newsletter, 1983

Then, in March I was sent down the road to Lime Grove to work on the night shift writing news bulletins for Breakfast Time. The office in this extraordinarily ramshackle building was just as noisy and smoky as any other newsroom - but while there were plenty of typewriters, the news team was sitting in front of a row of impossibly futuristic machines.
The new computers - perhaps the first to be introduced into a major British newsroom - would look laughable to today's young journalists. My memory is that they were chunky machines, operated solely by keyboard - no mouse - with a screen where a blinking cursor invited you to fill in various boxes with your script. They had inbuilt printers, so once your script was finished you pressed a button and it came slowly spewing out of the top on a roll of shiny paper.
A former colleague in BBC News has found more details of the system in a report from the 1980s on office automation across Europe. It reveals that I was actually sitting not at a "real" computer but at one of 28 dumb terminals, linked to "two Hewlett Packard 44 series minicomputers, a master central processing unit and a back-up machine - each with three megabytes of memory...The system handles production of all scripts for the programme, all administration associated with the programme and provides an electronic link to the autocue to enable last minute changes."
Breakfast Time - a two and a half hour live daily news programme - was an unprecedented challenge for the BBC back then and the documents says the system had been conceived "at an early stage in the planning of the programme as a means of support to the extra scriptwriting and complex programme management required for a programme of this length."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Original Breakfast Time presenter Nick Ross: "The atmosphere before we went on air was so tense"



 Now my memory is that once we'd completed our scripts, they were printed out a second time and a team of assistants carried them up the fire escape which was the quickest way to the sixth floor studio at Lime Grove. So, the impact of the new technology on productivity was not that dramatic. But, along with the revolutionary computer graphics that powered Francis Wilson's weather forecasts, Breakfast Time was a harbinger of the hi-tech future of news.
And a couple of years later, a much better newsroom computer system called Basys arrived at Television Centre and went on transform the way news teams went about their work.  But only after we journalists - including a future technology correspondent - went out on strike over the introduction of the beastly machines. Our rivals at ITN had been promised £1,000 to cope with the added stress of computer working - and we eventually settled for around half of that.
Three decades on, a new revolution is taking place in offices over technology. This time, rather than trying to keep them out, workers are demanding more choice over exactly how they use computers or smartphones. Today's journalists - and many other workers - have learned that unless you are in charge of your own technology, you risk being written out of the future.

 





Article written by Rory Cellan-Jones
Rory Cellan-Jones

Technology correspondent

More from Rory
Follow Rory on Twitter



Twitter's most serious security crisis 
22 hours ago
BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones describes the moment he realised his Twitter account had been hacked.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Rory
	      






Samsung, Apple, Nokia and the smartphone dogfight




EE finds 4G a hard sell




Facebook’s Graph targets Google




Facebook, Apple - and the psychology of markets




CES 2013: Lessons from Las Vegas




The CES superpowers




CES: The selling starts




Gadgets ahoy: Looking forward to Las Vegas 













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 39       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated    Comment number 39.  jamesfed  18th January 2013 - 21:51    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 39) Link to this (Comment number 39)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 38.  justadadwhocares  18th January 2013 - 16:41   I suppose it all had to start somewhere.    Report this comment (Comment number 38) Link to this (Comment number 38)     Comment number 37.  Eddy from Waring  18th January 2013 - 16:14    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 37) Link to this (Comment number 37)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 36.  dobiegr  18th January 2013 - 15:44   And you know - after all the huge jumps in technology, it still takes just as long to type an article on a keyboard!    Report this comment (Comment number 36) Link to this (Comment number 36)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 35.  Torus Copywriter  18th January 2013 - 15:04   Wow 30 years ago. At least they got rid of the jumpers and slippers    Report this comment (Comment number 35) Link to this (Comment number 35)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 34.  In Gold I Trust  18th January 2013 - 13:53   At last, a technology story within Rory's grasp.    Report this comment (Comment number 34) Link to this (Comment number 34)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 33.  BluesBerry  18th January 2013 - 12:44   Thank-you for this brief walk down memory lane. It was much appreciated.It may seem odd to you that I remember muppets/puppets better than I remember human beings on the Breakfast show.BBC seemed so young, fresh & innocent, & upfront.I wish BBC success in its attempt to reclaim what was salient about the Breakfast Show 30 years ago.    Report this comment (Comment number 33) Link to this (Comment number 33)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 32.  basilisk  18th January 2013 - 9:51   We had dumb terminals but the main frame was off site. We had a leased line but when that went down, I had to do dial backup. That involved 3 phones. 1 to talk to the guy the other end, 1 for our transmit and 1 for our receive.I think the modems were 4,800 baud. Seems very slow now but it kept the MRP (GEC Mecca) system going.    Report this comment (Comment number 32) Link to this (Comment number 32)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 31.  GarethM  18th January 2013 - 8:28   Gonig on strike as computers had been introduced. I have nothing but contempt. It's nothing more than greed and selfishness.    Report this comment (Comment number 31) Link to this (Comment number 31)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 30.  Rotherham Lad  18th January 2013 - 1:12   Aah - the heady days of the beginning of Breakfast news! It was "all new" then - probably the last time anything "all new" hit the UK.We are all subject to "spin" these days, and we don't even realise it, most of the time!I'd like to see the re-introduction of the phrase "In a surprise announcement..." when reporting news, and the abolition of the phrase "In a speech, later today....."    Report this comment (Comment number 30) Link to this (Comment number 30)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 29.  thelastofthefew  18th January 2013 - 0:12   Not the real world but thay keep putting my brain things  up for further consideration..................oh i love the bbc    Report this comment (Comment number 29) Link to this (Comment number 29)     Comment number 28.  thelastofthefew  17th January 2013 - 23:45    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 27.  mesmerizing commenter  17th January 2013 - 23:30   Says more about BBC/ITN culture in the past than technology! On strike for more money to compensate for learning to keep up with the cutting edge your job requires?! In tech jobs you keep up or you're out.Has anyone else noticed how presenting rolling news is remarkably similar to the shopping channel?  Be enthusiastic about the same thing over and over...    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 26.  Dr_Ads  17th January 2013 - 23:11   Francis Wilson, David Icke, Nick Ross, Selina Scott and Frank Bough all became/remained famous/infamous - but whatever happened to Debbie Rix?    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 25.  Kitty  17th January 2013 - 23:11   @13.Koberk To be fair, I remember daisy wheel printers and dot matrix printers... good god were they noisy as hell... and the machines in 1983 were pretty basic but required a lot of retraining and frustration as they were nowhere near as responsive as modern computers.  I still remember BBC basic terminals in my first high school.  They were kludges, but more advanced than the 1983 ones.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 24.  archicrooks  17th January 2013 - 21:07   John_from_Hendon 6 HOURS AGOI was never a devotee of Breakfast TV 30 years ago. I was too busy travelling the World on business or if at home reading the papers (which I still do, and did as a child decades earlier.)---------------------Bully for you.Are you trying to impress us ?. In my experience people bragging on forums such as this tend to be the ones who spend all day in the library    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)     Comment number 23.  stan howard  17th January 2013 - 20:52    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 22.  Dougie  17th January 2013 - 20:39   When I started in December 1981 we were still using punched cards (they died out in about 1983). We had some green (24x80) screens but not one per person. One per person would have been a luxury.I've seen a lot of change in the last thirty years. The Internet is the revolutionary thing. The change from mainframes to laptops is the other.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 21.  John_from_Hendon  17th January 2013 - 19:47   8.Old Father Thames "Radio 4 and a good breakfast is really all you need."AND one or more broadsheet newspapers.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 20.  Aidy  17th January 2013 - 19:32   @beemoh #14> reflecting the 'cloud computing' futureNot really.  Dumb terminals have been around pretty much since the beginning of computing as having one "super computer" do the crunching while the terminals simply did input/output was cheaper than having multiple computers, as computers were very expernsive. Dumb terminal systems still exist today.    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)         Page 1 of 2    Newer 1 2 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



2: Car park dug up around parked car



3: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



4: US sniper book author shot dead



5: French MPs endorse gay marriage



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



3: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



6: What goes on in the mind of a sniper?



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



9: Affleck wins Directors Guild award



10: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Manhattan, unchained: Fighting 7-Eleven Watch



4: The art looking death in the face Watch



5: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



6: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



7: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



8: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



9: Affleck 'not entitled' to Oscar Watch



10: Hadrian's Wall being 'worn away'  Watch













BBC Future





When smart is not so smart 
Are we too reliant on our technology? Read more...












Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





