EXCLUSIVE – Romney on Debates: Obama Will ‘Say Things That Aren’t True’ - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Politics
			> George Stephanopoulos

George Stephanopoulos


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousRomney on Iran: Share Same ‘Red Line’ As Obama
NextFull Transcript: George Stephanopoulos and Mitt Romney

 

 By George Stephanopoulos@GStephanopoulosFind on FacebookFollow on Twitter  
Sep 14, 2012 6:57am

EXCLUSIVE – Romney on Debates: Obama Will ‘Say Things That Aren’t True’





 
			
Email

436
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




Martin H. Simon/ABC
With the first presidential debate less than three weeks away, Mitt Romney is spending lots of time getting ready behind closed doors.  In his first comments on that debate prep, he told me that Sen. Rob Portman is a tough stand-in for a president who basically lies in debates.
“I think the challenge that I’ll have in the debate is that the president tends to, how shall I say it, to say things that aren’t true,” Romney said. “I’ve looked at prior debates.  And in that kind of case, it’s difficult to say, ‘Well, am I going to spend my time correcting things that aren’t quite accurate? Or am I going to spend my time talking about the things I want to talk about?”
The former governor told me he’s tempted to use Ronald Reagan’s famous line against President Carter in a 1980 debate, “There you go again” — the same line that Bill Clinton turned on Romney and the Republicans at the Democratic convention in Charlotte.

When I asked if Portman was crushing him in early debate preps, Romney was coy.
“I’m not revealing those kind of secrets.  But I will never debate Rob Portman again,” Romney said with a laugh.
“He’s very good,” he said.
[Senator John McCain expressed a similar sentiment after going against Portman in his 2008 debate prep. McCain later told the New York Times, laughing, "I hate him still."]
The debates are at a critical moment in the campaign with the latest polls showing Obama gaining an edge over Romney in the key battleground states.
Romney told me the debates “may well be” the campaign’s make or break moment.
“Sometimes there’s something big that happens and they become deciding. Other times, it’s like, well, nothing really changed. We’re in the same spot we were before the debates.  I can’t predict what’ll happen.  But I think it’ll be revealing one way or the other,” he said.
Romney said he wasn’t concerned about new polls showing him trailing in Virginia and Ohio — even though it’s virtually impossible for him to get the 270 electoral votes he needs without victories in those two states.
“Well, I’m ahead in a lot of other states, too.  I saw one this morning, ahead in Florida, ahead in North Carolina.  Gosh, we’re even tied in Wisconsin,” Romney told me. “These polls are going to bounce around a lot.  I don’t pay a lot of attention day to day to which state’s up and which one’s down.  But I believe that when the final decisions are being made by the American people, they’re going to ask themselves, “Who do I have confidence in to keep America safe?  And who do I believe can get our economy doing what it needs to do?”
Romney said the most important numbers in this election are 23, 47 and 16: ”23 million Americans out of work or underemployed, 47 million people on food stamps,  $16 trillion in debt.  And now the Federal Reserve, it says, “Look, this economy is not going well,” he said.
And it’s because of those economic conditions some Republican allies are worried. George Will on “This Week” said “If the Republican Party cannot win in this environment, it has to get out of politics and find another business.” Laura Ingraham said “If you can’t beat Barack Obama with this record, then shut down the party, shut it down.”
“Well you know, beating an incumbent is never easy.  The president exudes an air of likability and friendliness, which is endearing,” Romney told me. “But at the same time, I think people recognize that he has not done the job they expected him to do and that he promised he would do.”
The race will be decided by “the people in the middle” who “won’t make their mind up until the very, very last moment,” the former governor said.
And many of those people — 63% of registered voters — want more details about what a Romney presidency would look like, according to our latest ABC News/ Washington Post poll.
The former governor cited his 59 point – and more than 150 pages - economic plan that he released, but acknowledged that “people aren’t going to sit down and read a book.”
“So that means that in the speeches I give over the coming weeks I need to lay out some of the principles that were described in that book.  And I will in more detail,” he said.
Democrats say Romney’s plan would cause a $2,000 tax hike on the middle class - something Romney disputes and points to a number of studies that say his plan to cut taxes will not increase the deficit, including one by Harvard professor Martin Feldstein.
Feldstein says Romney’s math will work, but he would have to eliminate the home mortgage, charitable, state and local tax deductions for incomes greater than $100,000.
When I pressed Romney on that point, he conceded that he actually hadn’t read the Feldstein report that he and Paul Ryan cite on the campaign trail.
“I haven’t seen his precise study,” he said.
“I said that there are five different studies that point out that we can get to a balanced budget without raising taxes on middle income people.  Let me tell you, George, the fundamentals of my tax policy are these.  Number one, reduce tax burdens on middle-income people.  So no one can say my plan is going to raise taxes on middle-income people, because principle number one is keep the burden down on middle-income taxpayers,” he said.
Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year and less.
“Number two, don’t reduce the share of taxes paid by the wealthiest.  The top 5 percent will still pay the same share of taxes they pay today.  That’s principle one, principle two.  Principle three is create incentives for growth, make it easier for businesses to start and to add jobs.  And finally, simplify the code, make it easier for people to pay their taxes than the way they have to now,” he said.
When I asked if he and his running mate, Rep. Paul Ryan, would specify which loopholes they would close in order to pay for the tax cuts, Romney said he’s relying on his experience as Massachusetts governor.
“I’ve found that you have to work with the people across the aisle.  My legislature was 87% Democrat.  So if I’d have come out and said, “Here this is my bill.  This is the way I want it,” you’d never get it done,” he said. “You lay out your principles.  Those are my principles, don’t raise taxes on middle-income people, make sure the high-income people pay the same share they’re paying today, encourage growth by bringing down rates, and finally simplify the code.  Those are my principles.  I’ll stick with them.  And I believe that’s going to help get the economy going and grow jobs.”
I also asked the presidential candidate about a recent poll number that showed registered voters by a 19% margin would prefer to have dinner with Obama instead of Romney.
So what’s dinner like at the Romney house? “Chaotic,” he said.
“You’d have grandkids climbing all over you. Probably some food would be thrown from one side of the table to the other by one of my grandkids. It’d be a lot of fun,” he said.
“So I can’t tell people who would have more fun at whose table.  But I can tell you the president’s a person that a lot of people like.  I don’t dislike him myself and wish him the very best.  But I think the American people are looking for someone who has the capacity to help them get good jobs and more take-home pay.  And I do,” Romney told me.
Editor’s note: This blog has been updated to reflect that in responding to a question from ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, Mitt Romney defined middle income for Americans as $200,000-$250,000 and less. 

SHOWS: Good Morning America





 
			
Email

436
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print














Related Videos


														Geraldo Rivera Considers Senate Run in NJ						



														Chuck Hagel Defends His Record Before Former Senate Colleagues						


 
 
 
 


PreviousRomney on Iran: Share Same ‘Red Line’ As Obama
NextFull Transcript: George Stephanopoulos and Mitt Romney






 

User Comments



I can’t wait for this, watch Mitt the bigot lie his way out of everything and twist everything around, come on Obama blow this bigot jerk off of the water go team go!




			Posted by: roy b | September 14, 2012, 7:05 am 7:05 am		



Wooooo-Hooooooo….Touche, Mitt. How many of your advisors helped you come up with that little zing?




			Posted by: Christine | September 14, 2012, 7:10 am 7:10 am		



HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA…the flip flopper is projecting again!




			Posted by: Mittwitt | September 14, 2012, 7:11 am 7:11 am		



BTW, what kind of “lies” are we talking baout, Mitt? That you’ve managed to alienate at least 75% of female voters? That your knowledge on foreign affairs is on par with that of a middle school student? Just askin’.




			Posted by: Christine | September 14, 2012, 7:13 am 7:13 am		



George S.   Surprised….  poor interview…..pounding the comment made by Romney after this mess in the Middle East!!!!!!     Where WAS Obama as this was unfolding!!!    Ask Obama that!!!!!!.A statement had to be made quickly and Obama was no where to be found… was LATE making it!!!    Facebook people were waiting and he was unresponsive….Disgusting, wimpy leader!!!!!!    Disappointed in the biased media as well with this campaign. Don’t you think the merican people see this!!!!!




			Posted by: Lin Kruze | September 14, 2012, 7:14 am 7:14 am		



I am very upset. I used to love watching George Stephanopolis but it is obvious he is using the media to get Obama elected. It is wrong for him to be anything but unbiased. I never knew where he stands on subjects, a true journalist, not showing his cards. However this election, it is obvious he is a Democrat and that is WRONG to use his job to influence the public one way or another. I have lost a lot of respect for him.




			Posted by: Terry | September 14, 2012, 7:15 am 7:15 am		



Terry, Obama doesn’t need any help from Stephanopolis.




			Posted by: Christine | September 14, 2012, 7:18 am 7:18 am		



Ha! Too funny… especially after Ryan’s people openly stated that they will not allow facts to stand in the waqy of their campaign.




			Posted by: Bali Bob | September 14, 2012, 7:21 am 7:21 am		



Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year.
what kind of alternative universe is he living in?




			Posted by: Alan | September 14, 2012, 7:21 am 7:21 am		



Female voters know our national security and financial stability are first and foremost. Are we going to continue to have a country where people don’t have children because it is “inconvenient”? We don’t have enough workers to support the eldery now taking social security because we are “greedy” of our own personal time. Human lives were not meant to be treated like trash. This is a non-issue. OMG! Someone might have to respect a human life and actually have a baby! Have a person who might someday grow up to support our country. We need a businessman, we are on the brink of economic collapse. That is the only thing that matters. The existence of our very country financially. Why did it take 2 1/2 years for our president to come up with his birth certificate. It would take me 2 weeks to order it in the mail. Why would he sign something that allows any information about a president prior to being president doesnt’ have to be disclosed??? Is there something he is hiding? Who paid for his education??? Do you know?? Was it a man who is known as an anti-american?? He is not who you think he is and he is slowly bringing this country to its feet. Just what he wants.




			Posted by: Terry | September 14, 2012, 7:24 am 7:24 am		



If he gets elected, we will all need help.




			Posted by: Terry | September 14, 2012, 7:26 am 7:26 am		



Terry: “Are we going to continue to have a country where people don’t have children because it is “inconvenient”? “…..What, would you rather these people be forced to have and raise kids, against their will? Yeah, that makes a whole lot of sense. Go crawl back under your rock, already.




			Posted by: Christine | September 14, 2012, 7:30 am 7:30 am		



> “I think the challenge that I’ll have in the debate is that the president tends to,
> how shall I say it, to say things that aren’t true,” Romney said. 
What a remarkable statement. Mr. Stephanopoulos, why did you not confirm from the candidate if he is accusing his opponent of lying outright? Further, why did you not press him on this statement and ask in a followup for specific instances ‘things that aren’t true’? These are serious charges and deserve a public airing with a complete accounting of the facts.




			Posted by: J Gelinas | September 14, 2012, 7:30 am 7:30 am		



>>>EXCLUSIVE – Romney on Debates: Obama Will ‘Say Things That Aren’t True’<<<
Anybody wonder why this was used as the headline?  It wouldn't have anything to do with the outrageous hypocrisy in this statement would it?




			Posted by: 40acres | September 14, 2012, 7:32 am 7:32 am		



[Obama] is slowly bringing this country to its feet. Just what he wants…..And just what the rest of us want as well. I couldn’t have said it any better!




			Posted by: Christine | September 14, 2012, 7:32 am 7:32 am		



George –
I love you babes, but stop trying to incriminate Romney on this whole thing. Put the blame where it should be; on Obama’s slowness to respond to Egypt’s protests and not protecting the other Embassies in Muslim-prominent countries. Who are these Bozo’s making comments on this BLOG anyway? Insults with no substance! Romney was correct in blaming Obama for making excuses for what happened. Don’t you realize that MOST Americans, including the silent, good old boy majority, feel the same as Romney? What really gets me is Obama’s speech where he tried to excuse the Libyans because some of them supposedly helped the Ambassador & the other 3 Americans. The truth of the matter is that the Libyan media ANNOUNCED that the Americans were being taken to a safe house. Where they hell did that get that info? It was then, after getting that information, that the angry mobs went into high gear.  
Here’s the other thing. If the Libyan “government” was trying to help, then where was the tear gas; where were the guns to hold back the crowds; where were their troups? Did we hear about even ONE Libyan demonstrator getting killed in all of this? NO! They didn’t try to defend anyone except their own. Our people were sitting ducks! Can you see a group of Americans, hell bent on killing people in the Arab-nations Embassies in DC, getting away with it? That would never happen. We’d have the National Guard out there right away, protecting the inhabitants; and you know that there would be AMERICAN BLOOD spilled in the streets by our own defenses to protect the Muslim Ambassadors. 
Obama knew that Egypt was in an uproar hours and hours before the Libyans started protesting. It was at that time that Obama said they were monitoring the situations around the world and would protect our foreign officials. MONITORING!!! Shouldn’t we have been sending our Marines into every Embassy compound in Muslim territories? TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE OBAMA! 
So, now we hear that other US Embassies are being attacked. The Naval ships have been stationed off of the coast. If they don’t do anything to put an end to these atrocities, maybe Americans will finally realize that it’s time to get rid of our Muslim-excusing President. Did you see Christians attacking and killing people when “The Last Temptation of Christ” came out. HELL NO! Muslims say they respect Jesus as a Prophet and yet the espouse NONE of his teachings; turn the other cheek, expect persecution from unbelievers, etc. Instead, these radical, fanatical Muslims go on the attack over any little thing. HYPOCRITES!!!
I hope the “laid back, good old boy, redneck” conservatives & independents will get off their lazy butts, and come away from their catfish handling, alligator hunting and gun ranges long enough to VOTE our exuse making, Socialistic leaning President OUT OF OFFICE.




			Posted by: Nancy Hewitt | September 14, 2012, 7:32 am 7:32 am		



I a with you Terry. I used to love watching GMA but the way ABC is plugging for Obama is nauseating.  Where are your tough questions for Obama?.  Funny you mentioned QE3.. The fed printing more money.  You failed to mention that gas prices will be above 4 dollars a gallon.  This will have no affect on jobs.  Obama is kiling the middle class but you have the nerve to sit there and ask Romney ridiculous questons about yesterday’s news  I guess all of your viewers are in the upper class or sucking off the government.  We in the middle class know our country is being destroyed and know that Obama is a sympathizer of Islamic extremist sending billions to terrorists (Muslim Brotherhood ) That used to be a crime in this country.  Why don’t you report the real news and expose the President of this country  for his horrible policies?  What is in it for you ABC to be campaign central for the worst president this country has ever seen?




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 7:33 am 7:33 am		



Bishop  Romney ,able to approve who will become a God,& set to become one himself,will debate a mere mortal-an Obama win should be hailed louder & longer than David over Goliath,both of those opponents were just mortals…




			Posted by: babooph | September 14, 2012, 7:36 am 7:36 am		



Also it seems like you are already losing viewers by the amount of comments on your boards.  There used to be pages and pages of comments but you are dwindling because people are on to your one-sided reported and have had enough.  People get your news from another outlet.  You are watching news reporters campaigning for a president.  This is not fair and basically a government news outlet.  Just as Obama goes on radio shows with “the pimp with a limp”, David Letterman, any talk show he can put his campaign on, your station is reporting garbage news. As our country is falling apart you are talking about the Kardasians and plugging for Obama.  Worst reporting.  End of many decades of viewing as I ban ABC news.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 7:39 am 7:39 am		



Besides Uncle Ben Bernanke trying desperately to help re-elect Obama with a third useless quantitative easing (QE3) enacted yesterday, what’s the Obama plan to get people back to work and jump start this economy before it free-falls and we do end up like Greece.  I watched the DNC convention…he has no specifics except “we must re-elect him in order for him to fulfill the promises he made in 2008.  Sorry, I’d rather take my chances with Romney instead of seeing everyone suffer and become more divided under Obama.




			Posted by: Sad Times | September 14, 2012, 7:39 am 7:39 am		



Wow, George. Talk about a major misrepresentation! Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 OR LESS!! You say he puts it as $200,000 to $250,000. Kind of a huge difference, don’t ya think, buddy? Were you not paying attention? Or is this just another example of your ugly, blatant liberal bias showing through? Report the damn facts!




			Posted by: Ryan Comer | September 14, 2012, 7:42 am 7:42 am		



I never watch “Good Morning America” any more, because of GeorgeS!!!!!! It use to be my favorite show when Joan Lunden and Charlie Gibson were on; but George S. is such a horrible “Journalist”( and I use that term loosely, where he is concerned!) He actually gets mad whenever he has to interview a Republican—–he becomes the biggest jerk ever!!!!!!!!! Journalist should be more balanced—–not let everybody know what his opinions are! I was switching channels this morning,and happened to see part  of the Romney interview, so I stopped for a minute; and it reinforced, why I never watch anymore. George S. is a  horrible “Journalist”—–He can’t keep his feelings to himself!!!!!!!!!! He is terrible—-replace him with someone able to interview, without letting the word kow his personal feelings!!!!!!!




			Posted by: glenda | September 14, 2012, 7:44 am 7:44 am		



I don’t even believe your polls.  In the end I think Romney will win.  More people are suffering today then ever before.  This is the worst economy since WW2.   People are not working, insurance premiums have doubled, and the media ABC is busy spewing nazi propaganda to get this guy back into office.  What will happen with 4 more years of this?   How can anybody be so stupid? This muslim mess is exactly what Obama wanted.  He knew the Muslim Brotherhood would take over the entire region.  A couple of ill informed people who get their news from ABC are voting for Obama based on what they hear on this lousy news outlet.  Hopefully others are more educated and getting the real news from somewhere else.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 7:54 am 7:54 am		



Mitt the flipper has gone insane. He picks lying Ryan as is veep and then accuses the president of lying in debates that have not yet happened. That is crazy talk.




			Posted by: Sandy | September 14, 2012, 7:54 am 7:54 am		



The financial means that he describes as middle income highlights Romney’s disconnect with the average American.  Also,  if the top 5% he speaks about actually paid my percentage in taxes it would be one thing,  however that income bracket is privy to tax deductions that the rest of us are not.




			Posted by: gecota | September 14, 2012, 7:58 am 7:58 am		



Romney on Debates—and what he then says is not true because so-called debates are not debates.
If debates were forums in which candidates tried to clearly state what they believed needed to be done and how we the people might do it, debates would be worthwhile. However, that is not what they are.  
So-called debates are used as gotcha opportunities to deliver winning sound bites that have little to do with anything but winning, but they have proven to warm-ups for nothing much beyond more of the same after a candidate has ridden to victory on one of them.
The classic examples are some delivered by a president that became much loved for entering office and issuing more, and then becoming known as “the great communicator” for more of the same.  Well other than during his tenure running up at the time the largest debt in the entire history of the country—that siphoned off the nation’s wealth into the hoarding pockets of an increasingly few and left no lasting maintenance and advancement to the nation’s infrastructure.
These were made by Ronald Reagan who in debate issued the clincher, “I’m paying for this microphone, Mr. Green,” and once in office he said “Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall”—which other people tore down three years later.  
And when in a second term he had a bit lost his capacity in delivering an Irish one-liner, a canned one worked so well in a TV ad that the majority of the electorate could overlook what hinted to be some diminishing capacity—this one delivered to flags, balloons and music, “It morning in America again.”  
This came after a well coached Reagan had on cue, in a previous debate, slipped by his slips by meaninglessly saying to his opponent, “There you go again.”  And politicians in debate have being doing it ever since—and Romney ought to be able to buy a very good one-liner and get it out.




			Posted by: Sam Osborne | September 14, 2012, 7:58 am 7:58 am		



George
Your job as a reporter is to inform and not try to influence.  In watching this interview, your bias is apparent to all viewers (whether they like you or love you).  That is very disturbing.  It seems like the media takes its talking points from Stephanie Cutter and the President’s re-election team.  However please understand that voters are not looking to these types of news show to hear the reporters attempt to push the talking points from one side.   Folks understand that Fox News leans to the right.  However they will have a person from the left to give us their alternate perspective on the same issue.  With ABC, NBC, and CBS it seems like the anchors now see their task as simply espousing their own political left leaning views in an attempt to influence instead of inform.




			Posted by: C.A. K. | September 14, 2012, 8:00 am 8:00 am		



For anyone too lazy to look at the actual transcript, Romney did NOT say that middle income was $200,000-$250,000 and leave it at that, as George says in this article. He said it was $200,000-$250,000 OR LESS!!!!!!! Anyone who actually believes Romney thinks you have to be up at $200,000 to qualify as middle income is an idiot, but thank goodness for George leading people to believe that, huh?




			Posted by: Ryan Comer | September 14, 2012, 8:03 am 8:03 am		



@Terry Seems to me if you take away a woman’s right to choose, then you take away their financial support through the programs Romney would cut that affect food and education for children….what kind of life have you doomed that unwanted child to?




			Posted by: Karen | September 14, 2012, 8:04 am 8:04 am		



Romney is accusing Obama of lying BEFORE the debates?  He knows he’s about to be creamed on all of his “flip-flops,” and mis-representations.
Consequently, he has to run defense BEFORE the debates.
Too funny, yet scary at the same time.




			Posted by: M McMahon | September 14, 2012, 8:04 am 8:04 am		



I’m going to say this in all caps like five times because it’s important people don’t get fooled by this clown of a “journalist”
ROMNEY DEFINED MIDDLE INCOME AS $200,000 TO $250,000 OR LESS! KEY WORDS ARE OR LESS! GEORGE HERE WOULD LIKE YOU TO BELIEVE ROMNEY THINKS YOU HAVE TO BE AT $200,000 TO QUALIFY AS MIDDLE INCOME. GEORGE HAS BLATANTLY MISREPRESENTED WHAT ROMNEY SAID!!!




			Posted by: Ryan Comer | September 14, 2012, 8:06 am 8:06 am		



George was asked if he thought the main stream media was biased favoring the liberal agenda. George said No!! A few days ago an open microphone(will these Democrats ever learn) caught three reporters from competing news stations working together to try to make sure Romney was asked a certain question–almost sounding like they were trying to trap him!! This is why the mainstream media is a joke!!! You can not trust them to tell you the truth –it is almost like they are trying to make the news rather than just report it.




			Posted by: whathappened016 | September 14, 2012, 8:08 am 8:08 am		



Based on Politifact.com , on average every sixth statement the  GOP tells is a red hot pants on fire lie. 
Compared to the Dems, Romney is nearly ten times more frequent at lying.




			Posted by: Denis | September 14, 2012, 8:08 am 8:08 am		



There are some really stupid gluttons for punishment on here, bending over backwards to kiss the @$$ of the Fraud-in-Chief. How many TRILLIONS of taxpayer dollars does he need to waste before you remove yr head from yr @$$e$?  How many illegal, unwinnable, unneeded bankrupting wars do we need before the “Nobel Peace Prize winner” says ‘mission accomplished’??  How many BILLIONS of taxpayer dollars must Obumma give to political donors and enemy nations before we beg him to stop???  How many unConstitutional laws and Executive Orders must he pass before you wake up and realize ‘This isn’t America anymore, I’ve lost the right to ______”???  How many times must the Usurper whine to see Robmey’s tax returns, when he himself has paid $4MILLION to have his OWN records sealed????  I’m no fan of Robmey but at least hes American. All the same I know a Ccommunist/Socialist when I see one and Obumma will not get my vote this time. Gary Johnson for President, the ONLY candidate that gives a damn about the Constitution and isn’t a puppet for the Banksters/NWO/Rothschilds.




			Posted by: vic | September 14, 2012, 8:13 am 8:13 am		



Wow, that’s ironic. . A liar calling someone else a liar.  Is there anything Mitt Romney has told the truth about?  Anything?  He even lies about his own positions.  He’s staunchly pro-abortion, for example, and pro-gun control, yet he lies and says differently.




			Posted by: Moshe | September 14, 2012, 8:17 am 8:17 am		



Obama is the biggest liar, of any President in modern history.
He has taken control of the media, and they are treating his lies, like truth, and allowing him to totally deceive the public.




			Posted by: Rick McDaniel | September 14, 2012, 8:22 am 8:22 am		



Good lord.  Now, Mitt’s lying about what will happen in the future.  This Republican campaign is desperate.  As a Republican myself, I find myself disgusted with the direction Mitt or his handlers are taking.  So much so, that I fully intend to vote Democrat for all candidates on the ticket.  If there’s one thing I can’t stand, it’s incompetency.  Romney & GOP are proving themselves incompetent, day after day.




			Posted by: barney wanacker | September 14, 2012, 8:22 am 8:22 am		



Posted by: Ryan Comer | September 14, 2012, 8:03 am 8:03 am
@Terry Seems to me if you take away a woman’s right to choose, then you take away their financial support through the programs Romney would cut that affect food and education for children….what kind of life have you doomed that unwanted child to?
Get yr head outta yr @$$ Ryan, the question should be “If you don’t wantr to be a parent, DON’T GET PREGNANT!!!”  Its not about a “choice”. The choice is whether a woman chooses to have sex or not,. If yes, then USE A CONTRACEPTIVE. Any idiot knows sex usually leads to pregnancy but too many immoral lazy selfish irresponsible monsters want to murder an unborn, SIMPLY because she’s too stupid to not get pregnant. So we need to excuse murder because women are selfish or irresponsible.  Don’t bring up rape or incest either, those account for less than 5% of all proposed abortions.  Its about PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY, people, NOT a ‘choice”.  See how Ryan tried to blame people who were against abortion??? NEVER did he blame the reluctant mother. THAT’S the kind of mentality we’re dealing w/ people.  Liberalism is communism/socialism.




			Posted by: vic | September 14, 2012, 8:23 am 8:23 am		



Gotta love all the “liberal bias” whiners. Presidential candidates get asked the tough questions, as well they should. Do you expect George to offer him a cup of tea and shine his shoes? He should have asked him to state the specific lies he was talking about, since Romney’s own running mate is know for his blatant lies, in every speech and interview he gives! Sorry, this isn’t Faux News. Ryan Comer, Romney has lied and flip-flopped so many times, how can you pretend to know what he stands for? @ Terry, I think your meds have worn off.




			Posted by: Krezz | September 14, 2012, 8:26 am 8:26 am		



George has head so far up Obama’s rear, I bet he can tell us how many polyps he found.




			Posted by: anotherday | September 14, 2012, 8:28 am 8:28 am		



LYING RYAN….. and MUTT…, What’s a TEA PARTY?  a bunch of poor Idealist wanting to be republicans.. let it go.. MUTT told the truth…TEA PARTY members don’t belong in MUTT’s Republican because think about it they don’t even make his middle class…200,000 to 250,000 a year…TAKE count right now an see….MUTT would rather throw you guys out like the workers of a company taken down by Bain….. watch yourselves…..MUTT will always lie then tell a bigger lie if someone tells him the told the wrong lie… Flip Flop Flip Flop… sort of like the clock ticking on MUTT… flip flop flip flop.. lol




			Posted by: realitychecku | September 14, 2012, 8:28 am 8:28 am		



Journalism is at its best. The cynical War-Room George S. tried another “gotcha” trap but Romney is not as naive as Sarah four year ago when the pale face Katie C. tried the character assassination ploy. Journalism died in 2008.




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 14, 2012, 8:29 am 8:29 am		



It is always comforting to start out my day with the latest CHEER for obama from his greatest supporter, abc.  How can the guy lose with this kind of support?  The Nazi propaganda machine was nickle and dime compared to abc.  You guys can literally take anything and spin it in favor of obama in spite of his incompetency.  It is really hard to imagine how he can lose.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 8:29 am 8:29 am		



Watch Obama squirm on
- the economy
- unemployment being above 8% (tell Obama his own quote of promising it to stay under 8% if he could pass his nearly trillion dollar stimulus)
- how Obamacare was passed (hit Obama with is own quotes about it being on C-span and weeks to read it) (hit him with his leader’s comments “we have to pass it to find out what’s in it”)
- Allowing the muslim brotherhood who are terrorists to take over countries
- hit him with his uniting promises and have him explain “I won, you lost” attitude which set the stage for partisan divide
- hit him with the debt and give him his own quotes on halving it
- shovel ready jobs (hit him with his own words)
- shoot first aim later (blast him with the cops acting stupidly, if he had a son he’d look like Trayvon, his flip flop on Libya, etc etc etc
- have him explain the lavish vacations in economic turmoil and hardship.
- Fast and Furious
- Turbo Timmy
- have him explain why his AG thinks retired service men (mainly special forces) are terrorists
- Solyndra
- why did so many jobs be lost overseas on his watch
- ask him why he squandered a golden opportunity, having democrat control of both houses to fix the economy and create jobs (remind him that was his priority, his quotes) and they wasted it giving us something nobody wants




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 8:30 am 8:30 am		



Romney is full of lies! He’s a flipflopper saying he’s going to get rid of the health care act when the supreme court upheld it, then he says he will only get rid of part of it, what a flipflopper! He’s a phony! A flimflam man! Not worthy tone president!




			Posted by: Andrew | September 14, 2012, 8:31 am 8:31 am		



You are correct, Terry. Obama is slowly bringing this country to its feet…after George Bush and his cronies brought it to its knees.




			Posted by: Kool Papa | September 14, 2012, 8:32 am 8:32 am		



I agree with you Mitt!  It’s time for the Republican party to “shut it down”. Your party has been overwhelmed by corporate greed and bought-and-paid-for politicians. Time to shut it down!




			Posted by: Scott | September 14, 2012, 8:33 am 8:33 am		



haha MITT, you are so delusional it would be funny if it wasn’t so sad. I can’t wait for the moderator to ask you about your off shore accounts. Or why you were for so many things you now oppose. Or how exactly does a middle class kid ask his parents for the money to start a business. Or why you didn’t release your tax records, or why in the past decade you didn’t take a portion of your wealth and start a business, under the “friendly” business environment of Dubya. Instead you sat on your wealthy butt on that yacht with a flag of the Cayman Islands, thinking of ways to avoid paying your taxes. You want to be president so you can pardon yourself..




			Posted by: mike electrician | September 14, 2012, 8:33 am 8:33 am		



“Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year.”  WTF?  What are YOU smoking, MItt?  Maybe you better take another look at middle class America, ’cause it looks like you’re in dreamland…now we see who he really is depending on to vote for him.




			Posted by: Carl Raphael | September 14, 2012, 8:35 am 8:35 am		



I’d be very careful at the debates with Romney in the same room as Obama and the nuke button. Romney’s a demonstrated foreign policy risk. He might take the opportunity to tackle Obama and launch a nuke attack.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 8:36 am 8:36 am		



Fro the full ranscript:
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Is $100,000 middle income?
MITT ROMNEY: No, middle income is $200,000 to $250,000 and less.  So number one, don’t reduce– or excuse me, don’t raise taxes on middle-income people, lower them.  Number two, don’t reduce the share of taxes paid by the wealthiest.  The top 5% will still pay the same share of taxes they pay today…
Well, clearly $100k is not middle income but $200k-$250k  is.  I used ti think I’m above middle income but now I know I’m poor.  Thanks Mr. Romney!




			Posted by: Kay Herbert | September 14, 2012, 8:36 am 8:36 am		



AH HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA  This being put out there before a debate?  Well it means “when they say I lost I will claim he lied.”  Figures.  Mitt’s just not very presidential.  Where are your tax returns Mitt?  You asked for 10 years to vet for VP and refuse to show yours to us?




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 8:42 am 8:42 am		



Would someone please do an analysis of what “middle class” is in the U.S.? Doesn’t it have something to do with mean income (not average)?  What is that mean? I can’t believe that $250,000 is the mean. And adding the words “and less” is just a way to fudge the whole statement.  Who has the census figures from 2010? If Romney is using these numbers and they are way off, he is really out of touch. If the numbers are right, I stand corrected.




			Posted by: nancyC | September 14, 2012, 8:43 am 8:43 am		



ANOTHERDAY, that’s his job and how they make a living. These people have no shame by calling themselves ” journalists”.




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 14, 2012, 8:44 am 8:44 am		



So it looks like Romney is setting the debates up for just parroting his own version of the “truth”. This gets nowhere… when the two parties can’t even agree on the facts they discuss, it’s not a debate, it’s a childish yelling contest.




			Posted by: brian | September 14, 2012, 8:44 am 8:44 am		



Mr. Romney has left his role of cartoon character Mutt (Mitt) & Jeff (Ryan), two mismatched “tinhorns” defined by wikipedia as pretending to have influence or ability, to a clairvoyant.  Mr. Romney is able to see what President Obama may or may not say in the debates.  Mr. Romney what will the weather be like when President Obama takes the Oath of Office Jan. 2013?




			Posted by: Joy | September 14, 2012, 8:47 am 8:47 am		



Childish, you said? I agree. This ” I win you loose” leadership has brought America to this point. Thank you, Mr. Barrack Hussein Obama. The Arab Spring is waiting for your love and peace speech.




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 14, 2012, 8:47 am 8:47 am		



ABC says Obama is ahead in the registered voters poll………..that is funny I have over 200 relatives that are registered voters and not one of them have been asked how they will vote nor any of their friends and thir friends and their friends……so this poll is garbage




			Posted by: Richard | September 14, 2012, 8:48 am 8:48 am		



A simple generalized statmenet.  Everything the President says is either a lie or an ignorant statement.




			Posted by: web63gp | September 14, 2012, 8:55 am 8:55 am		



Romney should debate Obama like playing ball games. Attack can score better than just defending. Anyway, if Obama does not have real plan for next 4 years but Americans still choose him, it means Obama is a celebrity or idol that Americans can sacrifice their livings for.




			Posted by: Ashley | September 14, 2012, 8:59 am 8:59 am		



Remember when Journalism was objective! Now we have ABC and FOX News. Fox is so blatant it is ridiculous. This is very blatant. I believe I will convert to PBS.




			Posted by: Pete | September 14, 2012, 9:01 am 9:01 am		



like he doesn’t, what a hypocrite




			Posted by: BigAl | September 14, 2012, 9:03 am 9:03 am		



Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year.
And Romney will find Obama lying? Romney is the one who said he wasn’t gotta let FACT-CHECKING run his campaign…




			Posted by: Philipem | September 14, 2012, 9:04 am 9:04 am		



Romney’s only business experience is as one who will  say whatever it takes to close a deal. He is just conning voters into voting for him like any con artist would. No core, no moral compass, no nothing. Send American jobs offshore, keep his cash offshore, to heck with the rest of the world, it’s offshore too. Even the middle class is “offshore” to him. The guy lives in an alternate universe.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 9:04 am 9:04 am		



The Repubs on Morning Joe (MSNBC) were not shy about Milt’s Libyan statements.  They used words like irresponsible, chaotic, idiot, stupid and the like.  It is perfectly understandable why Milt now wants to ignore the ME.




			Posted by: Bob Ramos | September 14, 2012, 9:06 am 9:06 am		



Obama is the lying champion of the world but then again Americans that take for other and support Obama love liars.They love failure like Obama because they feel they failed, and they love hypocrites like Obama because they are hypocrites.




			Posted by: wade | September 14, 2012, 9:06 am 9:06 am		



Romney has to put up with the lying by Obama but he has to put up with the liberal bias questions he’ll be ask.
Go see America2016 people before you vote. Most here commenting will not go, they would rather stay uninformed, ignorant and spout obnoxious statements.  Just what Obama hopes you’ll do.




			Posted by: Freedom | September 14, 2012, 9:09 am 9:09 am		



Women’s rights?   We won’t have any when Obama moves the Muslim Brotherhood into our country if he should take office.  I wouldn’t be carrying on about aborton, gay marriage or any other of these non issues when our economy is in the toilet, and if you read any of your President Hussein’s books, probably not, you would know that your dictator has already told you if the winds should turn violent he will take the side of the Muslims.  Because he is one.  Wake up.  He hates America and he is purposely destroying it.  Everything in the Middle east is going as he planned it you FOOLS!!!!!!  I wouldn’t care if Mickey Mouse was running for president I would vote anybody but OBAMA.  WORST PRESIDENT EVER.  If he does win I don’t want to hear, but we won’t, because the media will truly be censored along with the internet, how the gays are being beheaded in the streets and women are wearing burkahs and being stoned to death.  You are  asking for it and you will get it if you vote for this criminal traitor.  Fascisim at it’s best. Be prepared idiots.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 9:09 am 9:09 am		



Ahh yes, The One, The Messiah has duped his legion of sheep into voting for more of the same.
No surprise really.  They voted for someone who had no record, but completely fooled them with nothing other than hope and change.
Now Barrack Hussein Obama has a record.  Yet, the legion of fools are still blinded by his mighty slogans.  These fools actually want the last four years to continue as if it is a contest to see if it is possible for one person to completely destroy this country in two terms.
Read the comments from these partisan hacks above.  They think success is a bad thing.  They think being self-made wealthy is a bad thing.   They have no problem with a tax cheat being in charge of the Treasury.   They know deep down inside that if the conversation is about Obama’s record, he loses in a landslide election by epic proportions.




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 9:10 am 9:10 am		



Thanks ACDC2012 for perfectly illustrating my point. BTW “lose” is only spelled with one o.




			Posted by: brian | September 14, 2012, 9:15 am 9:15 am		



Romney’s base drinks “Obama’s a Muslim” Koolaid. Enjoy!




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 9:16 am 9:16 am		



Kerri your steady diet of shock jocks is showing on your figure.  It’s not becoming and you might need to lose a few lbs.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 9:18 am 9:18 am		



“AH HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA This being put out there before a debate? Well it means “when they say I lost I will claim he lied.”
I agree. This is interesting that he is speaking as such prior to the debates.  Given this language I would say he has thrown in the towel.




			Posted by: MyTakeOnThis61 | September 14, 2012, 9:20 am 9:20 am		



Kerri
I agree that Barack Hussein Obama IS the WORST president EVER.  The evidence speaks for itself.  Look at the country.




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 9:20 am 9:20 am		



Mitt Romney’s character is being discussed on Dish network, channel 212 Blaze TV at 5 pm today.




			Posted by: Jo | September 14, 2012, 9:21 am 9:21 am		



Couple of facts for you apparently clueless folks out there.
Avg wage in US is $41,673 per year  (look it up) – so for Romney to say middle income is 250,000 and below is just a joke.  That speaks volumes about Romney right there.
Romney likes to lie about the unemployed – its not 23 million – its 12.5 million.  8.3 % unemployment is bad enough – no reason to lie about the nbrs Romney.
Obama is to blame for outsourcing jobs? Really ?  Corporations that Romney likes to buddy up to decide when to outsource jobs. The facts are the outsource rate of jobs has been about the same rate since 2005.  So what does that mean?  It means even during this great downturn of 2008 and 2009 the US Corporations have decided to outsource the same nbr of jobs they outsourced in 2005, 2006, 2007 – which is about 1.7 million per year folks.




			Posted by: lvas | September 14, 2012, 9:22 am 9:22 am		



I have one name for all you Democrats, here goes, read carefully … BARRY SOETORO.  And why the heck was Barry in Pakistan in the 80′s??? Hmmm, learn the facts and discover why we have so many issues with the Muslim world!   And why are the major media outlets not covering the real issues; most of them hate the fact that they were wrong in 2008 and no one likes to be wrong.  Abusing the Execute Branch was never the intention of our founding Fathers (look it up).  As for the interview, when its all said and done, I BELIEVE in the people and Mitt will win and the “Kings” rule will come to an end.




			Posted by: Jenn Fyffe | September 14, 2012, 9:23 am 9:23 am		



Does anyone really think that NOblama will not lie to start with ? I remember during his campaign he stated Marriage was between a man and a women. “LIAR” Didn’t he stated there would be no closed door meetings there would be camera’s in there ? “LIAR” This list goes on and on. Can’t wait till January when he packs his bags .




			Posted by: flatpicker | September 14, 2012, 9:24 am 9:24 am		



Lexington Lady:  Here is my advice to you.  Get your mouth off the dictator’s ******  and read some of your idol’s books.  I am speaking directly from his speeches and books you moron.  Then again what would I expect from some inbred in Kentucky.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 9:25 am 9:25 am		



Romney is a “schmoozer,” but can he turn things around? What miracle is he going to perform to turn things around? He’s making a lot of promises, which is per usual for candidates. Everyone has been holding Obama’s feet to the fire, as if when someone becomes president he waves a magic wand and all the country’s problems miraculously vanish. Nothing happens in Washington without the cooperation of those who truly “pull the strings.” Anyone who believes that a president can turn things around without the assistance and cooperation of a number of key people is duping himself/herself.  We are looking for a Messiah, because that’s what it’s really going to take.  And Kerri and Kate, I feel sorry for you. You live in a hateful and paranoid world; and you really think your very partisan and hateful remarks about Obama, trying to tie him to the “Muslim Brotherhood” as you call it, is going to change people’s minds. It’s sad to know that America has people who will tell outright and vicious lies to try and prove a point. Again, I feel sorry for you.




			Posted by: carole | September 14, 2012, 9:26 am 9:26 am		



NOblama just takes Executive privilege when he really screws up. That way he doesn’t have to answer questions and lie. HE is responsible for the border patrol agents that lost their lives. But he will take executive privilege.




			Posted by: flatpicker | September 14, 2012, 9:26 am 9:26 am		



Mmm Mmm Mmm Barack Hussein Obama Mmm Mmm Mmm
He won with change and hope
He brought pain and divide
I will vote for the dope
Mmm Mmm Mmm Barack Hussein Obama Mmm Mmm Mmm
We must squander freedom
We must destroy America
Who can bring us our doom and gloom
Mmm Mmm Mmm Barack Hussein Obama Mmm Mmm Mmm




			Posted by: typical lib | September 14, 2012, 9:28 am 9:28 am		



The worst thing Fox ever did was cut off their comments section (due to embarrassment I’m sure) because now they all came here.  It’s like the society of the tin foil.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 9:28 am 9:28 am		



I guess when even a slow economy won’t pull you off the bottom of the polls you have throw out whatever is down there with you.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 9:28 am 9:28 am		



LOL LOL LOL LOL  THIS from a man who attacked this president before getting any facts?  HE should be the one apologizing.  Again the president never apologized to the terrorists, members of the consultat in Libyia tried because they were trying to make peace and not get attacked and this was 6 hours before the attack occurred.  Mittens shoots with his mouth first and gets facts later.  He is a real idiot.  He will not get in.  All I hear from him is attacks and lies about this president but I still do not see his tax returns or his plan for the economy.  All I hear is he will create more jobs and nothing about how.  I can get out there and say the same thing.  He’s a loser and so is Ryan.  OBAMA BIDEN 2012




			Posted by: Barb | September 14, 2012, 9:29 am 9:29 am		



I Love that once again the Republican party got it wrong!  Ha Ha Ha!  I bet they are all sitting back thinking that they should have elected Herman Cain.  At least people could relate to Herman Cain and HAD A PLAN!  9-9-9  Unlike Mitt who skirts every issue and really doesn’t care about anyone else but his rich buddies!!  Go President O’Bama.  I think this one is in the bag.




			Posted by: ToniToniToni | September 14, 2012, 9:30 am 9:30 am		



Lexington Lady: Here is my advice to you. Get your mouth off the dictator’s ****** and read some of your idol’s books. I am speaking directly from his speeches and books you moron. Then again what would I expect from some inbred in Kentucky.
Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 9:25 am 9:25 am …………….  I just wanted to thank you for demonstrating the class an average far rightie has.  Prozac might help.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 9:31 am 9:31 am		



I have it on good authority that obama has never told a lie in his entire life.  In fact, he is up for the George Washington ‘I cannot tell a lie’ award.  Isn’t it wonderful that the guy we support is so great!  I’m going to be the first on my block to vote for him in November.  In fact, I am going to start a petition to get the Constitution changed so he can run in 2016.  We got to keep him at the helm of state.  hillary is nice but she is just an old white woman.  We need someone who is really ‘hip’ to lead us.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 9:31 am 9:31 am		



Carole
Are you even aware that the democrats had majorities in both the House and the Senate for Obama’s first two years?  Guess what Obama focused on.  Not jobs.  Not the economy.  Not our debt.  Not the wars.  But a healthcare law that the only bi-partisan thing about it was the votes against it.  
I can’t help it you feel duped when you got your messiah and he turned out to be an epic failure.  So why would you vote for “more of the same”?  Obama has proven he can’t work with both sides.  Again, that is proven.  So why would you think that he would magically change and do anything positive for the country when it is proven he is the worst president this country has ever had.




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 9:34 am 9:34 am		



According to Politifact 9% of Romney’s utterances are Pants on Fire false, 17% are false and 16% are mostly false.
Politifact has said that 1% of Obama’s statements are Pants on Fire false, 14% are false, and 12% are mostly false.
So if you were to give a bigger score to the whoppers, you can safely say that Romney is a pathological liar while Obama is a regular politician.




			Posted by: Larry | September 14, 2012, 9:36 am 9:36 am		



“Women’s rights? We won’t have any when Obama moves the Muslim Brotherhood into our country if he should take office.”  LOL  I read President Obama is a shape shifting lizard alien.  Queen Elizabeth too.
Expand your news sources from entertainment TV and I-hate-Obama radio.  Fear, loathing, and nonsense are not enough to convince voters that Mitt Romney will not make things WORSE.
Arithmetic.  Mitt Romney refuses to lay out a plan to offset the massive costs for his proposed TRILLIONS in military spending. He doesn’t specify cuts, he doesn’t propose eliminating agencies and he doesn’t explain how his tax cuts will be offset.  When it comes to balancing the budget, Mr. Romney has no plan.  
Grandma using Social Security or Medicaid?  Deduct the child or mortgage tax credit?  We should all want to better understand how Mr. Romney plans on paying for even MORE tax advantages for his class – the wealthiest few.




			Posted by: CenterOne | September 14, 2012, 9:36 am 9:36 am		



“Are you even aware that the democrats had majorities in both the House and the Senate for Obama’s first two years? “…………….. DING! DING! DING!  W.R.O.N.G.  There were only two short time periods in the Senate when Democrats filled 58 seats and then together with the 2 caucusing independents they held a filibuster-proof 60%.The dates were July 7-Aug 25 2009, and Sep 25 2009 – Feb 4, 2010.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 9:37 am 9:37 am		



What a joke!
 Romney saying that President Obama will be telling lies? Has anyone been listening to the BS that is constantly spewing from Romney’s lips? Romney and Ryan are two of the biggest liars I have ever seen.




			Posted by: homer | September 14, 2012, 9:38 am 9:38 am		



America gets that the House GOP sacrificed economic improvement in order to get Mitt Romney elected. Now America is saying “Keep Mitt Romney, we’ll take care of the economy by ourselves.”




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 9:39 am 9:39 am		



Carole?   Lexington Lady?  Have you read Dreams of My Father?  Have you read Audacity of Hope? No?  What a surprise.  Yes, I feel sorry for you because you don’t even know who you are supporting.  It has nothing to do with Fox and everything to do with Obama’s speeches and books. Here is an idea.  How about you go to youtube and search up some of his speeches since i know you won’t be reading his books.  It is not about hate and everything about reality.  Just look at this country and the mess your leader has created in the middle east and then comment on why he should get another 4 years.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 9:41 am 9:41 am		



If $200,000 to $250,000 is middle class, then I am doomed. I would fall under pauper class.




			Posted by: me | September 14, 2012, 9:42 am 9:42 am		



Osamalinbiden wants to make the US into a third world country. We are already losing our ranking as a superpower as our economy and educational systems crumble. Our society under another four years of Osamalinbiden will result in massive layoffs, strikes, protest, violence in the streets, and scores of US citizens living in poverty. Osamalinbiden are merely crack dealers, handing out EBT cards to their constituents (including illegal immigrants) and letting them go out and purchase tattoos, booze, cigarettes, flat panel screen TV’s, iPhones and Twinkies. We are one Osamalinbiden term away from having a feudalistic society. God helps us!




			Posted by: osamalinbiden | September 14, 2012, 9:43 am 9:43 am		



“Gosh, we’re tied in Wisconsin” shouldn’t Wisconsin be handed to Ryan and Romney on a silver platter?




			Posted by: me | September 14, 2012, 9:44 am 9:44 am		



There you go again, Mitt… Projecting onto others all the character traits you exhibit single day of your life! Pot, meet… Oh, never mind. What’s the use, at this point? Could you BE even more pathetic; or a more miserable excuse for a “Presidential” candidate? OH, right. I’m sure you can, and will, be…




			Posted by: Otto | September 14, 2012, 9:44 am 9:44 am		



This wasn’t an interview by a journalist, cause George S is not one. This was a TV production. Don’t ask any tough questions and let Romney get away with ridiculous comments. When Romney and Ryan have based their campaign on lies (welfare/Medicare savings/cuts/calling non apologies apologies. and we built it) how do you let him  get away with saying the president will lie… Get real.




			Posted by: roundabout | September 14, 2012, 9:44 am 9:44 am		



Samuel Jackson and other Black Americans should take a giant step back and remember a man by the name of Abraham Lincoln the first Republican President not a Democrat abolished Slavery.  Yes, it was a Republican President or it would have never happened.
Democrats in the South looked a blacks as property not people and now the same people turn against the party who fought for their freedoms to begin with.
It took a Civil War having brother fight against brother, neighbors fighting against neighbors and please remember more white families lost loves ones than any other war.
They where Republicans who sacrificed family members so all blacks would be treated as people with free speech.
Now you have Samuel Jackson using his free speech to attack a party that fought for their freedom.
Only in America people forget their history.  They only remember when someone is giving you something for free.
I am 66 years old and could never understand how slavery actually ever existed in the first place. Jefferson, Franklin and Adams recognized all blacks as people it was the Democrats who wanted them as property.
So here we are again forgetting those would died for a cause that was worth fighting for.
NO SLAVERY.
wolf




			Posted by: wolfgang halbig | September 14, 2012, 9:45 am 9:45 am		



Romney/Lyin’ are proven liars turning around and calling others liars. Lyin’ Ryan didn’t take stimulus money after he took it! Romney said Obama cut Medicare! I’ve heard the saying “It takes one to know one”, but this is ridiculous. And before he even enters the debate no less. He’s just jigging for suckers with an old boot. That’s how stupid he thinks “you people” are.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 9:45 am 9:45 am		



DREAMS FROM MY FATHER, read it people!  It explains why this country is falling apart.  BARRY WANTS EVERYONE POOR AND ON WELFARE; DEPENDANT OF HIM (THE GOVERNMENT); THAT IS HOW HE’S GETTING ALL THE LOW INCOME AND MINORITY VOTE.  KEEP US DOWN, KEEP US UNIFORMED, NOT ME, I WANT MORE OUT OF LIFE THAT WHAT THE GOVERNEMENT CAN OFFER. You thought the out country is bad now, give it four more years and we will be just like middle east, exactly the way our President wants it.




			Posted by: Jenn | September 14, 2012, 9:47 am 9:47 am		



Oh well, Mitt never lies, does he?




			Posted by: Briss Priss | September 14, 2012, 9:49 am 9:49 am		



What lies Barb?
Will you tell me the size of the debt?  Now tell me the Obama quote on cutting it in half his first term!
Tell me about Solyndra!
Let’s talk about “shovel-ready”
Let’s talk about Fast and Furious!
Explain unemployment being above 8% when Obama promised his nearly $1 Trillion stimulus would keep it under 8%.
Explain our credit downgrade!
Explain why so many companies when over seas under Obama
Explain why he propped up terrorists (muslim brotherhood)
Explain to me what he meant by “you don’t spike the football” and then chanted last week “bin laden’s dead, gm is alive”
Do you want to talk about shooting mouth’s off Barb?  How about cops acting stupidly or that if Obama had a son he’d look like Trayvon.  How about his blunder and flip flop on Libya yesterday.
Face it Barb, he has a record and it is an extremely poor one.  If in your twisted mind you think talking about his record is unfair, tough!
Now make sure you get in some partisan-hack reply and say you will ignore this and run along.




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 9:49 am 9:49 am		



Man, Republicans are hateful.




			Posted by: Paul | September 14, 2012, 9:49 am 9:49 am		



LEXINGTON LADY;   I take it where it comes from.  See how they speak to you and also me and other dems on these posts?  That just proves how low and ignorant most of the GOP posters on here are. :–)  LOL LOL  If you do not agree with them you are an idiot, stupid, a moron, need I say more?




			Posted by: Barb | September 14, 2012, 9:50 am 9:50 am		



I can explain our credit downgrade.  Republicans, that have ALWAYS supported raising that debt ceiling in the past, decided to gamble with America and it cost us 1.6 BILLION dollars on that debt they harp about the most.  Here’s proof spin bot:  “Mitch Daniels, the conservative Republican Indiana governor and former Bush budget director, explained that “a responsible government” must routinely raise the debt ceiling. “This ought to be treated as the housekeeping matter it is,” Daniels said. Ronald Reagan warned that failure to raise the debt limit would lead to consequences too “awesome to contemplate.”




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 9:53 am 9:53 am		



The Big Three (ABC, CBS, NBC) Wednesday evening newscasts devoted more than 9 minutes (9 minutes, 28 seconds) to the flap over Mitt Romney’s statement criticizing the administration’s handling of the Libyan crisis but spent just 25 seconds on questions regarding Barack Obama’s Middle-East policy, a greater than 20-to-1 disparity.
Your “news” coverage is DISGUSTING AND DISPICABLE…..You underestimate the American public….We are not as gulible as you think….You should all be ashamed of yourselves as Americans…Your LACK of objectivity and commitment to America’s interests is BLATANT…..We will not re-elect your king….




			Posted by: Kim | September 14, 2012, 9:56 am 9:56 am		



Barb
Do you remember what you told me four years ago?  You said you would vote for Obama again in 2012 without even knowing how good of a job he’d do and regardless who was running against him.
Are you even proud to be an American?  Do you care about this country?  
The answer has to be no if you refuse to look at Obama’s record and hold him accountable for it, and are blindly going to vote for more of the same.




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 9:58 am 9:58 am		



Man, Democrats are so stupid… What is really stupid is you assuming what party affiliation anybody has.  Maybe we are disgusted Dems voting for a candidate other than the one who is currently destroying our country and will continue to do so.  This comment is directed at Paul.




			Posted by: Kerri | September 14, 2012, 9:59 am 9:59 am		



Barb – Clearly they now grasp they’re likely to lose over there.  The desperation has gotten louder.  Meanwhile the rest of us can only clunk them over their heads with “real facts”.  Some day there will be books about these times and how these people were brainwashed with complete nonsense in the name of God.  Here’s to Sheldon Adelson not getting a 2 billion dollar tax cut off the backs of Social Security and Medicare vouchers.  Here’s to saying “Um, no Mitt.  You can by God pay your fair share of taxes without hurting those with much less.”  Speaking of Mitt, where are those tax returns?  I thought surely by now somebody would leak them.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 10:00 am 10:00 am		



How can ANY Christian vote for Obama when he is antiBiblical principles. He has voted for infantacide and is not enforcing DOMA, he has squandered the blood and treasure of the U.S. (and won a Nobel Peace Prize and now is warmonger in chief )through senseless wars and multiple back to back deployments of our military ( and can’t understand why military suicides are up), wasting money on failed green energy companies, enacted Obamacare that no one wants, endorsed the Arab Spring, knowing that the Muslim Brothehood would take over, enacting the NDDA which he can claim all resources including people under government control, assasinates using drones, militarized the TSA, he is anti American, he hates everything America stands for. He can’t meet with the Israeli President, has time for David Letterman and the DJ Pimp the Limp, is willing to meet with any dictator unconditionally, gives billions to Egypt as our own people are either hungry, lack jobs and are residing in Obamavilles , all that the MSM fails to report. When the people in  Germany in the 1930s thought they had a messiah as a leader the majority were either dumbfounded or regretted it when they no longer could control his unbridled power. That didn’t end well. That leader had the media as it propaganda arm, funny how history repeats.




			Posted by: Jo | September 14, 2012, 10:01 am 10:01 am		



Mitt, you’re not fooling anyone except the fools.




			Posted by: Jeebus | September 14, 2012, 10:01 am 10:01 am		



Because of Barack Obama I was forced to take a better paying job with less stress in the city I was hoping to retire in.  To make matters worse I had to purchase my dream home at 3% interest.   My 401K went up 125 % since he took office, which mean I have enough money to retire, but plan on working till 55.
At this rate of distruction i will be forced to leave the middle class for the 1% within 3 years.




			Posted by: Dylan | September 14, 2012, 10:03 am 10:03 am		



Don’t let those Romney folks fool you into thinking that the deficit/debt are a big deal.  They really aren’t.  Everyone knows that you have to embrace a little borrowing to have nice things.  We are just borrowing from ourselves.  So what is the big deal?  If we keep borrowing then we won’t have to pay it back.  What is the worse thing that could happen?  One day our kids have to pay it back.  So what!  We will be dead and gone so that won’t affect us.  We need to keep our SS, Medicare, Medicaid, Food Stamps, Welfare, etc. as they are cause we can’t do without them.  If we have to continue borrowing then so be it.  We don’t want to deny people something that they want?  That would be mean.  I vote for continuing to borrow and live off credit so we can live the good life.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 10:03 am 10:03 am		



If….you have paid attention over the past 4 years – and I definitely have – and you see this ridiculous statement by Romney that the President lies…after all the lying he and his side kick “Lyin Ryan’ have done, then you just LOL. And that doesn’t bring into play all the OUT AND OUTRIGHT LIES the Romney superpacks have plagued our States with in their totally disingenuous ads. But like I said – you have to know the topics and pay attention. And where this ‘lying candidate and campaign will lose…and lose big… is with the educated middle voter who does pay attention. Why do you think we have seen a definite advantage to the President after Romney’s recent ‘debacle’ on the Libya embassy? People who are educated and understand scenarios realize how dangerous another ‘neocon advocate’ – like Romney – would be to our country. And to characterize the Presidentas ‘weak’ in foreign affairs? That is really laughable. You ask Al Quada, Bin laden, theSomali pirates, all the terroist’ ‘recipients’ of drone attacks,,,,if he’s “weak”. Wake up people. We have a great President.  Lets give him some ‘educated compromisers’ to work with the next 4 years.  Then watch how good he can be.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 10:05 am 10:05 am		



How long has he been running for President, he should know if he was wanted he would have already been in the White house.  I saw some clips where he was debating Bill Clinton, he still has not figured out he cannot buy his was to the Oval Office.




			Posted by: Mary | September 14, 2012, 10:05 am 10:05 am		



Only a fool would want four more years of this.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 10:05 am 10:05 am		



She looked Kate.  She doesn’t like what she sees.  She grasps voting for “Bush on steroids” is by FAR more ignorant than continuing on the path we’re currently on.  See, Barb understands the right wants “war, war and more war” and this is mighty costly.  Barb gets Mitt only paid 13% in taxes and others with far less (me) paid a far higher percentage.  Barb probably understands that the proposals to change Medicare threaten all of us in this society.  Barb is a female that understands easily who has her back and that is not the party of women haters.  Barb is logical and decent.  Now, you run along and post rude stuff on your FB while you convince yourself insulting “liberals” will somehow change their minds.  Be sure to make sure it continues to have no basis in facts.  You go promote more deregulation while you fail to grasp that is what brought on a housing crisis.  Go lie about Obama apologizing around the world.  No day is complete anymore without the chorus of lies.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 10:07 am 10:07 am		



“The sky is falling. The sky is falling!” Lots of Chicken Littles out there trying to scare people into voting Republican. Please, people! How soon we forget the eight years under Bush! And for all those crazy pro-lifers out there calling Obama everything under the sun, we had a pro-life president in office for eight years — how come abortion is still legal? And talk about a  warmonger in chief. My Lord, people … were you asleep for eight years? We are in the mess we’re in because of eight years of lies and failed policies. No one could have undone that in four years! Especially when you consider that he has received NO cooperation from the other side. I am not ready to go back to the Republican way of doing things. My memory is not that short. Republicans don’t care about the average person. Their solution to everything is tax breaks for the rich. It doesn’t work. We’ve seen that, so why do we need to try it again! On another note, how can a Christian vote for Mitt Romney, when all the Christians I know say that Mormonism is a cult? I don’t get it. Is this a Christian flip-flop?




			Posted by: carole | September 14, 2012, 10:09 am 10:09 am		



Because For-profit colleges are quality, Mr. Romney.
Stop pandering to your donors. They’re scamsters stealing Federal Money through the poor.




			Posted by: mike | September 14, 2012, 10:09 am 10:09 am		



“Let’s talk about ‘shovel-ready’”
OK,  Let’s talk about “shovel ready”.  The stimulus money worked just fine in my state, thanks.  President Obama did not dictate how and where state assistance was to be spent, so if it was frittered away or rejected by YOUR STATE, look to your own politicians.  
According to studies by economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, without government help during economic downturns, global jobless rates historically have risen for FIVE YEARS.  That indicates without stimulus spending by this administration, US jobless numbers could have continued CLIMBING until next year.  Check economic blogs.  It’s generally agreed that President Obama’s spending helped our nation dodge another Great Depression.
Really worthwhile to expand news sources outside Faux News and downer radio.




			Posted by: CenterOne | September 14, 2012, 10:09 am 10:09 am		



I am pretty sure the $200,000 to $250,000 should read $20,000 to $250,000. I wonder if this “typo” was done intentionally to demonstrate that Romney is out of touch with average everyday people. I wouldn’t put that past the media – any media organization.




			Posted by: Jeff | September 14, 2012, 10:10 am 10:10 am		



This Veteran of 4 tours of IRaq and Afghanistan supports our President.
WE cannot forge the lies the Republican’s ( Bush, Cheney, Rice, etc….) told the American people that got us into Iraq.
our Economy is struggling right now because of 2 unfunded wars.
We cannot go back.
I love this President because he represents all Americans, not just the 1%.




			Posted by: Michael | September 14, 2012, 10:11 am 10:11 am		



“Explain unemployment being above 8% when Obama promised his nearly $1 Trillion stimulus would keep it under 8%.”
Another zombie lie that lingers on.  Repeatedly, fact checker PolitiFact could find NO EVIDENCE of anyone in the administration promising the stimulus would bring unemployment below 8%.  (PolitiFact 10.13.2011.)  
Again, really worthwhile to expand news sources outside the Right Wing echo chamber.




			Posted by: CenterOne | September 14, 2012, 10:13 am 10:13 am		



Oh Romney, you’ve really stepped in it this time.
The debates will have live fact-checkers and you can bet Obama will be just fine.
You, Mr. Romney, and your side, Ryan, on the other hand are both pathological liars and I doubt you will fair very well.
.




			Posted by: us_1776 | September 14, 2012, 10:19 am 10:19 am		



Wasn’t it nice of you to give Mitt the free air time when he has gazzillions to spend on adds ? Will you be doing an interview with president Obama to give him equal time ?




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 10:20 am 10:20 am		



LOL…and “Billy Bob”……only an uneducated partisan hack….continually just makes ‘one line, shallow soundbite insults’ that never contain  any substance. And that is why…that side is losing.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 10:22 am 10:22 am		



The president says things that aren’t true……Mitt Romney wouldn’t know the truth if it bit him in the….you know.  Hey, Mitt, why don’t you show us a little truth; show us your tax returns!!!




			Posted by: Sueb | September 14, 2012, 10:23 am 10:23 am		



Thats untrue Michael!  I’m a VETERAN of 4 tours and I’m voting for Mitt!  I’m still active and I can’t find one person in my 65 man unit this is, what does that tell you.  have you heard os sequestration, look it up!  If you love this country and what us to be safe then you’ll do the right thing and vote this President out.  Yes, this president is for the 1%, and that 1% isn’t the rich that we have been lead to believe, its for the 1% of growth that we have become; no economy, no fair laws, no freedom of speech, no faith in God, no honesty in our American way.  U know better than that.  If you have been deployed then you have seen what hate and ideology can do to a religion and country, how people can live in the worst conditions and still side with their tribal leaders under fear of religion.  All this President has done over the past 4 years is DIVID good people, hard working people, people of faith!




			Posted by: Jenn | September 14, 2012, 10:26 am 10:26 am		



Obama will eat him alive in a debate.  Mitt can only hope nobody fact checks HIM




			Posted by: Jeanne021556 | September 14, 2012, 10:27 am 10:27 am		



Obama is going to win Ohio, Virginia and Florida.
Romney is going to be the one lying, he will do anything to get elected.
Romney is Toast.




			Posted by: Michael | September 14, 2012, 10:27 am 10:27 am		



Hey Willard (that’s his real first name) – like you WON:T tell lies and half truths like you’ve been doing the whole campaign???????  You hide your tax returns on grounds you don’t want to show what you give to your church – rrrriiight, we’re supposed to believe that one, too – you can’t even be civil and decent when an ambassador of the US is killed overseas, you have to try to make political hay out of a tragedy – scum, go back to being a vulture venture capitalist – I wouldn’t vote for you for dogcatcher.




			Posted by: billytex1 | September 14, 2012, 10:28 am 10:28 am		



Voters look forward to hearing more truth from Mr. Romney during the debate.  
So far, he refuses to lay out a plan to balance the budget before 2040.  He has not revealed how he will “plug loopholes”, he doesn’t propose which agencies will be axed, and he doesn’t explain how MORE tax cuts for the wealthiest or TRILLIONS more military spending will be offset. 
So far, it’s a recipe for MORE spending and LESS revenues – and voters actually remember how well that worked during the Bush era.
We should all be concerned about why tax cuts for the wealthiest are “not on the table”, but no word about Mortgage or Child deductions.  Maybe these are not important to Mitt Romney, but they are to Millions of other Middle Class voters.




			Posted by: CenterOne | September 14, 2012, 10:29 am 10:29 am		



I’ve never seen a bigger bunch of useful idiots than those who would vote for Barry Obama….you are the ignorant implements of your own demise…..luckily, there ARE enough intelligent Americans left to kick his sorry behind to the curb come Nov. 6th…..even when the yellow journalist try to make us believe otherwise…..Stephanopolis?….journalist?….HE WORKED FOR THE CLINTON WHITE HOUSE….you Barry supporters really are gullible, aren’t you!




			Posted by: Kim | September 14, 2012, 10:29 am 10:29 am		



Thank You Michael
I too am a Veteran and did 3 tours to Iraq and support our President. 
when I heard Mitt Romney state out of his own mouth why he didn’t serve in Vietnam and avoided serving his country I became ill.
Mitt Romney is NO AMERICAN.




			Posted by: Shauna | September 14, 2012, 10:29 am 10:29 am		



Are you kidding me???  Middle income for most of America is $50,000 – $100,000, and in some states it’s probably not even that high.  $200-250,000 – even with the “or less” qualifier just shows how totally out-of-touch Romney is with middle America.  And also, reducing deductions, such as mortgage, charities, etc. on those making over $100,000 (and where did that come from if we consider middle class at $200,000) is the same as a tax hike.  Republicans love doing that and claiming they aren’t raising your taxes – it’s totally disingenuous – either way you’re paying more money.  As far as “lying” – changing your position every time you turn around won’t get you membership in the “straight shooter” club either, though I guess if anyone accuses you of lying you just tell them to go back a week or two.




			Posted by: giraffeh2o | September 14, 2012, 10:30 am 10:30 am		



Fauxnews is reporting Rommney will be wearing his “Magic” underwear for the debates.




			Posted by: Jim Bob jr. | September 14, 2012, 10:30 am 10:30 am		



All Romney does is lie.
He demanded 10 years of tax returns from the short list of VP’s and we only get 1 of his.
He’s lying and he’s hiding something.
I’m a Republican and I’m either voting for Obama or not voting at all.




			Posted by: Dale | September 14, 2012, 10:32 am 10:32 am		



Certerone, what if the Independent and Jerusalem Post are correct?




			Posted by: nene | September 14, 2012, 10:32 am 10:32 am		



Obama has told so many lies, it is impossible to count.  Yesterday, I heard 2 local democrats say they would not be voting for Obama because of his stance on Islam and particularly Iran.  We are in for a real bad future if America keeps this very inept man in office and I say that as an independent who did not vote for McCain.  Our children deserve better than this.  Mitt Romney is a very good man and will make a great leader in my HONEST opinion.




			Posted by: rockychance | September 14, 2012, 10:35 am 10:35 am		



Jim Bob I find your religious  bigotry disgusting. And  I am a Democrat




			Posted by: Udall | September 14, 2012, 10:36 am 10:36 am		



I wish I could vote for Mitt and Ryan and the Republican party.
I am no Huge fan of Obama’s but when I watched the DNC and the RNC, the DNC represented me.
The RNC paraded all of these minorities on stage but there were no minorities in the audience.
I am willing to give our President 4 more years.  We gave Bush another 4 years, Obama deserves 4 as well.   
Republican party needs to get it’s act together.




			Posted by: ChelseainAustin | September 14, 2012, 10:36 am 10:36 am		



Terry, you did know George was a Clinton advisor, didn’t you?  How can someone like that not be biased?  On a slightly different subject, Bernanke just ended BO’s chances of getting elected.  Gas prices will now stay elevated, and interest rate “futures” have actually gone higher today.  Interest rates were the only thing holding inflation in check.  Gas prices have skyrocketed to near record levels since 2009.  Not to mention, the assassination of a US Ambassador isn’t going to help BO.




			Posted by: BK.70 | September 14, 2012, 10:39 am 10:39 am		



Fix the article.  Romney does not say $200K-250K is middle class.  He says $200K-250K or LESS.  
From the full transcript:
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Is $100,000 middle income?
MITT ROMNEY: No, middle income is $200,000 to $250,000 and less. So number one, don’t reduce– or excuse me, don’t raise taxes on middle-income people, lower them. Number two, don’t reduce the share of taxes paid by the wealthiest. The top 5% will still pay the same share of taxes they pay today.
Your blatant attempt to misrepresent what Romney said makes your whole article meaningless and irrelevant.




			Posted by: Anna | September 14, 2012, 10:41 am 10:41 am		



Only a fool would want 4 years of Romney




			Posted by: Jim Bo | September 14, 2012, 10:42 am 10:42 am		



Don’t make fun of the underwear! You’ll be wearing it too if Romney gets elected. It’s the secret Mormon agenda to dominate the world. That’s why Mitt went to France in his youth. Watch for the brainwash movie ready to be released if he gets elected. Then you will believe. Or else!




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 10:44 am 10:44 am		



So Mittens is saying exactly the same thing the embassy in Egypt said that he thought was an apology. YOU CAN’T MAKE THIS UP PEOPLE!
there is no way any President could of avoided this.
everyone knows that Muslim Extremists hate Americans and all it takes is a sneeze in the wrong direction to set these people off. 
Romney and his campaign are politicizing the situation and the American people see right thru it. 
No more Unfunded wars. No more Republican ( Bush, Cheney, Rice) lies.
America first.
Obama 2012




			Posted by: ChelseainAustin | September 14, 2012, 10:44 am 10:44 am		



Mitt Romney is a terrible candidate who would make a terrible President. Having said that, the bigotry  against Latter Day Saints coming from some supporters of the President is nauseating. I always considered our Party to be the original “Big Tent”, open to all with progressive views. What has happened to civil discourse?




			Posted by: Udall | September 14, 2012, 10:47 am 10:47 am		



Obama
+5 in Florida
+8 in Pennsylvania
+5 in Virginia
+7 in Ohio
+6 in Michigan
+4 in Colorado
Keep opening your mouth Mittens.
who can forget the Republican debates when Rick Perry and MIttens embarrassed themselves?
Obama in a landslide.




			Posted by: SamIAm | September 14, 2012, 10:47 am 10:47 am		



George you should take lessons from Chris Wallace on how to be Fair & Balanced. And by
the way I don’t want to have dinner with either one of them What I want is this country fixed.
Start asking real questions.




			Posted by: janet | September 14, 2012, 10:50 am 10:50 am		



@wolfgang halbig … Abraham Lincoln was a “progressive”, in the GOP of over 100 years ago. Please name one progressive in today’s GOP?




			Posted by: second look | September 14, 2012, 10:50 am 10:50 am		



I would eat dinner with Mitt. I have no doubt he would be a more engaging and REAL host. Not to mention, we share the same love and pride for our great country. God bless America!!




			Posted by: Rhonda | September 14, 2012, 10:50 am 10:50 am		



wow hes got a pair..lies? Um ryan you remember him dontcha Mitt money




			Posted by: Shawn99765 | September 14, 2012, 10:51 am 10:51 am		



UDALL.. I do respect your view. I was satirizing the way some go after Obama. Of course I do not have a real issue with the Church of Latter Day Saints.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 10:52 am 10:52 am		



Romney, “Obama Will ‘Say Things That Aren’t True’”
As usual, Mr. Romney did not understand the question.




			Posted by: newz4i | September 14, 2012, 10:53 am 10:53 am		



This will be fun to watch.  A Capitalist against a Socialist?  Obama is gonna get schooled…….




			Posted by: WB | September 14, 2012, 10:53 am 10:53 am		



Does Romney know what a debate is about? You take a question posed and state your opinion on that question. You are graded on your response to that question. If you go off on some tangent like Palin did you’ll look like the moron she is. But then again morons tend in pairs.




			Posted by: Soothsayer | September 14, 2012, 10:55 am 10:55 am		



I doubt Obama will have a chance to debate Mitt on anything – Romney will spending all his time debating his own flip flops.




			Posted by: second look | September 14, 2012, 10:55 am 10:55 am		



Samian, those polls were before  an American ambassador was murdered after the White House ignored warnings of 9/11 violence. How long can the media cover up what the Independent and Jerusalem Post are reporting? How long can ABC refuse to report the truth?




			Posted by: nene | September 14, 2012, 10:56 am 10:56 am		



I get sad when I listen to Christians talk about their political beliefs because it seems to me that they don’t base their voting on Christian things like The Bible. For example, 1st Timothy 6:10 says “For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.” and it seems to me that if you love money enough to make Bain capital destroy all of those lives then you qualify as having love of money. And in Mathew 25:31-46 Jesus says that those that take care of the poor and needy will be blessed and those that don’t will be cursed and cast out. Hey guys that claim you are Christian, why don’t you like the Bible ?




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 10:56 am 10:56 am		



Thats untrue Michael! I’m a VETERAN of 4 tours and I’m voting for Mitt! I’m still active and I can’t find one person in my 65 man unit this is, what does that tell you. have you heard os sequestration, look it up! If you love this country and what us to be safe then you’ll do the right thing and vote this President out. Yes, this president is for the 1%, and that 1% isn’t the rich that we have been lead to believe, its for the 1% of growth that we have become; no economy, no fair laws, no freedom of speech, no faith in God, no honesty in our American way. U know better than that. If you have been deployed then you have seen what hate and ideology can do to a religion and country, how people can live in the worst conditions and still side with their tribal leaders under fear of religion. All this President has done over the past 4 years is DIVID good people, hard working people, people of faith!
Posted by: Jenn | September 14, 2012, 10:26 am 10:26 am ……….  Jenn you sound like a really nice person that just believes differently than I do.  I wanted to ask you something.  Assuming you are what you claim?  How on earth can you vote for a party that is filled with neocons that you have to know want to wage war non stop to create a hegemony?  You are, after all, at the front of this agenda and in harms way.  These wars will not be for freedoms.  They will be for oil and domination.  Can you give me one example of President Obama taking away a freedom?  That is an awfully heavy charge and it needs something to back it up.  Personally I’d call “no fair laws” to mean Mitt paying less of percentage in taxes than I do.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 10:57 am 10:57 am		



“Well, I’m ahead in a lot of other states, too.  I saw one this morning, ahead in Florida, ” _____________ YOU LIE, MITTENS!  The President is ahead of you by five points in Florida.  I SAW THAT AT 7:00 a.m., THS morning!  But, you say the PRESIDENT LIES????? That’s why you’re going to lose.  Just because you are trying to set the stage to plant doubt about the President early, doesn’t mean your tactic will work! YOU CAN BE FACT CHECKED!  LIAR!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 10:58 am 10:58 am		



PAPER: U.S. WARNED OF EMBASSY ATTACK BUT DID NOTHING
Obama responsible for murder of Ambassador?
OBAMA_________________VS____________________AMERICA




			Posted by: Yep I said that | September 14, 2012, 11:01 am 11:01 am		



I have a question for Mr Romney.. If the President is a liar as you claim. why would you allow him the opportunity to lie more by entering into a debate with him on national TV?  That’s not using very good judgement in my book.  Mr Romney has now labeled his debate as an exercise in futility.




			Posted by: Grace | September 14, 2012, 11:02 am 11:02 am		



About George Stephanopoulos
George Stephanopoulos is anchor of ABC’s “Good Morning America” and “This Week.” He is also the network’s chief political correspondent, reporting on political and policy stories for all ABC News broadcasts and platforms.
George is also known as a Clinton and Democrat operative
Lets have full disclosure ABC ok?




			Posted by: Yep I said that | September 14, 2012, 11:02 am 11:02 am		



So Mitt Romney just admitted that he is impotent to get anything done anyway. He is ready to concede whatever his plans are to some unseen opposition. He is such a horrible, horrible leader. America would soon go to poo if he got in the white house. 
Pretty wishy washy too. He just wants to dance around & talk about his grandkids throwing food at the table. What a colossal loss for America that the right has such horrific nominees as Romney/Lyan.




			Posted by: Libertyinfinite | September 14, 2012, 11:03 am 11:03 am		



Friday, September 14, 2012
The Rasmussen Reports daily Presidential Tracking Poll for Friday shows Mitt Romney attracting support from 48% of voters nationwide, while President Obama earns 45% of the vote. Two percent (2%) prefer some other candidate, and five percent (5%) are undecided.
Kinda of makes ABC GMA look kind of sad with thier report this morning




			Posted by: Ted | September 14, 2012, 11:04 am 11:04 am		



They all play games. They all lie. They are all terrible choices. That’s tremendous power, being able to vote for them by telling them what they need to hear. 
Nevermind the desire to truly represent. Those days are long gona. Zombie Sheeple Voter Apocalypse 2012.




			Posted by: Ja-Lin | September 14, 2012, 11:05 am 11:05 am		



A very simple thing is at play here:   you can always tell a LIAR by the way they so aggressively call everyone else liars.   Willard, the country gets your schtick: you will say anything and do anything to get what your church tells you is your birthright: the White House.   
Your running mate lies about everything, even down to his marathon time.   And we’ve now seen enough from you to know you’re in the same boat.




			Posted by: Dave S | September 14, 2012, 11:06 am 11:06 am		



Um, Ted: only Fox sheeple believe Rasmussen.   March on and keep high-stepping!




			Posted by: Dave S | September 14, 2012, 11:07 am 11:07 am		



Mitt’s magic underwear must be on too tight: it’s causing him to accuse others of precisely what he does all the time.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 11:09 am 11:09 am		



The Center For Public Integrity listed “Scott Rasmussen Inc” as a paid consultant for the 2004 George W. Bush campaign.  Rasmussen has been known to be biased towards conservatives for years.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 14, 2012, 11:10 am 11:10 am		



Does anybody other than me remember the quote “mETHINKS HE DOTH PROTEST TOO MUCH” ?




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 11:12 am 11:12 am		



“I think the challenge that I’ll have in the debate is that the president tends to, how shall I say it, to say things that aren’t true,” Romney said. “I’ve looked at prior debates. And in that kind of case, it’s difficult to say, ‘Well, am I going to spend my time correcting things that aren’t quite accurate?”
This, coming from a campaign that has openly boasted that the dishonesty in its ads worked, and has openly proclaimed that it does not view media fact checking as a legitimate constraint on its messaging.




			Posted by: Jilli | September 14, 2012, 11:12 am 11:12 am		



Good stuff Mitt….good interview.
We need someone to stand up for traditional American values.
Obama Mr. Flip-Flop-Flip. Marriage is between a man and a woman – no it isn’t, yes it is, now back to no it isn’t.
If that’s evolution – it’s going BACKWARD.




			Posted by: Marc | September 14, 2012, 11:12 am 11:12 am		



No one is talking about all the money we are printing and putting into the economy. We cannot keep devaluing the dollar. This is going to drive up inflation. Look at who Obama’s mentors are. This will scare the hell out of you.




			Posted by: guido | September 14, 2012, 11:12 am 11:12 am		



I look forward to the debates when Romney can provide the truth about specific programs he’d actually cut – so as to add TRILLIONS to the defense budget and to offset more tax advantages for the 1%. 
So far, we know Ryan’s budget takes nearly 62% of its non-defense savings from Medicaid, food stamps, and other programs that aid poor people, the elderly and sick, the disabled, little kids and the unemployed.  
Is now a good time to make it harder for the downtrodden, people out of work and hungry kids – just so Americans like Mitt Romney, citizens who benefited the most from past government economic policies, can enjoy even MORE?
So far, we know Catholic bishops have called the Republican budget immoral, unjustified and wrong since it deliberately harms people at the economic margins. 
I look forward to the debates when Mr. Romney can provide the truth about specific programs he’d actually cut.  Republican or Democrat, if your family uses Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, or the mortgage tax deduction, it’s well worth demanding answers.




			Posted by: CenterOne | September 14, 2012, 11:17 am 11:17 am		



Romney you are no better and we call what Obama does lying, but like i said your as bad as he is and ill vote a dog in before either of your RoBamney




			Posted by: Were All Guilty NOW! | September 14, 2012, 11:19 am 11:19 am		



I AM SCREAMING FOR A REASON. OBAMA TOOK AWAY MY FREEDOM FOR HEALTHCARE. DO YOU KNOW THAT MY COMPANY WHICH HAS 2,000 EMPLOYEES IS OPTING TO PAY THE PENALTY OF $2,000 PER PERSON AND NOT OFFER COVERAGE TO US ANYMORE WHEN THIS OBAMA CARE BECOMES LAW. THEY WILL SAVE ROUGHLY 22MM A YEAR IN HEALTH CARE COVERAGE. NOW I AM ON MY OWN TO LOOK FOR MY FAMILY. IN LOOKING, TO COVER A FAMILY OF 5, IT WILL COST US AROUND $1,200 A MONTH FOR COVERAGE. I WAS PAYING $240. NOW WHAT………..GREAT READY AMERICA MORE COMPANIES WILL DO THIS BECAUSE THE SHAREHOLDERS WILL MAKE THEM GET OUT …………….




			Posted by: guido | September 14, 2012, 11:20 am 11:20 am		



I just want Obama to answer for his lies.  One example is the promise that no lobbyists would be in his administration.  Then he appointed 17 of them in his first two weeks.




			Posted by: angie | September 14, 2012, 11:20 am 11:20 am		



I definitely know I don’t want to have dinner at the Romney household – food being thrown across the table by the grandkids – a lot of fun?  I don’t think so.  Sounds like a chaotic mess with out of control kids!




			Posted by: Freespirit | September 14, 2012, 11:21 am 11:21 am		



I don’t know why I’m being all religious today, I guess so-called Christians have been too annoying lately. He guys, whatever happened to “You shall know the truth and th truth shall set you free ?” Since liking the truth is scriptural why don’t Republicans like FACT checkers ? I mean, facts are true, that’s the definition. BTW, thanks Jilli, for -> This, coming from a campaign that has openly boasted that the dishonesty in its ads worked, and has openly proclaimed that it does not view media fact checking as a legitimate constraint on its messaging.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 11:22 am 11:22 am		



Rasmussen polls registered voters instead of “likely” voters, I’ve heard, so his numbers may be more accurate.  I surf the news a lot and I wouldn’t trust Stephanopoulous to ask unbiased  questions as a former Clinton pal.  You did see the sneaky ploy that the Obama cheerleader “journalists” whispered to ambush Romney, didn’t you?   Yes sir, all that sweet hot air about Obama’s “Jesus Christ” image went out the door with that unprofessional sleazy behavior.




			Posted by: jonnie | September 14, 2012, 11:22 am 11:22 am		



1.  Everyone needs to remember that Georgie has a conference call EVERY MORNING with James Carville and Rahm Emanuel.  This goes all the way back to when he was on the Clinton team.
2.  We all heard the press pool that was going to interview Romney collaberating on their questioning of him.  They only asked if he regretted HIS statement.  NOTHING about Obama’s LACK of ANY statement the night of the killing.  Was he sleeping?
3.  With the obvious bias the press has in this election, it wouldn’t surprise me one bit if Obama has the debate questions early.  It also wouldn’t surprise me that he has to OK what questions can be asked.  
4.  REAL journalism is dead in this country.  It is a real shame we have to go to overseas journalists to get the true story.




			Posted by: wheresmymoney | September 14, 2012, 11:22 am 11:22 am		



I have been reading all of these posts, and why the name calling?  I don’t read the ones that start out or start to name call, because when you do that you have already lost the argument.  Just bring in the facts.
And for those of you who want to see Mitt’s tax returns, tell our president to show his college transcripts and whether or not he received scholorships based on the fact he was from another country.  (and this has nothing to do with a b/c.)  That would be fair.
Romney/Ryan 2012




			Posted by: Country Girl | September 14, 2012, 11:23 am 11:23 am		



“I think it’s the most blatantly dishonest performance by a presidential candidate I’ve ever seen,” Newt Gingrich on Mitt Romney, January 27, 2012.




			Posted by: Roger | September 14, 2012, 11:23 am 11:23 am		



Your job as a reporter is to inform and not try to influence. In watching this interview, your bias is apparent to all viewers (whether they like you or love you). That is very disturbing. It seems like the media takes its talking points from Stephanie Cutter and the President’s re-election team. However please understand that voters are not looking to these types of news show to hear the reporters attempt to push the talking points from one side. Folks understand that Fox News leans to the right. However they will have a person from the left to give us their alternate perspective on the same issue. With ABC, NBC, and CBS it seems like the anchors now see their task as simply espousing their own political left leaning views in an attempt to influence instead of inform. Posted by: C.A. K. | September 14, 2012, 8:00 am 8:00 am _______ CAK I just don’t know even where to begin.  A good reporter’s job is to dig, expose, and inform the public. Any report which does this is in essence going to influence someone because they are presenting information in context with an analysis.  You seem to be confusing truth with bias..this is a problem of the right.   The right seems to believe that to be a good reporter you must say only positive things about con/repub politicians thus if something negative is exposed about a con/repub politician then that is defacto proof of that reporter’s bias.  The right have been doing this for the past 20 years..repeatedly, unendingly, and destructively claiming the bias of the MSM to the point where, I believe, that the MSM is gun shy fearing that it they actually do their jobs by asking difficulty question..ya know the ones con/repubs call “gocha question” ….and then effective follow up questions then they are being bias.  Therefore, for a con/repub the only proof of not being bias is to actually be bias by NOT asking the difficult questions and follow ups…people, think about what you are doing.  If we destroy the trust in our MSM then we make impotent our ability to hold our leaders accountable and we in turn become less free.  So, please stop this bashing of the MSM and accept that they need to do their jobs.  And as far as Faux Noise putting on a “liberal” to counterbalance that is such a ridiculous statement I can’t even believe you said that.  THE ENTIRE FAUX NOISE is scripted conservative propaganda designed to manipulate it’s viewers.




			Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 11:23 am 11:23 am		



Posted by: mike electrician | September 14, 2012, 8:33 am 8:33 am 
“Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year.” WTF? What are YOU smoking, MItt? Maybe you better take another look at middle class America, ’cause it looks like you’re in dreamland…now we see who he really is depending on to vote for him.
AMEN! I thought I was doing pretty well but now I know I’m poor.




			Posted by: Sarah | September 14, 2012, 11:24 am 11:24 am		



Sameagain, ridiculing someone’s religious beliefs is not satire, it is bigotry, the same kind of bigotry that caused the death of four Americans in Libya. Now I don’t think that most Latter Day Saints are going to riot when you ridicule what we consider part of our religious beliefs, but can’t you understand how hateful and hurtful your comments are?  I remember when Jack  Kennedy faced the same  kind of “Senator from Rome” garbage- Catholics were a mainstay of the Democratic Party precisely because we welcomed all: Jews, Catholics, poor, well off, Union and unskilled workers, anybody who needed a hand to get the American Dream. Your comments remind me of those times-but coming from progressives breaks my heart. We can do better.




			Posted by: Udall | September 14, 2012, 11:26 am 11:26 am		



Romney is either an out right liar or believes his lies.  Both are very troubling, and he and his team have taken the lies to a level where it’s almost laughable (Saturday Night Live has got to love Mitt).  What’s frightening though is that there is a large portion of our country who want to buy what he is selling (Bull Sh*t) so much so that they are willing to believe his lies at any cost.
I hope for all of our sake, President Obama will be able to continue his great work for the next 4 years.  I pray for that.




			Posted by: sumi | September 14, 2012, 11:33 am 11:33 am		



Interesting Tactic:
Accuse the other guy of lying BEFORE the debate – because if, God forbid, people believe the truth…you will certainly lose.
Desperate talk from a desperate man…really pathetic.




			Posted by: Paul | September 14, 2012, 11:38 am 11:38 am		



Disgraceful comments from Romney. How dare you call the President a liar. I think you are projecting your own personality on the presidency–you are a professional liar and would lie about anything just to get to the White House.




			Posted by: Roscoe Chait | September 14, 2012, 11:38 am 11:38 am		



the Arab Spring endorsed by Obama led to the KILLING FIELDS IN THE MID EAST. He also endorsed OWS and I find it strange that the Muslims in the attacks are in Guy Fawkes masks.The current uprising is being blamed on a movie that has been out since june, this is unbelievable. This is another ruse to muffle free speech, keep an eye on new cybersecurity endeavors. Obama is on the side of wrong and I feel what he does is pure evil. . Obama was unable to support the people of Iran who took to the streets in hope of overthrowing the current government. The people of Iran have a want of freedom, unlike the dictatorial government it has. Obama refused to support the people of Honduras when it’s military had to intervene to prevent it’s president from becoming a dictator. Obama ‘s administration and his policies have led to he deaths of many, through Fast and Furious, Drone attacks, people committing suicide in the military due to multiple back to back deployments as well as domestically due to the economy. Due to Obama’s policy infantacide is promoted. MSM recently were caught on a hot mike colluding to setting up Romney for it’s recent “controversial ” story. Since Gallup has been investigated by the DOJ all other polls are dubious in their results because of what the DOJ has done to Gallup. The Obama administration coddles despots, dictators and rogue regimes as it simultaneously wreaks havoc on the American citizen. He needs to be voted out and I am calling for fair and honest elections where the military vote is counted..




			Posted by: Jo | September 14, 2012, 11:42 am 11:42 am		



Yea, how dare you call obama a liar!   Everyone knows that he never tells a lie.  You must be calling him a liar cause your racist.  Let’s stick it to Romney.  That should really tag him.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 11:43 am 11:43 am		



Oh, he is PSYCHIC!!!!  Yes, that gets my vote!!!




			Posted by: natFrankie | September 14, 2012, 11:43 am 11:43 am		



If only Romney would just show those tax returns, we’d have something to distract from all these other campaign embarrassments.




			Posted by: country girl | September 14, 2012, 11:44 am 11:44 am		



udall , I agree but also religion can’t get too involved in the US political system . It’s unconstitutional , clearly . Religion has it’s place in the USA , a quiet non-political place . Stay there or don’t complain .
Also Romney stating $200k is “middle class ” is the exact kind of off the cuff blithely stupid remark that will destroy him in the debates . This is one debate that I will not miss .




			Posted by: davem | September 14, 2012, 11:44 am 11:44 am		



!!!!!!.A statement had to be made quickly and Obama was no where to be found… was LATE making it!!! Facebook people were waiting and he was unresponsive….Disgusting, wimpy leader!!!!!!  __________ Well, we certainly can’t have the FACEBOOK people waiting, even if the President was smart in not RUSHING to release something STUPID as did Mittens!  Don’t you realize Americans had been killed — our AMBASSADOR was killed?  Do you know how delicate the situation is with the US and the Middle East?  Or are you just shooting off your mouth?  Yeah, the latter.  That’s why Mittens PERFECTLY represents YOUR MINDSET and not the American people’s!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 11:46 am 11:46 am		



Pretty bad when a candidate has to accuse his opponent of being a liar before the debates – maybe Romney should stick to empty chairs..




			Posted by: kerri | September 14, 2012, 11:49 am 11:49 am		



This from a man whose campaign said “we don’t let our message get influence by fact checkers” and from a campaign whose VP lies EVEN about stuff like marathon times.   
Thanks Willard.   Does Mormonism not believe in the 10 commandments?   You know, the part about being habitually dishonest?




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 11:50 am 11:50 am		



Republicans would have the Fed sit on their hands till the election instead of helping our economy now!
GOP_________________VS____________________AMERICA




			Posted by: Yep I said that | September 14, 2012, 11:55 am 11:55 am		



Every time Mitt pounces, he comes up with a mouthful of quills.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 11:55 am 11:55 am		



Is the Pope catholic???




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 11:56 am 11:56 am		



See the movie 2016!!!!   Enough said.




			Posted by: Ty | September 14, 2012, 11:58 am 11:58 am		



Ah another day in the sandbox and I see the children still can’t play nice.  I see name calling from both sides.  Each trying to prove how smart they are by telling the others they are ignorant.   Only 53 more day until this nighmare is over – ah but then it’s 4 years of either Obama sucks or Romney sucks.   Sad, I remember the days when I was proud of my countrymen, admired how we stood together.   Now – well let’s jsut say I am glad I wont be here to see the end of a great country.  It’s not only the politicians bringing our country down – its the citizens…don’t believe me…read the post above this.    Well you children have fun tearing each other down.




			Posted by: berton1929 | September 14, 2012, 11:59 am 11:59 am		



@ Dale 10:32am, I was a republican until they nominated Mitt. I am voting Gay Johnson, but it doesn’t matter because my state is Washington State, my vote for president has never counted because my state always goes for the liberal. If your state is either always liberal, or always republican, than you really don’t even have to worry about who you vote for for president.




			Posted by: Libertyinfinite | September 14, 2012, 12:00 pm 12:00 pm		



I agree with UDALL because here in America we are constitutionally garanteed freedom of religion. You don’t have to like somebody else’s religion or lack thereof, but you do have to respect thier right practice it. Don’t put down other religions. I am in the process of pointing out a number of items I find questionable in some Christians  practice of our mutual beliefs.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 12:02 pm 12:02 pm		



Only a billionaire would consider $200,000 to $250,000 “middle income.”




			Posted by: Tracy | September 14, 2012, 12:04 pm 12:04 pm		



So he defines “middle-income” as $200,000 to $250,000 a year. This article fails to point out that according to the Census Bureau, the median (middle) income in the country is currently just over $50,000 a year. 
Not only is Romney’s definition FACTUALLY incorrect, it is oddly NARROW…what? The “Middle Class” is ONLY those making between $200,000 and $250,000 a year? 
Everyone else ( the OTHER approximately 97% of us…that’s right; only about 3% of all taxpayers fall into Mr. Romney’s definition of the “middle class” or wealthy he promises NOT to raise taxes on!!!) is NOT, by his definition, “middle-class”.
He has made up his own definition of “middle class” to try and cover his butt re’ his tax plan…now, in his universe, so long as he doesn’t propose raising taxes on anyone with $200,000 or MORE a year in income (3% of all taxpayers), he has kept his promise. Everyone else (the 97% of us who are poor, working class, or ACTUALLY middle class) is fair game.
What a worm.
It is RICH (no pun intended;) to hear someone who LIES and DISTORTS with virtually every breath accuse the President of lying.
ABC fact-checked his RNC speech and documented no fewer than SIX LIES and BLATANT DISTORTIONS! 
Add another to the growing list.




			Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:05 pm 12:05 pm		



pretty bad when we all know its true….obama is all hat and no cattle. he will say anything. anyone with a braine knew 4 years ago that his economic plan was a fraud. all he cares about is attacking people who pay tax for the benefit of those who already dont.




			Posted by: catman | September 14, 2012, 12:05 pm 12:05 pm		



Proving Obama is a liar is too easy.
Roll the tape about what he said of no lobbyists in his administration and he appointed 17 of them in his first two weeks.
Shovel-Ready jobs
Passing stimulus would prevent unemployment from reaching 8%
Closing Gitmo his first priority




			Posted by: angie | September 14, 2012, 12:07 pm 12:07 pm		



Posted by: Jo | September 14, 2012, 11:42 am 11:42 am ___ First you say that it was wrong for Obama to support he Arab Spring then you go on and say that he failed to support the people of Iran “Obama was unable to support the people of Iran who took to the streets in hope of overthrowing the current government.”  Please make up your mind.  Then you said; “This is another ruse to muffle free speech, keep an eye on new cybersecurity endeavors.” WHO IS MUFFLEING free speech..you people really need to get an education.  With free speech there is also responsibility.  In this country we ARE free to speak our minds but we do not have “free” speech.  There are limits such as not being able to yell fire in a crowed movie theater or defaming someone.  This disgusting movie should have been denounced by our government and I would have expected nothing less from a free people.  WE THE PEOPLE do not have to agree with everything that is said but we will defend to the death their right to say it.  Our government needed to say that this movie was disgusting and does not reflect the feelings and attitudes of the USA because in the USA WE THE PEOPLE respect all religions.  Again, not agreeing with the content of speech is not the same as limiting free speech or apologizing for free speech.  Then you said; “The Obama administration coddles despots, dictators and rogue regimes as it simultaneously wreaks havoc on the American citizen.”  You are aware that the USA has been doing this for generations now….don’t you?




			Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 12:11 pm 12:11 pm		



By saying ahead of the debates that the President is a liar, Romney is using a tactic called “Poisoning the Well”.  Fallacious “reasoning like this is used by people who think they’re about to be outclassed in an argument and want to get in the first hit.  One the other hand, if anyone has a working knowledge of lying, it would be Mitt Romney.




			Posted by: WardPayne | September 14, 2012, 12:11 pm 12:11 pm		



STEPHANOPOULOS LIES!!!
MITT ROMNEY: No, middle income is $200,000 to $250,000 and less.
Correct this article!!!




			Posted by: Jose Manfried | September 14, 2012, 12:12 pm 12:12 pm		



If the media wasn’t in bed with Obama…. he would never stand a chance in this election!! — Truely sad!! — Where are the stories about Obama’s intent to continue to raise the national debt to $25Trillion? —- Where are the stories about the administrations illegal Fast & Furious plan?? — Where are the stories about how the “Obama recovery” is dead and we are heading into another recession?? — Where are the stories about the long-term harm to our dollars by the FED’s buying of our debt?? —- If Obama was treated like any GOP candidate… he would be planning his move back to Chicago!!!!!




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 12:12 pm 12:12 pm		



The audience will laugh at Romney if dares open his mouth and utter that Reagan line “There you go again.” We should not be surprised Romney will plead the “5th” if he does not want to answer tough questions during the debates. He already senses defeat. That is why he tries to preempt the situation by saying that the president lies. As Bill Clinton says, “It takes a brass to accuse another person of the very thing that you yourself are doing. Sorry, Romney, your bid for the presidency is a losing bid the moment you lied to the American people about your tax returns. Your character and integrity have suffered.




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 14, 2012, 12:13 pm 12:13 pm		



@KERRY. True! The only way Romney can win is by debating an empty chair. Mr. Eastwood would be Romney’s best coach.




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 14, 2012, 12:17 pm 12:17 pm		



Play the videos of candidate Obama in 2008 of what he said he’d do if elected.  Now look at what he’s done or not done.
The liar is Obama.




			Posted by: angie | September 14, 2012, 12:17 pm 12:17 pm		



Obama a liar? tell me something I don’t know…..




			Posted by: angus | September 14, 2012, 12:18 pm 12:18 pm		



His follicles exude rancid grease.




			Posted by: tork | September 14, 2012, 12:21 pm 12:21 pm		



This election is about whether or not Obama deserves a second term.   Now the only thing we have to base that decision on is his first term.




			Posted by: dd23 | September 14, 2012, 12:21 pm 12:21 pm		



As soon as Romney runs of lies during the debates, he will plead the fifth.




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 14, 2012, 12:23 pm 12:23 pm		



Get yr head outta yr @$$ Ryan, the question should be “If you don’t wantr to be a parent, DON’T GET PREGNANT!!!” Its not about a “choice”.  __________ So sayeth Vic, the man.  You have no idea what circumstances bring a woman to decide to abort.  And yet, here you  are espousing, on your soapbox, about something you know nothing about!  Have the baby, even if you were raped.  Have the baby, even if your uncle is the father!  Have the baby, even if you know how miserable your baby’s life will be because his or her baby’s sperm donor has abandoned her!   Yeah.  That’s the right platform to adopt! NOT.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 12:24 pm 12:24 pm		



Only a billionaire would consider $200,000 to $250,000 “middle income.”
Posted by: Tracy | September 14, 2012, 12:04 pm 12:04 pm 
Since Obama only wants to increase taxes (now anyway) on those that make over $200,000 or couples making more that $250,000, it looks as if he agrees with that statement.




			Posted by: wheresmymoney | September 14, 2012, 12:25 pm 12:25 pm		



“This election is about whether or not Obama deserves a second term. Now the only thing we have to base that decision on is his first term.”
POSTED BY: DD23 | SEPTEMBER 14, 2012, 12:21 PM 12:21 PM______________So, how many of Obama’s job bills were voted on by Republicans in congress? Crickets!




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 14, 2012, 12:26 pm 12:26 pm		



The choice is whether a woman chooses to have sex or not,. If yes, then USE A CONTRACEPTIVE. Any idiot knows sex usually leads to pregnancy but too many immoral lazy selfish irresponsible monsters want to murder an unborn, SIMPLY because she’s too stupid to not get pregnant.  _______ Another bright gem, from the “Genius” VIC, who blames the woman ENTIRELY for the pregnancy and in a very VILE way!  You are un-freaking-believable!  This is why Americans don’t want you loons in charge!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 12:26 pm 12:26 pm		



Watch! As soon as Romney runs of lies during the debates, he will plead the Fifth.




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 14, 2012, 12:27 pm 12:27 pm		



Romney knows he’s going to be called out in these debates, man to man, for his lies, and more. He saw Clinton’s speech. He saw the polls go against him as a result. He knows there is a world of hurt coming his way that he simply will be unable to dodge. He is attempting to preempt that freight train by beating Obama to the punch. The problem is, Obama hasn’t lied like Romney has or Romney would come out with the accusations now, or would have back at the convention like Clinton did! This level of desperation is truly astounding! It has never before been seen on the American political stage. Romney is an incompetent candidate.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 12:32 pm 12:32 pm		



I’ve seen logic problems where you’re told the Horse always lies on Mondays and Tuesdays, the Cow always tells the truth on on Tuesdays and Sundays, etc. and then from the questions and answers that the several animals provide like “The Horse lied to me yesterday” you have to deduce what day of the week it is.
One day someone is sure to create a new logic problem that begins: “Romney lies depending on which way the wind is blowing, Ryan lies when it’s still or blowing…”




			Posted by: The_Mick | September 14, 2012, 12:33 pm 12:33 pm		



Play the videos of candidate Obama in 2008 of what he said he’d do if elected. Now look at what he’s done or not done.———————————————————————————- President Obama assumed that the Republicans actually gave a crap about the USA, but instead they acted like little kids who lost a baseball and have done nothing but make sure that the president would not win anything again.




			Posted by: thisissimon | September 14, 2012, 12:33 pm 12:33 pm		



@Berton1929 11:59am, I was born on the mid sixties, & all of my life, I never knew what it felt like to be a real American. No one did, at that point. The People here were all led by their tvs, the culture of lies. & collectivist took truth out of our lives via medias (mostly news papers & local tv news) in about 1990, it made the full switch into communist training by way of media indoctrination. Our schools started to change dramatically too, into fascist indoctrination centers, & our government workers became deeply corrupt, & despotic along with most of both political parties. Yet still, the American People believed that they were helpless to change even the slightest thing. But then came Obama, the first blatantly socialist “president”, & people “woke up”. We had a chance to eliminate all despotism out of our lives with the conservative candidate Senator Santorum, but the despotic D.C. republicans wouldn’t allow that. We could have had a bottom up recovery that focused on how the American People could do the work to take tyranny & despotism out of our lives. We could have held every hand as precious, & able to contribute to this throwing off of collectivist domination. Every hand, liberal, moderate, republican, libertarian, conservative, independent, we could have united America in a real recovery & brought America back into Independence from this unimaginably huge despotic nanny state. We could have done it this year, & we came in second. But as you stare down at us from where ever you say you are going, know that the American People will recover. Mitt Romney is wholly unqualified to lead us in anything. But someday, America will crawl out from under all of this & live again. Go in knowing that freedom will succeed. Not with Romney, but it will, if only we have a leader who believes in her. And there will be one, there must. America, under all of this, has her Independent spirit intact.




			Posted by: Libertyinfinite | September 14, 2012, 12:34 pm 12:34 pm		



The Audacity of Mitt Romney is stupefying.




			Posted by: Caryl S. Foster | September 14, 2012, 12:36 pm 12:36 pm		



Hey MST-MAC, did she forget to use her contraceptive before she was raped ? Or are you one of those “legitamate rape” fans ?




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 12:37 pm 12:37 pm		



Go see 2016. it will change the way you view Obama, It is really scary that he was ever elected president and he would not have been if the MSM had done their job. You libs need to go see the movie then come back and post your comments. Until you do that you cannot be taken seriously.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 12:39 pm 12:39 pm		



ABC says Obama is ahead in the registered voters poll………..that is funny I have over 200 relatives that are registered voters and not one of them have been asked how they will vote nor any of their friends and thir friends and their friends……so this poll is garbag. ___________ .  Richard, RIchard, Richard.  If you think your 200 relatives and their freinds, and their friends, are the people deciding this election, you are delusional.  The fact that you have polled those 200 relatives and their friends and their friends and their friends for whether they have been polled or not, is just plain sad. :(   I mean, I’m into this election and all, but I do have a life.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 12:40 pm 12:40 pm		



The Drudge Report stating that The Independent newspaper in England is
reporting that 48 hours before the attacks in Cairo and in Lybia our government received warnings that our embassies in the middle east were targeted for attacks. But no increased security placed at our embassies. No marines sent to protect our embassies or consulates. The killing of our Ambassador Stevens and 3 other american consulate staffers was the result of a pre-planned attack by a terrorist group, probably Al Quaedq, on the anniversary of 9/11, not the video the administration is apologizing for.




			Posted by: SalR | September 14, 2012, 12:41 pm 12:41 pm		



THELOYALOPPOSISTION: “…Where are the stories about Obama’s intent to continue to raise the national debt to $25Trillion? ”
FACT: Federal spending under Obama has risen at the LOWEST level in 60 years (0.4% annually VS 17.9% in Bush’s last budget of 2009…all told, federal spending increased by 104% under Bush..under Clinton, it increased a total of 11%. In Bush’s 8 years, we spent almost TWICE what we did in Clinton’s 8 years. Source, MarketWatch, confirmed by PolitiFact.
“—- Where are the stories about the administrations illegal Fast & Furious plan?? —”
You mean the one which was a CONTINUATION of previous BUSH-ERA gun-walking programs (incl. Wide Receiver) and which was a ROGUE operation out of the Phoenix ATF field office  and overseen by the same agent as the previous incarnations (Bill Newell, special agent in charge of ATF’s Phoenix field division)?
The one which, when brought to the attention of the current administration by whistle-blowers in the ATF and the murder of Brian Terry, was immediately HALTED and INVESTIGATED by Holder? The same Holder who testified no fewer than NINE TIMES before the Congressional Committee and turned over ALL relevent documents related to his department’s investigation (only withholding certain private, internal communications, citing Executuve Privilege as the Bush administration routinely did with regard to such personal emails)?
The evidence indicates that this administration didn’t even KNOW about Fast and Furious until the poo hit the fan, much less say create or oversee it.
 “Where are the stories about how the “Obama recovery” is dead and we are heading into another recession?? ”
We are in the 30th consecutive month of private sector job growth, with over 4.5 million new private sector jobs added during that time (in contrast to the 8 million we LOST under and immediately following the Bush administration). Economists are currently forecasting an estimated 12 million new jobs between 2013 and 2016 (remember? Romney tried to take credit for it, claiming that “unlike the President, I have a plan to create 12 million new jobs…” ABC cited the pre-existing predictions and exposed Romney’s lie/distortion).
Perhaps the reason you aren’t seeing the stories you want to see is because THEY AREN’T REAL NEWS…Go watch Fox if you want fake news slanted to the Right to confirm your biases. REALITY is heavily biased towards the LEFT. ;)




			Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:41 pm 12:41 pm		



This election is about whether or not Obama deserves a second term. Now the only thing we have to base that decision on is his first term. Posted by: dd23 | September 14, 2012, 12:21 pm 12:21 pm  ____WRONG, this election is about what kind of a society do you want to live in.  Do you want to live in a society where you are completely on your own that you either sink or swim or do you want to live in a society where you can go out into the real world to try your hardest to make a life for yourself and family but if you fail there will be someone there to catch you when you fall and guide you back onto your feet.  The Repubs like to talk about “family values” and how our economy should be run like a family budget but yet at the same time they say that we should nor treat our fellow citizens as family.  I encourage my children to try their hardest to make their way but promise them that if they do that but fail I will be there to catch them when they fall.  I promise them that I will care for them until they are able to go out and try again.  Tell me Cons/Repubs..if your child tried to make their way and failed would you tell them that they are on their own and it is not your responsibility to ensure that they have food and a place to live or would you take them in and help them get back out there.  Please tell me what you would do.




			Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 12:42 pm 12:42 pm		



Everything that comes out Obama’s mouth is a lie..Here is one of many,I remeber him saying that he will heal the world and will create peace in the middle east. So much for the healer the middle east hates us more now than anytime in History.  He needs to go.




			Posted by: Jay | September 14, 2012, 12:43 pm 12:43 pm		



I want to see a debate question about Obama’s HIDDEN DEBT… allowing the FED to increase its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities from $302 billion to $1.668 TRILLION, an increase of 452% in four years…… and now he wants Bernanke to buy MORE to save his re-election chances!!! — Shameful!!!




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 12:43 pm 12:43 pm		



Oh you mean those jobs bills passed by the House that are sitting on Harry Reid’s desk?
Crickets indeed!




			Posted by: duke | September 14, 2012, 12:43 pm 12:43 pm		



Mitt Romney is incompetent to be President.  I am amazed at what he just said. That Obama will say things that are not true. We know he wants to go on offence because he has always lied in this campaign.  What he should have said is to contrast his ideas with that of Obama and say that he will offer a better alternative and present some facts to support those ideas.  Sometimes, Mitt talks like a kid with his sound bites.




			Posted by: Robert | September 14, 2012, 12:46 pm 12:46 pm		



It is not in Obama’s favor to discuss jobs.  There’s a thing called facts, and they are not on his side.




			Posted by: shovel ready jobs | September 14, 2012, 12:50 pm 12:50 pm		



Someone needs to make a low rent movie about Mormons that tells the truth about those crazies. Magic underwear indeed .




			Posted by: tylerdurden420@charter.net | September 14, 2012, 12:50 pm 12:50 pm		



Lexington Lady: Here is my advice to you. Get your mouth off the dictator’s ****** and read some of your idol’s books. I am speaking directly from his speeches and books you moron. Then again what would I expect from some inbred in Kentucky. __________________ Hmmmm, Kerri.  The right-winger ladies sure are becoming fascinated with this area of the President’s body.  Sara “airhead” Palin said if the President doesn’t carry a big stick, he should “grow” one.  WTH is wrong with you people???  UGH!  Sounds like YOU’RE the INBRED one!  And I HIGHLY doubt you have read two consecutive lines out of the President’s books or speeches.  You seem just like the type of puppet who would go and pick and choose what you want to read and twist into YOUR “truth”!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 12:51 pm 12:51 pm		



@ Billy Bob  who says–Go see 2016. it will change the way you view Obama. ————————————————————-That is the problem with people like you.  You go read slanted articles and movies so people can tell you the way you should think.  You watch only Fox News or listen to Rush so they can tell you they way to think.  These people at best are only telling you half truths. Wake up!
I do not have to go see 2016 to know what is going on.




			Posted by: thisissimon | September 14, 2012, 12:52 pm 12:52 pm		



WHERESMYMONEY: “Since Obama only wants to increase taxes (now anyway) on those that make over $200,000 or couples making more that $250,000, it looks as if he agrees with that statement.”
Obama has repeatedly stated he wants to (modestly) raise taxes on the “wealthiest” taxpayers, i.e. those earning $250,000 a year for couples or MORE. (who represent a whopping 3% of the population, FTR).
He has NEVER characterized those in that income bracket as “middle class”, and has repeatedly stated he does NOT favor raising taxes on said Middle Class (those earning LESS than $250,000).
Again, according to the Census Bureau and the IRS, the median income is $50,000 a year. $200,000 to $250,000 a year is nowhere NEAR “middle class”, comprising only 3% of all taxpayers. It is RICH by any objective standard.




			Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:53 pm 12:53 pm		



Mitt has been practicing for the debates for over two weeks with 3 weeks to go.  What’s he so afraid of.  Just get up there and answer the questions.  If the moderators push for specific answers he’s toast.
 I have never heard any Presidential candidate in history say he expects his opponent to lie. Sounds to me he’s already preping to take a beating.
Mitt knows he has to shine in these debates or it’s all over.  He’s running scared and that will cause him to goof it all up as he always does.
People already have such low expectations from him that if he just lasts the debate without going into to his flustered, fast speaking, disjointed mode he’ll be ok.




			Posted by: tmferretti | September 14, 2012, 12:55 pm 12:55 pm		



The election is not about if Obama deserves a second term. It’s about who will do a better job leading this country out of the economic disaster etc. If you don’t like what Obama did then let’s see if Mitt would be a better president. So it’s four years ago and Mitt is magically elected president during the worst economic fall since the depression. And when the big 3 automakers are in trouble he decides to let Detroit go bankrupt. Instead of jobs dissappearing at 700,000 a month they fall at over a million a month from the destroyed auto industry. The fall out causes businesses that relied on the auto industry to cave in too. It becomes the depression of the 21st century. So why are we better off with mitt as president, unemployment around 25 %, NO American auto industry ? American motors is dead and Osama Bin Laden is alive. This doesn’t sound like a happy america to me.




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 12:56 pm 12:56 pm		



Tell me Cons/Repubs..if your child tried to make their way and failed would you tell them that they are on their own and it is not your responsibility to ensure that they have food and a place to live or would you take them in and help them get back out there. Please tell me what you would do.
Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 12:42 pm 12:42 pm 
Sooooo you are basing your belief that you are going to fail and the guberment is going to be your safty net when you fail??? Why would anyone try very hard in the first place if the guberment is going to take care of you if things dont go your way. if fact why try at all, just let the guberment take care of. Your kids are probably in their 40s and still living at home.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 12:57 pm 12:57 pm		



I wish I was as rich as Mitt Romney to have millions stashed overseas, and consider a 300k yearly salary “middle class”.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 12:57 pm 12:57 pm		



@ duke——————-You need to read what those job bills are before you start defending them.  You will wonder what the heck these House members where thinking when they came up with the bills in the first place.




			Posted by: thisissimon | September 14, 2012, 12:57 pm 12:57 pm		



Romney’s just standing on the tracks holding up his fists and hoping he can fool that train into stopping. It’s not gonna happen. Clinton’s speech was the preview. Clinton dissected Romney’s lies. Bring on the debates.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



The worst thing Fox ever did was cut off their comments section (due to embarrassment I’m sure) because now they all came here. It’s like the society of the tin foil. ___________ LexLady, I believe the EXACT same thing.  Fox got embarrassed at the way these loons let it all hang out ONLINE, blasting their hate and ignorance onto the world from their site.  I certainly hope ABC doesn’t shut downit’s comment section just because of them.  The regulars on ABC don’t always (very seldom) agree, but for the most part, we don’t just make up lies about the issues and call one another and. more importantly, call the President VILE names.  They are going to get this site shut down with their ignorance!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



SHOVEL READY JOBS: “It is not in Obama’s favor to discuss jobs. There’s a thing called facts, and they are not on his side.”
With 4.5 million private sector jobs created in the last 30 consecutive months of economic growth coming on the heels of the loss of 8 million jobs under and right after Bush, the facts certainly ARE on his side.
It is the RIGHT which doesn’t benefit from discussing JOB CREATION, so they focus on the UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (which they have driven and kept up by eliminating PUBLIC SECTOR jobs nationwide…virtually ALL of the excess UE rate is due to these PUBLIC SECTOR losses).
Romney’s economic, tax, and trade policies are virtually identical to Bush’s, and Bush had the WORST job creation record of any living President, even BEFORE the Recession.




			Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:59 pm 12:59 pm		



For the last 4 years I have blogged here …and read…and paid attention to what others have said. And the  one STARK thing that I have always noticed is how ‘programmed the right wing posters are’ with one line negative, divisive emotional substanceless rhetoric.  And then they have the audacity to try and demonize the President …for EXACTLY what they do. And the preponderance of women posters who evidently have absolutely no clue as to what the GOP ideology means to their health care rights. Just so unbelievingly ignorant as to what that ideology ha all ready done to them in the Red States.  The conclusion? GOP ideology really panders to those easily influenced by their emotions and lack of knowledge on the topics, those easy to fear monger because they abhor and are resistant to change. Its about the ‘ideologies’…people. Get smarter!!! Especially if you are middle class and want your descendants to have a shot at it too.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 1:00 pm 1:00 pm		



I wish I was as rich as Mitt Romney to have millions stashed overseas, and consider a 300k yearly salary “middle class”.
Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 12:57 pm 12:57 pm 
Actually faux poster, that is chump change compared to what i make.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 1:00 pm 1:00 pm		



Oh jeeze Mitt, the debates haven’t even begun yet and you are already snivelling.




			Posted by: BikernAz12 | September 14, 2012, 1:04 pm 1:04 pm		



The evidence indicates that this administration didn’t even KNOW about Fast and Furious until the poo hit the fan, much less say create or oversee it.
Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:41 pm 12:41 pm 
Part of Holder speech in Mexico April 2009:
“Last week, our administration launched a major new effort to break  the backs of the cartels.  My department is committing 100 new ATF  personnel to the Southwest border in the next 100 days to supplement our  ongoing Project Gunrunner, DEA is adding 16 new positions on the  border, as well as mobile enforcement teams, and the FBI is creating a  new intelligence group focusing on kidnapping and extortion.  DHS is  making similar commitments, as Secretary Napolitano will detail.”




			Posted by: wheresmymoney | September 14, 2012, 1:08 pm 1:08 pm		



Do you want to talk about shooting mouth’s off Barb? How about cops acting stupidly or that if Obama had a son he’d look like Trayvon. ______________ Let me tell you something, Genius.  If President Obama had a son, the child would be BLACK, like Trayvon.   So, now Black people can’t make associations?  If the child had been white, the President would have STILL said that the boy could have been his child!  HE’S A PARENT,  GET IT?????




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 1:09 pm 1:09 pm		



@ billy bob———Looks like you made a Romney flip flop.  You defend him first and bash him in your next post.  oops, finally expressed your real feelings by mistake.




			Posted by: thisissimon | September 14, 2012, 1:10 pm 1:10 pm		



But then came Obama, the first blatantly socialist “president”, & people “woke up”. We had a chance to eliminate all despotism out of our lives with the conservative candidate Senator Santorum, but the despotic D.C. republicans wouldn’t allow that.  Posted by: Libertyinfinite | September 14, 2012, 12:34 pm 12:34 pm _____ You really should watch something other then Faux News.  Can you give me one example of how our president is so blatantly socialist?  By the way do you like Social Security or Medicare or unemployment?  These are ALL SOCIALISTS IDEAS.  We have had a form of socialism for a generation.  Do you know why your God Santorum lost his election…it was because he STOLE $110,000 from the poorest school district in the state in order to pay for the home schooling of HIS children.  Why should WE THE PEOPLE pay for him to home school HIS OWN children.  OH, and by the way I don’t think Santorum wants BLAAAAAA people in your little group.




			Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 1:10 pm 1:10 pm		



I wish a Romney campaign staffers made more because only obviously broke people only have time to post on comment boards as much as I do.




			Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 1:15 pm 1:15 pm		



@cdn fox—-Well said and 100% correct.




			Posted by: thisissimon | September 14, 2012, 1:15 pm 1:15 pm		



WHERESMYMONEY: “Since Obama only wants to increase taxes (now anyway) on those that make over $200,000 or couples making more that $250,000, it looks as if he agrees with that statement.”
He has NEVER characterized those in that income bracket as “middle class”, and has repeatedly stated he does NOT favor raising taxes on said Middle Class (those earning LESS than $250,000).
Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 12:53 pm 12:53 pm 
Read your comment again.  You said he has NEVER said it, and then you show he does. “Said Middle Class (those earning LESS than $250,000).  So, $249,999 is middle class according to Obama.  It’s the same thing!




			Posted by: wheresmymoney | September 14, 2012, 1:16 pm 1:16 pm		



DUKE: “Oh you mean those jobs bills passed by the House that are sitting on Harry Reid’s desk?
Crickets indeed!”
Have you ever heard the term “fillibuster”? Look it up and look how many times the Republcans in control of Congress since the mid-terms have used it to shut down debate and block bills (incl. jobs bills).
The Right met immediately after Obama’s innauguration (an actual, documented meeting) and vowed to “deny” the new President ANYTHING. To obstruct him at every turn.
They later declared that their “top priority” was to “make Obama a one-term President”.
Not jobs, not the economy, not the good of the country or its people….winning the next election was their top priority, and they were willing to do so by any means necessary.
Under Republican control, Congress has engaged in constant obstruction, and refused to pass bills designed to stimulate the economy and/or create or save jobs (incl. federal relief to the states to save the public sector jobs of teachers, firefighter, cops, and other government workers).
Their strategy is crystal clear; sabotage the recovery and do everything in their power to keep the economy as weak as possible to make Obama look bad. 
If you ask me, that is nothing short of TREASON.




			Posted by: RAVEN | September 14, 2012, 1:16 pm 1:16 pm		



Countdown of Obama’s best lies!! —- OF COURSE he tells them!!!
15 Claimed he didn’t know Rezko was corrupt when did a real estate deal with him; Chicago papers prove he lied
14 Claims does not accept money from Big Oil: Real Clear Politics proves he lied
13 Denies using his Hopefund PAC to influence endorsers; but the Washington Post reviewed the record and disagreed
12 Claims his State Chair is not a drug company lobbyist; Time magazine cries Bullshit
11 Lies about how much he received in campaign funds from Rezko; forced to significantly increase the amount twice
10 Claims he did not fill out the 1996 candidate questionaire; Politico proves he lied
9 Took credit for achievement of others in Chicago; resume puffing exposed by LA Times
8 Claims he kept no State Senate records; now he changes his story
7 Denies doubling wife’s salary was due to becoming US Senator; omits within months he earmarked $1 million for hospital
6 Denied meeting Saddam bagman Auchi; now admits he was at his dinner but does not remember talking to him
5 Denies using his church for politics: IRS disagree
4 Claims he was unaware of Pastor Wrights 911 comments: NYT proves he lied
3 Claims his father was a goat-herd; actually he was a man of privilige
2 Claims not an active muslim as child; Indonesian paper proves he lied
1 Claims father linked to Kennedys; Washington Post proves he lied




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 1:17 pm 1:17 pm		



All Romney does is lie.   He demanded 10 years of tax returns from the short list of VP’s and we only get 1 of his. He’s lying and he’s hiding something. I’m a Republican and I’m either voting for Obama or not voting at all. ___________ I agree with Dale here, but please don’t take his advice — VOTE.  A vote NOT cast COULD be a vote for Mittens “One Percent” Romney!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 1:22 pm 1:22 pm		



Two-Faced Willard
“I was not responsible for what happened at Bain Capital” – Mitt Romney
“I was the Sole shareholder, Sole director, Chief executive officer and President of Bain” – Mitt Romney
“The Arizona immigration policy is a good model” – Mitt Romney
“I didn’t really support the Arizona immigration policy” – Mitt Romney
“The Massachusetts healthcare plan should be a model for the nation” – Mitt Romney
“Healthcare reform should be left to the states” – Mitt Romney
“Let Detroit go bankrupt” -Mitt Romney
“I’ll take a lot of credit for saving the auto industry” -Mitt Romney
“I believe Roe v Wade has gone too far.” – Mitt Romney
“Roe v Wade has been the law for 20 years we should sustain and support it.” – Mitt Romney
“I respect and will protect a woman’s right to choose.” – Mitt Romney
“I never really called myself pro-choice.” – Mitt Romney
“It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam.” – Mitt Romney
“I longed in many respects to actually be in Vietnam and represent our country there.” – Mitt Romney
“I’m not trying to return to Reagan-Bush.” – Mitt Romney
“Ronald Reagan is… my hero.” – Mitt Romney
“I think the minimum wage ought to keep pace with inflation.” – Mitt Romney
“There’s no question raising the minimum wage excessively causes a loss of jobs.” – Mitt Romney
“I saw my father march with Martin Luther King.” – Mitt Romney
“I did not see it with my own eyes.” – Mitt Romney
“I would like to have campaign spending limits.” – Mitt Romney
“The American people should be free to advocate for their candidates without burdensome limitations.” – Mitt Romney
“I supported the assault weapon ban.” – Mitt Romney
“I don’t support any gun control legislation.” – Mitt Romney
“I believe that since Roe v. Wade has been the law for 20 years we should sustain and support it.”
“Roe v. Wade has gone too far.”
“I don’t line up with the NRA.”
“I’m a member of the [NRA].”
“I like mandates. The mandates work.”
“I think it’s unconstitutional on the 10th Amendment front.”
“I respect and will protect a woman’s right to choose.”
“I never really called myself pro-choice.”
“I saw my father march with Martin Luther King.”
“I did not see it with my own eyes.”
“I supported the assault weapon ban.”
“I don’t support any gun control legislation.”
“I think the minimum wage ought to keep pace with inflation.”
“There’s no question raising the minimum wage excessively causes a loss of jobs.”
“I will work and fight for stem cell research.”
“In the end, I became persuaded that the stem-cell debate was grounded in a false premise.”
“I would like to have campaign spending limits.”
“The American people should be free to advocate for their candidates and their positions without burdensome limitations.”
“I’m a strong believer in stating your position and not wavering.”
“I changed my position.”
“Detroit needs a turnaround, not a check.”
“I’ll take a lot of credit for the fact that this industry’s come back.”
“I’m not in favor of privatizing Social Security or making cuts.”
“Social Security’s the easiest and that’s because you can give people a personal account.”
“I’m not trying to return to Reagan-Bush.”
“Ronald Reagan is… my hero.”
“I’ve been a hunter pretty much all my life.”
“Any description of my being a hunter is an overstatement of capability.”
“If Massachusetts succeeds in implementing it, then that will be a model for the nation.”
“What works in one state may not be the answer for another.”
“It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam.”
“I longed in many respects to actually be in Vietnam and be representing our country there.”
“It’s a tax cut for fat cats.”
“I believe the tax on capital gains should be zero.”
“It’s not worth moving heaven and earth spending billions of dollars just trying to catch one person.”
“He’s going to pay, and he will die.”
“The TARP program… was nevertheless necessary to keep banks from collapsing in a cascade of failures.”
“When government is… bailing out banks… we have every good reason to be alarmed.”
“These carbon emission limits will provide real and immediate progress.”
“Republicans should never abandon pro-growth conservative principles in an effort to embrace the ideas of Al Gore.”
“Those… paying taxes and not taking government benefits should begin a process toward application for citizenship.”
“Amnesty only led to more people coming into the country.”
“When I first heard of the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy, I thought it sounded awfully silly.”
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell has worked well.”
- Mitt Romney




			Posted by: HG | September 14, 2012, 1:25 pm 1:25 pm		



DO YOU KNOW THAT MY COMPANY WHICH HAS 2,000 EMPLOYEES IS OPTING TO PAY THE PENALTY OF $2,000 PER PERSON AND NOT OFFER COVERAGE TO US ANYMORE WHEN THIS OBAMA CARE BECOMES LAW. THEY WILL SAVE ROUGHLY 22MM A YEAR IN HEALTH CARE COVERAGE. NOW I AM ON MY OWN TO LOOK FOR MY FAMILY. __________ Hey Guido, if you stop screaming, maybe you could hear what’s going on around you.  You’ll have the opportunity to participate in the newly reformed healcare signed into law` and you will not be on “your own.”




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 14, 2012, 1:26 pm 1:26 pm		



Sooooo you are basing your belief that you are going to fail and the guberment is going to be your safty net when you fail??? Why would anyone try very hard in the first place if the guberment is going to take care of you if things dont go your way. if fact why try at all, just let the guberment take care of. Your kids are probably in their 40s and still living at home. Posted by: Billy Bob | September 14, 2012, 12:57 pm 12:57 pm ———-You have not answered my question.  I know that with such a limited bigoted mind like your it is difficult to think in more complex terms but try..I know it hurts,,,but try.  I know that it might be difficult for you so will try to use small words for you and will write slowly so you can understand.  Believe it or not people want to take pride in being able to support themselves and their family.  I remember when I was 15 working after school and on weekends and remember how much pride I had in myself when I was able to but my first set of goalie pads….all by myself.  It is human nature to want to feel that pride in being self reliant…sorry that means depending on yourself.  If any of these words are unfamiliar to you please let me know and I will get out my bigot thesaurus for you.




			Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 1:29 pm 1:29 pm		



CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 1:00 —- What… you want taxpayers to buy your contraception too???




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 1:29 pm 1:29 pm		



To supposedly Christian supporters of Reps. The Reps proudly said their campaign wasn’t going to be run by fact checker. Ssince Jesus called himself the way THE TRUTH and the light, and Satan is referred to as the father of lies, how do you justify being in favor of those who are proud to not be accountable to the truth ?




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 1:30 pm 1:30 pm		



What an outrageous thing for Mitt Romney to say.  He diminishes himself with comments like that.  He’ll crash and burn in the debates because he has no substance or opinions of his own.




			Posted by: survivor1962 | September 14, 2012, 1:31 pm 1:31 pm		



HAHAHA OMG!  Thats the funniest headline I’ve read in a long time.  Probably the funniest was “Romney running for President”




			Posted by: Chris | September 14, 2012, 1:32 pm 1:32 pm		



Mitt’s brain at work: Let’s see, we lied like rugs all during the campaign and it was keeping me even with Obama up until the convention. Then Clinton unleashed his speech and dissected all my lies so that the polls shot up in Obama’s favor. Now the debates are coming up and Obama is going to use the same tactic of exposing my lies, I won’t be able to ignore him, and my campaign will still be over. If I can make everybody think he is lying when he attacks my lies, maybe that will neutralize the situation, but I doubt it. What the heck, I may as well give it a try anyway because I’m toast either way.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 1:33 pm 1:33 pm		



ILike Bill Clinton said I don’t know whether to laugh or cry.  Who’s the liar?  We all know it’s Mitt.  There are even videos of him as proof.  & his fact checks & pants on fire ratings are further proof.
It’s a shame that just because you have money you are able to run for President and waste our time.
Come on Mitt release your tax returns & show us how honest you are.Paul Ryan released ten years at your request but I guess you think  (falsely)  that your above all that.
Mitt Rommey forgets that Obama is President of the USA & he needs to show respect to his President.
This has been a very vile &  dishonest GOP campaign from day one.
Mitt & his wife need to stop dodging questions & answer them truthfully.  If you can’t do so then you shouldn’t be running for the highest office in the land.  Quit wasting our time Mitt,
The economy is not as important as having a President you can trust & only Obama can fill those shoes Mitt.  You don;t even run a close second.  It’s not just about you Mitt & only what you want to discuss.  The American people deserve better.




			Posted by: Linda | September 14, 2012, 1:35 pm 1:35 pm		



ABC News, Does Romney ever offer you money to take down headlines like this one? I know it’s what he said and all, but wouldn’t they pay you good money to just kind of forget he said it?




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 1:38 pm 1:38 pm		



Who needs to lie when you have reporters (cough) like Steponallofus to cover for Obama when he does lie?




			Posted by: my muslim faith | September 14, 2012, 1:45 pm 1:45 pm		



LOYALOPP…your 1:29….LOL…not mine but I sure believe in it for all those women in this country that cannot afford it for themselves. Why? LOL…it is quite simple. That is much ‘cheaper’ than another ‘unwanted, unneeded child’ becoming another ‘burden’ or ‘ward’ on our society. Wake up people. Get smarter! Understand the ideologies, the substance and depth of them!!!! And do yourself and the rest of us a FAVOR. Keep your personal, subjective relious beliefs out of our political arena.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 1:50 pm 1:50 pm		



Linda
Care to watch any videos of Obama and his list of promises he made in 2008?
You’ve probably already seen them.  Care to comment?




			Posted by: kate | September 14, 2012, 1:50 pm 1:50 pm		



Obama-Biden 2012! Yeah!




			Posted by: Toutou | September 14, 2012, 1:53 pm 1:53 pm		



Romney would be the first Bishop of a church to serve as President if he is elected.  Seems like it would be hard to separate one’s self from one’s religious beliefs in that situation..
I think he is projecting when he talks about who will be lying at the debates.. he is a scary bumbler…the Republicans are so meddling in foreign affairs right now..so irresponsible…it is hard to believe Romney could have made millions..he couldn’t sell a car to someone who actually needed one..




			Posted by: bill me later | September 14, 2012, 1:55 pm 1:55 pm		



Mitt Romney diminishes himself by saying Obama will lie.   Only a weak and uncertain candidate would make a statement like that.  Fortunately, this will only insure that Obama’s base is angry and motivated and that independents will lose respect for Mitt.  Mitt Romney is an embarrassment.




			Posted by: Bob Pierce | September 14, 2012, 2:02 pm 2:02 pm		



LOL…KATE…. (your 1:50 post)….care to tare a careful sysnopsis of the last 4 years of GOP divisiveness, obstruction, and intransegiance…just to ‘make it a fair evaluation’??? LOL…I doubt it. So quit acting like…you have a point with that ‘one liner, soundbite’.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 2:02 pm 2:02 pm		



I don’t believe there is a politician alive that has not changed his mind about something over time.  Actually that is true of most people and the great thing in America we have the freedom to do that. How the Democrats can possibly say that Obama has not flipped and flopped on everything from Gitmo to drones to intelligence is amazing.  When he was a candidate in 2008 it was one thing, then a funny thing called being President happens and those policies of George Bush didn’t look so outlandish.  What goes around comes around.




			Posted by: 74bliss | September 14, 2012, 2:11 pm 2:11 pm		



What a crock of you know what you are spewing Raven. National Debt when Clinto left was 5.6 Trillion dollars. When Bush left 10.6 Trillion.(8 years) After Bush was gone for over two months Obama and the super majority Democratic house and senate rammed through a 900 Billion (UN)stimulus bill in March and put it into the 2009 budget thereby ascribing it to Bush. That 900 Billion was added to the Budget baseline thereby giving the congress the ability to spend 900 Billion more dollars each year. There have been 4 consecutive years of over 1 Trillion dollar budget deficits by Obama and Sen. Reid’s non-action. The Democratic senate has not passed a budget in over 3 years. It only takes 51 votes to pass a budget and it cannot be filibustered, No budget on purpose politically. Our national debt under Obama is over 16 Trillion dollars. That is @ 5.4 Trillion dollars added in less than 4 years. The Democrats stuck the 900 Billion into the 2009 budget,( the last Bush Budget which was on a ‘continuing resolution’ ) Obama signed it and they blamed Bush for the 900 Billion added to the budget and added to the budget baseline. Bush halted ‘wide receiver’ after @ 200 guns walked. Those guns were tracked. The operation was stopped by Bush over 1 year before he left office. Fast and Furious was not a continuation. It was an Obama administration operation. Holder is in contempt of congress for not revealing the truth and giving evasive answers. He admitted he was not truthful when he told congress he first heard of Fast and Furious when he read about it in the newspapers. His top aide sent him emais and memos about Fast and Furious–Holders answer ” I don.t read all my memos”. What EVIDENCE are you citing that the administration )didn’t KNOW about Fast and Furious? Tell us what that evidence is.
” 30 consecutive months of private job growth”. Whoopee. Lets see- Reagan had 81 of 82 months of job growth. George Bush had 52 months of consecutive job growth. Federal government Revenues was the highest ever during Bush’s presidency. 8 million jobs created under Bush, and not withstanding your 4.5million jobs created there are almost 1 million  less jobs than when Obama took office. @ 800,000 fewer women working.
Clinton handed off a recession to Bush. You did not hear Bush blaming Clinton about anything. Unemployment in Oct.2007 4.6%> The Recession officially declared over in June 2009. Obama and Biden touting the “Summers of Recovery” in 2010 1nd 2011. Unemployment over 8% for 43 consecutive monthe. 14.7% if the U6 used and over 23 % if add the 8 million that have left the workforce and the underemployed. In the last 6 months the average jobs added per month is 96.6 thousand. ( Need >150,000 per month to keep up with the people entering the work force).
The Gross Domestic Prospect over this year @ 1.7%. The ‘Recovery’ is almost non existent. How convenient for Obama that Bernanke announces QE3 (40 Billion more money printed every month till the job numbers and the economy show improvement. Raven -you have really spun a yarn to the readers of this blog. Shame on you.




			Posted by: SalR | September 14, 2012, 2:12 pm 2:12 pm		



Romney thinks $250,000 a year is middle income? No wonder he’s so out of touch.




			Posted by: michael1_4 | September 14, 2012, 2:15 pm 2:15 pm		



Romney tells the truth… Obama will lie… and somebody disagrees??




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 2:16 pm 2:16 pm		



Oppossition: most of us disagree. You are the party of we-hate-fact-checkers.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 2:27 pm 2:27 pm		



I don’t believe there is a politician alive that has not changed his mind about something over time. 
Posted by: 74bliss | September 14, 2012, 2:11 pm 2:11 pm
Just most don’t do it every day.




			Posted by: Humphrys | September 14, 2012, 2:31 pm 2:31 pm		



Classic rove tactic, saying Obama will lie in the debates in order to project your weaknesses onto your opponent. Attack your opponent for things you’re guilty of. Romney has no shame.




			Posted by: John Piligini | September 14, 2012, 2:31 pm 2:31 pm		



A new tactic. Accuse your opponent of lying before he has even done it.




			Posted by: JAB | September 14, 2012, 2:33 pm 2:33 pm		



I’m a Veteran of 3 tours in Iraq.
I cannot and will not support Romney.
His comments on why he fled to France and not serve in the Military and go to Vietnam made me sick.  
VFW Post 6798 in Seguin Texas supports our President.




			Posted by: Ronald | September 14, 2012, 2:38 pm 2:38 pm		



Obama has likability like my pet monkey…great at antics and nothing else.




			Posted by: nh | September 14, 2012, 2:42 pm 2:42 pm		



Wow…this guys is beautiful!!! He is the biggest FRAUD this country has ever seen!!  He has no political core and calls himself a republican. He is the one lying to the American people about what he plans on doing to medicare and and social security. JOKER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!




			Posted by: cmac33 | September 14, 2012, 2:42 pm 2:42 pm		



You know what’s really hilarious about the comments on this blog is that the people who are against Obama pretty much all have intelligent comments to make with information to back up their claims. Just about all (just about) of the people who are against Romney & pro-Obama in this blog sound like a bunch of kids slinging profanities on the playground. In fact, I wouldn’t doubt that many of the pro-Obama comments are being made by high schoolers and college students who haven’t even begun to realize what freedoms are no longer available to socialist & communist governments. When Obama & his cronies have sucked all the life out of the freedom wrought by our forefathers and other patriots, then maybe the younger generation will understand why we were trying to get Obama, et al, out of the White House. This world and the next, people!!! … and kiddies… GROW UP & open your eyes!




			Posted by: Nancy Hewitt | September 14, 2012, 2:46 pm 2:46 pm		



& by the way… you think ABC is bad about touting the Obama agenda… don’t even try to go over to NBC! I left there over a year ago and find ABC tame compared to that other network.
OY GEVALT!!!!!!!!




			Posted by: Nancy Hewitt | September 14, 2012, 2:48 pm 2:48 pm		



OBAMA 2012….Women WILL remember in November!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ROMNEY would sell his kids if it would get him into the White House.




			Posted by: cmac33 | September 14, 2012, 2:51 pm 2:51 pm		



CND FOX
You need to look up the definition of lie in the dictionary.
Obama said things will take time.  & if your going to be a critic offer up what you would do with the economy. & you need to do your homework
How Soon We Forget: The Economy Under Reagan vs. Obama
POSTED JUNE 26, 2012 4:39PM BY BOB DEITRICK
TAGS: ECONOMY, JOBS, MITT ROMNEY, PRESIDENT OBAMA, RONALD REAGAN, STOCK MARKET, UNEMPLOYMENT
Reactions: Important(10) Love It(6) interesting(6) Read this(1) Hate It(1) React to this article 
731
digg
Email
Many conservative economic pundits, including Republican nominee Mitt Romney, have been staking the claim that the Obama Presidency has been an economic calamity.
Standing in front of a closed gypsum plant in Lorain, Ohio back in April, Mitt Romney asserted, “had the president’s economic plans worked … it would be open by now, but it’s still empty, and it underscores the failure of this president’s policies with regards to getting this economy going again.”
Yet the facts do not support such rhetoric; Romney and other conservative politicos are absolutely off the mark. If we compare Barack Obama’s first term to conservative icon Ronald Reagan’s first term, the Obama administration outperforms Reagan’s on most key economic measures.
Many Americans are too young to remember, or perhaps have forgotten, how frenetic President Reagan’s first term was.
Reagan, like Obama, inherited an economic mess from his predecessor (Carter), and was so beleaguered by the economy that as late as August of 1983, when unemployment stood at 9.5%, he did not believe he would be re-elected. Reagan’s objective was to implement his theory of “Reaganomics,” which was based on stimulating the economy with tax cuts, tax credits and accelerated depreciation (supply-side economics).
Reagan’s primary catalyst to achieve this objective was the passage of the Economic Recovery Tax Act (ERTA) in July of 1981, which introduced phased-in reductions in marginal tax rates that were substantial. ERTA was however a “bridge too far” and failed miserably creating massive budget deficits and weakening the economy, culminating in a severe recession which lasted through 1982.
Luckily Reagan saw his error, and with the passage of TEFRA (Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act) in September of ‘82, the economy began to get its footing back. TEFRA became the remedy to ERTA. In fact, TEFRA wasthe largest peacetime tax increase ever signed into law by any of our presidents, and ironically it was a Republican, Ronald Reagan,who signed it into law.
TEFRA kicked off one of the most substantive bull cycles in our financial history: one that endured for more than five years. Reagan deserves credit for backing TEFRA and for its powerful economic result. However, few realize it was Democrat Pete Stark of California who sponsored TEFRA. Had it not been for Reagan’s pragmatism and ability to work across the aisle with Democrats like Stark, Speaker of the House Tip O’Neill, and other members of Congress, TEFRA would not have happened and Reagan would likely have been a one-term president.
Barack Obama inherited the worst economic disaster of any president since FDR acquired the debacle from Hoover as he entered the White House in 1933. One of Obama’s first acts as President was to sign the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The ‘Stimulus,’ as it is called, established a floor for the financial markets so they wouldn’t decline further. Many forget that in the last 17 months of George W’s tenure, the stock market saw an historical loss of 58% from peak to trough. This was worse than any rolling 17-month period during the Great Depression.
Under President Obama’s tenure, to date, we have seen an impressive recovery in the equity markets,making up most of the losses accrued under Bush. Today we stand only 877 points from the highpoint of the DOW of 14,156.53 set on October 9th, 2007.5
Barack Obama surpasses his 13 predecessors, including Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan, relative to the stewardship of our financial markets and most economic indicators. The average annual compound returns for the Dow, S&P500, and NASDAQ have been 17.2%, 25.3% and 31.7% respectively in Obama’s first 3.3 years. This compares to Reagan’s first term results (for the same indices and time period) of 6.86%, 6.16%, and 7.02% respectively.5
As for months of recession in their corresponding first terms, Reagan presided over one of the longest recessions (16 months) in our history. In contrast, the recession under Obama lasted five months in 2009. We have seen positive job growth for 26 consecutive months under President Obama, and although it has been painful, one needs to realize we are crawling out of a very deep hole. For ten of the 16 months in the Reagan recession, the unemployment rate exceeded 10%, reaching a high of 10.8% for two months in late fall of 1982. The highest unemployment rate under Obama was one month of 10% in late 2009. 1
Today our unemployment rate stands at 8.2%; Reagan at this same point had a rate of 7.8% in April of 1984. By Election Day that year, unemployment had fallen to 7.4% and he won by a landslide because there was a sense things were improving, and they were. Even after Reagan was reelected, it took two more years, until November of 1986, for the unemployment rate to finally fall below 7%.
If one looks at returns in the stock market, months of recession, average unemployment, inflation, income inequality, industrial production and after-tax corporate profits, Obama outperforms in all of these categories compared to Reagan’s first term. 6
The challenge will be whether Obama can match Reagan’s fourth-year job growth which spiked to almost 3.9 million new jobs in the private sector in 1984. That may be a stretch, yet it remains to be seen how this year will play out. Obama’s results to date exceed Reagan’s in ten of12 major economic data points. Not too shabby for a man who has been falsely accused by Mr. Romney and other pundits as an economic novice.
The question is: What would these same critics and pundits have said about Ronald Reagan’s first term, given the actual facts?
This begs another question: When did it become an American value to heckle, play “Monday morning quarterback” and root for our president to fail? The 24/7 phenomenon of playing the role of cynic and heckler against our president, which President Reagan did not have to endure when he was struggling in his first term, needs to be eradicated. Ronald Reagan and Tip O’Neill worked as a team for the betterment of our country.
During the 1980s, there was the notion we were all in this together and a sense that our leaders were statesmen. Our country needs a return to the days of Reagan and O’Neill where statesmanship and compromise were customary and considered paramount. We need to focus on actual results — not rhetoric and hyperbole.
In the meantime, President Obama should be applauded for the results of his first term as steward of our economy and the applause should come from both sides of the aisle.
Bob Deitrick is the co-author of Bulls, Bears and the Ballot Box, coming out on July 1, 2012. He is the co-owner of Polaris Financial Partners.
This post originally ran on our DC site Distriction.




			Posted by: Linda | September 14, 2012, 2:52 pm 2:52 pm		



Well we all know that the debates are all run by left-wing socialist journalists who are so up into Obama’s $$s — they cannot be unbiased.  It’s in their DNA and the American people see them for what they are–lackeys to the DNC, Obama administration.  Don’t forget how Obama thanked the MSM for electing him in 2008.  That speaks volumes.




			Posted by: nh | September 14, 2012, 2:52 pm 2:52 pm		



The graph accompanying this article uses unemployment numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics to compare the monthly unemployment rates for the first 3 years under Presidents Reagan and Obama.
Both Reagan and Obama took office when unemployment was considered fairly high. In February, 1981, Reagan’s first full month as president, unemployment was at 7.4% and was slowly improving. It dropped down to 7.2% by April, his third month in office.
In February, 2009, Obama’s first full month in office, unemployment was at 8.2% and rising rapidly. The economy was already losing 750,000 jobs per month before Obama was sworn in.
Look closely at what happened during each president’s first 2 years in office. By October, 2009, Obama’s 9th month in office, unemployment peaked at 10.1%. After that, we started to see job growth and the unemployment rate declined over the next 2 years. The longer his policies were in effect, the more the economy improved.
Compare that to what happened during Reagan’s first two years. Although unemployment was stable when he first took office, after about 7 months, it started rising. After his first full year, unemployment climbed to 8.5% and it continued to rise throughout his 2nd year. Nearly two full years after Reagan took office, unemployment was at 10.8%, higher than it ever reached under Obama. It wasn’t until nearly 2 ½ years into Reagan’s presidency that unemployment finally dropped below 10%.
There is a stark contrast between what happened with Reagan and what happened with Obama. Under Obama, unemployment briefly topped 10% during his first year and then began to go down. Under Reagan, unemployment remained above 10% for the better part of a year.
Most of the job losses that occurred during Obama’s presidency happened during the first few months as a result of the deep recession that began a year before he took office. Less than a year into his term, the economy showed steady improvement. By contrast, the job losses under Reagan didn’t begin until about six months after he became president and continued to get worse for the next 18 months.
The severity of the economic crisis that Obama inherited cannot be over-emphasized. Not since the Great Depression had we seen such massive job losses as were occurring at the time Obama was sworn in. It would be difficult to find any other time in our country’s history when 750,000 jobs were lost in a single month. Economists predicted that we would have 20% unemployment within a year. It is remarkable that unemployment peaked at only 10.1% and that the economy began improving as quickly as it did.
Obama clearly inherited a far worse economic situation than Reagan did. Yet he managed to turn around the economy in less than half the time it took Reagan. Obama’s policies resulted in a measurable improvement within a year of taking office, while Reagan’s policies resulted in a worsening of the unemployment situation for two years.
In reviewing Obama’s accomplishment, there are other factors that need to be considered in this comparison. When Reagan was president, Democrats in the House of Representatives who opposed him were willing to make compromises and to work with him in creating jobs. They didn’t see their role as simply to obstruct everything he did.
The Republicans who oppose President Obama have tried to prevent anything from getting done at all with regard to the economy. During the first 2 years, Republicans in the Senate filibustered virtually everything they could; including bills they previously supported, in order to prevent any legislation from coming up for a vote. After gaining control of the House of Representatives, Republicans refused to pass any job creation bills at all, even rejecting proposals that they had supported in previous years.
Despite Republican attempts to stifle job creation, President Obama has managed to have far greater success at pulling the country out of a recession than the sainted Ronald Reagan did during his first 3 years in office.




			Posted by: Linda | September 14, 2012, 2:55 pm 2:55 pm		



Romney always lies…so if Romney is telling us Obama is going to lie then Obama is going to tell the truth….  I finally understand Romney.




			Posted by: muffler | September 14, 2012, 2:56 pm 2:56 pm		



CMAC33
 Your pretty silly.  You need to do your homework too.




			Posted by: Linda | September 14, 2012, 2:58 pm 2:58 pm		



Yeah Nancy H….. keep watching FAUX NEWS they have NO agenda….you spew the marching orders from Rush and Fox well. The problem with most of YOU is that you don’t have an independent thought among you. Just keep spreading the fear, lies and hate…that’s what you guys do best. No solutions…just obstruction, fear, lies and hate. 
Here is a fact for you….we ARE better off than we were 4 years ago when the REPUBLICANS and Bush put us in the black hole that we are crawling out of. ..and yes we are moving in a better direction…OBAMA 2012




			Posted by: cmac33 | September 14, 2012, 2:58 pm 2:58 pm		



You too Linda….keep on marching with your FAUX FACTS!
OBAMA 2012




			Posted by: cmac33 | September 14, 2012, 3:01 pm 3:01 pm		



It’s sad to say, but I don’t expect fairness out of the media anymore. Fear sells, and so does targeting one side of the aisle to create a loyal base of viewers. If you want the unbiased truth, you have to read through a lot of BS and put it together for yourself, because no one is going to do it for you. That’s just the world we live in now. Furthermore, no politician is perfect, that’s why they are politicians. You just have to pick the best person for the moment and hope their flaws do not outweigh their strengths. All I know is, the countries that are having economic crises like Greece are having them because their national debt is too high and they still keep paying more. Give us a few years of uncontrolled spending and we won’t be able to function. Personally I think Romney is more likely to cut down on uncontrolled spending and the national debt, so he is my pick.




			Posted by: Grace | September 14, 2012, 3:01 pm 3:01 pm		



Obama may say things that aren’t technically true?  Geez, how can Romney make that comment? Just because a great many things Obama told us about the health care bill, the stimulus and a good bit of his autobiography weren’t technically true, Romney actually has the audacity to make such an extreme statement?  Well, okay so a good many of Obama’s summer ads depicting Romney as a tax dodging, corporate raiding murderer of the wives of former employees turned out to be fictional, does that really give Romney the basis for such an audacious claim?   I mean, if Obama had been lying all along wouldn’t the media have pointed this out?  We all know Obama  just barely knew Bill Ayers and certainly didn’t launch his political career in the Ayer’s home.  We all know he barely paid attention all those years to Rev Jeremiah Wright.  That’s what he said; the media would have jumped all over any inconsistencies in those statements, right?  My good God, how could the Republicans have endorsed as their presidential candidate such an outlandish man as Romney…just unbelieveable.




			Posted by: BubblerDad | September 14, 2012, 3:05 pm 3:05 pm		



Romney thinks that being called a liar has worked so well against him that he’ll give it a try against Obama now. Mitt, here’s the key to that strategy, the other guy has to lie before you call him the liar. That’s when it helps you in the polls. Ok, now get in there and debate Obama as best you can.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 3:05 pm 3:05 pm		



Without question Mitt Romney is one of the greatest liars of all time. His entire campaign has been one big lie. They say the devil is the greatest liar, Mitt Romney is giving him a run for his money. May God help our country if he is elected because Mitt Romney will unequivocally destroy it.




			Posted by: Robert Goldman | September 14, 2012, 3:07 pm 3:07 pm		



Romney is right, of course.  Obama will say things that aren’t true in a debate.  Obama says things now that aren’t true.  Obama’s whole political career is based on Obama saying things that aren’t true.  Obama makes it a point to lie to get people to support him, supporters like George Stephanopoulis (himself someone who, as a Democrat, makes it a point to say things that aren’t true). 
Yes, George.  We remember how you coordinated with the Obama campaign during your time as a “moderator” of the GOP debate on ABC last fall.  Asking questions, seemingly out of the blue, about contraception and Griswald.  At Obama’s behest, you were trying to trip up the candidates in advance of Obama’s unconstitutional contraception mandate.




			Posted by: SteveAR | September 14, 2012, 3:09 pm 3:09 pm		



WOW! We are truly a Country divided now, aren’t we. But, between the pit bull-like, ruthless Left Wing and the laid-back, carefree, silent majority, we’ll be a Socialist nation before ya’ know it! The Dems have nothing to worry about. Everyone will share the wealth equally one day, just like China & Cuba & the USSR…. YIKES!!! When that happens, I’ll quit my job and just stand in line for the dole with everyone else! Question is, who will be working?




			Posted by: Nancy Hewitt | September 14, 2012, 3:25 pm 3:25 pm		



Our adversaries are stronger. America and her allies are weaker. And yet, after spending practically a decade blaming every last thing, including the bad weather, on President Bush, the media seem determinedly uninterested in ascribing even the slightest amount of responsibility to President Obama.
George please take a good look ,  I thought  ABC was unbiased but you have an agenda and it shows,  time to change the channel.




			Posted by: M I Citrano | September 14, 2012, 3:25 pm 3:25 pm		



It isn’t George’s fault that Romney is projecting onto Obama the precise strategy that Clinton successfully employed against Romney in Clinton’s convention speech. The laughable difference is that Romney is employing it before the alleged lies have even occurred! LOL! Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, but this is a really bad imitation. Incompetent bad!




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 3:34 pm 3:34 pm		



Stop Whining.




			Posted by: mississippigirl | September 14, 2012, 3:39 pm 3:39 pm		



Hey SameAgain, FYI, Barack Obama inherited the worst economy since the depression. It wasn’t the Martians or the russians or the bad-economy-fairies that made the economy collapse. The Bush economic plan, which failed before and is being touted again by Romney, caused the collapse. And as for blame, I’ve heard Obama blamed for so many things I wouldn’t be surprised to hear that somebody thought he was a witch doctor and he conjured hurrican Isaac.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 3:40 pm 3:40 pm		



Here is one obvious truth–Obama is pro-Islam and anti-Israel.




			Posted by: redryder | September 14, 2012, 3:43 pm 3:43 pm		



here is one Fact:
Romney fled the U.S. to France to avoid being drafted and going to Vietnam.  and he’s proud he did.
He’s UnAmerican and not worthy of any office in this country.




			Posted by: Ronald | September 14, 2012, 3:46 pm 3:46 pm		



Cindy, I wasn’t justifying Romney’s strategy, I was laughing at it. He’s a liar and Clinton showed the country what a liar he is. Believe me, you’re preaching to the choir that the very same people who caused the meltdown now wish to get their mitts back onto full control and steer us straight into another one. These people are rich every day for the rest of their lives, trying only to get richer. They lie to get elected then they groom the tax code to make themselves richer.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 14, 2012, 3:46 pm 3:46 pm		



cmac33
These are not faux facts they are from the us bureau of labor &  statistics which you should have known had you really read the articles & done your homework, which any responsible voter would do.  Obama has done well with the economy with what he had to start with.




			Posted by: Linda | September 14, 2012, 3:47 pm 3:47 pm		



@redryder
I’m anti -Israel as well.
no more funding, cut off all aid.
Israel can defend itself.
Billions upon billions of dollars to Israel, they have nukes, they can use them on Iran if needed.




			Posted by: Ronald | September 14, 2012, 3:47 pm 3:47 pm		



i love these people that claim Obama knew ahead of time we were going to be attacked.
I was discharged out of the Marines 2 years ago and I can tell first hand that every 9-11 anniversary that every Miliatary base, every Consulate, every Embassy is on high alert on Sept 11. 
to believe otherwise is Pure Ignorance.
this President puts our troops first. I proudly support him. 
Obama 2012




			Posted by: Michael | September 14, 2012, 3:48 pm 3:48 pm		



REDRYDER, you have no idea what you are talking about. As a Jewish supporter of President Obama I have followed this subject. The current attempt to lessen the madness occurring in the middle east is an attempt to find peace and sanity.




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 3:49 pm 3:49 pm		



Middle income is $200,000 or less!?!  Only 5% of households have income over $180,000. Romney is completely out of touch with middle America.
If you leave out the top 20% and the bottom 20% of households, the middle 60% would earn between $20,000 and $100,000. There’s no way someone making $200,000 is “middle class.”




			Posted by: SteveH | September 14, 2012, 3:53 pm 3:53 pm		



Of course obama will lie!
Already has. He considers americans stupid as rocks, and that they don’t know any better.




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 3:57 pm 3:57 pm		



“Proving Obama is a liar is too easy.
Roll the tape about what he said of no lobbyists in his administration and he appointed 17 of them in his first two weeks.
Shovel-Ready jobs
Passing stimulus would prevent unemployment from reaching 8%
Closing Gitmo his first priority”————Shush, you’ll wake up odumbo supporters. They want to pretend this isn’t true! What a clown we have a president!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 3:59 pm 3:59 pm		



If it weren’t for Romney’s gaffes, he’d have no news to cover. The tea water express is sunk.




			Posted by: real_dollars_and_change | September 14, 2012, 4:19 pm 4:19 pm		



2. We all heard the press pool that was going to interview Romney collaberating on their questioning of him. They only asked if he regretted HIS statement. NOTHING about Obama’s LACK of ANY statement the night of the killing. Was he sleeping? ______________ Wheresmymoney, do you know the meaning of the word “premature” or the suggestion to get all the facts BEFORE you shoot off your mouth?  Well, to break it down:  It was the PResident’s job to make a statement on this as the leader of our country.  The President is diplomatic and aware of the danger of “shooting off one’s mouth” and putting MORE lives in danger, before all the facts are in.   BEFORE all the facts were in and the President had formulated his statement, ROMNEY rushed in, like fools always do, and stuck his big fat foot in his big fat mouth.    It wasn’t that the PResident was asleep.  It was that Romney jumped the daggone gun!  See now?




			Posted by: MsT-mac | September 14, 2012, 4:24 pm 4:24 pm		



Michael, there were no Marines at the Benghazi consulate to be placed on any alert.




			Posted by: nene | September 14, 2012, 4:27 pm 4:27 pm		



Libs don’t know the truth if it smacked them upside the head!  It makes me really wonder how you all live your individual lives how you will lie to avoid being wrong.  P.S.  I’m already starting to feel embarrassed for Obama!  What a fool he is going to look like in the debates!




			Posted by: Ty | September 14, 2012, 4:28 pm 4:28 pm		



Mittens will loose in the biggest landslide in decades.




			Posted by: Randall12 | September 14, 2012, 4:28 pm 4:28 pm		



Let me see I have it straight.  The Marines in Egypt were not allowed to carry ammunition to repel intruders and there were NO Marines in Libya when the consulate was attacked.  Does our ferless leader have a problem with Marines?




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 4:35 pm 4:35 pm		



Very nice and informed post Linda.  But facts are wasted on the right wingers.




			Posted by: Mike1384 | September 14, 2012, 4:36 pm 4:36 pm		



Our fearless leader will win big in November.  Every guilt ridden white will vote for him to assuage any guilt over the racism of the past.  If he can manipulate that guilt to the fullest then he should do well in November.  He already has the black vote and latinos will go along.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 4:38 pm 4:38 pm		



Ronald:  here is another fact.  bubba clinton signed a letter of intent to go into ROTC and when he found out he had a high lottery number he backed out on his agreement.  The rest of us had to go because the Army did not grant us such lieniency.




			Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 4:40 pm 4:40 pm		



Here it is in a nut shell Mitt . . . . .  You don’t have the personality, the intellect, the right information or the ideas to be the President of the United States.  Almost half of your own party would rather see someone else running for president.  Their hope is that if by some miracle you can pull it off,  they could persuade you into believing their unbelievably selfish policies.




			Posted by: Dave | September 14, 2012, 4:43 pm 4:43 pm		



This week Romney has shown, once again, that he is out of touch.  Now he has shown us he is a juvenile blowhard.  His Republican handlers must be wondering whether he would be better off taking a vow of silence or speaking on the campaign stump.  If I were them, I’d be leaning toward the vow of silence.




			Posted by: Thinks2010 | September 14, 2012, 4:45 pm 4:45 pm		



“Here is one obvious truth–Obama is pro-Islam and anti-Israel.”——-True. Of course he lies and says he’s not, but the facts prove otherwise. Then again facts are a waste of time for odumbos brain dead supporters.




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 4:53 pm 4:53 pm		



Tell me Cons/Repubs..if your child tried to make their way and failed would you tell them that they are on their own and it is not your responsibility to ensure that they have food and a place to live or would you take them in and help them get back out there. Please tell me what you would do.
Posted by: thefirstone00 | September 14, 2012, 12:42 pm 12:42 pm 
Sooooo you are basing your belief that you are going to fail and the guberment is going to be your safty net when you fail??? Why would anyone try very hard in the first place if the guberment is going to take care of you if things dont go your way. if fact why try at all, just let the guberment take care of. Your kids are probably in their 40s and still living at home. (Billy Bob)
@ BillyBob — great example of right-LESS wing slant on what this poster was saying, which is:  AMERICANS SHOULD TAKE CARE OF ONE ANOTHER!  That’s right.  You certainly are NOT Mittens Romney, BillyBob, so be careful of how fast you want to turn your back on your fellow Americans.  You never know when it will be YOUR turn to need some kind of help.  BTW, I didn’t miss the way you spelled the word “government” — just what was the point of that?  Oh, never mind.   I already know the answer to that.




			Posted by: MsT-mac | September 14, 2012, 4:53 pm 4:53 pm		



Perplexed you are living proof that racism is alive and well in this country.  Why else would you post what you have?




			Posted by: Mike1384 | September 14, 2012, 4:58 pm 4:58 pm		



A Romney/Ryan presidency would result in an increase in crime.  If he cuts food stamps. a whole lot of people are going to have to steal to feed their families.




			Posted by: Old Uncle Dave | September 14, 2012, 5:03 pm 5:03 pm		



Claims not an active muslim as child; Indonesian paper proves he lied ________ LOYAL, how the hell can a  child be an “active” ANYTHING????  As a child, you are what religion your parents TELL you to be.  I thought you had more reasoning power than this.




			Posted by: MsT-mac | September 14, 2012, 5:10 pm 5:10 pm		



First of all why is everyone upset with George for asking a question? Even if George is biased. If Mr. Romney was smart he would not have answered the way he did. The question did not make him sound ridiculous the answer did. Mr. Romney reminds me of President Bush in so many ways. Why would you before a debate, state that your opponent was not going to be truthful? Are you admitting defeat.Are you saying you have no confidence in your plan. What is it? because those things come to my mind when you say this.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:13 pm 5:13 pm		



” A Romney/Ryan presidency would result in an increase in crime”.My, what a  profound statement.
Perhaps the oceans will rise,too. If people go off of food stamps it will probably be because they will  get jobs, something that rarely happens under Barack Obama (unless you count those great jobs flipping burgers and mowing lawns).




			Posted by: nene | September 14, 2012, 5:14 pm 5:14 pm		



S@Seriously. You cannot be serious! The President is a Christian.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:19 pm 5:19 pm		



This is just Romney’s way to soften the blow of the arse kicking he’s going to get in the debates….He’s just being pro-active, he had to come up with a excuse and FAST……I give him credit for thinking ahead..but like CLinton says It takes some brass to accuse someone of doing what you did.
I wonder what percentage of lies is at now..last I checked it was creeping toward 50%




			Posted by: ConnieinKY | September 14, 2012, 5:19 pm 5:19 pm		



Linda….LOL…I’m not sure why you addressed that earlier post to me. LOL…I have been steadfast in my support of the President the past 4 years. I believe I understand the definition of the word “LIE” very well. And that is all I have seen Romney, his campaign, their super packs and now his sidekick ‘lyin Ryan’ do. But one word of caution. It is real tough – I repeat real tough – to compare the decades of the 80′s with today’s world…especially with statistics. It is not the same world of ‘opportunity’ as it was back then. The ‘wealthiest in this country’ have made sure of that. As did their ‘puppet’, George W Bush. He gave them the ‘keys’…to the gate.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 14, 2012, 5:22 pm 5:22 pm		



I’m a Veteran of 3 tours in Iraq. I cannot and will not support Romney. His comments on why he fled to France and not serve in the Military and go to Vietnam made me sick.  VFW Post 6798 in Seguin Texas supports our President.  ______________ Thank you for your service, Ronald!  A TRUE PATRIOT!   No doubt you are nothing like Mark Owens (alias)!




			Posted by: MsT-mac | September 14, 2012, 5:22 pm 5:22 pm		



I @nene. I also disagree with that statement that crime would increase. But under the Obama administration 4+ Million jobs have been created.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:25 pm 5:25 pm		



There is a pattern her Mr Romney has managed to open his mouth and remove all doubt.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:31 pm 5:31 pm		



Our fearless leader will win big in November. Every guilt ridden white will vote for him to assuage any guilt over the racism of the past. If he can manipulate that guilt to the fullest then he should do well in November. He already has the black vote and latinos will go along. ______________ “Racism of the past” you say, Perplexed?????  Ha!  I think your post proves this to be A LIE. Racism is still alive and well.  Thank you for FURTHER exposing it.




			Posted by: MsT-mac | September 14, 2012, 5:33 pm 5:33 pm		



Serial liar Romney sets the stage to lie nonstop during the debates, then charge the POTUS of lying when Obama states the facts. 
What color is the sky in Romney World?




			Posted by: bardgal | September 14, 2012, 5:36 pm 5:36 pm		



@Perplexed. WOW! UNBELIEVABLE. We are discussing the future of our country here. Do you know how exactly would Romney/Ryan speed up the economic recovery and create jobs?




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:36 pm 5:36 pm		



More people are hurting today because the rich aka Romney’s are getting richer and poor are getting poorer as the rich controls EVERYTHING!
BUT because some people in this country are racist they will blame it on Obama and the Government..FYI POOR FOLKS..Without Obama there would be even more homeless…I CAN’T BELIEVE ANY ONE THAT WASN’T A RACIST WOULD BELIEVE ONE WORD THIS RICH CLUELESS MAN HAS TO SAY! IT’S INSANE!




			Posted by: Dee | September 14, 2012, 5:39 pm 5:39 pm		



Dee | September 14, 2012, 5:39 ———- Too much kool-aid!!!! ——–  “You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot lift the wage earner up by pulling the wage payer down. You cannot further the brotherhood of man by inciting CLASS HATRED. You cannot build character and courage by taking away people’s initiative and independence. You cannot help people permanently by doing for them, what they could and should do for themselves.” —– Abraham Lincoln ————— OBAMA DIVIDES AND CREATES HATE AND ENVY!! — Obviously you are one of his minions!!!




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 5:43 pm 5:43 pm		



Why you little snake in the grass George S!   No longer a fan of you, sir.  Love you Romeny!  I have all the confidence you will win in Nov.  Don’t be too rough on O in the debates – it’s going to be ridiculously embarrassing for the guy,




			Posted by: Doni | September 14, 2012, 5:44 pm 5:44 pm		



and the result will be ANOTHER DOWNGRADE in our credit rating!!! —- PATHETIC BY ANY
MEASUREMENT!!!!!!
Posted by: theloyalopposition | September 14, 2012, 5:37 pm 5:37 pm 
Agreed, our Congress IS pathetic.




			Posted by: real_dollars_and_change | September 14, 2012, 5:45 pm 5:45 pm		



Our fearless leader will win big in November.
Posted by: Perplexed | September 14, 2012, 4:38 pm 4:38 pm
God willing.




			Posted by: TA Mahoney | September 14, 2012, 5:49 pm 5:49 pm		



I read an article/study  the other day on ABC about how democrats and republicans think. What struck me was this “.Democrats  are optimistic and Republicans are scared”. That was what I got out of it. When ever I see some people post this just reaffirms my observation.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 5:49 pm 5:49 pm		



Actually there has been a net loss of jobs during this administration. If we had the same workforce participation as when Obama was inaugurated unemployment would be over 11%. But hey, don’t let facts get in the way of Hope and Change. Now what were those manufacturing figures from today? And those inflation figures? And the jobless report  from yesterday? Why, everything is moving along swimmingly. As long as the press covers up for Obama we’ve got it made. Right?




			Posted by: nene | September 14, 2012, 5:50 pm 5:50 pm		



I would comment to you, LOYALopposition, but your name gives it all away. You, like many I have spoken to on both sides are LOYAL to your side and you wouldn’t change your faith in your party if your god came from his heaven to tell you that you were wrong. If you don’t think so then do you really think that the job picture in the United States will look better when Mitt Romney creats 800,000 new jobs for China and none here ? That’s what independant, non-partisine anaylysts say the Romney plan will do.




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 5:53 pm 5:53 pm		



Hey Loyal, do you know why a pyramid is larger on the bottom than on the top ? Or why a top falls over as soon as it slows ? Because in the real world, were arthmetic counts, a strong base is needed to support a weight. The more that moves to the top the weaker the base becomes moving ever closer to the inevitable collapse. Moving everything to the top one percent will just crush the rest of us.




			Posted by: Cindy | September 14, 2012, 6:00 pm 6:00 pm		



@Real dollars and change. I did not see Loyals post but I agree that congress is pathetic. But the republicans in congress had a plan to make this President a one term president, event if it hurt the American people, so I say let them own their plan. I am not going to reward them for their unpatriotic actions by voting for Mr. Romney because that was their objective.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 14, 2012, 6:04 pm 6:04 pm		



I notice a lot of these pro Romney posters like to brag about how much money they have and it seems typical to me. I’m retired and on a fixed income and there is just too much hatred and animosity from those who call themselves conservative. I’m of a lower income and do not feel welcome in this new republican party. I know Romney and Ryan are very rich and don’t have to worry about simple things – but I would prefer someone who will look out for seniors and not threaten us with vouchers – while flying around on private jets.




			Posted by: helen mulroney | September 14, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm		



Romney worried about Obama not telling the truth!  This from a guy whose entire campaign is based on lies, half truths, internet rumors and innuendo.   If I were Mitt I would spend my time correcting the inaccuracies of the President rather than spew more inaccuracies to the American people.




			Posted by: dp | September 14, 2012, 6:22 pm 6:22 pm		



” But under the Obama administration 4+ Million jobs have been created.”———-Of course we have lost 5.5 million, but what are these details to an true obamtron! Brain dead obama supporters!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 6:32 pm 6:32 pm		



“i love these people that claim Obama knew ahead of time we were going to be attacked.”———–Of course 1/3 of democrats also think that 9/11 was orchestrated by our government! Bet you love them too!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 6:33 pm 6:33 pm		



And like MItt Romney doesnt lie with every breath his sorry butt takes????? Politicians are liars by trade. Most are Lawyers. or Rich business men. Neither tell the truth




			Posted by: KDT | September 14, 2012, 6:36 pm 6:36 pm		



I notice a lot of these pro Romney posters like to brag about how much money they have and it seems typical to me. I’m retired and on a fixed income and there is just too much hatred and animosity from those who call themselves conservative. I’m of a lower income and do not feel welcome in this new republican party. I know Romney and Ryan are very rich and don’t have to worry about simple things – but I would prefer someone who will look out for seniors and not threaten us with vouchers – while flying around on private jets.
Posted by: helen mulroney | September 14, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm
I agree Helen, considering the BILLIONS being spent on political campaigns – amazing how these guys can talk about how “broke” we are as a nation. Private jets and Caymen island Yachts must cost a few bucks. I’m sorry, I don’t see these guys as being anything but poison for the working class.




			Posted by: B Forest | September 14, 2012, 6:38 pm 6:38 pm		



I would love it if there was a rule here that said “You can only post numerical data, like numbers of jobs created or lost, if you could quote authoritative sources” AND Rush Limbaugh is NOT an authoritative source. If you want to convince me with your numbers then give me sources that I can check, or just stop making noise.




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 6:39 pm 6:39 pm		



“AND Rush Limbaugh is NOT an authoritative source. If you want to convince me with your numbers then give me sources that I can check, or just stop making noise.”————–Job numbers are easy to find. Don’t expect to be spoon fed.  The joke of 4 million jobs created with no mention of the job losses is a complete joke! A joke which obama supporters love to repeat!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 6:57 pm 6:57 pm		



I agree Helen, considering the BILLIONS being spent on political campaigns – amazing how these guys can talk about how “broke” we are as a nation. Private jets and Cayman island Yachts must cost a few bucks. I’m sorry, I don’t see these guys as being anything but poison for the working class.
Posted by: B Forest | September 14, 2012, 6:38 pm 6:38 pm 
I don’t think Romney is too concerned about jobs for the working class, except for a few minimum wage retail jobs from Bain capital. Look, these guy’s -Romney and Ryan are freaking LOADED, and they have no problem flaunting that wealth, (A Cayman Island Yacht??). I just don’t buy it when Romney tries to fumble thru some economic plan that changes day to day. Romney knows the economy is on a steady track of improvement, and just wants to scream doom and gloom for his own political gain.




			Posted by: James Wilson | September 14, 2012, 7:04 pm 7:04 pm		



RHAC, if I wanted to convince somebody I’d supply the evidence myself. There are hundreds of people posting here and nobody has the time to go look up all of the numbers theoretically quoted.




			Posted by: Henry | September 14, 2012, 7:08 pm 7:08 pm		



It’s okay — Mitt has it covered.
Whenever Obama says something during the debates that Romney regards as a lie, Mitt’s rebuttal will simply be “liar, liar, pants on fire!”




			Posted by: labman57 | September 14, 2012, 7:12 pm 7:12 pm		



I notice a lot of these pro Romney posters like to brag about how much money they have and it seems typical to me. I’m retired and on a fixed income and there is just too much hatred and animosity from those who call themselves conservative. I’m of a lower income and do not feel welcome in this new republican party. I know Romney and Ryan are very rich and don’t have to worry about simple things – but I would prefer someone who will look out for seniors and not threaten us with vouchers – while flying around on private jets.
Posted by: helen mulroney | September 14, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm
Ohh I don’t know, they’re still the “Good ‘Ole Plutocrats”, some things never change.




			Posted by: Bennie | September 14, 2012, 7:18 pm 7:18 pm		



“I don’t think Romney is too concerned about jobs for the working class, except for a few minimum wage retail jobs from Bain capital. ” Well if obamas performance is any measure, he has NO interest in creating jobs!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 14, 2012, 7:31 pm 7:31 pm		



Obama is going to lie? Projection: It’s what’s for dinner.




			Posted by: Bemused Green Person | September 14, 2012, 7:39 pm 7:39 pm		



I notice a lot of these pro Romney posters like to brag about how much money they have and it seems typical to me. I’m retired and on a fixed income and there is just too much hatred and animosity from those who call themselves conservative. I’m of a lower income and do not feel welcome in this new republican party. I know Romney and Ryan are very rich and don’t have to worry about simple things – but I would prefer someone who will look out for seniors and not threaten us with vouchers – while flying around on private jets.
Posted by: helen mulroney | September 14, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm
Yes I’m middle income too, and feel like retirees are being left out of the conversation and being dissmissed by these rich guys screamin how broke the nation is. Billions are being spent by Romney and Ryan on their campaign, and I just don’t believe all their viscous rumors. That is what bullies do – shame on them.




			Posted by: E Smith | September 14, 2012, 7:57 pm 7:57 pm		



There is another thing going on.
Something about all this Romney Christian GOD stuff that turns me off. This is supposed to be a country that separates church and state. All this talk makes me worry about the possibility of a theological movement to set a national religion. This would cause much trepidation among all citizens of non-christian beliefs. It would drastically change the basis tenet of the country.You do not have to be a Christian to be a patriotic American.




			Posted by: Sandy | September 14, 2012, 9:08 pm 9:08 pm		



People who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.




			Posted by: rchnpdx | September 14, 2012, 9:41 pm 9:41 pm		



Obama’s records:
47 million people on foodstamp( over double) when Bush left office.
16 trillion on debt, and up,up,up
23 million people  out of work or underemployed.
Federal Reserve says” this economy is not going well”.




			Posted by: love USA | September 14, 2012, 9:52 pm 9:52 pm		



BIASED. This is not journalism. George is a democrat who used to work in the white house under Clinton- and according to a book I read, he was a disgusting pig. But I guess that’s biased. :D Pathetic.




			Posted by: April | September 14, 2012, 10:21 pm 10:21 pm		



APRIL:  “BIASED. This is not journalism.” – - – Who said it is supposed to be journalism?  This is an opinion and analysis blog.




			Posted by: B-K KnightRider | September 14, 2012, 10:34 pm 10:34 pm		



why is the headline for this story not “Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year and less”




			Posted by: margaret | September 14, 2012, 10:52 pm 10:52 pm		



Romney : Obama Will ‘Say Things That Aren’t True’
Obama : Romney won’t Say ANYTHING that Is True




			Posted by: michael | September 15, 2012, 12:20 am 12:20 am		



I cannot find in the interview where George “points out that Pres. Obama is doing poorly, as Mr. Romney asserts.




			Posted by: John U.. | September 15, 2012, 1:59 am 1:59 am		



The USA is more important than a second term!




			Posted by: dbright | September 15, 2012, 2:13 am 2:13 am		



This comes from a person who won’t come clean about his tax returns, hides from Romneycare and cheers on America’s enemies rioting in front of American Embassies!




			Posted by: gldslver | September 15, 2012, 4:02 am 4:02 am		



Mitt, here’s a bit of free advice.  If you want to win the election, stop talking.  Wrap your tongue up and hide it in the same vault where you have hidden your tax returns.




			Posted by: midfield91 | September 15, 2012, 4:23 am 4:23 am		



It is funny how Governor Romney is saying that President Obama will not be truthful. He needs to talk to Paul Ryan  who lies at will without reason. MARATHON TIME.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 15, 2012, 4:26 am 4:26 am		



;;This video is in English can the muslim there under stand & what Muslim cowards there own a laptop ? to watch ? i smell a rat
lets stop sending these ungrateful people money they don’t like us obama Hello
send more drones no charge your welcome. how many of our people must die enough enough no more money muslim in there country don’t like us. have we for got 9/11
obama said i vow to bring our troops home one year after i become president its been 3 yr
obama is clueless




			Posted by: bubba love sponge | September 15, 2012, 5:24 am 5:24 am		



Romney has NO PLATFORM, every idea Mitt has stems from Obama. If Obama says it’s black, Romney says it’s white. There is no ingenuity in that, just stupid rhetoric. Come to think of it, the entire GOP has been like that, 2008 fell apart because they had NO IDEA how to fix things. They brought in every person they had, and no-one in that party had any notion how to proceed.




			Posted by: arryandan | September 15, 2012, 8:27 am 8:27 am		



Well, we’re all familiar with Neil Newhouse’s now-infamous quote:  ‘We’re not going to let our campaign be dictated by fact checkers.’
This interview proves that that is how they’re going to continue to conduct this campaign.
They’re going to go in to the debates armed with total and complete lies because I believe they have one strategy and one only: to go after ONLY no-information voters.  They apparently believe there are enough of them out there to win this election.
But I think they’re also relying on something that’s not being discussed enough by the MSM.  Voter ID laws are being struck down, but the removal of hackable e-voting machines still hasn’t been addressed enough.  With the ability to flip electronic votes, along with about a dozen and a half millionaires and billionaires purchasing this election, I think they still have a chance to take this election by surprise.  If they do it because of all that stealth money and by stealing the election in key states, you will be assured of another unnecessary war and the reversal of fortune of even more Americans.  
A stolen election this cycle will signal the end of the US as we’ve known it.  Never EVER forget that the SCOTUS stopped the voting count in FL during the Bush v. Gore debacle and HANDED us the candidate who did NOT win the national election.  Everyone remembers how ‘well’ that turned out.  This time it could be far, far, far worse.




			Posted by: Scott | September 15, 2012, 8:38 am 8:38 am		



..” Romney has no platform…” and Barrack Hussein Obama runs away from his platform.  Pick your choice .




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 15, 2012, 9:18 am 9:18 am		



Just for starters, I believe  at the DFL Convention Obama claimed he created 4.3 million new jobs, but the stats show only 300,000. Was he lying or just ignorant. He failed to mention how many jobs folded during that same period. Not exactly what I would call truthful.




			Posted by: fudgenut | September 15, 2012, 10:03 am 10:03 am		



I notice a lot of these pro Romney posters like to brag about how much money they have and it seems typical to me. I’m retired and on a fixed income and there is just too much hatred and animosity from those who call themselves conservative. I’m of a lower income and do not feel welcome in this new republican party. I know Romney and Ryan are very rich and don’t have to worry about simple things – but I would prefer someone who will look out for seniors and not threaten us with vouchers – while flying around on private jets.
Posted by: helen mulroney | September 14, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm
I’ve been waiting for an inspirational candidate from the gop for some time now, but they don’t have one because this is no the party of 20th century cold war relics and the Goldwater revival. Nothing inspiring about the republicans plans, and no visionary leader that can cross the divide and get things done. Today’s tea party types can’t seem to get it thru their thick skulls that they have to SHARE this country with those who disagree. Ain’t any of us going anywhere, it’s time to come together with a real “peoples candidate”. I don’t see the GOP delivering on that in my lifetime.




			Posted by: E. Kozlowski | September 15, 2012, 11:10 am 11:10 am		



I can’t wait for the post-debate bump in the polls.  Is there any doubt that our President will embarass Romney.  On second thought, Romney doesn’t need any help with that.  Romney’s problem in a nutshell:  He thinks the American people are stupid.  I just sent my weekly contribution to Obama’s campaign.  I have never contributed to a Presidential campaign before- I’m just a lower-middle class hard working neer’ do well.  But I want to do EVERYTHING I possibly can to kick these extremists that took over the GOP all the way back to Kansas.




			Posted by: bugbreath | September 15, 2012, 11:45 am 11:45 am		



BUGBREATH…I quite agree. Did you see whatthat ‘loon’ in Kansas just tried to do to keep the President off the ballot? These ignorant populists, extremists or whatever you want to call them IS and SHOULD be the political story of the dayas we head into the election. The people I don’t undestand are the middle class GOP supporters who are better educated and aware who still vote with this ‘extremist’ ideology thathas overtaken and overwhelmed their Party. Because it is so OBVIOUS that this ideology is NOT middle class oriented.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 15, 2012, 12:02 pm 12:02 pm		



I didn’t see the interview, but the headline just makes me want to slap Romney. He’s such a whiney little liar; a spoiled pampered child who wants to buy the presidency – no moral compass; no real convictions; just love for himself and love for more money. How can anyone vote for him? Obama made things better, and would have done more if the GOP wasn’t focused only on their own political futures. Romney voters are either ignorant and stupid or super wealthy and greedy! My patience for them has run out.




			Posted by: Jackie | September 15, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



Obama is a habitual liar.  Obvious.




			Posted by: lovely rita | September 15, 2012, 1:51 pm 1:51 pm		



Romney is a habitual liar. Obvious.




			Posted by: Lovely Tina | September 15, 2012, 2:14 pm 2:14 pm		



Obama is a master con-fidence man who preaches to the poor like he and the DEMOCRATs are for them and the mean nasty REPUBLICANs are against them but in fact the rich own Obama and are solidly behind him- The biggest problem is the biased controlled news-media who refuse to print anything about the (over) 50 lawsuits against Obama’s in-eligibility or his hidden past- it is ironic that Obama wants to know everything about Romney’s past but has hidden his own- even his kindergarten records are sealed (probably because it says that he was foreign born or an Indonesian citizen) Obama leads America into an unprecedented era of corruption and the diehard DEMOCRATs don’t care that Obama is a scammer because PARTY LOYALTY is more important than HONESTY or DECENCY or America-




			Posted by: ab | September 15, 2012, 2:41 pm 2:41 pm		



If Obama and Pelosi were on a sinking boat, who would be saved?
America.




			Posted by: ab | September 15, 2012, 2:43 pm 2:43 pm		



“Romney defined middle income as $200,000 to $250,000 a year and less.[From the article.]  With a statement like this Romney is very clearly out of touch with reality. There is absolutely NO, absolutely no economic model that includes middle income as $200 to $250k per year.  Figures don’t lie, but liars can certainly figure how to move the goal post [Karl Rove - one of Romney's advisers is an expert at that.]  Romney could very well say that President Obama and he have different views on the economy and other issues – but to say the President will lie in the debates is akin to saying don’t put your expectations to high for me.  Clearly with you concluing that middle income wage earners include those $200 to $250k per year I won’t expect anything but a lack of fact and a display of ignorance from a pandering politician.




			Posted by: FromMyFrontPorch | September 15, 2012, 3:25 pm 3:25 pm		



Wouldn’t it be great if presidential candidates during the debates were hooked up to a zapper that would shock if they lied? They could have a whole panel of experts that would judge the fibbing.
My bet is Romney wouldn’t have much to say!




			Posted by: Librarian53 | September 15, 2012, 3:34 pm 3:34 pm		



AB, still stuck in that fantasy land where President Obama was not born in the U.S.?




			Posted by: Librarian53 | September 15, 2012, 3:36 pm 3:36 pm		



Obama’s not waiting for the debates to be a bald faced liar, that’s his normal M.O… He does it every day… The guys corrupt and you can’t trust a word he says when it comes to his record or anything that has to do with Romney… He and his campaign are the most negative, most corrupt buch of folks that I have ever seen… Even in Politics.




			Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:29 pm 4:29 pm		



In my dictionary here at home, we have pasted the picture of Obama next to the word “HYPOCRITE”, but then, as we started looking at other words such as “Liar”, “Inept”, “irresponsible”, “evil”, “corrupt”, and several others it became obvious that we needed alot more pictures of Obama… So we printed them off, cut them out, and pasted them next to those words… The book is now much thicker and we have several pictures of Obama in our home now.




			Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:34 pm 4:34 pm		



Hey Librarian, I know how you can prove that Obama was born in the U.S…. Get him to release his college Transcripts… I am guessing that that will tell us whether or not he was a foreign exchange student… 
Don’t look for that to happen anytime soon, because we all know that besides Obama being a Liar, he is also a cheat and very secretive.




			Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:38 pm 4:38 pm		



Isn’t it true that $200,000 is also the amount that Obama uses in describing the ceiling of the Middle Class? Y’all need to get your stories straight because right now (like Obama’s foreign policy) you guys look like you are all over the place…




			Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:40 pm 4:40 pm		



Isn’t it true that $200,000 is also the amount that Obama uses in describing the ceiling of the Middle Class? 
Y’all need to get your stories straight because right now (similar to Obama’s foreign policy practices) you guys look like you are all over the place… Very confusing.




			Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:44 pm 4:44 pm		



“Obama is a habitual liar. Obvious.”–Exactly. Only his dopey supporters that lay at his feet belive a word he says.




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 15, 2012, 4:50 pm 4:50 pm		



Poyman, just because you or anyone can imagine something, doesn’t make it true.




			Posted by: Librarian53 | September 15, 2012, 5:12 pm 5:12 pm		



prove that Obama was born in the U.S
Posted by: poyman | September 15, 2012, 4:38 pm 4:38 pm 
Don’t really know or care what jerk water backwoods red state school system you came out of – but if you look it up – real hard … you’ll find that Hawaii IS part of the United States.




			Posted by: B. Ellis | September 15, 2012, 5:54 pm 5:54 pm		



@KIm apparently you are the bunch of idiots because you kept voting for the most non intelligent man walking the planet for not one 4 year term but 2, and that is just unbelieveable. So what if George worked for President Clinton! He has every right to grill Mitt, because that is what journalists do in case you don’t know.




			Posted by: Tina | September 15, 2012, 7:54 pm 7:54 pm		



Let’s see now…. I lie all the time therefore, the President must be a liar, too! This is once again a silly statement and strategy.




			Posted by: white | September 15, 2012, 9:17 pm 9:17 pm		



it takes willard  and paul to cross the street together.
one to listen because he is blind.
one to see because he is deaf.
lets move ahead and leave these reagan dinosaurs  behind!




			Posted by: john | September 15, 2012, 10:21 pm 10:21 pm		



Hey Republicans/Romney/Ryan Supporters – Where is George W. Bush? How come George W. Bush is not making an appearance along with his cronies Romney/Ryan? How come George W. Bush did not make an appearance and speak in Romney’s behalf to support him at the RNC like Clinton did for Obama at the DNC? How come George W. Bush is not travelling around the states to speak in Romney’s behalf to support him like Clinton is for Obama? Where is Laura Bush? Why is she not appearing along with Ann Romney to support her for WOMEN? Where is Dick Cheney? I thought Cheney is the National Security GURU?  Where is National Security GURU Donald Rumsfeld?  Where is John McCain another National Security GURU? Why are they not all making appearances along with Romney/Ryan to support them? Where’s Sara Palin? Where are the real people like the Tea Party to speak about all the great things the Republicans, Bush, Cheney, McCain, Romney/Ryan are doing for US real American people? What have they all done in the past to make our country safe, thrive abundantly and prosper?




			Posted by: Cindy | September 16, 2012, 4:00 am 4:00 am		



DESPERATION. 
Mr. Romney is desperate. 
DESPERATION.




			Posted by: DGarr | September 16, 2012, 8:03 am 8:03 am		



Romney reminds me of the story of the king in the cayman Islands who bought a mansion along the ocean and tore it down because it wasn’t big enough and he wanted car elevators put in so he build this magnificent grass house and started furnishing it. but he couldn’t find a throne that was as classy and sophisticated as he felt he deserved so he kept storing one throne after the other in the attic until finally one made of diamonds and gold suited him and he sat down on it and the roof caved in and killed him. the moral to the story is people who live in grass houses shouldn’t stow thrones.




			Posted by: wdavid barber | September 16, 2012, 8:08 am 8:08 am		



How do you know this? do you claim to have a direct line to God and he whispered it in you ear?  Are you clairvoyant? Did Obama give you a call and tell you “I plan to tell lies”?  or is this just more speculation from someone who is well versed in how to lie  and who was hand picked by a seasoned liar and tax cheat who cheats the people of any country he does business in by lying about what country he is actually based in? Whether Obama will lie is speculation whether Romney and ryan lie is fact!




			Posted by: dahlimama | September 16, 2012, 8:33 am 8:33 am		



Don’t worry Mitt,he will not mention you & the S.Am. death squad guys ripping off US worker pensions & stashing the take in foreign accounts in your name,he will not challenge your “patriotism”.




			Posted by: babooph | September 16, 2012, 8:37 am 8:37 am		



The Following Statement is True:
The Previous Statement is False:
Welcome to politics 101.




			Posted by: real_dollars_and_change | September 16, 2012, 11:10 am 11:10 am		



Mr. Romney,
Why are you running for President? Apparently, your present position was won through the usage of false beliefs and promises. You don’t understand what the meaning of poor or the term elected official means as it relates to people and making a change to better the economy.  When a person runs for an elected position he or she should look out for the best interest of constitutes and have a working relationship with the president. It’s like any position related to a job, one must respect and do as directed in order to keep a continuous working relationship to make chances to the economy. President Obama is your boss and you must respect him as such. Apparently, Romney has problems dealing with the fact that President Obama is the commander and chief. Romney, don’t make the case of you running for office about YOU or play the race game. It is about the people and the changes need to make current condition of the economy better. Your intentions are to further destroy individuals by taking what little the poor, elderly, and disable people have to live a secure or meaningful life. Why are you even an elected official?




			Posted by: Etha Ayatey | September 16, 2012, 12:50 pm 12:50 pm		



The headline for this article is hilarious.  Romney is telling us Obama will lie?  The whole Republican party including Romney have a long history of twisting the truth and lies!  Oh that also includes Fox News, they are so guilty of that!  And when Romney says Obama will shoot first and ask questions later in regards to the middle east, that is so untrue!  Who started a war on lies?  Bush, his administration and the Republicans!  They’re all war mongers and if he is elected he will lead us all into another war and get us further into debt.  If we are going to go further in debt I would rather see that money spent here at home in the U.S.A. on education, health care and jobs, NOT ANOTHER WAR!




			Posted by: Jeannie | September 16, 2012, 2:04 pm 2:04 pm		



Where’s the video proving Romney actually made the statement re: middle income, to him, is $200-250 thousand annually??  I really want to see it so I can play it for my rabid Republican friends.  Please release this segment of video ASAP!!!
In this article, it’s a one-line paragraph that looks added.  Please back this statement up with video or cited itranscripts.




			Posted by: Carolyn B | September 16, 2012, 7:55 pm 7:55 pm		



I’m disappointed that Stephanopoulos didn’t press Romney on the lies that the President has supposedly been telling. How can he conduct an interview, have the guest call someone a liar, and not have him back up the assertion? Again, disappointed.




			Posted by: Virginia | September 17, 2012, 11:06 pm 11:06 pm		



Reading these comments I am sadden and scared.  So much hate, no matter who wins this country is being fueled on hate right now.  If the President wasNT black would he be the worst President ever….Really!! Can you move the economy if your bills keeping getting voted against.  Why is this become so scary for some people.  I would vote for Mr Romney if I thought he was the best canidate, I truly would.  Its not right to name call and spread hate of any kind EITHER PARTY, that is whats wrong with this country….media internet, everyone can say how they feel, right or wrong.. BOTH DEMS AND REPS SHOULD BE ASHAME, IT IS SHAMEFUL WHATS GOING ON RIGHT NOW AND ALOT OF PEOPLE WILL STAY HOME RATHER THAN TAKE PART IN SUCH FOOLISHNESS WE ARE CALLING THE VOTING PROCESS….It is sad when you are made to feel ashame of who you are, people around the world see what was once great crumbling to HATE…….What will it take for us to understand we are in this together another civil war, another attack on America….Pearl Harbor happen because we were asleep…WAKE UP PEOPLE AND STOP IT, BEFORE ITS TOO LATE, work together and agree to disagree and move FORWARD….




			Posted by: THERESA | September 18, 2012, 10:11 am 10:11 am		



Theresa, I appreciate your comment. Nobody has mentioned anything about him being black and that is why he is a bad president. I voted for him like many people who aren’t voting for him this time around. The race issue is a non-issue, that is why nobody is even thinking about it. He is a man and hasn’t lived up to the most demanding job on earth. We need a businessman, one who HAS a proven record as a businessman. Nothing against Obama personally. He is just incompetent, plain and simple. I am scared too. We are on the brink of the beginning of WWIII. Who do you want as the President when that happens? Someone who is known leader and known for being decisive? Or someone who has allowed our troops to be sitting ducks around the world? And be killed. Sorry, we are on the brink of financial collapse and adds to it the biggest social mandate since Social Security. Obamacare. Just give China the keys to the Whitehouse already. Get it over with.




			Posted by: Terry | September 18, 2012, 7:50 pm 7:50 pm		



Hmm…I’ve got an idea. Why doesn’t George Stepo just complete the outfit and wear an “I [heart] Obama” shirt over what he already has on? It’s clear that him and Sawyer just love Obama and the Democrats to death (the day after Obama won the election, Diane looked like she was having a hangover on GMA…real classy) although Mitt Romney and the Republicans are no walk in the park either. It’s clear that both parties have issues and have not had a decent candidate for POTUS since Al Gore. What has this country come to? Obama should take a break from campaigning so much and going on talk shows and sit down with some of the world leaders like Benjamin Netanyahu for instance. At this point, anybody that says Obama is a strong leader and is doing an excellent job as President either has been sleeping for four years, or is in denial. Face it folks, things should be going a lot better than they are now. 
Anybody but Obama, Romney, McCain, Kerry, Edwards, and Palin ’12




			Posted by: John | September 30, 2012, 3:05 pm 3:05 pm		



George,
If one man was given a ton of mess to clean up and another given only a pound of mess which man would it take the longest to clean up? 
I was always told to date a person to get to know them before entering into a relationship.  As a woman I look for strength in a man for security and love, someone who cares.  So, in this dating process I want to know if he is really caring.  Romney has proven he doesn’t care.  Why would we, the people force him to care for the lower class and it appears he’s faking he cares for the middle class.  But, we knows he loves the upper class.  One would be stupid to vote for a man that doesn’t care for all.  OBAMA CARES.  Romney is just like a man in relationship who pretends to care just to get what he wants.  HE DOESN’T CARE! And, I am surprised especially at those who called themselves Christians.  Romney is going to get on national television during the debate and LIE right to our faces. I guess the color of the skin really does matter.  Obama had does what he said while was running for office.  Obama is color blind, like the Constitution of U.S., and has proven he cares for all Americans.  The economy will be better off Obama we just need to give Obama his second term.  I teach my children to love all races no matter the race, color or creed but the older they get the more they see racism for themselves.  GOD BLESS AMERICA.




			Posted by: Aubrey Jackson | October 2, 2012, 9:24 am 9:24 am		



George,
If one man was given a ton of mess to clean up and another given only a pound of mess which man would it take the longest to clean up? 
I was always told to date a person to get to know them before entering into a relationship. As a woman I look for strength in a man for security and love, someone who cares. So, in this dating process I want to know if he is really caring. Romney has proven he doesn’t care. Why would we, the people force him to care for the lower class and it appears he’s faking he cares for the middle class. But, we knows he loves the upper class. One would be stupid to vote for a man that doesn’t care for all. OBAMA CARES. Romney is just like a man in relationship who pretends to care just to get what he wants. HE DOESN’T CARE! And, I am surprised especially at those who called themselves Christians. Romney is going to get on national television during the debate and LIE right to our faces. I guess the color of the skin really does matter. Obama has done what he said he would do while was running for office. Obama is color blind, like the Constitution of U.S., and has proven he cares for all Americans. The economy will be better off Obama we just need to give Obama his second term. I teach my children to love all races no matter the race, color or creed but the older they get the more they see racism for themselves. GOD BLESS AMERICA.




			Posted by: Aubrey Jackson | October 2, 2012, 9:32 am 9:32 am		



Hola  George ( D- Clinton Admin.)  Let me see who you will declare as the winner of torrows presidential debale.   I wil take one guess    Obama ( that will be 9 out of 10 timer you declare democrat as the winner).




			Posted by: manolo astoria | October 2, 2012, 9:44 am 9:44 am		



Wow… Obama just got crushed.
Romney made a lot of good points, and explained himself very well.
He even called Obama out on a some very worrisome lies.
I guess my vote is going to the GOP at this rate.




			Posted by: Dante | October 4, 2012, 12:31 am 12:31 am		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About George StephanopoulosGeorge Stephanopoulos is anchor of ABC's "Good Morning America" and "This Week." He is also the network's chief political correspondent, reporting on political and policy stories for all ABC News broadcasts and platforms. 
Categories 
George Stephanopoulos

Legal

National Security

OTUS

Political Punch

Polls

Power Players

The Note


  Recent Politics Posts 
Jorge Ramos: Republicans ‘Finally Getting It’ on Immigration
Paul Krugman: ‘NRA Is Now Revealed as an Insane Organization’
Michelle Rhee: ‘Probably’ Shouldn’t Have Fired School Principal on National TV
Sen. Harry Reid: Any Budget Deal Must Include Revenue
Biden: US Remains Open to Direct Talks With Iran

  RSS
Top Blogs on ABCNews.com 

Politics - Today 1:23pm
Jorge Ramos: Republicans 'Finally Getting It' on Immigration 


Headlines - Today 10:35am
British Police Arrest, Taser Man Outside Buckingham Palace


Entertainment - Today 9:09am
Super Bowl 2013 Party Survival Facts 


Lifestyle - Today 6:01am
Delta to Debut First-Ever Outdoor Airport Terraces 


Extras - 2/2/13 10:09pm
Instant Index: Phil Does Not See His Shadow and Two NFL Coaches Making History


Business - Today 7:51pm
Bakery Denies Same-Sex Couple Wedding Cake


Health - 2/2/13 7:00am
Super Bowl Indulgence? Start Walking


Technology - 2/2/13 7:00am
App of the Week: Instructables


Million Moms Challenge - 5/12/12 9:00am
A Mother's Day to Remember: Winner Gets Portrait By Anne Geddes


Top News on ABCNews.com10 Smartphone Risks'American Sniper' Killed; Former Marine ChargedGame On: Beyonce's Super BowlWatch:  Super Bowl 2013: 5 Fun Facts About the Big GameTurkish Police: American Killed by Blow to HeadSubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 




 






















