Todd Akin Opens Door to Possible Exit - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Politics
			> George Stephanopoulos

George Stephanopoulos


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousVP Pick: Despite Low Initial Polls, Republican Strategist Says Romney Campaign Is ‘Ecstatic’
NextBob McDonnell on Charlie Crist’s Endorsement of President Obama: Just One Vote

 

 By George Stephanopoulos@GStephanopoulosFind on FacebookFollow on Twitter  
Aug 22, 2012 7:58am

Todd Akin Opens Door to Possible Exit





 
			
Email

51
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




Orlin Wagner/AP Photo
Here’s what Missouri Congressman Todd Akin said when I asked if he was in the race to stay – even if it looked like he would lose and possibly cost Republicans control of the Senate.
“Well George, I’m never going to say everything that could possibly happen. I don’t know the future, but I do know this. I knew that the party voters took a look at our hearts, understood who we were, had a chance to meet us in many, many different ways and made a decision,” Akin told me. “And it makes me uncomfortable to think that the party bosses are going to dictate who runs as opposed to the election process.”
Republicans are lining up to ask Akin to drop out, including Mitt Romney and his running mate Paul Ryan. And the Chairman of the Republican Party asked Akin not to attend next week’s convention in Tampa.
Akin told me he will honor the wishes of Reince Priebus and not attend the convention, but insists he can still win the Senate seat. He’s staying in the race because of how he won the primary – running on his principles.
“We’ve given this a lot of thought. And that is the fact is that over more than a year period of time, a number of us ran in this Republican primary.  Each of us had our messages.  I was outspent by a large amount in terms of media. And yet by standing on principle and putting politics aside and talking about the foundations of this country, the people of Missouri chose me to be their candidate,” he said.
The Republican Party and Super PACs have pulled their money from his campaign after Akin said “If it’s a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down” on a local TV station Sunday.
Akin has since apologized for his comment, telling me this morning that “the word legitimate doesn’t ever have a good reason to be standing next to rape. There is no rape that is legitimate.”
The congressman, who sits on the House Science Committee, also admits that statement was medically wrong.
“The point of the matter is that, yes, pregnancy can happen as a result of rape.  I understand that and I’ve acknowledged that fact.  At the same time I don’t apologize for the fact that I’m consistently pro-life.  I believe in defending the unborn and I believe that based on those kinds of principles we can win this race,” he said.
Watch my interview here:

–George Stephanopoulos 

SHOWS: Good Morning America





 
			
Email

51
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print














Related Videos


														Geraldo Rivera Considers Senate Run in NJ						



														Chuck Hagel Defends His Record Before Former Senate Colleagues						


 
 
 
 


PreviousVP Pick: Despite Low Initial Polls, Republican Strategist Says Romney Campaign Is ‘Ecstatic’
NextBob McDonnell on Charlie Crist’s Endorsement of President Obama: Just One Vote






 

User Comments



It shouldn’t matter NOW whether he exits or not. And the GOP ‘leadership’ should not get ‘credit’ for it either with women. Because if you really have a functioning brain you understand that this ‘issue’ is so much bigger than Todd Akin. It is about a n ideology that has gotten virulent and extremely backwards and is now a controlling factor of the GOP ‘base’. And how any voter who claims to be educated and humane and aware of the world could vote alongside these people….I have no idea. Especially if you are a woman of reproductive age who not only cares about your own rights, but those girls coming to age after you.




			Posted by: CND FOX | August 22, 2012, 8:12 am 8:12 am		



All he said is what Ryan  thinks.




			Posted by: jim | August 22, 2012, 8:21 am 8:21 am		



It’s not only Akin. Read the barbaric GOP platform that makes all women lesser people than men.Any woman who votes for any republican has lost her sense of self esteem. By casting a vote for the GOP she has agreed to become a second class citizen with less rights than any male in the country. She agrees to follow the anti-woman laws enacted by angry, misogynistic white men who hate women and want to put them back in their place. This is so sad.




			Posted by: Sandy | August 22, 2012, 8:23 am 8:23 am		



Unbelievable in the fact that he would even have a chance after his ignorant, insensitive comments! What is he, stuck in the 50′s??? Women should not Stand for this! I don’t believe in getting an abortion for me, but I want to be able to make that choice for myself! Women fought for their rights for a REASon.




			Posted by: K Turner | August 22, 2012, 8:25 am 8:25 am		



Todd Akin is a complete fool. Women should be able to murder their children at any age…it is their right. This is protected under the Bill of Rights. In cases of rape they should get an extra right. They need to have an abortion to further mess them up psychologically, it is the only thing that will help. There clearly is no other option…adoption is not a choice. Murder is the only choice. I baby growing the womb is not human….it does not have cells composed of human DNA.




			Posted by: Ryan Braun | August 22, 2012, 8:28 am 8:28 am		



He’ll be leaving.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 8:33 am 8:33 am		



I don’t think Ryan thinks women have an automatic shut down mechanism.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 8:34 am 8:34 am		



Sandy; Have you ever seen an angry misogynistic black man who hates women? They’re out there.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 8:38 am 8:38 am		



Akin has an inflated ego.  I voted for Sarah Steelman and many crossover Democrats added a false sense of security for Akin.




			Posted by: D Paul | August 22, 2012, 8:58 am 8:58 am		



The bottom line is it makes little difference what we think.  It is the people of Mssouri who has the right to vote for or against in this matter.
I am prolife I do not hate women. I do hate the fact that over a million babies lose their God given right to exist. This issue has always been a hot issue. It would be good if we could disagree without being so belligerent but it seems in this political climate slash and burn seems to be the norm.




			Posted by: jky54 | August 22, 2012, 9:10 am 9:10 am		



D Paul; Very few politicians don’t have a inflated sense of self-worth..or ego.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 9:22 am 9:22 am		



RYAN BRAUN:  “Todd Akin is a complete fool. Women should be able to murder their children at any age…it is their right. This is protected under the Bill of Rights. In cases of rape they should get an extra right. They need to have an abortion to further mess them up psychologically, it is the only thing that will help. There clearly is no other option…adoption is not a choice. Murder is the only choice. I baby growing the womb is not human….it does not have cells composed of human DNA.” – - – I suspect RYAN here is really an antichoice conservative who is making up these profoundly stupid babblings in the hope of making the prochoice side appear so stupid that it reinforces ludicrous stereotypes.
Also, RYAN’s last statement if flat out wrong.  Just like my skin cells, hair follicles, and all the other cells in my body a fetus has the same human DNA as every other human.  AND just like my skin cells, hair follicles, and every other cell of my body a fetilized egg and a fetus are a potential person, but NOT an authentic person.  DNA alone, my DNA alone, does not provide or indicate personhood.  My DNA only establishes me as human.  My DNA DOES NOT make me a person.  I am a person because I have cconsciousness – a fertilized egg does not.  I am a person because I am also self-aware – a fertilized egg is not.  I am a person because  I can also exercise free will – a fertilized egg cannot.  As an authentic person I can also survive on my own for some time in an earth normal environment – a fertilized egg cannot; and the alien environmnent a fertilized needs to survive is lethal to me.  A fertilized egg cannot be an authentic person outside of the womb, therefore it cannot be an authentic person inside the womb.




			Posted by: B-K KnightRider | August 22, 2012, 9:29 am 9:29 am		



All you can say is it’s all right out there for everyone to see. No smoke. No mirrors. There it is. But men and women see what they want to see. This particular election cycle is incredibly eye opening, even shocking, in many ways. Once again the GOP is fractured, but this time not only along TP lines, it is crumbling all around them.




			Posted by: sameagain | August 22, 2012, 9:30 am 9:30 am		



Interesting how the media is hyperventilating over an uninformed and stupid comment by Akin while giving Joe “They gonna put y’all back in chains” Biden a free pass. I guess stupidity is the expected norm for leftist/progressive politicians.




			Posted by: Leviathanleap | August 22, 2012, 9:46 am 9:46 am		



REMEMBER that Akin and Paul Ryan, since 2001, have proposed 33 bills that would redefine rape, de-fund Planned Parenthood and restrict a woman’s right to make her own choice!!  Akin was simply stating what he and Ryan have ALWAYS believed.  It is simply inconvenient for the Republicans that it came out just before their convention – where one of the platforms may likely say that the Republicans would outlaw abortion in ALL cases!  This is not a party for women!!




			Posted by: pksk531 | August 22, 2012, 10:12 am 10:12 am		



Interesting how Akin was crucified over this statement.  Over the last thirty or forty years, I have been lead to believe that the incidence of pregnancy following rape is much lower than in consensual sex.  One study is cited to show that this is not true.  Looking at the study, I am not sure that the study actually addresses the issue, as the study appears to include statutory rape, which is often consensual.  I would welcome a wider study on this issue.  
In other words, Mr. Akin is merely affirming what many people believe.  
As to those of you who claim the Republican party is enslaving women, shame on you.  If women”s rights are only exulted by the death of unborn children, then this is very sad.  Out side of rape, every pregnancy is avoidable, yet you demand abortion as a means of birth control, upholding irresponsible behaviour.




			Posted by: Michael Joe Thannisch | August 22, 2012, 10:49 am 10:49 am		



LEVIATHANLEAP….LOL….uh excuse me….but most educated rational people would see that 9:46 post for what it is ….a ‘distraction’. These two ‘comparison topics’ can hardly be used as an analogy. LOL…LOL I guess it just gave you an ‘excuse’ for the name calling soundbite in your last sentence.




			Posted by: CND FOX | August 22, 2012, 11:10 am 11:10 am		



Akin stands a good chance of winning for no other reason than he’s running against an obama clone in McCaskill. That would do it for me anyway.




			Posted by: LHTwist | August 22, 2012, 11:33 am 11:33 am		



Mabey Charles Manson is available? Republicans wouldn’t care as long as he will ban abortion and contraception.




			Posted by: godsatheist | August 22, 2012, 12:15 pm 12:15 pm		



Akin should consider the possible outcomes:
1. He loses the election (most probably outcome). In that case his political career is finished. 
2. He drops out (most praiseworthy option). His political career is probably still finished, but redemption might be possible to some extent.
3. He wins the election. GOP senators would hold their noses and work with him, but he would remain a red-haired stepchild and could never advance.
He should drop out now.




			Posted by: Sara Baker | August 22, 2012, 12:15 pm 12:15 pm		



Why didn’t Bite-Me drop out with his racist remark? The Commie Party would tolerate an old White racist while the GOP are not allowed to? What’s up with the double standard?




			Posted by: acdc2012 | August 22, 2012, 12:32 pm 12:32 pm		



Why do our news stations not show us what happened yesterday in Iran?? Their president and supreme leader renewed their calls to eradicate Israel and the Jewish people. Standing under banners that read “Death to Israel” and “Death to America,” they delivered a nationally televised rally. In their remarks they said that when they are done, “there will be no trace of the Americans and Zionists.” WHY IS THIS NOT HEADLINE NEWS????????????????????




			Posted by: Seriously | August 22, 2012, 12:33 pm 12:33 pm		



When the Republicans decide that the born should have protection as well as/instead of focusing on (or pretending to focus on) the unborn, come back and talk to me.




			Posted by: Jausti | August 22, 2012, 12:45 pm 12:45 pm		



Akin is both correct and incorrect when he says that he was “outspent by a large amount in terms of media” in the GOP primary race.  He probably isn’t including the $2 million in “anti-Akin” ads spent by Senator McCaskill’s campaign during the primary, which deliberately painted Akin as her most conservative potential opponent in order to secure the nomination for the ultra-right fringe candidate McCaskill most wanted to face in November.  Looks like money well spent right now.




			Posted by: Marc Schneider | August 22, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



I am very surprised that George let Akin get away with calling Claire McCaskill “pro-abortion” in his remarks during this interview.  I imagine that Senator McCaskill would take strong exception to that notion.  She is for giving each woman the right to decide the answer to that issue themselves, in consultation with their doctors.  I think that the idea to keep abortion safe, legal and rare is the right reply to any of these “pro life” candidates for political office.




			Posted by: Tony Michaels | August 22, 2012, 1:07 pm 1:07 pm		



I told you the GOP would be better off running a ‘ham sandwich’ for President.




			Posted by: bob | August 22, 2012, 1:33 pm 1:33 pm		



If IDIOT Akin doesn’t end his disastrous campaign, THERE WILL BE A THIRD-PARTY CONSERVATIVE candidate running in the Senate race to ensure defeat of TAX CHEAT and OBOZO-suck-up and pathological LIAR McCaskill.




			Posted by: MicahStone | August 22, 2012, 2:19 pm 2:19 pm		



It’s interesting that even Whoopi Goldberg publicly stated that not all rape is “rape rape” as Akin implied.  Also Akin stated that a woman is not likely to become pregnant because of it.  Interestingly enough I have found many reports regarding this.  They all basically point to the same results.  95% of the time rape does not result in pregnancy.  “The national rape-related pregnancy rate is 5.0% per rape among victims of reproductive age (aged 12 to 45); among adult women an estimated 32,101 pregnancies result from rape each year.” — Rape-related pregnancy: estimates and descriptive characteristics from a national sample of women. Holmes MM, Resnick HS, Kilpatrick DG, Best CL.  Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of South Carolina.  The report also stated that of the 5% whom did get pregnant, half aborted child.  So, even if not all rape is rape as Akin and Whoopi agree, then the 5% that did get pregnant could be from either “legit rape” or not.  Other reports also go on to explain the physiology of why conception is simply more difficult during rape and it’s not hard to understand at all.  Even Discovery Channel discussed conception at length and it makes perfect sense that a women in a terrifying moment of violence and rape simply will not be as receptive to the insemination.  So, Akin was chastised for basically telling the truth, but inarticulately.  It happens to Biden all the time, but I’m not saying Biden should step down.  Still, Bill Clinton is probably closer to the issue of rape and abortion than most people;  (more so than Akin for sure) but the left says that Akin is a bad man, but Clinton, he’s their KEYNOTE speaker!  That’s hilarious!




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | August 22, 2012, 2:27 pm 2:27 pm		



Sarah never called for his resignation … probably the only one he’ll listen to.




			Posted by: The Romney Plan | August 22, 2012, 3:21 pm 3:21 pm		



texbork … I really don’t think anybody really cares about your statistics, as people “know a jackarse comment” when they hear it – Even your own candidate can’t get far enough from this guy – and you do more to prove the Lefts point about the hardheadedness of the GOP … Now, if it’s so darn obvious to you and your party the “definition of rape” … Why does your party spend so much time legislating the definition.




			Posted by: dianne | August 22, 2012, 3:28 pm 3:28 pm		



What Biden remark? Did I miss something?




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 3:31 pm 3:31 pm		



The only way Akin is leaving the race is if his money source totally dries up. He is not a rich man and cannot afford to fund his own campaign. The Republican Senate Committee and Kark Rove’s PAC have already cut him off so now he is at the mercy of his local organization and supporters. If those groups withhold their money he will most likely have to quit the race or take a beating at the ballot box and threaten all of the others on the ticket.




			Posted by: ChrisM | August 22, 2012, 3:35 pm 3:35 pm		



I just can’t believe that this guy has daughters. I feel so so bad for those girls.  It’s bad enough to grow up in a world where people like this exist, but how about in a house with him?




			Posted by: Mike | August 22, 2012, 3:47 pm 3:47 pm		



Its too late for him to quit the race – at least its too late for anyone else to be on the ballot, as of 5pm yesterday.   So now only time will tell if Missouri is crazy enough to want him to represent them.




			Posted by: Glen K | August 22, 2012, 3:48 pm 3:48 pm		



B-K KnightRider | August 22, 2012, 9:29 am — Sounds like you are OK with abortion until the water breaks.  I know I don’t remember anything in the womb! LOL




			Posted by: Commonsenseparty | August 22, 2012, 3:57 pm 3:57 pm		



While I’m certain Texbork_2012 did a lot of scientific research to come to his conclusions, I’ll stick with what a Harvard Med School Professor and the overwhelming majority of science thinks about Akin’s theory and the lone researcher that ever published support of it (which research was subsequently debunked several times in peer-reviewed journals):
“There are no words for this–it is just nuts,” Dr. Michael Greene, a Harvard Medical School professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive biology, told the Times.




			Posted by: Mike | August 22, 2012, 4:07 pm 4:07 pm		



This article is horrible reporting.  Todd Akin is staying in the race.  Whoever wrote this didn’t check out facts first!  HORRIBLE reporting.




			Posted by: Andrea | August 22, 2012, 4:18 pm 4:18 pm		



dianne, OK, I give, what’s MY party’s definition of rape.  You are far smarter than I it appears.  Is it the same as Whoopi Goldberg’s?  I do think that there are many who don’t care what the truth is when the rhetoric is all that really matters.




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | August 22, 2012, 4:47 pm 4:47 pm		



It’s not too late for him to quit the race. I heard an absolute deadline of something like September 20th or something like that to change the ballot, but it will be to the GOP’s disadvantage and be very expensive for some reason. This guy really screwed up.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 22, 2012, 5:03 pm 5:03 pm		



I just read this article on another website about a politician with a scandal and was being pressured to give up his campaign……. but it wasn’t Akin……. It was Democrat Rep. Kerry Gauthier, involved in a sex scandal involving a 17-year-old boy at a rest stop!! — You mean you didn’t hear about that????




			Posted by: theloyalopposition | August 22, 2012, 5:11 pm 5:11 pm		



Don’t Quit!  Stay in the race! Stand Up for what you and your party believe in!  Don’t hide your feelings or your politics! Don’t fear forcible rape




			Posted by: my5200 | August 22, 2012, 5:19 pm 5:19 pm		



Question, should Rep. Kerry Gauthier step down?  It’s not about what he said.  I guess it’s hard to speak when your mouth is full.  Why is Kerry Gauthier not in the media except for that they are democrat party propaganda machines?




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | August 22, 2012, 5:28 pm 5:28 pm		



The view of rape expressed by Akin AND Ryan is a return to the days when courts routinely held that unless a woman fought her attacker to the point that she was seriously injured or killed, she couldn’t have been “raped”, but “consented”.
Akin’s remarks are idiotic; see? Women don’t need birth control…they have amazing mental powers to simply “shut down” ovulation and/or conception at will. Perhaps he believes the old Victorian-era myth that unless a woman climaxed during sex, she couldn’t get pregnant. 
The sad fact is, he is only being asked to drop out because his comments were so blatantly offensive; meanwhile, plenty of other Republicans, including Ryan, clearly think in the SAME way (that there is such a thing as “legitimate” rape and that the onus is on the woman/victim to PROVE it!)




			Posted by: RAVEN | August 22, 2012, 5:54 pm 5:54 pm		



Todd Akin was elected by cross over Democlowns who figured running against him was the only chance for Claire McCaskill to win. It looks like thy’re right.




			Posted by: JoelinPDX | August 22, 2012, 7:22 pm 7:22 pm		



There are so many things I want to argue at this point. First of all, that this all came about on the fact of if abortion should be allowed or not. Well, of course it should be allowed. A woman has the right to decide what is best for her and her child, especially when raped! Who in their sick mind would disagree with a woman wanting to abort a child conceived during rape. Secondly, I don’t know who would want to justify if rape is “legit” or not. Rape is rape. I understand a girls body will respond naturally to intercourse, but that doesn’t mean she is willing; It means she is human. As for Todd Akin.. get him out of here! Democrat or Republican, no one that ignorant should be able to represent any part of America. Even if it was “word in the wrong place.” People, especially those who are affecting the future and suppose to be deciding what is best for us should be thinking before speaking a lot better than this guy did.




			Posted by: Shannon | August 22, 2012, 8:02 pm 8:02 pm		



He’s history.




			Posted by: newcountryman | August 23, 2012, 8:02 am 8:02 am		



Dude needs to GO – and pronto!  
At least the Republicans know when to separate themselves from the riff-raff, whereas the Democrats always “stand by their (misogynistic) men” no matter what:  Bill Clinton, the Kennedys… even Obama got in Hillary Clinton’s face when they were running against each other in the 2008 primaries, and he also yelled at Governor Jan Brewer.




			Posted by: MJ | August 23, 2012, 8:44 am 8:44 am		



Stay in the race Todd Akin, If someone like Obamy can get elected, then any fool can be elected
.




			Posted by: Melvin | August 23, 2012, 10:21 am 10:21 am		



Too bad he doesn’t defend the rights of the born as much as he does the rights of the unborn.




			Posted by: daveny5 | August 23, 2012, 9:57 pm 9:57 pm		



I refuse to refer to these people (Akin, the Tea Party, the majority of the GOP) as “pro-life;” they need to get off their damn high-horse and refer to themselves as what they really are – anti-abortion.
These anti-abortion advocates would rather focus their energy on “protecting” the potential lives of fertilized eggs, whose existences as actual people are debatable, over the lives of living flesh-and-blood women, whose lives are NOT debatable. How can they call themselves “pro-life” when they’re denying the rights of the actual living? And what about the later lives of these fertilized eggs? When these eggs develop into children, are the anti-abortion advocates willing to swoop in and take care of these children if something happened to the mother? I certainly don’t think so. 
It must be fulfilling to ignorantly stand up for the potential life of a clump of cells. It must be satisfying to devote time and energy in electing these anti-abortionists into office, whilst conveniently ignoring the lives and dilemmas of our fellow women. Why is there never this much passion over helping the homeless, the abandoned, and the persecuted among our fellow brethren?  
These anti-abortion advocates are hypocrites referring to themselves as “pro-life.” “Pro-life” implies defending the living. They are most certainly not doing that.




			Posted by: Kate | August 24, 2012, 6:46 pm 6:46 pm		



I refuse to refer to these people (Akin, the Tea Party, the majority of the GOP) as “pro-life;” they need to get off their damn high-horse and refer to themselves as what they really are – anti-abortion. Posted by: Kate | August 24, 2012, 6:46 pm.
Personally I prefer to call them ‘anti choice’. Because there are people who support a woman’s right to choose what to do with her own body, versus people who want to remove all choice about this and force their beliefs onto women. Allowing individual freedom versus removing individual freedom…..




			Posted by: Disgusted with GOP | August 26, 2012, 11:14 am 11:14 am		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About George StephanopoulosGeorge Stephanopoulos is anchor of ABC's "Good Morning America" and "This Week." He is also the network's chief political correspondent, reporting on political and policy stories for all ABC News broadcasts and platforms. 
Categories 
George Stephanopoulos

Legal

National Security

OTUS

Political Punch

Polls

Power Players

The Note


  Recent Politics Posts 
Jorge Ramos: Republicans ‘Finally Getting It’ on Immigration
Paul Krugman: ‘NRA Is Now Revealed as an Insane Organization’
Michelle Rhee: ‘Probably’ Shouldn’t Have Fired School Principal on National TV
Sen. Harry Reid: Any Budget Deal Must Include Revenue
Biden: US Remains Open to Direct Talks With Iran

  RSS
Top Blogs on ABCNews.com 

Politics - Today 1:23pm
Jorge Ramos: Republicans 'Finally Getting It' on Immigration 


Headlines - Today 10:35am
British Police Arrest, Taser Man Outside Buckingham Palace


Entertainment - Today 9:09am
Super Bowl 2013 Party Survival Facts 


Lifestyle - Today 6:01am
Delta to Debut First-Ever Outdoor Airport Terraces 


Extras - 2/2/13 10:09pm
Instant Index: Phil Does Not See His Shadow and Two NFL Coaches Making History


Business - Today 7:51pm
Bakery Denies Same-Sex Couple Wedding Cake


Health - 2/2/13 7:00am
Super Bowl Indulgence? Start Walking


Technology - 2/2/13 7:00am
App of the Week: Instructables


Million Moms Challenge - 5/12/12 9:00am
A Mother's Day to Remember: Winner Gets Portrait By Anne Geddes


Top News on ABCNews.com10 Smartphone Risks'American Sniper' Killed; Former Marine ChargedGame On: Beyonce's Super BowlWatch:  Super Bowl 2013: 5 Fun Facts About the Big GameTurkish Police: American Killed by Blow to HeadSubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 




 






















