Coolest Gadgets - YouTube



Vote for your favorite 2013 Super Bowl commercials to crown the Ad Blitz winner.   






Sign in UploadSearch  
 












Popular on YouTube







Music







Sports







Gaming







Movies







TV Shows







News







Spotlight




No channels found
        








Channels for you
                







MachinimaPrime







ibaworldtour







ASPWorldTour







WSJDigitalNetwork







OraTVnetwork




No channels found
        









Browse channels
    





Sign in to add channels to your guide and for great recommendations!
    

Sign in ›





This is your guide
    

Access your channel, playlists, subscriptions, and more.
    

Got it! 








Never get lost
    

Browse videos from the previous page, including the homepage feed, channel videos and search results.
    

Got it! 










        Related Channels
    








Smosh


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
7M









NEW VIDEO EVERY TUESDAY


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
7M









nigahiga


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
6M









Jenna Marbles


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
6M









Machinima


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
6M









Rihanna


 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
5M

















    Auto-generated by YouTube
  





 Subscribe
Subscribed
Unsubscribe
375



Topic - Coolest Gadgets










Videos


About










All activities All activitiesRecent posts





 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Make Your Own Iron Man Costume?


      2 days ago
    



Getting dumped sucks. It is safe to say that we have all experienced some sort of breakup in our lives. Maybe it was back in 3rd grade or maybe it was yesterday. Some poor guy in Germany recently got dumped by his girlfriend. Rather than sulk he channeled his knowledge of lasers and created an [...]





3:18
 






          Functional Iron Man Laser Gauntlet (100% selfmade)
        


by     AnselmoFanZero
•

    604,693 views
  

Website: www.laser-gadgets.com
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pat...

Full metal gauntlet, runs on 1x 18650 plus 2x 14500 Li Ion cells.
2 blue lasers on board, 1.2W each, plus 2 4mW for aiming.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Holograms Coming to the Toy Deparment


      3 days ago
    



What was your first impression when you saw the Princess Leia hologram in Star Wars? Seemed pretty crazy at the time. How in the world (errr galaxy far far away) did they get a 3D video to be played from a droid? It does not seem quite as crazy 35 years later. Hologram technology (a.k.a. [...]





1:38
 






          HolograFX: The world's first holographic smartphone toy
        


by     ToyNewsOnline
•

    1,582 views
  

Remember the hologram in Star Wars of Princess Leia? Now you can turn yourself into a holograph with this new smartphone play-set. Inventor Andre Armenante demonstrates it in this video. HolograFX was revealed at the 2013 ...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Audi’s “Lighting Technologies of Tomorrow”


      1 week ago
    



As previously mentioned, automakers unleashed some tech-y concepts at CES. The autonomous/self-driving cars were a hit. Announcements about the future of in-car technology gave hopes of integrating smartphone-like features into our cars. Audi made a splash with their lighting concepts too. If the picture included above makes you curious, please read on. Audi was the [...]





2:09
 






          Audi Laser Tail Light - CES 2013
        


by     Fourtitube
•

    3,611 views
  










 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged A Different Sort of Foot Powered Skateboard


      1 week ago
    



Skateboards seem like such a practical method of travel, especially if you live by the beach or in an area with good pathways. Some of us uncoordinated people in the world weren’t meant to travel by skateboard. Steering is all about finding your balance and being comfortable. Pushing off the ground for power should be [...]





1:10
 






          The ZBoard Electric Skateboard Promo
        


by     intuitivemotion
•

    429,839 views
  

Lean Forward To Go / Lean Back To Stop
http://www.zboardshop.com 
http://www.facebook.com/zboard
http://www.twitter.com/zboard
info@intuitivemotion.com

ZBoard - The Hand's Free Electric Skateboard

Lean Forward to Go. Lea...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Make Yourself a Green Thumb


      2 weeks ago
    



True confession time. I am a killer. I kill plants. I try to grow them indoors and outdoors with the same results. Poor little green friends. It may be that they dry out (oops! Forgot the water!). They have come too close to the radiator too. And outdoor stuff seems to suffer a variety of [...]





1:45
 






          Parrot Flower Power - smart sensor for your plants (CES 2013 preview)
        


by     parrot
•

    31,881 views
  

http://www.parrot.com
Wireless sensor, runs on Bluetooth Smart
Light, temperature, humidity and fertilizer
Available in 2013
Release date to be announced...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Phone Reminders on Your Wrist


      2 weeks ago
    



Anyone paying attention to advancements in the world of using your watch as a helpful, connected device certainly look forward to 2013. Rumors of an Apple watch keep circulating. The long awaited launch of the Pebble was announced at CES. Health and fitness watch features flourished. And something called the Cookoo watch made some headlines. Some of [...]





1:53
 






          COOKOO -  the connected watch for iPhone 5 & iPhone 4S
        


by     TheCOOKOOwatch
•

    213,457 views
  

"Stay connected anytime, anywhere with the COOKOO watch—the wearable extension of your smartphone that helps manage your connected life"

Your smartphone may not always be at hand — but the COOKOO watch is!
Have you ever m...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Choose Your Experience as You Use Your Card


      3 weeks ago
    



Just about every credit card holder collects some sort of rewards. Maybe it is cash back, maybe it is points or maybe your spending gives money back to a charity. Cards make life easy – so we won’t be going away from them anytime soon. And card companies will do just about anything to attract [...]





3:37
 






          Dynamics ePlate Credit Card Demo at CES 2013 by CEO Jeff Mullen
        


by     Z6Mag
•

    606 views
  

Jeff walks us through how his real-time credit cards reward system works with the ePlate technology to allow consumers control over what credit card rewards they receive. Consumers can also expect to earn much higher rewar...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Magnetic iPhone Friend


      3 weeks ago
    



iPhones have really set the bar for smartphones. Those of us that have them certainly appreciate MOST of the technology. But that darn keyboard still creates issues. Without tactile reminders of where our fingers are or what we touch our fat fingers and typing speed give ample job security for the spell check programmers. Someone [...]





0:50
 






          Hybrid Controller for iPhone 5
        


by     iphone5mod
•

    252,801 views
  

http://iphone5mod.com/shop/...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Calling All Employers


      1 month ago
    



If you are the boss and have employees I’ll bet we can get into a fun discussion about wellness programs. You know they help drive insurance costs down and improve overall performance. But do you really want to get that involved in the lives of your employees? Many bosses talk of how implementing wellness programs [...]





1:21
 






          Introducing the S2H CHALLENGE Corporate Wellness Program
        


by     switch2health
•

    4,341 views
  

The S2H CHALLENGE is a corporate wellness program that Motivates, Educates and Rewards employees for their healthy activity! For more information, visit S2H.COM!











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Light Your Stroller’s Way


      1 month ago
    



For anyone who has taken a stroller out at night you will attest to the challenges. First of all get baby or child in and bundled up. Then play defense as you walk and attempt to determine if drivers or pedestrians can see you coming. Alerting others to your location certainly helps avoid disasters. Jacootie [...]





0:31
 






          Jacootie light at night.MOV
        


by     Brian Nielson
•

    302 views
  

Using the Jacootie stroller headlight at night. As you can tell you cant even see the mother or the stroller. See & be Seen!!!
www.jacootielight.com











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged A Bladeless Ceiling Fan


      1 month ago
    



Whether Winter, Spring, Summer or Fall the need for air circulation exists. Sometimes it is a matter of blowing around the heat coming from the vent. Other times the cold air needs to flow. And other days the weather is perfect – just stagnant – and a fan becomes a savior. Ceiling fans have certainly [...]





1:27
 






          Exhale Bladeless Ceiling Fan—Full Scale Vortex Airflow Demonstration
        


by     exhalefans
•

    12,996 views
  

For more information on the Exhale fan please visit: http://exhalefans.com or our indiegogo page at: http://indiegogo.exhalefans... (currently funding)

The Exhale bladeless ceiling fan creates a vortex in your room.  Thi...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Track Your Stuff (and More!)


      1 month ago
    



Don’t you love getting old? Hair begins to gray or fall out, or both. You walk into a room and forget why. You lose your stuff – mind included on some days. OK, maybe not all of it is old age. Our busy society means little nuggets of information, previously thought of as important, may [...]





3:19
 






          The Stick N Find
        


by     SSIAmericaENG
•

    349,916 views
  

StickNFind Bluetooth Powered ultra small Location Stickers...you can stick on your stuff, and use your smartphone to find them.
http://www.indiegogo.com/st...  Get Early bird! Pre-order & support StickNFind











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Future LEGO Clock?


      2 months ago
    



If you are a frequent visitor to CG odds are that you have tinkered with something in your life. Maybe you tried to make your mom’s frying pan into a flying saucer. Or maybe you created a robot that would take your clothes to the hamper. Not all of the tinkering succeeds. But our minds [...]





3:26
 






          Time Twister 2 - LEGO Mindstorms Digital clock
        


by     Hans Andersson
•

    104,318 views
  

http://tiltedtwister.com











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Finger Friend for Your Tablet


      2 months ago
    



Just when we all got used to this darn mouse thing these darn tablets have to come along. And face it, they can do many of the daily tasks of a computer. I know many of you have migrated away from laptop where possible. Touchscreens are easy and intuitive. Yet there are still some minor [...]





1:27
 






          Ringbow Demo
        


by     Ringbows
•

    10,511 views
  

www.ringbow.com

Ringbow is a universal tool that helps me improve pretty much everything I do with all my devices.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Hot Water: Key to Recycling Electronic Components?


      2 months ago
    



Our love for gadgets means one thing in life: gadget waste will continue to grow. As new generations of laptops, tablets, phones, PCs and the like appear on the scene one has to wonder where the old ones go. Sure, some can be recycled, but there is certainly cost involved. Realistically much of what goes [...]





1:05
 






          ReUSE
        


by     NPLdigital
•

    46,580 views
  

ReUSE Project: Development of a 90% Recyclable Printed Circuit Assembly

Find out more:
chris.hunt@npl.co.uk
sales@gwent.org
sales@in2tec.com











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged A True Lifesaver


      2 months ago
    



Whether warfare, police work, fire danger or toxic areas – society has not come up with a foolproof method of entering into unseen places. Fiber optic cameras have proven useful, but have time and distance limitations. Sure, animals are being used in some situations. But should any life – human or otherwise – have to [...]





1:06
 






          Bounce Imaging
        


by     Francisco Aguilar
•

    132,819 views
  

Bounce Imaging develops low-cost, throwable sensors and cameras for first responders











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged So Much More than a Longboard


      2 months ago
    



The concept of an electric skateboard evolved years ago. Seems pretty simple, right? Use push power when needed, but get extra juice going up the hill or longer distances. The challenge has been making the controls reasonable enough to use while cruising at a decent speed. Congratulations to Boosted Boards for blowing away their Kickstarter [...]





3:05
 






          Introducing Boosted Boards, The World's Lightest Electric Vehicle
        


by     BoostedCommunity
•

    318,170 views
  

Find us on Kickstarter.com - http://kck.st/TGBiD2 - Light enough to carry anywhere, fast enough to go everywhere. A revolutionary combination of portability and power.  Thanks to our friends at Alchemy Creative, http://alc...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged “Gangnam Style” Coming to Your Gaming System


      2 months ago
    



Apologies in advance for getting this song stuck in your head. But I am looking out for the parents out there who are contemplating a dance game for your children’s video gaming device. Admit it, you have had it in your head before. Obviously someone is watching it. With over 658 million views (above [...]





4:13
 






          PSY - GANGNAM STYLE (강남스타일) M/V
        


by     officialpsy
•

    1,264,085,481 views
  

PSY - Gangnam Style (강남스타일) 
▶ NOW available on iTunes: http://Smarturl.it/psygangnam
▶ Official PSY Online Store US & International : http://psy.shop.bravadousa....
▶ About PSY from YG Ent.: http://smarturl.it/YGfamilyAb...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Watch an iPad Mini Strip Show


      3 months ago
    



Happy iPad Mini launch day! Sure the iPad Mini is cute. But the gurus at ifixit.com – home of repair manuals and parts for gadgets galore – want to get to the bottom of the device. So yes, they dissected an out-of-the-box unit earlier this week in their iPad Mini Teardown. View the step by [...]





5:31
 






          iPad Mini Teardown Review
        


by     iFixitYourself
•

    95,359 views
  

After much ado, the iPad mini has finally arrived! We managed to be among the first on earth to get our hands on Apple's latest offering, which means that you all get to be among the first on earth to see what's inside it....











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Computer Control at Your Fingertips…Literally


      3 months ago
    



Think of the evolution of the mouse & keyboard. First there was the lack of mouse and the directional keys on a keyboard attached to the PC. Then this crazy little thing with the clicks came along – albeit corded. Keyboards too became corded. Then the mouse and keyboard lost their tail and went wireless. [...]





1:12
 






          Introducing the Leap Motion
        


by     leapmotion
•

    8,081,767 views
  

Leap Motion represents an entirely new way to interact with your computers. It's more accurate than a mouse, as reliable as a keyboard and more sensitive than a touchscreen. For the first time, you can control a computer i...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged The Scary Mary Haunted Mirror – If Looks Could Kill


      3 months ago
    



The folks over at the hauntersdepot.com offer you The Scary Mary Haunted Mirror. Did you ever play the game as a kid? (standing at the mirror in the dark chanting “Scary Mary” waiting for her to appear?) Well, now you can be assured that she will, not just for you, but for your unsuspecting guests. [...]





0:32
 






          Scary Mary Haunted Mirror special effect Halloween prop HAUNTERSDEPOT.COM
        


by     HauntedVenturesFX
•

    11,194 views
  

www.HauntersDepot.com - SCARY MARY MIRROR is a NEW for 2011 Halloween Haunted Mirror Special Effect available from The Haunter's Depot.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged “Take a Break” Says Your Computer


      3 months ago
    



Face it, we work too much. We stare at our computer screens and get completely sucked in. It is easy to do. You know you have done it. You are working away at your computer and looked up only to realize that 3, 4, 5 or more hours have passed. Experts say that our attention [...]





2:35
 






          How to be stress-free and relaxed at work
        


by     Stillness Buddy
•

    10,560 views
  

Light-hearted video about Stillness Buddy, a unique software application that helps you work in a stress-free, relaxed and mindful manner. Check it out! www.stillnessbuddy.com











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Let the iPad Take a Fall


      3 months ago
    



I am the biggest klutz I know. Ask anyone who knows me. There is never a week that goes by where I don’t have a bump or bruise. At least I admit my fault. So you can imagine, when it comes to gadgets I make the investment in the proper protection. In which case, I [...]





0:43
 






          Ten 97 iPad Case Survival Test
        


by     ten97productions
•

    768 views
  

While at a trade show a Ten-97 customer decided to abuse our case and the iPad survived! While we don't recommend throwing our case 20' into the air, it gives you an idea of the protection we provide for your iPad. 

No ot...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged See Through Technology – Real X-Ray Vision!


      3 months ago
    



In one of our cars we have that annoying little back-up beeper, you know the one, it senses if anything is behind your car and emits a faster and faster beep tone the closer you get to running whatever it is over. The other car has a backup camera, much less annoying, and it has [...]





2:09
 






          Invisibility Breakthrough for Japanese Researchers
        


by     NTDTV
•

    1,213,719 views
  

Researchers in Japan have invented an incredible invisibility cloak.

The technology comes from 2003, but it's developers say the Harry Potter-like invisibility cloak is just the beginning. The team, led by Dr. Susumu Tach...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged hop! the following suitcase


      3 months ago
    



True road warriors know that your hands are always needed. You figure the phone is in one hand, maybe a bag over the other shoulder with that hand also pulling your rollerboard. So where is the coffee supposed to go? And forget about grabbing a newspaper. Quite inconvenient. Needless to say, an extra hand would [...]





1:46
 






          hop! the following suitcase
        


by     rodrigo garcía gonzález
•

    319,515 views
  

by rodrigo garcia gonzalez
www.ideactionary.eu
rgarcia@zipizip.com
music "be nice" Jahzzar











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Forget Your Keys!


      4 months ago
    



The evolution of the smartphone as more than a phone is underway. They are slowly taking over tasks in our daily lives. Think about it. Things like music players, portable DVD players, cameras, GPS, flashlights, calculators and dictation devices go by the wayside. NFC and Passbook technologies mean no more need to carry a wallet. [...]





3:00
 






          Lockitron - Keyless Entry Using Your Phone
        


by     lockitron
•

    2,836,879 views
  

https://lockitron.com/
 
Lockitron lets you lock or unlock your door from anywhere in the world

Any smartphone can use Lockitron through its intuitive two-button app. With Lockitron you can instantly share access with you...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Get the Groceries Right!


      4 months ago
    



Some of the most successful products evolve strictly out of making our lives easier. We could survive without it, but in our continuing efforts to save time or hassle the product takes off. Think about it. Who thought bagged lettuce would ever succeed? Or the universal remote control? Well, there’s another product on the horizon [...]





1:20
 






          hiku Kickstarter video.mov
        


by     hikuinc
•

    2,167 views
  










 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Your House in LEGO®


      4 months ago
    



Here I go again. I love LEGO. One of my favorite videos is James May’s Toy Stories and the construction of an actual LEGO house. Can you imagine living in such an abode? Movoto Real Estate offers a variety of tips and ideas on home buying on Movoto Blog. Trying to bring some humor into [...]





11:38
 






          James May's Toy Stories Ep. 5 - Lego House Pt. 1/5
        


by     kjubus88
•

    124,562 views
  

To BBC: I don't own rights to this video, i have no profit of uploading it here. I just want to share it with others.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Wag Your Tail


      4 months ago
    



When you woke up this morning I bet you said to yourself “darn, if I only had a tail to wag.” OK, maybe not. But the concept is out there! Launched at the end of last year by, NeuroSky – makers of Neurowear – was the Necomimi mind controlled cat ears. Distribution to the US [...]





1:45
 






          neurowear "shippo / brain controlled tail" concept movie（脳波で動くしっぽ）
        


by     neurowear
•

    2,487,476 views
  

We released our new prototype "Shippo".
It is a brain wave controlled tail.
"Shippo (tail)" moves with our mood. 

Relaxed- Moving Soft&Slow
Concentrate- Moving Hard&First

Sensor connected to smartphone app(neuro tagging ...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Just Say “Pop” for Popcorn


      4 months ago
    



Popcorn rocks. I love sitting down to a fresh bowl and chowing down. In fact I think we should start a campaign to make popcorn a more common, everyday snack. Making popcorn is certainly not the most convenient thing in the world however. And then there is the hassle of getting your fingers dirty while [...]





2:23
 






          The Popinator
        


by     thepopinatorproject
•

    2,053,428 views
  

The Popinator Project by http://www.popcornindiana.com aims to change the popcorn eating experience by making it more fun. The idea behind The Popinator is to instantly deliver popcorn into a person's mouth just by saying ...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged The Bionic Cockroach


      4 months ago
    



We bring this to you from the “it sounds weird, but sure the applications would be numerous” bag. Researchers at North Carolina State University figured out how to remotely control an actual cockroach. No the objective was not related to extermination of bugs – but rather creating a wireless biological interface. The mechanics consisted of [...]





0:43
 






          Roach Biobot
        


by     iBionicSLab
•

    704,200 views
  

Roboroach steering with a remote control
Follow iBionicS Lab:
http://www.facebook.com/pag...
https://twitter.com/ibionics











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Keyboards Get Smart Too


      5 months ago
    



With the evolution of computers came the deterioration of our bodies. In addition to bad posture, we suffer in our hands and wrists, shoulders and necks. Think about back and forth your neck does in an average day going from keyboard to screen and back. Sure, ergonomic solutions exist for certain elements of PC use, [...]





1:12
 






          smartype by KeyView
        


by     KeyViewTech
•

    84,777 views
  

smartype | A smart keyboard with a screen 
smartype is the next generation of keyboards. An innovative built-in screen enables you to see what you are typing, while you are typing. Enjoy the new world of keyboard apps: clo...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Play Classic Atari Games Online


      5 months ago
    



Happy 40th birthday to Atari. Yes, in September 1972 Atari launched with their first arcade game – Pong. Our lives would never be the same. But Atari wants you to experience the glory of their classic games via the comfort of your computer and the Internet. Welcome to Atari Arcade. We thought the Atari 2600 [...]





4:55
 






          Atari Arcade - Behind the Scenes
        


by     internetexplorer
•

    142,184 views
  

Go here: http://arcade.atari.com/dev...

In this video, get a glimpse at some of the work that went behind the scenes in the development of Atari Arcade, brought to you by Internet Explorer, Atari, and GSkinner.com











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Touchscreen iMac?


      5 months ago
    



Apple revolutionized the world of touch screens. Between the Touch, Phone and Pad – and many other brands of devices that followed – we have become a swiping, pinching, tapping sort of society. Yet the foundational product in Apple’s collection is still “touch free.” Think about it – the iMac lacks this functionality that we [...]





4:27
 






          Zorro Macsk + iMac = The Coolest All-in-One Desktop【iMac Touch】
        


by     MrTMDtouch
•

    95,557 views
  

Apple doesn't change iPhone 5 much, but Zorro Macsk changes the iMac.

This is a touch screen customized design for the iMac. It integrates rich language of gestures. With your fingers, you can easily achieve gorgeous but ...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged No More Falling Into the Campfire


      5 months ago
    



OK, so maybe you haven’t fallen into the campfire. But face it, campfires have their challenges. Collecting wood, getting flames going, stoking it. Yep, it isn’t necessarily what every camping or hiking trip necessarily needs. If you are packing in and trekking 10 miles building a fire for a quick nights stay isn’t exactly the [...]





2:19
 






          Trekmates Flameless Cook System - GO Outdoors
        


by     gooutdoorstv
•

    4,336 views
  

Video demonstrating the Trekmates Flameless Cook System, which enables you to prepare hot meals and drinks quickly and safely in the outdoors.

Available at GO Outdoors:

Flameless Cook Box - http://www.gooutdoors.co.uk/tr...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged X-Pilot Motions Control the Hover Bike


      5 months ago
    



Face it, levitation rocks. I am fairly sure most of us would jump at the opportunity to look like Luke Skywalker on a landspeeder. Traveling at insane speeds, weaving in and out of a forest, desert or in rush hour traffic. Commute time would sure speed up with a hover vehicle. In the past we [...]





1:31
 






          Hover 'Bike' Flies on Pilot's Intuition | Video
        


by     LiveScienceVideos
•

    937,588 views
  

Aerofex has redesigned hover vehicle technology so that it responds to a pilot's natural sense of balance without the need for flight control software.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Adidas Social Media Shoe


      5 months ago
    



It goes without saying that the world of social media has definitely changed the way we communicate with one another, and social networks such as Facebook as well as micro blogging sites like Twitter have introduced a new way we visit places – especially when we check in to various restaurants, hotels and shopping malls. [...]





1:17
 






          all in, all 2012 - #2@12 social media barricade
        


by     adidas
•

    76,741 views
  

London 2012 is by far the most social games yet. Fans tweeting athletes, athletes tweeting fans. To celebrate the greatest social frenzy in the history of the games we've tech'd-up this red adiPower Barricade to receive tw...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged A Virtual Tour of an Earthly Space Place


      6 months ago
    



Happy 50th birthday to the “gadgetiest” place of all, NASA’s Kennedy Space Center! This historic home to the creation and launch of many of the most important space missions wants you to help celebrate. KSC in conjunction with Google want to invite you on a virtual tour of the Space Center. There is plenty to [...]





1:01
 






          Explore Kennedy Space Center with Street View
        


by     Google
•

    238,296 views
  

http://maps.google.com/nasa

Google Maps in collaboration with NASA is enabling people around the world to take a trip to the doorway to outer space. This location is our largest special collection of Street View imagery t...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Lego® and iPhone – A Perfect Pair!


      6 months ago
    



Lego® continues to be that international symbol for “I am still a kid at heart.” Let’s face it, once you play with the toy bricks you are hooked. And the addiction continues through your life. iPhones continue to be the international symbol of cool technology. If you are like me, you cannot survive or be [...]





1:01
 






          TinkerBrick Lego ® Compatible Case
        


by     tinkerbrick
•

    7,594 views
  

Get it at Amazon: http://amzn.to/QNiTm2

The TinkerBrick™ Lego ® Compatible Case for iPod Touch 4G connects iOS with Lego. 
It also makes a great case.

Visit http://tinkerbrick.com to learn more.

Follow TinkerBrick

Face...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged CueLight Interactive Pool Table System – Takes your Game High Tech


      7 months ago
    



Billiards, a game that has probably been around since the late 1500′s. Originally thought to have been brought to the U.S. by way of the Spaniards, it now appears more likely that its beginnings were of Dutch and English settlers bringing it over. The game is played on a table with a cue… and it [...]





1:11
 






          Obscura Cuelight Pool Table
        


by     patcon96
•

    671,176 views
  

Obscura Digital Cuelight Interactive Pool Table.  Featured at the Esquire Houses Ultimate Bachelor Pad in NYC, the limited Edition Obscura CueLight projection system turns a game of pool into an amazing interactive art dis...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Project Glass video caught in the act


      8 months ago
    



Google has just released the first video ever shot with their Project Glass, an eyewear concept that seemingly hails from the future. The video was recorded with the wearer having some fun, jumping around and performing 360-degree flips on a trampoline. Heck, there was at least one instance where a backflip was performed, and I [...]





0:16
 






          Project Glass - Trampoline Video
        


by     Jason O. Gilbert
•

    729,146 views
  

Wearing Google Glasses, doing backflips on a trampoline.

Via the Project Glass Google+ page: https://plus.google.com/111...

Follow me on Twitter at https://twitter.com/#!/gilb... or on Google+ ...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Athos Quad – is it the New Way to Go?


      9 months ago
    



Here at Coolest-Gadgets we have covered quite a few bicycle alternatives, some goofy, some sporty and some downright unbelievable, you’ll have to tell us what you think of the next one up, because I haven’t quite decided what to make of it myself. I have to say it looks awesome and relatively user friendly, so [...]





1:27
 






          Contes Engineering Racer
        


by     ContesEngineering
•

    65,794 views
  

The Contes Engineering fully independent suspension downhill / BMX / offroad racer.  Patent Pending.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Uppleva – Not your Grandpa’s Console TV


      9 months ago
    



How I remember the good old days. I hate to admit it but I am in fact, old enough to remember when television sets were furniture. When the set was actually built into a beautiful cabinet and sat in the living room as part of the landscape, unlike now, where our TV’s are becoming smaller [...]





2:16
 






          IKEA UPPLEVA
        


by     IKEASWE
•

    2,007,018 views
  

IKEA introduces UPPLEVA, a completely new range that integrates smart TV and sound system with furniture. UPPLEVA brings beauty and functionality to the living room, solving the problem of cable clutter and miss-match betw...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Robotic rings offer a unique way to interact with robots


      9 months ago
    



What you see above are actually robotic rings which will be able to imitate not only ey, but mouth movements as well, and it is not something that guys would want to us when it comes to proposing to their respective girlfriends, upgrading the status to Wife 1.0. So then, what would be the function [...]





2:02
 






          Robotic rings for wearable robotic interaction #DigInfo
        


by     Diginfonews
•

    54,163 views
  

Robotic rings for wearable robotic interaction

DigInfo TV - http://diginfo.tv

16/3/2012 interaction 2012

Keio University
Pygmy











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Cardsharp – On the Cutting Edge


      10 months ago
    



I remember my Grandfather always walking around with a little penknife, and I cant tell you how many times that little sucker came in handy, as a screwdriver, gum scraper, twig cutter or maybe even a strawberry huller or banana slicer. He always had it with him, and I still have it today. It seems [...]





0:31
 






          Cardsharp Utility Knife (size of credit card) by Iain Sinclair
        


by     IainSinclairDirect
•

    210,054 views
  

CardSharp a superlight and supersharp utility knife, the same size as a credit card.
Just three ingenious folding operations metamorphosise the card into an elegant pocket utility tool. Slimmer and lighter than an ordinary...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Ila Dusk’s Personal Screaming Alarm – Hope You Never Need It


      10 months ago
    



I worry about safety quite often, probably more than I should. Mostly, I worry about my daughter, she’s nine years old and I sometimes wonder if I have made her too aware of dangerous things, or worse, not aware enough. How do you protect yourself and your children? What exactly should she do if a [...]





1:09
 






          Ila Dusk video
        


by     DailyGrommet
•

    16,014 views
  

Video by Ila Security showing the operation of the Ila Dusk personal security alarm.











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged BrailleTouch lets the blind text


      11 months ago
    



Modern smartphones come with touchscreen displays – which is not a bad thing at all, really. Just take a look at the kind of apps and games that have been written for the platform to date and tell me that it isn’t revolutionary in any way. However, while the hard of hearing can always enjoy [...]





1:40
 






          BrailleTouch Helps Visually Impaired Users
        


by     GeorgiaTech
•

    123,815 views
  

A team from Georgia Tech, led by Post Doctorate Fellow Mario Romero (School of Interactive Computing) has designed BrailleTouch for touchscreen mobile devices. The prototype app allows visually impaired people to easily ty...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Robot baby sends shivers down the spine


      1 year ago
    



When you mention the word “robot”, what comes into your mind? Most of us would have thought of characters from Transformers, or even Go-Bots (if you know what I am talking about, then you’re about in the same age bracket as me), and perhaps even the Terminator. Those who think that Chucky is scary enough [...]





0:33
 






          Animatronic Baby
        


by     Chris Clarke
•

    950,848 views
  

Animatronic baby mechanism for anonymous TV series. Built by Chris Clarke for CNFX Workshop...











 


 



Coolest Gadgets blogged Miveu camera mount for the iPhone4/4S


      1 year ago
    



Every time I go to CES, I always try to find trends in technology. For example, it appeared that every major electronics company had an ultrabook, and most of the newer cameras have a design that I call “ready for action”. These are like the cameras that GoPro puts out, designed to attach to your [...]





2:32
 






          Miveu POV iphone 4 & 4s Camera Deuce Deuce.wmv
        


by     miveu
•

    5,192 views
  

Ok you wanted more, so here it is. Nova Sports Lights Shane Card show Miveu how it's done!
CES January 10th 2012, booth 26706. Come see us!









Load more 






 

 
Language:
  
  English
 


 
Country:
  
  Worldwide
 


 
Safety:
  
Off
 


 
Help
 



Loading...
    






Loading...
    






Loading...
    


 About
Press & Blogs
Copyright
Creators & Partners
Advertising
Developers
 Terms
Privacy
Safety
Send feedback
Try something new!

 

Send feedback
      









Loading...











Working...








Sign in to add this to a playlist

    



Sign in to add this to a playlist




 


 

Added to 








Back to list




 


 

Added to playlist:




Add an optional note150 Add note 




Saving note...





Note added to:





Error adding note:

Click to add a new note















 

 
