BBC News - HS2: Minister defends route plan


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education

















1 February 2013
Last updated at 08:53 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
John Hess

Political editor, East Midlands

More from John



HS2: Minister defends route plan
 



The Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin has the look of a foot soldier who has been lifted from the muddy trenches and into high command. 
The Derbyshire Dales MP is a pretty likeable guy who carries a warm smile. He also has the appearance of a veteran politician who is panic-proof.
He'll need those qualities. He now has the job of steering through the case for the proposed routes of the UK's high speed rail services from Birmingham to the Northern cities.
But it's his East Midlands backyard that could become tricky.

“Start Quote
There's no way you can build a major railway of the nature of HS2 without upsetting some people”
End Quote
Patrick McLoughlin MP
Transport Secretary
 Tory colleagues in Leicestershire are outraged at the proposed route. Its county council leader Nick Rushton says for Leicestershire, it's all pain and no gain.
"I realise that part of the link will be unpopular. It is inevitable," Mr McLoughlin told me.
"You can't build a major infrastructure in this country without some problems and some people being against the plan.
"As a government, we've got to look at what is in the long term interest of the country."
The East Midlands hub for HS2 will be at Toton. It's commuter belt between Nottingham and Derby, and probably better known for its vast expanse of old railway sidings. 
But is Toton the right location? Not according to the Labour leadership in Derby. They'll want the hub at the city's railway station. The Transport Secretary will need some persuading.


Mr McLoughlin said the route drawn up by the government was the best option

"The people who are working on HS2 haven't just come up one morning and drawn a line," he said.
"They've studied each detail of the route. The cost of reconfiguring Derby station for HS2 would have been substantial and it would have been incredibly disruptive."
Then there's the case for the hub at East Midlands Airport. The western leg of HS2 from Birmingham stops at Manchester Airport. So why was East Midlands Airport ruled out for the eastern route.
"One of the things we had to look at was connectivity, and the way we could best serve Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and the rest of the region," said the Transport Secretary.
"It's not so easy to do from East Midlands Airport. But if East Midlands Airport - which is owned by Manchester Airport - wants to come forward with a proposal, I'll look at it.
"But our plans are what we think is best for the route."
HS2 will also hug a long stretch of the M1 in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire. This raises the need of shifting part of the motorway. It was only widened to an eight-lane motorway a few years ago. 
'Expensive scheme' 
The HS2 engineers call it realignment.
"There are certain areas where some realignment will have to be done," he added
"It is expensive. But then, this is an expensive scheme. 
"The engineers say to me the line should go by the road network.
"There are very good reasons for the work we will need to do. We won't do the work unless it's necessary."
At £33bn, HS2 carries a big price tag. But could that cash be better spent on improving local transport?
"We are already going to electrify the Midland Main Line. HS2 will free up track space on the Midland Main Line. That's how you build up capacity and improve services.
"There's no way you can build a major railway of the nature of HS2 without upsetting some people.
"The size of the scheme, the importance of getting the route right is by far the most important thing for the government. And for the country."
As a politician, this Transport Secretary may have to draw on his reserves of Midlands pragmatism.
The first HS2 trains through the East Midlands may be 20 years away, but this is one big political issue that's not heading for the buffers.

 





Article written by John Hess
John Hess

Political editor, East Midlands

More from John



Fuel bills: New heat on ministers 
14:32 UK time, Friday, 25 January 2013
More households are becoming fuel poor, say campaigners for warmer homes.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        










       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 82       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 22.  Baron Brick  1st February 2013 - 23:29   "£33bn well spent" Well I guess we'll find that out in twenty years time, when the current shambles, I mean gov't are gone, and long beyond blame or reprisal. Who's so confident that business class rail travel will still be needed, in the age of 3d video conferencing...and whatever innovations the next twenty years brings? Pathetic waste of money.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 21.  Radec  1st February 2013 - 23:13   I just realised something. The traffic on the HYS at 23:00 on Friday night is non-existent. Meanwhile a news story HYS on Monday morning (or any day of the working week) gets over a thousand comments in a few hours. The problem with our economy ain't the banks. It is that people are spending their lives on BBC News HYS instead of doing the job they are paid to do.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 20.  The Lone Gunman  1st February 2013 - 21:43   Here's my alternative plan. The same amount of money could be used to re-open all the rural railway lines closed by Dr. Beeching in the 1960's. Many more people now live in the country. These lines would now be financially viable. It would be far greener and would save millions of car miles. The whole country would be re-invigorated! You know it makes sense. Do it!    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 19.  jgm2  1st February 2013 - 21:27   Total waste of money.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 18.  Dellb  1st February 2013 - 20:42   Yet again this government shows its total disregard for the public.when this railway is finished no one will be able to afford to travel on it, who will run it and where will the profit go (its being built with taxpayers money) This money would be far better of trying to fill in the millions of pot holes and save money to councils (Claims for damage) get real please !!    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 17.  Respighi  1st February 2013 - 19:22   RE 15. I agree with your sentiments but observing good practice also involves taking the price into account. Look around you and see the cuts elsewhere - do we really need a railway that is faster for a few when our police, the health service etc etc are suffering. And as I said, it will not end up costing £32bn. The police and health etc are a part of the infrastructure too.    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 16.  temporarily out of order  1st February 2013 - 18:47   My modern day Luddite society are looking for a quick route to Manchester so we can smash some looms.  For us this new railway just can't come quick enough. ;o)    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 15.  mayfield  1st February 2013 - 18:44   14.Respighi Nothing to do with the school playground.  There is nothing wrong with observing good practice elsewhere and wanting to emulate it.I don't know about the robustness of the budget but many people think that spending on infrastructure is precisely what you should do in a recession.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 14.  Respighi  1st February 2013 - 18:31   Re 11 Mayfield - I'm sorry but that sounds like a schoolyard chant - I want one cos you've got one.  The history of the railways doesn't come into when we're meant to be in a period of austerity (unless Dave says so of course). There is no way this project will come in anywhere near budget so that's a millstone around the neck of everyone for however long it takes to build. We CANNOT afford it.    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 13.  GB  1st February 2013 - 18:25   "10. spacewesterns For £32bn you could give everyone living in the country a little gift of over £500."Spread over 16 years, of course - HS2 is supposed to cost £2b a year - within current railway spending budgets once Crossrail is completed - and it's just the long project lifespan that generates massive headline figures of cost.  But I do think there are better things to spend the money on.    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 12.  GB  1st February 2013 - 18:14   In these days of laptops and 4G data connections, do we need to get people from A to B quickly, at great cost, when they can do work on the train? Do they even need to travel, when we could have a first rate fiber network to video connections? In business the "opportunity cost" is very high for little return with HS2, compared to reducing the need to travel in the first place using technology.    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 11.  mayfield  1st February 2013 - 17:45   Why should Europe have a fast 21st century railway system and not us.  We were at the start of railway innovation and we should support this development and be proud of joining the high speed age.  It will be good to have our major cities connected by a fast rail link rather than relying on air travel.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 10.  spacewesterns  1st February 2013 - 17:39   For £32bn you could give everyone living in the country a little gift of over £500. ...just saying...    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 9.  realleftist  1st February 2013 - 17:36   We are the laughing stock of Europe when it comes to public transport (probably something to do with the fact that we are the only ones who fell for the swindle that is privatisation), so just build it already!    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 8.  Steve  1st February 2013 - 17:08   Do we reaaly need to spend £32bn to get from London to Leeds 30 minutes quicker. By all means spend money on the railway system but upgrade what we have, longer trains, better signalling, better maintenance etc.This is just a vanity project that will not create one extra job in Manchester or Leeds that would not have been created anywayUse some of the money to expand Manchester airport    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 7.  Raymond Hopkins  1st February 2013 - 17:04   Bearing in mind the fact that I can travel 500 kilometres on Finnish Rail for 30€, (about £26) I have to ask, can I afford the HS2 when it comes?    Report this comment (Comment number 7) Link to this (Comment number 7)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 6.  TRT  1st February 2013 - 16:57   How about reinstating the GC mainline? Much cheaper, surely, and able to provide more local services. Leave the long distance stuff to the airlines.    Report this comment (Comment number 6) Link to this (Comment number 6)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 5.  kevthebrit  1st February 2013 - 16:43   33bn! Hmmm! I take it that this is the STARTING figure? I wonder what the ACTUAL cost will be? 45bn? 64bn? 150bn? 250bn? 1574bn? Don't forget inflation and government figures and it will be at least another 20 years (and by then well out of date) before the first trains run on this new track! 100% FOR SURE it will be a lot more than 33bn!!    Report this comment (Comment number 5) Link to this (Comment number 5)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 4.  Rennie1979  1st February 2013 - 16:33   Fantastic point!and one which all the grey hairs in Westminster will just NOT understand.    Report this comment (Comment number 4) Link to this (Comment number 4)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 3.  Howesyourview  1st February 2013 - 16:24   Back to the argument. Train systems cost ALOT of money and it is cause due to suppliers and contractors. They charge extra when they hear "rail", they often do poor work which has to be redone (at expense) and often cause delays (expense due to working over contract) Another factor is reliability. You have to spend good money for good components otherwise it will fail all the time and be unsafe    Report this comment (Comment number 3) Link to this (Comment number 3)         Page 4 of 5    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: French jets bomb northern Mali 



2: US sniper book author shot dead



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



7: Mars rover hammers down into rock



8: Why Mali's nomads are lying low



9: Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed



10: Obama shooting picture released



Video/Audio




1: Apology over police beating footage Watch



2: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



3: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



4: Teen invents cancer test using web Watch



5: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



6: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



7: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



8: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



9: China highway collapses after blast Watch



10: Many dead in Iraq police HQ blast Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





