BBC News - Is it all over for Cumbrian nuclear waste store plans?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




England







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education

















1 February 2013
Last updated at 08:56 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Richard Moss

Political editor, North East & Cumbria

More from Richard



Is it all over for Cumbrian nuclear waste store plans?
 


The long term plan could have seen nuclear waste buried underground in Cumbria


Related Stories


Nuclear plan rejected by council


Cumbria's nuclear waste debate


Cumbria nuclear waste dump vote



For the second time in 14 years the hunt for a long-term solution to Britain's nuclear waste stockpile seems to have foundered in Cumbria.
In 1999 Cumbria County Council rejected plans for a rock laboratory that could have paved the way for an underground nuclear waste store.
And now the same council has again withdrawn as a potential site for a repository.
Cumbria's decision
The majority of the council's executive decided the county wasn't suitable.
The government has also said it accepts Cumbria's decision and will look elsewhere.
So is it all over?
Apparently not. Copeland Council - the Cumbrian district that includes Sellafield - did vote to enter what was called Stage 4 of the search for a site.
As the junior planning authority, that acceptance is trumped by the county council's rejection.
But now there is talk of Copeland going it alone.

“Start Quote

The fact Cumbria County Council never heeded the majority of West Cumbrians' views and voted no, does not resolve the question”
End Quote
Cllr Elaine Woodburn
Leader, Copeland Council
 The council leader has written a joint letter to the government with her counterpart in neighbouring Allerdale.
Councillor Elaine Woodburn wants an urgent meeting with the government to discuss whether there may still be a way of continuing to look at West Cumbria as a potential site for an underground store.
In the letter she says: "We have had a very clear and evidenced mandate from the communities we represent that entering Stage 4 was the right thing to do.
"The fact Cumbria County Council never heeded the majority of West Cumbrians' views and voted no, does not resolve the question over what to do with the nuclear waste in the long term."
Moral case
The local MP Jamie Reed also seems determined that West Cumbria can press on.
He said: "There is an unprecedented cross-party mandate for this, an undeniable environmental and moral case and an overwhelming economic case for taking this issue forward. Most importantly, doing so is in the best interests of the people of Copeland and West Cumbria.
"This work will be taken forward quickly."
And he's also pointed out that the problem of the country's high level nuclear waste hasn't gone away.
It also remains a Cumbrian problem as 75% of it is stored above ground at Sellafield.
You can also imagine the government being pretty receptive.


Much of the UK's high level nuclear waste is stored above ground at Sellafield

No other community had come forward as a potential site, and no other community looks likely to.
And given West Cumbria's nuclear history it always seemed the best bet.
Safety concerns
The government also has to find a solution. It will be harder to justify new nuclear power stations if the country can't find a long term way of dealing with its existing waste problem.
And the current arrangements were criticised last year when a National Audit Office report raised concerns about the safety of storage of waste at Sellafield.
It talked about it being "housed in buildings which pose intolerable risks to people and the environment".
So it may be prepared to look at ways that Copeland could follow its own path.
The council could, for example, continue to investigate sites to see if the geology would be suitable for a waste store.
But even if that's possible - and legally Cumbria has officially withdrawn - it will be controversial.


Copeland councillors wanted to stay in the search for a site for an underground nuclear waste store

This week's decision was influenced by an impassioned campaign by the Cumbrians who did not want to see waste buried in the county - and certainly not in the Lake District.
Much of the tourist industry was opposed and a petition signed by more than 20,000 opponents was gathered.
Bypass council
Even if West Cumbrians wanted to press ahead (and all we know now for definite is that their councillors do), much of the rest of the county could remain hostile.
And then there is the thorny matter of how you bypass the county council.
Under the current planning regime the county would have to give permission for any exploratory drilling, and it would certainly have to sanction any store. Copeland could do neither.
At some point there would either have to be a change in the law, or the government would have to override the local planning authority.
But this is a long-term game.
Even if Cumbria had said yes this week, a store would not have been built for decades.

“Start Quote
We will continue to oppose underground dumping anywhere in the UK”
End Quote
Martin Forwood
Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment
 If a way was found for investigations to continue, there could be a different set of councillors, maybe even different councils, by the time a new decision has to be made.
The government might also look again at what incentives it could offer to persuade Cumbria to press on.
Above ground storage
But some say it's time to rule out underground storage forever.
Martin Forwood, from Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment, has accused Jamie Reed of petulance by insisting Copeland could plough on. He says improved above ground storage is the only way forward.
He said: "We will continue to oppose underground dumping anywhere in the UK. 
"With significant blight from at least one major nuclear proposal now averted, Cumbria can now look forward to attracting non-nuclear inward investment and diversifying its local economy towards a safer and clean future for all its communities."
But despite that wish it does appear this story is far from over, and this week's "no" may not prove to be the end of a Cumbrian nuclear waste saga that's dragged on for more than 20 years.

 





Article written by Richard Moss
Richard Moss

Political editor, North East & Cumbria

More from Richard



The council tax benefit bombshell 
11:06 UK time, Friday, 11 January 2013
Another benefits bombshell is on the way for the poorest in society. Some may have to pay council tax for the first time.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


Related Stories



Nuclear plan rejected by council

30 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                CUMBRIA



Cumbria's nuclear waste debate

29 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                ENGLAND



Cumbria nuclear waste dump vote

28 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                CUMBRIA






Related Internet links


Whitehaven News News Copeland 'may go it alone' in N-waste search


Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





       Comments    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.                                      All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules        Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 51       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 31.  kevthebrit  2nd February 2013 - 18:17   I'm sure Iran would love to buy it !    Report this comment (Comment number 31) Link to this (Comment number 31)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 30.  Ticarus  2nd February 2013 - 14:47   Its better to store it underground in the safest place possible then where it is currently, above ground in cumbria. This move would have been a huge benefit to cumbria but they have rejected it out of blind reasoning to propaganda and old held beleifs.    Report this comment (Comment number 30) Link to this (Comment number 30)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 29.  prudeboy  2nd February 2013 - 14:45   #28. Little_Old_MeIt is you that is jumping to conclusions.How do you know if I read the article?Or downloaded the pdf.All I can reliably state is that there is an awful lot of bold type in the report but not much substance.For instance there was assertions we should share resources on a country to country basis to avoid wind loss.What happens if the wind loss is EU wide?Buy thermals now    Report this comment (Comment number 29) Link to this (Comment number 29)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 28.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 14:31   25.prudeboy - "I have no doubt that wind works sometimesThat is why there are diesel generators on standby for when they don't.We need a reliable source of power...."So you didn't bother reading the article before gobbing off then?  Otherwise you'd know what you have just said applies to EVERY SINGLE FORM of power generation........read the FACTS....it is not a lot to ask....    Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 27.  helo thar  2nd February 2013 - 14:07   Put it under Luton instead.    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 26.  Dr_Ads  2nd February 2013 - 12:31   Finland is building an underground nuclear waste storage unit in OnkaloSweden is building one in ForsmarkThe Germans have one in GorlebenThe US is going to build oneOthers are planned in Lithuania, Slovenia and UkraineFrance is building a 2nd one in Bures - the 1st (in Aube) holds 1.32 million cubic metres of wasteOnly here does local politics prevent action being taken...    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 25.  prudeboy  2nd February 2013 - 12:05   #24Little_Old_MeI have no doubt that wind works sometimesThat is why there are diesel generators on standby for when they don't.We need a reliable source of power.Not one designed to put money in the pockets of landowners.And how much, percentage wise, of the total energy demand will be catered for by wind anyway?Ask yourself - "Is it worth the hassle?"Just to transfer wealth. From us.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 24.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 11:34   Apologies for the partial link below, the link in full is:http://www.ippr.org/publication/55/9564/beyond-the-bluster-why-wind-power-is-an-effective-technology    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 23.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 11:11   13.Radec - "....Get a grip people, nuclear power is the way forward. What good can we accomplish with wind turbines that blow over in the wind?"Ah, more LIES about the efficacy of wind power  -  wind power WORKS, as this exhustive, independant report proves....../beyond-the-bluster-why-wind-power-is-an-effective-technologyBTW  -  I am not against nucleur power per se.    Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 22.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 10:59   21.David This is Cumbria, home to many nucleur installations we're talking about.  It is not about NIMBYism, it is about the geology of the area being unsuited to long term storage.........which is why Integral fast Reactors must be built, to eat all that waste up......& leave behind less quantity & radioactivity of waste....    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 21.  David  2nd February 2013 - 8:46   18 BlueslandNIMBYism is a national and rather pathetic weakness. The people of Cumbria, Surrey, Yorkshire have it in equal measure. I believe that anyone who denies planning permission to a project which has national importance should be required to propose alternative sites. Is it somebody elses turn to host this ?, probably, but thats not the response that is being made, it is pure NIMBYism.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 20.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 8:46   Why won't the Govt take Hitachi up on their offer to build an Intergral Fast Reactor with no upfront cost, only charging afteewards if it cn be shown to work effectively on a real world scale?An IFR would be fuelled by the waste from fission reactors and the waste it left behind would would be man times less radioactive than the spent fuel that goes into it......??????    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 19.  David  2nd February 2013 - 8:36   @17 Mary DMaryI do not want a nuclear waste site near me, but I am willing to have one because it is an absolute necessity. The question to ask is "Are you willing to take responsibillity for the nuclear waste that was created as a biproduct of the electricity you have used over the last 57 years" This is not about democratic rights, it is about civic responsibillity.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 18.  Bluesland  2nd February 2013 - 8:34   15 David: That is exactly what this scheme is doing - southern Nimbys who want to locate the waste as far away from themselves as possible. Scotland would have been an option, but it might affect the referendum vote.I'm sure they could find a nice home for it in the South. Westminster would be ideal.    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 17.  Mary D  2nd February 2013 - 2:38   I'm a W Cumbrian and I see no democracy here! Woodburn says "Cumbria C Council never heeded the majority of West Cumbrians' views" But look at CALC.co.uk for figures on how the ACTUAL PEOPLE here feel! 85% of parishes which expressed a view say NO. 95% in Ennerdale say NO. Thousands signed petitions. The councils are NOT LISTENING or ACTING for US who they SHOULD REPRESENT. Why fear a REFERENDUM?    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 16.  JC  2nd February 2013 - 1:09   It's not suprising that some people are against a repository when disinformation is propagated by people like James @12. Nobody's suggesting that it will be stored under residential areas and Grae@14 comparing a Russian designed reactor with a storage solution.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 15.  David  2nd February 2013 - 1:08   We have all benefited from nuclear power, been born in hospitals that use power from nuclear plants, drunk tea that has been boiled by nuclear power. You cannot have your cake and eat it. The nation has used nuclear power for years and it looks like we will not be able to survive wthout it in the future. Disowning any responsibillity for its bi-products is pure hypocrisy and irresponsible.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 14.  Grae  1st February 2013 - 23:36   This waste last for thousands of years, which we are meant to trust companies that are in only for money and please shareholders. Also its not that 'Green' with most 'carbon' light uranium used up, huge energy will be needed to process and get to grade the rest of the uranium.I don't want the UK to have a Chernobyl, for someone to get rich quick!!    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 13.  Radec  1st February 2013 - 23:10   I wounder how disgusting the people who voted 'no' are. I mean surely they don't smoke, I mean surely they don't let their dogs defecate on sidewalks and leave it there, I mean they surely don't bin perfectly good food because it is 1 day over the printed use-by-date.Get a grip people, nuclear power is the way forward. What good can we accomplish with wind turbines that blow over in the wind?    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 12.  james  1st February 2013 - 22:11   Animal's don't defacate in or around there own homes. What does it say about the people of Copeland who said yes to the possibility of having enormous amounts of radioactive nuclear waste dumped beneath their homes,children's schools ,hospitals,parks. etc.....,    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)         Page 2 of 3    Newer 1 2 3 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Mars rover hammers down into rock



8: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



9: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



10: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



4: The art looking death in the face Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



10: Russell Brand on Savile scandal Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





