BBC News - Is it all over for Cumbrian nuclear waste store plans?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




England







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education

















1 February 2013
Last updated at 08:56 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Richard Moss

Political editor, North East & Cumbria

More from Richard



Is it all over for Cumbrian nuclear waste store plans?
 


The long term plan could have seen nuclear waste buried underground in Cumbria


Related Stories


Nuclear plan rejected by council


Cumbria's nuclear waste debate


Cumbria nuclear waste dump vote



For the second time in 14 years the hunt for a long-term solution to Britain's nuclear waste stockpile seems to have foundered in Cumbria.
In 1999 Cumbria County Council rejected plans for a rock laboratory that could have paved the way for an underground nuclear waste store.
And now the same council has again withdrawn as a potential site for a repository.
Cumbria's decision
The majority of the council's executive decided the county wasn't suitable.
The government has also said it accepts Cumbria's decision and will look elsewhere.
So is it all over?
Apparently not. Copeland Council - the Cumbrian district that includes Sellafield - did vote to enter what was called Stage 4 of the search for a site.
As the junior planning authority, that acceptance is trumped by the county council's rejection.
But now there is talk of Copeland going it alone.

“Start Quote

The fact Cumbria County Council never heeded the majority of West Cumbrians' views and voted no, does not resolve the question”
End Quote
Cllr Elaine Woodburn
Leader, Copeland Council
 The council leader has written a joint letter to the government with her counterpart in neighbouring Allerdale.
Councillor Elaine Woodburn wants an urgent meeting with the government to discuss whether there may still be a way of continuing to look at West Cumbria as a potential site for an underground store.
In the letter she says: "We have had a very clear and evidenced mandate from the communities we represent that entering Stage 4 was the right thing to do.
"The fact Cumbria County Council never heeded the majority of West Cumbrians' views and voted no, does not resolve the question over what to do with the nuclear waste in the long term."
Moral case
The local MP Jamie Reed also seems determined that West Cumbria can press on.
He said: "There is an unprecedented cross-party mandate for this, an undeniable environmental and moral case and an overwhelming economic case for taking this issue forward. Most importantly, doing so is in the best interests of the people of Copeland and West Cumbria.
"This work will be taken forward quickly."
And he's also pointed out that the problem of the country's high level nuclear waste hasn't gone away.
It also remains a Cumbrian problem as 75% of it is stored above ground at Sellafield.
You can also imagine the government being pretty receptive.


Much of the UK's high level nuclear waste is stored above ground at Sellafield

No other community had come forward as a potential site, and no other community looks likely to.
And given West Cumbria's nuclear history it always seemed the best bet.
Safety concerns
The government also has to find a solution. It will be harder to justify new nuclear power stations if the country can't find a long term way of dealing with its existing waste problem.
And the current arrangements were criticised last year when a National Audit Office report raised concerns about the safety of storage of waste at Sellafield.
It talked about it being "housed in buildings which pose intolerable risks to people and the environment".
So it may be prepared to look at ways that Copeland could follow its own path.
The council could, for example, continue to investigate sites to see if the geology would be suitable for a waste store.
But even if that's possible - and legally Cumbria has officially withdrawn - it will be controversial.


Copeland councillors wanted to stay in the search for a site for an underground nuclear waste store

This week's decision was influenced by an impassioned campaign by the Cumbrians who did not want to see waste buried in the county - and certainly not in the Lake District.
Much of the tourist industry was opposed and a petition signed by more than 20,000 opponents was gathered.
Bypass council
Even if West Cumbrians wanted to press ahead (and all we know now for definite is that their councillors do), much of the rest of the county could remain hostile.
And then there is the thorny matter of how you bypass the county council.
Under the current planning regime the county would have to give permission for any exploratory drilling, and it would certainly have to sanction any store. Copeland could do neither.
At some point there would either have to be a change in the law, or the government would have to override the local planning authority.
But this is a long-term game.
Even if Cumbria had said yes this week, a store would not have been built for decades.

“Start Quote
We will continue to oppose underground dumping anywhere in the UK”
End Quote
Martin Forwood
Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment
 If a way was found for investigations to continue, there could be a different set of councillors, maybe even different councils, by the time a new decision has to be made.
The government might also look again at what incentives it could offer to persuade Cumbria to press on.
Above ground storage
But some say it's time to rule out underground storage forever.
Martin Forwood, from Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment, has accused Jamie Reed of petulance by insisting Copeland could plough on. He says improved above ground storage is the only way forward.
He said: "We will continue to oppose underground dumping anywhere in the UK. 
"With significant blight from at least one major nuclear proposal now averted, Cumbria can now look forward to attracting non-nuclear inward investment and diversifying its local economy towards a safer and clean future for all its communities."
But despite that wish it does appear this story is far from over, and this week's "no" may not prove to be the end of a Cumbrian nuclear waste saga that's dragged on for more than 20 years.

 





Article written by Richard Moss
Richard Moss

Political editor, North East & Cumbria

More from Richard



The council tax benefit bombshell 
11:06 UK time, Friday, 11 January 2013
Another benefits bombshell is on the way for the poorest in society. Some may have to pay council tax for the first time.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


Related Stories



Nuclear plan rejected by council

30 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                CUMBRIA



Cumbria's nuclear waste debate

29 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                ENGLAND



Cumbria nuclear waste dump vote

28 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                CUMBRIA






Related Internet links


Whitehaven News News Copeland 'may go it alone' in N-waste search


Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





       Comments    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.                                      All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules        Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 51       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 11.  prismsuk  1st February 2013 - 21:43   It beggars belief that the GE Hitachi PRISM reactor, which is likely to be approved within months, to burn our plutonium stockpile, is never mentioned as a solution to the 'nuclear waste problem. PRISMs can supply all of the UK's power for 500 years, from the nuclear resource, which the ill-informed and duplicitous call nuclear waste. Energy security guaranteed and carbon targets met with ease.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 10.  jgm2  1st February 2013 - 21:34   Drill a hole about three miles deep into solid rock.  Toss down a few tonnes of explosive (or a nuke) and create a monstrous big cavern then toss the rest down.Job done.    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 9.  CURTAINS 2012  1st February 2013 - 20:27   Store it under that London, then there will be an incentive to make sure that the containment is truly secure.    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 8.  firemensaction  1st February 2013 - 19:33   How about someone ring one of those "job in hand we do any job .com"A coupla white vans would turn up, work through the night (nudge nudge wink wink) and by 0800 next day it would be gone.Where to? guv you really don`t wanna know!!!Sorted!Or alternatively, it could be dumped under London! They do after all want "all the jobs" .. hi speed 2.. Olympic village et al.    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 7.  rick  1st February 2013 - 19:28   I'm from Copeland, and i'm so relieved that the process has brought a no vote from the County Council. A process that everyone was happy to along with -until it came back with the no vote.Copeland Borough Council and Copeland's MP have been greased with 'nuclear' money for years and the will of the population of Copeland was never taken into account. I don't know anyone who was in favour of this.    Report this comment (Comment number 7) Link to this (Comment number 7)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 6.  Mr Arthur Cook  1st February 2013 - 19:13   Let Nick Clegg deal with it.He can store it in the cavernous spaces of his empty promises.    Report this comment (Comment number 6) Link to this (Comment number 6)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 5.  empiredown  1st February 2013 - 18:53   Encase it in glass and drop it in the Mariana Trench.  Not much lives down there and it won't need worrying about for sometime.    Report this comment (Comment number 5) Link to this (Comment number 5)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 4.  Joe Yellow  1st February 2013 - 18:34   To be honest this is the one thing that would get me a bit NIMBY    Report this comment (Comment number 4) Link to this (Comment number 4)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 3.  JC  1st February 2013 - 18:31   'Dump' is an emotive term which the opponents often use. I understand the proposal is for a store or repository where the waste can be retrieved for further processing if necessary not a sealed vault where it can no longer be accessed.    Report this comment (Comment number 3) Link to this (Comment number 3)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 2.  WrekinAir  1st February 2013 - 17:11   Curious that those in Carlisle, fifty miles away, said 'no' when those who live next to the site, said 'yes'.There are issues here about the principles of democracy.    Report this comment (Comment number 2) Link to this (Comment number 2)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 1.  dateman  1st February 2013 - 17:04   Not just Copeland:  Allerdale voted yes too.    Report this comment (Comment number 1) Link to this (Comment number 1)         Page 3 of 3    Newer 1 2 3 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Mars rover hammers down into rock



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



6: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



7: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



10: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: The art looking death in the face Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



8: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



9: Will Algeria attack deter investors? Watch



10: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





