
SourceFed
Everything That Matters
2013-01-16T00:15:32Z

http://sourcefednews.com/feed/atom/

WordPress


Samuel B.



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19677
2013-01-16T00:15:32Z
2013-01-16T00:15:30Z
 A new library is opening in Texas that doesn’t have a single physical book within its walls. ABC news reported that this library, BiblioTech, will be an entirely digital library filled with e-books, laptops, tablets and desktop computers. The library was inspired by Walter Issacson’s Steve Jobs biography after Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff stumbled upon the book. “We all know the world is changing. I am an avid book reader. I read hardcover books, I have a collection of 1,000 first editions. Books are important to me,” Wolff told ABC News. “But the world is changing and this is the best,...The post The First Library Without Any Books appeared first on SourceFed.]]>
Photo via ABC News
A new library is opening in Texas that doesn’t have a single physical book within its walls.
ABC news reported that this library, BiblioTech, will be an entirely digital library filled with e-books, laptops, tablets and desktop computers.
The library was inspired by Walter Issacson’s Steve Jobs biography after Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff stumbled upon the book.
“We all know the world is changing. I am an avid book reader. I read hardcover books, I have a collection of 1,000 first editions. Books are important to me,” Wolff told ABC News. “But the world is changing and this is the best, most effective way to bring services to our community.”
The 4,989 square-foot library will house 50 e-readers for the children, 50 computer stations, 25 laptops and 25 tablets. One could even bring one’s own electronic device to the library and download some of the books available.
Bexar County is looking to partner with e-reader companies and have about 10,000 books available to users, and ad more books annually. However, they are currently looking for individuals or groups who would be willing to donate the devices.
QUESTION:
What do you guys think of this library without any real books?
The post The First Library Without Any Books appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19675
2013-01-15T23:30:41Z
2013-01-15T23:30:40Z
 Gene Rosen took in six children and kept them safe during the Sandy Hook Shooting, and for his kindness he is being payed back with harassment from conspiracy theorists. A month ago, Rosen found six children and a bus driver sitting at the end of his driveway in Newtown, Connecticut. A little boy told Rosen “We can’t go back to school, our teacher is dead.” He brought the group inside, giving the kids juice and cookies. He even gave them some toys to play with. He called their parents and then sat with them and listened to them recount the...The post Sandy Hook Good Samaritan Harassed appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

Gene Rosen took in six children and kept them safe during the Sandy Hook Shooting, and for his kindness he is being payed back with harassment from conspiracy theorists.
A month ago, Rosen found six children and a bus driver sitting at the end of his driveway in Newtown, Connecticut. A little boy told Rosen “We can’t go back to school, our teacher is dead.”
He brought the group inside, giving the kids juice and cookies. He even gave them some toys to play with. He called their parents and then sat with them and listened to them recount the horrors they’d just witnessed at their school just down the street.
In the days that followed, Rosen did a lot of interviews. He wanted to speak on the bravery of the children who were briefly in his care. It did more than that though, it made Rosen a target for conspiracy theorists who’ve taken to harass Rosen at every turn.
“I don’t know what to do. I’m getting hang-up calls, I’m getting some calls, I’m getting emails with, not direct threats, but accusations that I’m lying, that I’m a crisis actor, ‘how much am I being paid?’”
Someone has posted photos of Rosen’s house online. Google+ and Youtube accounts have been made in his name. There are messages on white supremacist boards making fun of the “emotional little Jewish guy”. It doesn’t stop there. There are dozens of blog posts and videos “exposing” Rosen as a fraud.
One email stated:
“How are all those little students doing? You know, the ones that showed up at your house after the ‘shooting’. What is the going rate for getting involved in a gov’t sponsored hoax anyway?”
Rosen is overwhelmed by the quantity of material aimed at him by Sandy Hook Truthers. The group believe fervently that the shootings were a hoax or training exercise. The good Samaritan and his wife are in fear for their safety, logging every email and call until the police are able to handle the matter.
The harassment has turned Rosen’s life upside down. 

“There must be some way to morally shame these people, because there were 20 dead children lying an eighth of a mile from my window all night long,” he said, choking back tears. “And I sat there with my wife, because they couldn’t take the bodies out that night so the medical examiner could come. And I thought of an expression, that this ‘adds insult to injury,’ but that’s a stupid expression, because this is not an injury, this is an abomination.”
Rosen has said that the calls, the emails make him feel a searing rage that he’d never felt in the past. There are occasions though where someone will approach him, and tell him they think of him as a hero, and that he is not a tool of some shadowy conspiracy. For every angry call or email, there any many praising  and thankful ones:
“I get the most beautifully written cards, wonderful calls.”
And it is these little glimmers that keep Gene Rosen from caving into hate and anger.
Nation
Do you believe that even in the search for “truth” people can go too far? 

The post Sandy Hook Good Samaritan Harassed appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19656
2013-01-15T23:20:47Z
2013-01-15T22:00:10Z
 Candlelit baths aren’t an option for the Kline family after they discovered their tap water is laced with methane gas. Debby Kline was shocked when the small candle she was lighting by her sink exploded into a fiery blaze that rose from the sink to the ceiling. The Ohio family had noticed their tap water was fizzing, but had no idea why until the candle gave away the culprit. The family discovered that their water is now laced with high levels of methane gas. A natural gas company began drilling near the home six months ago, and the Kline’s suspect...The post Tap Water Ignites Family’s Worst Fears appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

Candlelit baths aren’t an option for the Kline family after they discovered their tap water is laced with methane gas.
Debby Kline was shocked when the small candle she was lighting by her sink exploded into a fiery blaze that rose from the sink to the ceiling. The Ohio family had noticed their tap water was fizzing, but had no idea why until the candle gave away the culprit.
The family discovered that their water is now laced with high levels of methane gas. A natural gas company began drilling near the home six months ago, and the Kline’s suspect that the company may be responsible for their flammable water.
Methane gas occurs naturally in the ground, and can reportedly seep into wells is the ground is disturbed. In 2011, a Duke University study linked natural gas drilling to high methane levels in well water.
Before the drilling began the methane levels detected in the Kline’s tap water (which is well water) were just 9 milligrams per liter, a level considered safe. Now, the levels have spiked to a dangerous 22 milligrams per liter. Nearly triple the initial amount first reported.
According to the Water Systems Council:
“Wells with levels between 10 and 28 mg/L should be regularly monitored, and well owners may wish to consider treatment to lower the methane level.”
A methane filter for the family’s well would cost nearly $8,000 to install, and the family can’t afford to have one placed. They’re currently drinking bottled water, but the family is still bathing in the stuff. Mrs. Kline says:
“We don’t know the consequences of sitting in gas water. We just don’t have a choice.”
Methane in drinking water is not typically considered a health threat. The real danger lies when the gas escapes from the water and builds up in the air in poorly ventilated or confined areas.
On top of it’s explosive tendencies, methane is also an asphyxiate, meaning it can displace air and cause breathing and other health problems when inhaled.
Nation
What would you do if you found that your drinking water was as flammable as the Klines? Let us know in the comments below!
The post Tap Water Ignites Family’s Worst Fears appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



Samuel B.



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19655
2013-01-15T21:45:20Z
2013-01-15T21:45:19Z
 A maid in Sweden’s capital stole a passenger train and managed to crash it into a suburban home. Besides the cleaning woman, no one else was injured. The cleaning woman managed to start the train, break through the line barrier and somehow derail the train and crash into a near by home. The woman was trapped inside the wreckage for about two hours and had to be rushed to the hospital due to her severe injuries. Thankfully, no one was home at the time of the incident and there weren’t any passengers aboard the train. “It’s incredibly lucky that no...The post Run-A-Way Maid Steals/Crashes Train in Sweden appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

A maid in Sweden’s capital stole a passenger train and managed to crash it into a suburban home.
Besides the cleaning woman, no one else was injured.

The cleaning woman managed to start the train, break through the line barrier and somehow derail the train and crash into a near by home.
The woman was trapped inside the wreckage for about two hours and had to be rushed to the hospital due to her severe injuries. Thankfully, no one was home at the time of the incident and there weren’t any passengers aboard the train.
Photo via RT
“It’s incredibly lucky that no one in the house was injured,” a police spokesperson told Swedish TT news agency.
There is still is no clear reason as to why the cleaning woman stole the train in the first place.
This incident sparked a movement in the Swedish government on how they should revise their transportation policies. Most politicians are asking the simplest and yet most perplexing question, “How did she manage to steal the train so easily?”
“It shouldn’t be possible for unauthorized people to drive our trains,” Christer G Wennerholm of the Stockholm County Council’s traffic committee said in a statement.
I’m personally amazing that she was able to derail the thing, but what do you guys think?
QUESTION:
How do you think she derailed the train?
The post Run-A-Way Maid Steals/Crashes Train in Sweden appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19647
2013-01-15T20:15:31Z
2013-01-15T20:15:31Z
 Borderlands 2 DLC Sir Hammerlock’s Big Game Hunt has dropped today and it’s pretty frickin’ awesome! The third campaign ad-on to the popular shooter stands out from the previous 2 DLC’s, focusing on a single well-articulated personality: Sir Hammerlock. What was intended to be a weekend shootout expeditions with the character gets led astray by Hyperion’s Professor Nakayama, a vengeful Handsome Jack supporter out for the blood of the vault hunter who took Jack out. Reportedly the new DLC is quite challenging, especially when dealing with large enemy hordes. As a matter of fact, you must be at least level...The post New Borderlands 2 DLC Released! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

Borderlands 2 DLC Sir Hammerlock’s Big Game Hunt has dropped today and it’s pretty frickin’ awesome!
The third campaign ad-on to the popular shooter stands out from the previous 2 DLC’s, focusing on a single well-articulated personality: Sir Hammerlock. What was intended to be a weekend shootout expeditions with the character gets led astray by Hyperion’s Professor Nakayama, a vengeful Handsome Jack supporter out for the blood of the vault hunter who took Jack out.

Reportedly the new DLC is quite challenging, especially when dealing with large enemy hordes. As a matter of fact, you must be at least level 30 and have beaten the game before even being able to take on the quest to begin with.
Sir Hammerlock’s Big Game Hunt features new enemies as well as new enemy behavior. Players will explore a new continent called Aegrus that features mountains and swamps chock full of new enemy types to fight through.
The area is overrun by Savages, which are similar to Bandits except headdressed, tattooed, and equipped with spears and shields. The difference between Bandits and Savages is the Savages have a Chief.

The Chief enemy can heal fellow Savages and throw out powerful fire or slag attacks against you. So on top of fighting off a horde of level-upping Savages, you have to focus on killing off the Chief before he can cause you too many problems.
There are also Midgets that run up on you squealing in the most terrifying manner possible, and a new flying enemy called Spores. They hover above you and drop mini murderous versions of themselves on your head. There are Scaylions as well which are Varkid-esque bug creatures that roams the lands.
Players will also gain access to a new vehicle, a fanboat. It’s akin to the sand skiff seen in Captain Scarlett and Pirates booty, except it maneuvers seamlessly through the world. It also comes equipped with a flame thrower and corrosive acid launcher. There’s also a ton of skins to customize your fanboat, that will be dropped by enemies.
Voracidous is the name of the new seraph guardian raid boss that will be challenging you as you roam Aegrus. He’s a Stalker but has a Chief that controls him, along with other challenging enemies to deal with.
There’s also Dexidous, who will make you spend at least a day of your life fighting wave after wave of creatures intent on your demise. He summons a “rare” creature that only appears after your supply various totems spread across the continent with tons of Eridium. After defeating the Drifter you can pick up the Hammerlock themed weapons.
Speaking of loot, the new weapons are more than compatible to those already in your arsenal. Players like myself tend to get attached to the guns they use, but the new DLC makes it hard to keep hold of them when they throw such insanely awesome weapons at your face.
Nation
Are you going to give Sir Hammerlock’s Big Game Hunt a shot? Or are you gonna pass? Tell us what you think of the DLC, or why you’re not interested in the comments below!
The post New Borderlands 2 DLC Released! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19638
2013-01-15T19:15:44Z
2013-01-15T19:15:44Z
 The popular dating site has launched a standalone app called Crazy Blind Date for iPhones that matches up singles on dates in their vicinity. This Grindr-esque app was launched by OKCupid in an effort to pull people away from their computer and get them to meet face-to-face. The app firsts asks you to sign up with a username and take a photo of yourself. As soon as you’re logged into your profile, the photo is scrambled like a puzzle so that no one knows what you really look like. The only thing that can be determined is your skin and...The post OkCupid Launches Crazy Blind Date App?! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

The popular dating site has launched a standalone app called Crazy Blind Date for iPhones that matches up singles on dates in their vicinity.
This Grindr-esque app was launched by OKCupid in an effort to pull people away from their computer and get them to meet face-to-face.
The app firsts asks you to sign up with a username and take a photo of yourself. As soon as you’re logged into your profile, the photo is scrambled like a puzzle so that no one knows what you really look like. The only thing that can be determined is your skin and possibly your hair color. The details after that, get a little fuzzy.
The app will then ask for the times you are free and if you’d prefer to go on a “Crazy Blind Date” as well as the location you’d like to meet someone.
From there you can browse other “dates”, but you only have access to the ones you specified as your basic criteria.
If you’re already on OKCupid, all of your data is used to determine your dates. If not, the app goes off the basic information like age, gender, and sexual orientation.
Users are notified one hour before the date (ladies who take more than that to get ready beware!), and also alerts you that a chat is open.
After the day you’re asked how the date went, where OKCupid plans on making most of it’s money by presenting Kudos. You can make an in app purchase that gives the user you were just with the boast that you had a good time.
One of the founders of OKCupid, Sam Yagan, explains:
“If you ask women what they dislike most about online dating, it’s that it’s too much work. People want instant gratification. It’s the trajectory of the industry.”
Yagan claims that the OKCupid app is more than just an app that connects singles based on more than a location and a photograph. Crazy Blind Dates is merely meant to simplify the process of online dating in an effort to make things less superficial.
This isn’t the first time the “crazy blind date” idea has been tested. Back in 2007, Yagan worked on an earlier version of the service that was web and text based. It failed to gain traction, but now he says the premise of a blind date button is easier to fulfill thanks to smartphones. People seem to be more comfortable with meeting strangers online than they have in the past.
The app is currently available on iPhone and Android.
Nation,
Would you go on a “Crazy Blind Date”? Why or why not? Let us know in the comments below!
The post OkCupid Launches Crazy Blind Date App?! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


0



Mark D
http://www.forhumanpeoples.com/



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19571
2013-01-14T23:33:04Z
2013-01-14T23:16:40Z
 Disney XD creates a modern day Batman Beyond with the Tron franchise and can’t find any viewers. Ladies and Gentlemen! Programs and Users! It’s no secret that “Old Media” companies are still finding it hard to find their audiences with their programming, but when one of the biggest entertainment companies in the world can’t find a place to put one of the strongest animated programs produced in recent memory, it’s time to start expanding your options. The show is filled with great characters, an Aeon Flux-like design and a soundtrack that utilizes the score from Legacy in a new and unique...The post Tron: Uprising Is Too Good For TV appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

Disney XD creates a modern day Batman Beyond with the Tron franchise and can’t find any viewers.
Ladies and Gentlemen! Programs and Users!
It’s no secret that “Old Media” companies are still finding it hard to find their audiences with their programming, but when one of the biggest entertainment companies in the world can’t find a place to put one of the strongest animated programs produced in recent memory, it’s time to start expanding your options.
The show is filled with great characters, an Aeon Flux-like design and a soundtrack that utilizes the score from Legacy in a new and unique way. Nearing the end of it’s first season, the series explores themes of betrayal, subjugation, responsibility and what real power is all while introducing some sweet tech into the Tron universe.
Tron: Uprising employs a star studded cast featuring Elijah Wood, Mandy Moore, Paul Reubens, Lance Henriksen and more in an epic fight for Argon City. Even alumni of the film series provide the voices of their characters like Bruce Boxleitner and Olivia Wilde, giving the series more ground as canon. The story takes place between the flashback sequence from 2011′s Tron: Legacy and modern day, exclusively on the Grid. Bruce Boxleitner returns in the title role of the security program Tron in an effort to find a protege to help aid in the fight against Clu. The show isn’t afraid of showing the programs of Argon getting derezzed and some say that it’s too “adult” for Disney XD.
I’m a big fan of the Tron franchise and I think it’s stupid of Disney to limit how the fanbase can partake in the world of the Grid. Back in June, Disney premiered the prologue episode on YouTube, which made me think that the show was going to have a strong digital presence. Unfortunately due to Disney’s convoluted website design, it’s nearly impossible to find a “legit” stream link.

Due to the series being placed at midnight on Sunday nights, the show is having trouble maintaining a regular television audience.
Tron: Uprising is going to be cancelled if the viewership doesn’t improve within the next two episodes.
With the Revolution-laden theme throughout the message of the show, it’s time to take action and show Disney that their ignorance of the digital medium won’t take another excellent television show off the air.
Go to this website for information as to how to let your voice be heard to the Disney Channel Public Relations or tweet at them directly.
Are you a fan of the Tron franchise? What are some of your favorite shows that have been cancelled prematurely?
End of Line.
The post Tron: Uprising Is Too Good For TV appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


14



Samuel B.



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19544
2013-01-14T22:47:31Z
2013-01-14T22:47:31Z
 Aaron Swartz, Co-founder of Reddit and Demand Progress, an online activist group, committed suicide Friday in his New York City apartment at age 26. Swartz had one of the most impressive portofios for such a young man. At age 14, Swartz co-authorized an early version of RSS. Later on in his life, Swartz helped found an Internet activist group called Demand Progress as well as, and probably his real claim to fame, co-founding the site that eventually became Reddit. In July 2011, Swartz was arrested for allegedly downloading approximately 4 million academic journals from JSTOR with the intent to distribute...The post Aaron Swartz, Co-Founder of Reddit Dead at 26 appeared first on SourceFed.]]>
Photo via Associated Press
Aaron Swartz, Co-founder of Reddit and Demand Progress, an online activist group, committed suicide Friday in his New York City apartment at age 26.
Swartz had one of the most impressive portofios for such a young man. At age 14, Swartz co-authorized an early version of RSS. Later on in his life, Swartz helped found an Internet activist group called Demand Progress as well as, and probably his real claim to fame, co-founding the site that eventually became Reddit.
In July 2011, Swartz was arrested for allegedly downloading approximately 4 million academic journals from JSTOR with the intent to distribute them for free over P2p file-sharing sites.
Swartz appeared in court in July and pleaded not guilty to those charges. Just two days before Swartz’s suicide, JSTOR began allowing free but limited access to their archives.
Swartz had been battling with depression for some time now, as seen in one of his blog posts:
Your face falls. Perhaps you cry. You feel worthless. You wonder whether it’s worth going on. Everything you think about seems bleak – the things you’ve done, the things you hope to do, the people around you. You want to lie in bed and keep the lights off. Depressed mood is like that, only it doesn’t come for any reason and it doesn’t go for any either. Go outside and get some fresh air or cuddle with a loved one and you don’t feel any better, only more upset at being unable to feel the joy that everyone else seems to feel. Everything gets colored by the sadness.
At best, you tell yourself that your thinking is irrational, that it is simply a mood disorder, that you should get on with your life. But sometimes that is worse. You feel as if streaks of pain are running through your head, you thrash your body, you search for some escape but find none.
The hacktivist group Anonymous went up in arms against the MIT tribute page for Aaron Swartz, by taking the site hostage and posting a message to the US government:
“Whether or not the government contributed to his suicide, the government’s prosecution of Swartz was a grotesque miscarriage of justice, a distorted and perverse shadow of the justice that Aaron died fighting for – freeing the publicly-funded scientific literature from a publishing system that makes it inaccessible to most of those who paid for it – enabling the collective betterment of the world through the facilitation of sharing – an ideal that we should all support,” the statement read.
However, Anonymous has freed the MIT website and formally apologized to the institution for borrowing the site.
The post Aaron Swartz, Co-Founder of Reddit Dead at 26 appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


2



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19574
2013-01-14T22:00:52Z
2013-01-14T22:00:51Z
 Maria C. Waltherr-Willard is suing the Mariemont school district claiming it discriminated against her over her disability – a phobia of young children. 61 year-old Waltherr-Willard claims that the district discriminated against her when she was reassigned from it’s high school to it’s junior high school and then pressured her to resign. The suit claims that the discrimination is based on her age and a rare disability known as pedophobia. An extreme fear that stems from being around young children. Waltherr-Willard claims that she has suffered from the condition since the 1990′s and that the district made assurances to both herself...The post Teacher Sues District Due to Fear of Kids? appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

Maria C. Waltherr-Willard is suing the Mariemont school district claiming it discriminated against her over her disability – a phobia of young children.
61 year-old Waltherr-Willard claims that the district discriminated against her when she was reassigned from it’s high school to it’s junior high school and then pressured her to resign. The suit claims that the discrimination is based on her age and a rare disability known as pedophobia. An extreme fear that stems from being around young children.
Waltherr-Willard claims that she has suffered from the condition since the 1990′s and that the district made assurances to both herself and her lawyer that she would not have to teach anywhere below high school level.
Experts in phobias say that irrational fear or anxiety around children is a rare but recognized anxiety disorder. However, it’s unclear how many people have been diagnosed with it.
Several documents filed in the case have been notated by her doctor, psychiatrists, and psychologists. All of them agree that Waltherr-Willard experiences stress, anxiety, chest pains, vomiting, nightmares and high blood pressure when she’s around kids.
Despite all her evidence, a federal judge dismissed three of the six claims in her lawsuit on Wednesday. District Judge Herman J. Weber stated that the district upheld it’s end of the written contract, and that Waltherr-Willard would still be employed if she wouldn’t have resigned.
However he didn’t rule on the other main allegations in the suit, giving the district attorney’s office more time to respond to them. If the case goes to trial, it will start in February of 2014.
Nation
Do you think Waltherr-Willard’s case holds water? Let us know why or why not in the comments below!
The post Teacher Sues District Due to Fear of Kids? appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


14



saragparra
http://www.youtube.com/sourcefed



http://sourcefednews.com/?p=19550
2013-01-15T17:15:17Z
2013-01-14T21:30:20Z
 R´ha [short movie] from Kaleb Lechowski on Vimeo. This amazing animated short was created by 22 year-old Kaleb Lechowski. The beautifully animated short is titled Rha, and looks gorgeous for only having a single animator working on it for 7 short months. The story centers around an alien creature known as Rha, that is being interrogated by a machine overlord. Rha recounts that his species were the protectors of the universe when their own military mechanisms turned against them. Their force consisted mostly of independent machines, who then sought to destroy Rha’s home planet and species. The film was written,...The post Amazing Animated Short Created by One Man?! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>

R´ha [short movie] from Kaleb Lechowski on Vimeo.
This amazing animated short was created by 22 year-old Kaleb Lechowski.
The beautifully animated short is titled Rha, and looks gorgeous for only having a single animator working on it for 7 short months.
The story centers around an alien creature known as Rha, that is being interrogated by a machine overlord. Rha recounts that his species were the protectors of the universe when their own military mechanisms turned against them.
Their force consisted mostly of independent machines, who then sought to destroy Rha’s home planet and species.

The film was written, directed, and created by Lechowski. He did have some additional assistance with the sounds and voice acting, one of whom is video game legend David Masterson. However everything else the light touches Simba, was created by Lechowski.
Lechowki’s amazing sculpting skills aren’t limited to just a computer and mouse. Just this past year he made a fantastic looking Hydralisk head that you can see here:

He also made an amazing StarCraft outfit that he features on his youtube page, along with the initial teaser and work done on Rha. Kaleb Lechowski is a film student at Mediadesign Hochschule in Berlin, Germany. The brilliant student is already being hailed as a sci-fi prodigy.
Nation,
What did you think of Rha?
The post Amazing Animated Short Created by One Man?! appeared first on SourceFed.]]>


10


