BBC News - Social media and the India exodus


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




India







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
China
India

















17 August 2012
Last updated at 09:57 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Soutik Biswas

Delhi correspondent

More from Soutik



Social media and the India exodus
 


Rumours triggered off the exodus from Bangalore

Is social media adding grist to the rumour mills that have triggered the exodus of workers from north-eastern states living in Bangalore and other cities in India?
By all accounts, yes. Threatening text messages sent in bulk - inexpensive in India - were the main vehicle of the insidious rumours that have swirled around in the city for the past two days, driving panic into the hearts of the tens of thousands of people from the north-eastern region living there. The federal government has panicked and banned bulk text messages for a fortnight to stop rumours.
The second wave of rumour-mongering possibly happened through Facebook and Twitter (India has 50m of the 955m Facebook users in the world). 
I have been looking at some of tweets circulating in the pell-mell world of social media. "Now almost all north-east people have left our city", one resident tweeted. That means an exodus of 250,000 north-eastern people from the city, which is obviously bunkum (officials say some 15,000 workers have left since Wednesday evening).
Another tweet talked about north-eastern people - "especially business folks" - living in some Bangalore neighbourhoods who have been threatened and asked to leave the city within five days. There is no evidence that it happened. And, anyway, most tweets are silent on the source of the so-called threats. Some journalists didn't help matters by re-tweeting unverified information.
Social media is a mixed blessing, so good sense kicked in soon with senior journalists taking the lead in squelching rumours. 
"The exodus is being sparked off by rumours... and those using Twitter/smses [text messages] to spread hate and falsehoods, time all right-thinking Indians isolate them... enough to spew bile on sms/Twitter," tweeted Rajdeep Sardesai of CNN-Ibn news channel. 
Barkha Dutt of New Delhi Television (NDTV), a prolific Twitter user herself, said that the site had "become a quicksand of poison, bigotry and malice". Ms Dutt even said those who incited violence on social media should be hunted down and punished.
The social media storm even hit the parliament this morning. An MP belonging to a prominent regional party sought a "shutdown" on the social media sites for "a couple of days" to stop rumour-mongering. No prizes for guessing that he didn't have a clue about how to go about it.
That is where the problem lies. Rumours, as somebody once wrote, are the oldest form of mass media. In the early days they would be spread by word of mouth and travel slowly. Now with mobile phones and social networking sites, rumour - and panic - spread like wildfire, and India's largely technophobic government appears clueless about understanding and dealing with social networking sites.
There was a clumsy early attempt to gag the sites when a senior minister pulled them up for hosting "objectionable content". The sites pleaded that pre-screening of content was impossible. Netizens whipped up a storm of protest at what they believed was an attempt to censor the sites. (Who decides what is objectionable or acceptable?) Soon the chastened minister clarified that there were no plans to censor the sites.
One way is possibly for the government - and politicians - to use social media to engage with the people. Only a handful of Indian politicians - mostly the upper class and English-speaking - use social media to communicate. PM Manmohan Singh has a Twitter account, managed by his office, with over 160,000 followers. Much like the man himself, the content there is useful, but mostly comprising anodyne policy statements.
Social media is like the coffee house of yore, where people drop in to have a chat and share things. Indian politicians should shed their inhibitions to engage with people informally and quicky. If they had reached out that way when the Bangalore exodus began, the situation would have been defused much more quickly.

 





Article written by Soutik Biswas
Soutik Biswas

Delhi correspondent

More from Soutik



Is India facing a 'cultural emergency'? 
02:40 UK time, Thursday, 31 January 2013
Why are most politicians and the government silent about attacks on free speech?

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        










       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 28       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 28.  PaleBlueDot  18th August 2012 - 17:59   Most Indians do not understand that this is a part of a larger, complex, and dangerous problem of illegal migrations (without Indo-Bangla border fence) which has led to extraordinary demographic changes in the state by minority. However, this is NOT and Hindu-Muslim issue, but illegal Bangladeshi immigrants, a serious threat to both Indian economy and security (Islamist militants from Bangladesh).    Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 27.  vikishah  18th August 2012 - 16:09   Mr. Biswas, Thanking you for bring real issues faced by todays India to light. As a fellow concerned Indian, I can’t say that I feel the pain of being homeless but as an immigrant I can totally understand how it feels like to be in a ‘foreign’ land. For NE Indians, it’s a shame that rest of India is still ‘foreign’.  Viki Shahhttp://vikisviews.blogspot.com/    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 26.  indian mathematician  18th August 2012 - 16:08   There's something sinister and weird about all this.    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 25.  Rizwan  18th August 2012 - 16:03   How difficult it is to trace back to those who started this rumor mill? It is important to catch the culprits involved in this case. If caught and severely punished, it will become deterrence against anybody attempting to spread rumors. It is unfortunate and horrible that so many believed the rumors and yet to see any police action. Government should take swift and measurable actions.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 24.  vinod  18th August 2012 - 14:55   Rumor mill are  not only the cause.Ministers are main culprits,not to stop the exodus Where is Indian army and local police departments.What are they doing about migrants from Bangladesh?There won't be end to problems till Government becomes responsible government with he right cause of service to the country..    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 23.  Vikramaditya  18th August 2012 - 13:53   Background to the Report: It all started with violent skirmish between Bodo/hindus and illegal Muslim migrants from Bangladesh in Manipur and Assam last month. A section of muslim community staged violent protest in Mumbai against this and the Buddhist vs muslim riots in Burma. They vandalized the amar Jawan memorial. Text messageshave been circulating threatening of violence against NE people.    Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 22.  Geoffrey  18th August 2012 - 12:22   Sounds a lot like what happended in the UK last year with the riots. Everything spread like wildfire through facebook/twitter etc, even when there was nothing happening in a certain area there was nonsense reports by people stating there were? Social media is good for creating nonsense and scare mongering.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 21.  mani86  18th August 2012 - 8:46   Sorry, I havent been following this story. Now WHY are north easterners feeling threatened? Why these SMSs suddenly and who's sending them?Mr Biswas please provide some background for readers who are not monitoring the story as closely as you.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 20.  Vijay  18th August 2012 - 8:43   Ministers communicating with rumour-spreading folks! Can Soutik give one good example of such instance happening successfully - anywhere in the world - where he thinks ministers know how to shutdown social media sites? Sadly your article is arbit.    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 19.  AmirDewani  18th August 2012 - 1:46   After reading all this story I got bogged down. It was not possible to make out the head or tail about this rumor mongering factory of India, What are the rumors about? The author of this story has failed to report or to highlight the factual position about the rumors Then the people leaving their places have also not spoken If it is racial, communal, sectarian or what else. Mere waste of time.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 18.  Sandstorm  18th August 2012 - 1:35   Where there is smoke, there is fire. Indian states have a long history of Hindu-Muslim riots. To pin it down to rumours and tweets/sms is a great deception of the media that has too much power and not enough accountability. Let's not forget the Arab spring and last year's London riots which started with the use of tweets/sms. But they both had a real grave issue at heart! Face up India...    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 17.  G Singh  18th August 2012 - 1:33   Unless Indian government and Indians start understanding human rights, democracy, social justice, India can not be a free country. Unfortunately she is not  free yet. Look at the killings of innocent citizens at the hands of Indian law enforcement authorities. Its disgusting.    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 16.  unni menon  17th August 2012 - 21:20   India belongs to all states, religion, caste, language one person from one state should move or live freely in other state. People should not leave if some one/group threaten.When the people leave that means that miscreants have won.Please don't go people, you are part of us.Please it is the duty of the people in Bangalore, hyderabad, pune etc to take care of this people and ask them not to go.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 15.  BluesBerry  17th August 2012 - 20:51   On # 10 Minotaur Q. "How can one find the wolves from the sheep? People are just taking precautionary measures by going back home."A. Wolves attacking/killing sheep is old problem. But wouldn't it be ideal if one didn't have to worry about wolves or run miles to get away from them?It would be called "peace"; its biggest interference is orthodix religion or sometimes, just plain greed.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 14.  web user  17th August 2012 - 20:32   Hi,To some of the readers posting comments like "India is not a real democrazy" i think you dont really know anything about India.Sure there is corruptionbut ours is a functioning democrazy. If you dont understand what i mean by that you should come to india to experience it first hand.Problemcreators will be there everywhere and people find new ways to create trouble.if we can lets try to help.    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 13.  vikishah  17th August 2012 - 17:58   Thanks RS, Agree that in grand scheme of Nation Building, 66 years might be a short period, but shouldn't we learn from others mistakes? Indian is still emerging, growing, learning, developing, but this kind of in-human acts should not be taken lightly. Also wanted to thank you for 'investing' your time in reading my blog. Much appreciated.Viki Shahhttp://vikisviews.blogspot.com/    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 12.  BluesBerry  17th August 2012 - 17:24   So, this appears like a combination of- ethnic violence- social media incitement &- fears of reprisal.@ 2,000 people left Pune on Thursday, with students & professionals from Assam, Manipur, Mizoram & Nagaland following.Ethnicity? When will we ever get under the skin to the blood that unites us all?    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 11.  BluesBerry  17th August 2012 - 17:09   More likely, N.E. feared reprisals over violence against Muslims in Assam. People from NE fled from cities such as Bangalore, Chennai, Pune & Mumbai, even as ethnic clashes between Bodos & Muslims (that began in July) spread to Baksa, Nalbari & Kamrup. In Assam, @ 19 people were injured. In Gossaigaon in Kokrajhar, nine Muslims had acid thrown at them; in Tamulpur in Baksa, 10 Bodos were arrested.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 10.  Minotaur  17th August 2012 - 16:59   @BluesBerryA :  How can one find the wolves from the sheep? People are just taking precautionary measures by going back home.    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 9.  BluesBerry  17th August 2012 - 16:59   Friday, 5-yr-old boy was injured in minor blast at Pimpri; this may have added to feeling of panic in the city which was rocked by multiple explosion on August 1. Blast occurred at Laxmi Tara Residential Bldg in Dange Chowk. Joint Commissioner of Police S K Singhal said no "terrorist or sabotage", stressed "no need to panic". Singhal said people should consult police when in doubt.    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)         Page 1 of 2    Newer 1 2 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Netanyahu asked to form coalition









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



6: Pound in big fall against euro



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: The history of the future in 10 images



9: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



10: Insult 'carved on tycoon's head'



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



4: 'Pork found' in Halal prison food Watch



5: A fruity guide to American football Watch



6: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



7: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



8: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



9: Deadly shootout near Empire State Watch



10: Fans greet Tom Daley in home city Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





