International Mens Organisation










Homelessness
Family courts
Big Brother
Legal Mafia
Medical Mafia
Illuminati Mafia
Political Mafia
Judicial Mafia
Royal Mafia
Masonic Mafia
BBC Mafia
Bank Mafia
Zionist Mafia
Council Mafia
Cop Mafia
Gay Mafia
Feminist Mafia
Media Mafia

















 HOT TOPICS 









About us

Email contact

Speculative

Activists

Protests

Wikileaks

Actions

CSA

ECHR

Advice

Bilderberg

DV Lies

USA Courts

Legal Terms

Child Abduction

Fem Dens

Join

Suicide

Dunblane 

Tax Avoidance

Com. Purpose

Mass Media 

CIA & Mossad 

Masonic cops 

The Matrix 

Demo Village

Trumpworld  

Hollie Greig 

Charity scams 

Being a Father 

Enslavement 

Census 

JFK 

 Gulf Oil Spill 

Cumbria 

 Lockerbie 

 Inequality 

 Google 

e Books 

Health 

 Gun control 

 United Nations 

 Waco 

Law 

Legal Aid 

Pensions 

 Climategate 

 Science 

 Religion 

 Flight 

Space 

Nature 

 Accidents

 Motorbikes 

 UFO's 

 Various

 Videos 

 M.Jackson 

 Stop All Wars 

 Rock and Roll 

Swine Flu

Hollywood

 Two Tribes 

 EU 

 News Archive 

 Jan 2013 

 Dec 2012 

 Nov 2012 

 Oct 2012 

 Sept 2012 

 Aug 2012 

 July 2012 

 June 2012 

 May 2012 

 Apr 2012 

 Mar 2012 

 Feb 2012 

 Jan 2012 

 Dec 2011 

 Nov 2011 

 Oct 2011 

 Sept 2011 

 Aug 2011 

 July 2011 

 June 2011 

 May 2011 

 Apr 2011 

 Mar 2011 

 Feb 2011 

 Jan 2011 

 Dec 2010 

 Nov 2010 

 Oct 2010 

 Sep 2010 

 Aug 2010 

 Jul 2010 

 Jun 2010 

 May 2010 

 Apr 2010 

 Mar 2010 

 Feb 2010 

 Jan 2010 

 Dec 2009 

 Nov 2009 

 Oct 2009 

 Sep 2009 

 Aug 2009 

 Jul 2009 

 Jun 2009 

 May 2009 

 Apr 2009 

 Mar 2009 

 Feb 2009 

 Jan 2009 

 Dec 2008 

 Oct-Nov08 

 Jul-Sep08 

 Apr-Jun08 

 Jan-Mar08 

 Oct-Dec07 

 Jul-Sep07 

 Jan-Jun07 

 2005-6 

 2002-4 

 Recommended 








































Bent Lawyers
MACPC
Crimes against fathers
Smiley Culture Blogspot
Hollie's Army 
News from Atlantis
The Spearhead 
Calmar
MAQzine
Sandman Project
Islandonline news
Revolution Harry
New Scientist
Centurean 2 blog
British crown
Greek rights
The Pavement
Jews against Zionism
NWO Observer
Voice from Gaza
Real Zionist News
Palestine Telegraph
Criminal State
Freemasonry Watch
 Do you really want to know? 
El Blog Del Prof. Rahmanicus 
















	

	
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       





















WebThis Site 
BREAKING NEWS 
LATEST GLOBAL SUBSERVIENT  NEWS  
VIDEOS






 FOR THE LATEST UPDATES
















FOR MEN WHO HAVE BEEN, OR ARE BEING, OR WHO MIGHT IN THE FUTURE 
BE F*CKED OVER BY MASONS, ZIONISTS OR THE REST OF THE ILLUMINATI 
NEW WORLD ORDER MAFIA WHO ABUSE GOOD MEN FOR PROFIT. MUCH OF IT
AIDED BY THE PRESS BARONS IN THE ZIONIST BACKED COMPLIANT MEDIA.
DANGER ZONES FOR MENS HEALTH AND WEALTH



      
      
1. Having large sums of money in ANY bank. (They are all con men see 
HERE)
      
      
2. Having any kind of mortgage with a bank. (They are all scams see
HERE)
      
      
3. Marrying and signing a state marriage certificate. (Notice NO small print see
HERE)
      
      
4. Having a child. (Maybe the single most dangerous threat to a mans welfare see
HERE)
      
      
5. Entering ANY court especially NO JURY civil courts.(Mason judges make it up see

HERE)
      
      
6. Hiring a lawyer anywhere across the globe. (ALL part of the Bar associations see
HERE)
      
      
7. Trusting any politician.(They are ALL on the take see
HERE)
      
      
9. Taking out any type of credit especially for a large purchase like a car (see
HERE)
      
      
9. Trusting any journalist who answers to the corporate media (see
HERE)
      
      
10. Trusting any cop who answers to  masonic superiors (see
HERE)
      
      

11. Allow social workers, lawyers and judges with a homosexual 
(HERE)
or 
radical feminist 
(HERE)
agenda to decide 
      
      

 on the future welfare of your children (see HERE)
      
      
12. Doing any form of business with a FREEMASON. ( ALL of the above included see
HERE)





THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM AND US
THE MOST IMPORTANT PEOPLE ON THIS PLANET ARE THE LEAST IMPORTANT PEOPLE

OR AT LEAST HOW THE PRESS BARONS AND THEIR SCUMBAG JOURNALISTS PORTRAY THEM




We all strive to better ourselves , in our lives and in our children's lives, but 
that should NOT be at the expense of others.  The ruling mafia have created an underclass 
for a number of reasons and would include letting us all know that if we do not 
follow their rules we may end up on the streets. Also their mass media propaganda 
machine ensures the poor, disabled, vulnerable and sick can be used as a punch bag and
 blamed for ALL the ills of the world and have us believe it is the POOR that are 
 stopping us from bettering ourselves.

This is maybe the most ruthless and devious lie created by the press barons who 
have ensured the sheeple's venom is vented towards those least able to defend 
themselves while distracting attention away from the ruling mafia
 who live opulent lifestyles and with riches so VAST no one can truly comprehend 
 how vast that wealth is.

Fortunately the internet is rewriting history and exposing the myths within 
a propaganda machine that must break this despicable cycle of deceit and 
were a psychological battle has been waged on our minds  to ensure we  
remain compliant with the ruling elite's demands. We must all re-learn 
to respect those who need our sympathy and understanding, not venom,  and we 
must also be aware that every man facing injustice will allow in the end all 
men to face that same injustice . 

Without fighting for the weakest in our society, while complying with the 
ruling mafia's orders, we condone and perpetuate a well orchestrated master plan 
that will allow these evil bastards to hold onto  power unless our humanity has 
a massive wake up call and remove that ruling elite from power
in one way or another. It is only in the interests of the ultra wealthy that this system 
can carry on ad infinitum. Everyone else will continue to  suffer, as they have 
done throughout history, while the ruling mafia carry on their deceitful and 
diabolical plans and all part of their new technological order.

IF YOU THINK YOUR LIFE IS BAD OR MISERABLE IT IS BECAUSE OF THE RICH NOT THE POOR.


The best index to a person's character is how they treat people who can't do them 
any good, and how they treat people who can't fight back.


WE PROMOTE  PEOPLE THE CORPORATE MEDIA IGNORE AT THEIR PERIL.

WRITTEN FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE HAVE NOTS AS OPPOSED TO THE MASS MEDIA
RUN BY ULTRA-RICH PRESS BARONS LOOKING DOWN AT THE PEASANTS





 WE TURN THE HOMELESS INTO TRILLIONAIRES FOR THE DAY 

The X Factor vision of society blames the poor for their predicament 

Campers descend on central Paris to highlight plight of homeless 





COLD RUTHLESS DEVIOUS BASTARDS CONTROL THE EARTH





	

ONLY FOR THOSE AS YET TO WAKEN UP.
Do you think the cops are there to protect you from criminals?
Do you think judges are there to give you justice?
Do you think lawyers are there to protect your freedoms?
Do you think legal aid is paid to poor litigants?
Do you think bailiff's act honestly when evicting homeowners?
Do you think social workers are there to protect your children?
Do you think politicians are there to ensure your welfare?
Do you think local authority chiefs are there to provide you with services?
Do you think psychiatrists are there to guard your mental health?
Do you think the banks are there to make YOU prosperous?
Do you think the  media are there to enlighten us?
Do you think teachers are there to educate ?
Do you think the armed forces are there to protect your security?
Do you think regulators are there to ensure all of the above stay in line?


If you have been reading and watching  the complicit media for most of your life you likely have  been brainwashed into  believing all of the above, when in fact many are criminals or forced to act in a criminal way for their masters. They only get away with murder to protect the self appointed elite pulling the strings of their satanically controlled duped goons who act ONLY in the   interests of the psychopathic madmen and women running the world while living in VAST OPULENCE.

You might also believe that the latest credit crunch is affecting everybody, but look closely at the facts and you will see there is a tier of privileged individuals who NEVER suffer during controlled recessions. In fact they PROSPER while millions struggle to survive the sudden changes of fortune brought about by the few at the top deciding to rein in the pittance they provide in sustenance to the masses primarily to  stop any major dissent  from  their form of enslavement and tyranny . For centuries these few scum bags have been getting away with absolute murder turning generation upon generation of our forefathers into slaves for the ultra wealthy. Unless we stop them now our children and grandchildren will suffer the same deviant world they claim is some kind of civilized society. They have required a massive propaganda network to get away with this for so long, but by the day that machine is grinding to a halt in the mass exposure of the monstrous evil they have been getting away with. 

Do not be fooled by the fancy clothes and ancient traditions, these mobsters have been using subtle and devious tricks of the trade , disguised as some sort of esoteric knowledge, or so they claim, while using thuggery, blackmail, bullying and  abuse to persecute anyone who steps outside their masonic bubble. These maniacs and psychopaths have been  raping and murdering in  endless wars they create to keep us all in fear and in our lowly place. 
THEY ONLY HAVE THAT POWER AS LONG AS  WE LET 'EM.

 
Super Rich The Greed Game (VIDEO)

Credit crunch? 619,000  millionaires living in Britain rising 17 per cent over the last two years 

 A third of Britain  STILL belongs to the aristocracy

THE CABINET RICH LIST 

Pay gap between highest and lowest earners growing faster in Britain than any of the world's richest countries 





COMMENTS FROM OUR READERS THAT ARE GREATLY APPRECIATED









There are hundreds of websites, probably thousands, devoted to men’s issues and combating
 feminism. Something for everyone. We are glad the topic is under discussion from every angle. 
 But if you really want to understand the New World Order conspiracy, one site stands
  above the rest because it has the correct New World Order worldview (or close to it):
 International Men’s Organisation.

From a review by the 

NWO University Forum 

----------------------
Brilliant website matey I read it often and it blows my mind how much information 
you have gathered over the years well done dude. Sullers
-----------------------

RELIABLE TRUTH SITES
partisan 17 June 2012
These are some sites that I find informative and balanced and more so, 
those sites somehow inspire and move one towards the light of Truth.


 HERE


-------------------------

You guys do a great newsletter 
PN 

------------------------


I have been reading stuff on your website for some time and can relate to everything 
that is being exposed. Glad there is a website out there which is really showing up 
and exposing it all. Kind regards DR
 
------------------------

Hi! Great site! Telling it like it is. Keep it up!
Best Regards, 

 Dr.Les Dove

------------------------

Love the site, you have a done an awesome job 

 Dan

------------------------

I am an avid reader of International Mens Organisation. JB 
------------------------

We love intmensorg.info!
I really appreciate your collection of resources on the intmensorg.info website.
Thank you for your wonderful resources.


VB


-----------------------


I just checked your website and I am blown away!!  Its so cool to be in contact with you!!


Axel 

-----------------------

I have been reading your site for some time now and gaining a deep insight into the
workings of this so called democratic western world we live in. I would like to show
my appreciation and gratitude. Thank you very much. Just as a good mate of mine
always says: Ignorance is the worst sin.    
Therefore the revealing of knowledge and understanding must be the greatest virtue.
Thanks again Rory UK


-----------------------


Amazing info on the site keep up the fab work.  
NN


----------------------

Dear Sirs ,
I just want to say how much I love your site.  I've been an avid truth seeker 
for many years and would be a big time follower of the Jeff Rense program, but I really 
think your site is one of the best, well laid out and most interesting alternative media site. 
I've only known of its existence over the last week, but I'm already hooked on it.
Keep up the fantastic articles and pressure on the NWO scum. 
Name and email supplied

---------------------

I just suddenly found your site on the internet, and WOW - it really is packed with useful 
information about the inhuman beasts who are planning the NWO. Their activities are far
 advanced in my country Sweden, but England is leading with regard to public camera watching. 
 Unfortunately your multimillion population seems to be as sleeping as our 9 million sheeple. 
	Good luck and keep holding up the torch of Knowledge!
	Best regards , Name and email supplied from Sweden
	
 SEND US YOUR FEEDBACK ON ANYTHING 

Email: editorial@intmensorg.info


ALL OUR STORIES ARE TOP STORIES AND SOME DAY THE WORLD'S COMPLIANT 
MEDIA WILL REPORT NEWS AS WE DO ON THIS WEBSITE. EDUCATING THE COMPLICIT MEDIA
ON THEIR VILE RADICAL FEMINIST PERSPECTIVE OF MEN, ESPECIALLY MEN WHO ARE 
HOMELESS AND PENNILESS.



OUR WEBSITE  GIVEN A CLEAN BILL OF HEALTH BY McAFEE. 
'We tested this site and didn't find any significant problems' 

HERE 


We reproduce important articles under 'fair use' and in the 'public interest'
with due credit to our sources.


DUE TO MANY ATTACKS ON OUR WEBSITE WE REQUIRE TWO DOMAINS THAT CAN BE ACCESSED
FROM EITHER 

http://www.internationalmensorganisation.info

http://www.intmensorg.info

 
AUTOMATIC TRANSLATION INTO ANY LANGUAGE IS AVAILABLE ON THIS WEBSITE


LATEST NEWS UPDATED AUTOMATICALLY EVERY SECOND OF EVERY DAY 

EXPOSING WHAT  THE MASS  MEDIA REFUSE TO EXPOSE (THANKS TO THEIR MEDIA LAWYER CENSORS)

BY REMAINING ON THIS SITE YOU ACCEPT WHATEVER COOKIES ARE REQUIRED FOR THE WEBSITE TO FUNCTION 
CORRECTLY.






IMO VIDEO CHANNELS NOW MORE POPULAR THAN CNN













BILLIONAIRE OF THE WEEK






We are not here to promote the ultra-rich but to counter their mass media buddies who are trying 
to convince us there is NO MONEY and that the political lackeys, who they fund, are making policies,
 NOT for the greater good of all the world's people, but to make the ultra-rich even richer. Less than
1% of the people of this world own more than 90% of the world's wealth and that we aim to correct the 
lies and deceit about just who are responsible for that massive imbalance.






MORE RESIDENTS OF THE BILLIONAIRE'S CLUB HERE 

 £13,000,000,000,000 trillion: The  hoard hidden  by global elite

  ONE AMERICAN FAMILY OWNS MORE THAN 40% OF AMERICA(VIDEO)

 No austerity for World's super-wealthy who spend their riches on luxury travel adventures






BREAKING NEWS (MOBILE TRANSLATION VIEW HERE )















LONDON HOTEL WAS THE OPERATION CENTRE OF A HOMOPAEDO RING OF VIP'S








Peter Righton, Anthony Blunt, Elm Guest House and Cyril Smith



A DECADES OLD MOUNTAIN OF REPORTS OF HOMOPAEDO ABUSE IGNORED BY THE UK'S MASONIC COPS WHO ARE  NOW FORCED TO
RE-INVESTIGATE DESPITE MANY OF THE PERVERTS ALREADY DEAD LIKE JIMMY SAVILE


Timebomb at Elm Guest House: Pop stars, a bishop and a top politician appear on a list seized by police investigating child abuse at the London hotel in the 1980s

Police have reopened investigation after new information emerged that suggests the hotel was a venue for a paedophile ring of VIPs
 Former co-owner Carole Kasir said to have list of high-profile visitors
 Could this be the biggest Establishment cover-up yet?

Peter Hatton-Bornshin killed himself six days after his 28th birthday. He had taken an overdose of codeine and choked to death. ‘The tragic end to a tragic life,’ is how the coroner summed up the stark facts presented to the inquest.

And who at the time would disagree? Peter was only a baby when his father died in an accident. He was orphaned at 13 when his mother threw herself in front of a train. His stepfather then handed Peter and his older brother to social services.

And that is how Peter ended up at the Grafton Close Children’s Home, which was run by Richmond borough council in South-West London. Truly, he was a lost soul.

When his life finally came to an end in a Kingston-upon-Thames bedsit, he left a note which explained that he feared he would be unable to control his violent fantasies against women if he remained alive.

This personality disorder had caused him briefly to be a patient at Broadmoor mental hospital. His case worker said that while he did not consider Peter to be a danger to society, his mental problems were partly a result of the abuse he had suffered while in local authority care. One line in his suicide note seemed to refer to this. It read: ‘I will get those bastards.’

But while it was the ‘tragic end to a tragic life’, his story does not finish there.

Eighteen years after his death, the police are again looking at the Peter Hatton-Bornshin case, as part of a wider investigation, launched last month, into allegations that in the early Eighties a paedophile ring of VIPs preyed on boys from the Grafton Close Children’s Home.

If the historic allegations at the heart of Operation Fernbridge are proved, they would represent one of the more sensational and disturbing Establishment sex scandals of the modern era.

Long-existing allegations of a cover-up would again have to be aired.

During a police raid on a property in central London last month, detectives seized a list of names of high-profile alleged visitors to the Elm Guest House in Barnes, South-West London — a gay-friendly establishment, and one where under-age rent boys and children from the Grafton Close home were reportedly brought to have sex with adult men.

The list includes a number of senior MPs, a high-ranking policeman, a leading tycoon, figures from the National Front and Sinn Fein, an official of the Royal Household, an MI5 officer, two pop stars and the traitorous Soviet spy Anthony Blunt.

Cyril Smith, the late Liberal MP for Rochdale, has already been named as a regular at the guest house, where he allegedly met teenage rent boys when the homosexual age of consent was 21.

The guest house has also been linked to a now-defunct Tory fringe group that promoted homosexual rights.

Operation Fernbridge detectives are also believed to be on the trail of almost two dozen photographs that are supposed to have been taken by the guest-house owner — which place a number of these figures from the worlds of politics, showbusiness and national security at her establishment.

Some pictures are said to show these men in the company of under-age boys.

New police interest in the Elm Guest House allegations stems from October last year, when the campaigning Labour MP Tom Watson called for an investigation into the political links of one Peter Righton, a notorious paedophile who had first been exposed 20 years before.

In September 1992, Righton pleaded guilty to three charges of importing or possessing obscene material — paedophile gay porn — after customs officers at Dover intercepted two packages addressed to him.

It was a squalid case that in other circumstances might have warranted only local interest.

But Righton, then aged 66, was no ordinary child sex offender. He had been a very senior and respected figure in the field of residential child care, and a former consultant to the charity the National Children’s Bureau, whose patrons included the then Health Minister, Virginia Bottomley.

After his conviction, it emerged that Righton was a founder member of the Paedophile Information Exchange — a contact group for men interested in sex with children. He is now believed to be dead.

Westminster sources say that following his intervention in the House, Mr Watson received more than 200 phone calls, many of them from alleged victims of paedophile abuse by public figures unconnected with Righton. The MP passed the information on to the police.

Righton’s links to figures in the Thatcher government are still being assessed by detectives.

The Mail understands that no formal decision has been taken yet on whether Watson’s  allegations will be formally probed.

However, one person who contacted Mr Watson had specific information about boys from Grafton Close Children’s Home being abused at the Elm Guest House.

In 1982, Britain was a very different place for gay males than it is today. Only 15 years had passed since homosexual acts between consenting adults had been decriminalised.

Gay public figures did not come out of the closet voluntarily and places where they met were still necessarily discreet. Apparently one such rendezvous was the Elm Guest House in Rocks Lane, Barnes.

It was only yards from Barnes Common, which was, and still is, a well-known gay cruising ground.

Run by Indian-born Haroon Kasir and his German wife Carole, the guest house was openly advertised in the gay press of the time as nothing more sinister than a place where homosexual men could meet.

There was a sauna with ‘video facilities’ and a solarium.

One publication to ‘strongly recommend’ the guest house to its readers was the newsletter of the Conservative Group for Homosexual Equality. There is a review of it in a June 1982 edition.

The CGHE campaigned for the lowering of the gay age of consent to 16.

One of its chairmen was Ian Harvey, a junior foreign office minister who was forced to quit government in 1958 after being caught having sex with a Coldstream guardsman in a London park. 

Other residents of Rocks Lane were aware that the Elm Guest House was unlike the other small hotels in what was then a ‘scruffy’ area. Some understood it to be a brothel.

Yesterday, another long-time resident told us: ‘It had a reputation. Somebody told me that their daughter had come home and saw a lot of naked men in the front room as she walked past.

‘She was very shocked. I don’t know if she made a complaint to police about it. I just assumed it was a male brothel.’

The woman, who did not wish to be named, witnessed a 1982 police raid which saw Mr and Mrs Kasir and two others arrested. One of those detained was a 17-year-old rent boy who acted as ‘in-house masseur’.

We understand he was a teenage actor who had appeared on television in Doctor Who, as well as on stage at a Royal Command performance.

The youth — paid more than £100 a night when working at Elm Guest House — was initially charged with assisting in running the brothel.

The charge was later dropped. This week, he declined to comment when approached by the Mail.

Undercover police officers had been inside the property for a number of days posing as clients, while watching sex parties that took place there.

A planned police raid had to be brought forward after a hidden police radio was activated by accident. Officers had hoped to catch several dozen clients — and who knows how many public figures — but there were fewer than ten customers there when the operation was compromised.

The Kasirs were subsequently charged with running a disorderly house. At the Old Bailey the following year they were convicted, fined and given suspended sentences.

All other charges in relation to the raid had been dropped by then.

We understand that the police had become interested in the guest house not simply because it was a male brothel, but because of concerns for an under-age boy at the address.

At the time of the raid, the child was removed from the premises and placed in local authority care.

So where was the child ‘safely’ accommodated following his rescue? At the Grafton Close Children’s Home in Hounslow, some eight miles away . . .

Several figures at the centre of these allegations are no longer alive. One of them is Carole Kasir, a diabetic, who died of an insulin overdose aged 48, in 1990.

Shortly after her death, a child protection campaigner from the National Association Of Young People In Care (NAYPIC) called for a criminal investigation into events at Elm Guest House.

The campaigner claimed that he had been told by Mrs Kasir that boys had been brought in from a children’s home for sex. She had told him she had photographs or video of many establishment figures at her hotel, including a bishop.

One photograph allegedly showed a former cabinet minister in a sauna with a naked boy.

The same campaigner told us this week that he could not speak at length because the police wanted to interview him.

However, he claimed he knew of 11 boys from Grafton Close Children’s Home who had been abused at the Elm Guest House.

He added: ‘Carole Kasir had logbooks, names, times, dates, even pictures of people who went in and out of Elm Guest House. Her house was raided in the Eighties.

‘The police say it was done by a local force, but I know it was done by Special Branch. That evidence — of who visited Elm Guest House — no longer exists.

‘I’ll leave people to draw their own conclusions, but Carole Kasir was held without charge for three days, and you don’t do that on a run-of-the-mill vice raid. There was more to it than that.’

He added: ‘There were boys found in the home, but they were only ever interviewed as witnesses to the brothel, never as victims of abuse.

‘I won’t say any more as I don’t want to risk prejudicing this inquiry, because finally it seems the police are doing the right thing.’

The same allegations were pursued for several years by Mary Moss, a former colleague of the campaigner at NAYPIC (which is now defunct).

Ms Moss is clearly a troubled soul, who on her blog website claims that she, too, was abused as a child.

In another online posting, apparently written by her, she described meeting Carole Kasir. ‘She told me she was running a hotel and had some fab parties.

‘Yes, there were prominent people there but, hey, this was a nice suburb and [the guest house] was her business . . . but it was only on that night the police raided, when she stupidly thought it was just gay-bashing, that her eyes were peeled open for years to come about what was going on under her nose.’

Ms Moss believes Carole Kasir was murdered to cover up for the famous people who had used her brothel.

Detectives now investigating the allegations of paedophilia at Rocks Lane have been in a protracted dialogue with Ms Moss, which led to them executing a search warrant on her home in central London last month. There is no suggestion that she was involved in any offences.

What, then, is the truth about Elm Guest House and Grafton Close Children’s Home, which have both long since closed?

The acid test for the Operation Fernbridge detectives is whether or not — as happened in the Jimmy Savile child sex abuse inquiry — there is now an ‘avalanche’ of credible witnesses and victims, encouraged by this new investigation to unburden themselves after years of nursing horrible secrets.

The police need several victims telling the same stories in order to make a case.

The fallout from the Savile revelations means there is renewed interest in historic child abuse allegations against famous figures. And the police do not want to be accused of doing nothing again.

We have seen in the case of Lord McAlpine what can happen when an apparently politically-motivated witchhunt latches onto an innocent man.

But there is the other, longer-term human cost. The abused can become abusers in a perpetual cycle. Such might have been the case with the tragic figure of Peter Hatton-Bornshin.

At his inquest, the coroner paid tribute to him by saying: ‘It is clear he had decided to avoid causing any distress or grief to other people by taking his own life.’

But were Peter’s traumatic ‘fantasies’ really about women?

A child protection campaigner told us this week: ‘Peter was a victim at Elm Guest House in the Seventies — but by the time I knew of him in the Eighties, he was an abuser.

‘He had been groomed as a child, but he crossed the line at some stage: as an adult, he was organising the abuse of kids. By the mid-1980s we were pushing for his arrest. We weren’t treating him as a victim any more.’




FULL ARTICLE HERE





ACPO THE PAEDO AND CORRUPT LAWYER/JUDGE PROTECTORS









ACPO are the Association of Police Officers responsible for the failure of British police to use their powers to NAIL 
the BBC's predatory paedophile, the knighted Jimmy Savile. ACPO run by freemasons at the top and who are overseen by 
the Queen's Lord lieutenant the Duke of Kent ensure that ALL crown lackeys serving the richest despot are protected 
from the laws that the peasants are hammered for at every opportunity . 

The poorer you are the more likely the long arm of the law will oppress you even more. The higher up the slippery pole of freemasonry you rise the more protection you get including the likes of Jimmy Savile, that despite his 40+ years of abusing children ACPO controlled cops did NOTHING, absolutely nothing. Instead Savile died a HERO and LEGEND in the eyes of the press barons who aided and abetted the concealment of his crimes.

Savile's victims have now come out of the woodwork on his death, primarily because they feared reporting his crimes to an evil network of freemasons running the cops and well aware they had done nothing over decades despite a few of Savile's victims being brave enough to report his crimes, and as expected the ACPO mafia stuck strictly to the script ensuring a monster knighted by the Queen received maximum protection.

Those victims have been appalling let down by the utter scum and dregs of the earth masquerading as some sort of LAW enforcement. 

However multiple every victim of Savile, and there were hundreds if not thousands , by 10's of thousands and you wont even come close to the number of  victims of corrupt judges and lawyers. As with Savile's victims, many victims of the legal mafia  refused to report their crimes where trillions had been stolen in property theft 
although a  few brave souls have come forward, and we know of many of those who were told there was NOTHING the cops could do as THEY CLAIMED , lawyer and judicial crimes are a civil matter. Many of them later  persecuted for DARING to challenge the might of the Crown and its corrupt lackeys and just like many of Savile's victims.

We are some of the  victims of these evil bastards, that have destroyed thousands of men and their families through vast corruption in secret family courts, the REAL culprits of their crimes are ACPO and their masonic henchmen who are the vast majority of British cops and who had  failed to accept reports of these crimes and  to set in motion the investigations that  might have brought  every single crooked judge and lawyer to book. The very lawyers now claiming to act for and behalf of Savile victims, including the freezing of his vast assets funded by the BBC from the public licence payers ,  are all part of the legal mafia who have been responsible, in part, for the conspiracy of corruption that is being  operated via the British law society's . 

They have  created a memorandum of understanding with ACPO to ensure they do not investigate the crimes of the law society's membership and have left their victims in limbo without any redress to justice. Just  as Savile's victims have been left to face the torment of knowing their attacker   has been allowed to die a hero  despite a long history of abuse against  some of the most vulnerable British citizens, especially children. 

EVIL IS AT THE VERY CORE OF THE RUTHLESS BRITISH ESTABLISHMENT AND HOW IT USES THEIR MANUFACTURED 'LAWS'


FULL ARTICLE HERE
 
IPCC PROTECTS CORRUPT AND MURDERING FREEMASON COPS(VIDEO)

MASONS AT WORK: Police and policing: rebooting the service

THE RULING MAFIA ARE OUT OF CONTROL





HOUSE OF LORDS OR MORE LIKE PIGS IN THE TROUGH






The feckless parasites in the House of Lords (the Queens masonic lackeys in Westminster) live a life of opulence on the back of the long suffering British public

while passing legislation that starves the peasants


HARD-PRESSED taxpayers are being stung for more than £2.3million a year to subsidise restaurants, bars and cafes for members of the House of Lords.

The subsidy works out at £83.90 per week for each of the 760 peers, many of whom are millionaires.

An unemployed person on JobSeeker’s Allowance is expected to live on £71 a week.

The peers’ fine dining discount comes on top of the £300 per day they get for attending the Lords, which is supposed to cover their food as well as accommodation.

We paid £757,696 in 2011-12 to subsidise Westminster’s Peers’ Dining Room, where lords, bishops and baronesses can enjoy a starter of marinated king scallops with baby fennel, blood orange, puffed pork rind and crisp shallots for just £7.

The self-service River Restaurant offers more everyday dishes at bargain prices – thanks to a handout of £501,646 from the taxpayer.

Another £246,307 of our money went to the plush Barry Room restaurant, where only £6 will buy a hungry peer a starter of quail with pancetta popcorn, sweetcorn and red onions.

And the more humble Home Room, where lords and ladies tired of fine dining can tuck into canteen food such as sausage and mash, was subsidised to the tune of £185,694.

Voters struggling to make ends meet in the economic downturn also subsidised the peers’ Bishops’ Bar (£43,971), the Millbank House Cafe (£73,857), the peers’ guest room (£2843) and the Lords Bar (£326).

That made a total of £1,812,258. But when general “central costs” of £549,179 were added, the overall subsidy rose to £2,361,437 – £63,822.62 for each of the 37 weeks the Lords was in session.

Parliamentary officials insisted the 2011-12 subsidy was only £1.33million.

But they got that figure by subtracting profits from private events and even gift shop sales – a practice branded “creative accounting” by critics.

The shocking scale of the Lords catering subsidy was revealed after a question from Labour peer Lord Campbell-Savours. The figures were published in Hansard, the official record of Parliament.

Peers could easily pay for their dinners without discounts. The former Tory leader of the Lords, Lord Strathclyde, is worth an estimated £10million, and former deputy prime minister Lord Heseltine has an estimated fortune of £200million.

Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the Taxpayers’ Alliance, said: “Creative accounting won’t change the fact that taxpayers are subsiding food and drink for MPs and lords when many families are struggling to put food on the table.

“Politicians promised to end this scandalous subsidy. It’s time they stuck to their words.”

A Lords spokesman said the restaurants were bound to make a loss because of the “unique nature and practices” of the House.

He said the catering and retail subsidy had been cut by 22 per cent since 2007 and would be 43 per cent down by the end of 2012-13.

And he added: “The House of Lords is working to increase efficiencies and raise prices where appropriate in order to reduce the refreshment department subsidy on a year-by-year basis.”



FULL ARTICLE HERE





 THIS GOVERNMENT........... VIDEO













 CULTURE IS NOT YOUR FRIEND VIDEO













UK'S THUG MASON COPS BRUTALITY AGAINST EXPOSURES OF JUDICIAL CORRUPTION









MORE ON THE PERSECUTION OF ELDERLY ACTIVIST NORMAN SCARTH






CROSSING THE THRESHOLD: 266 WAYS THE STATE CAN SMASH DOWN YOUR DOOR









FREEMASONS BEHIND THE MASSIVE THEFT OF LAND AND PROPERTY

As another one of our group faces eviction from a tyrannical regime hell bent on abusing the power of entry, an article

has come to our attention detailing the sinister creep of legislation that is giving ever more powers to the jumped up

bullies to enter and steal with impunity. The primary goal of our group is to expose and bring massive pressure on the

freemasons behind these schemes that provide rich pickings , recently exposed in an article that stated it is  the single biggest criminal racket in history, when they can sieze land, business and property thanks to the help of corrupt judges, lawyers , cops, bailiffs, councils and myriad of state agencies all suffering from the same  stench of freemasonic control. 

The untold damage being done to  men and their families from state bullyboys has to be experienced when out on the street , homeless and destitute because of the evil greed of the masonic tribe. 





The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the forces
of the Crown. It may be frail, its roof may shake; the wind may
blow through it; the storm may enter, the rain may enter – but the
King of England cannot enter; all his force dares not cross the
threshold of the ruined tenement. William Pitt the Elder (1708-1778)


A man’s house is his castle. Sir Edward Coke (1552-1634)

THE SPECIAL STATUS of an individual’s home as a place where
their right to privacy and non-interference is elevated above other
concerns has wide historic acceptance in political and legal
culture.

A home is a place where the individual draws back from
immediate participation in the formal community and assumes his
natural, personal, family status. It is not just a different physical
location to the street or the workplace, but an environment where
the citizen can put aside their public role and in turn avoid the
scrutiny and supervision which that role attracts. It is a sanctuary
where we have a right to expect that we will be left alone unless
there is a good reason to interfere with us.

CROSSING THE THRESHOLD

When we step out of our houses and voluntarily enter the
public space, we implicitly accept a level of supervision which we
would not tolerate at home. Thus, the average individual is filmed
dozens of times by CCTV cameras while on the street or using
public transport, yet the use of such technology to routinely
monitor our behaviour within the home is unthinkable. The state
can monitor and control our streets, roads and shopping centres
because it is its function to ensure orderly, lawful and proper
conduct between citizens when they participate in the shared
public space. Conversely, where our home life is concerned, the
duties of the state are less and so, concomitantly, should be its
powers. In a democracy, almost nobody suggests that we should
be overseen in our living room to the same degree that we are
outside.

At the other end of the spectrum, there are times when almost
everyone would accept that the state does need to be able to enter
citizens’ private dwellings without their permission. This is
especially the case when the need stems from the requirement to
protect other citizens from harm. It goes without saying that fire
and rescue services need to be able to enter homes without
stopping to ask permission in an emergency. And where a serious
crime has been or is about to be committed, it can be essential for
the community that the police should be able to enter in order to
counteract or prevent it.

But between these two extremes lie a multitude of situations in
which the state may find it useful to enter a dwelling, but the
social need for such powers is not so clear-cut. Are we happy for
DEFRA inspectors to have the power to enter private land without
consent? The answer may vary depending on whether they are
taking steps to eradicate avian influenza, or whether they are just
checking for the presence of foreign bees.

Of similar concern is the question of how such powers are to be
exercised – what kind of rights a householder has to object to
entry or contest it, and what can be done against him if he refuses



CROSSING THE THRESHOLD: FULL EXTENSIVE ARTICLE HERE

Largest crime-wave in human history in terms of the number of acts of fraud is serial mortgage fraud(Crooked freemason judges, lawyers,
cops, bailiffs and bankers all implicated in the largest global crime wave ever)





 WILCO JOHNSON TOUR DATES HE HAS BEEN DIAGNOSED WITH TERMINAL CANCER VIDEO








	DR FEELGOOD - WILCO JOHNSON - LIVE IN FINLAND
	




	WILCO JOHNSON A TOTALLY UNIQUE GUITAR PLAYER WILL BE SADLY MISSED 
	

Wilko Johnson: 'Terminal cancer has made me feel alive'(Cancer diagnosis has a strange  way of setting your priorities 
in life right and about what is important )
 
Wilko Johnson Demonstrates His Guitar Technique(VIDEO)
 
Wilko Johnson guitar method(VIDEO)

Wilco's official website





 QUATARI ROYAL FAMILY OWNS THE SHARD AND 20% OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE VIDEO








UK 
Barclays under investigation over claims it lent Qatar £6bn to buy its own shares and avoid a Government bailout at height of 2008 financial crisis






THE RULING MAFIA ARE OUT OF CONTROL













In the dim and distant past when humans lived on reservations as natives in tribes the strong men used muscle and later weapons to protect the perimeters of their land and no one in their right mind would have suggested that any one tribe would give up their means of defence so that another tribe could come in and help themselves.

However gun control is just that, the ruling TRIBE want to walk over every right we have and help themselves with dodgy judges and  a legal system that systematically robs unarmed  men of their assets , homes and children under the guise of LAW. A devious and dangerous bunch of ruthless scumbags have convinced the sheeple that leaving DEFENCE in their hands will assure their safety.

The ruling mafia are using their secret society henchmen, hand picking them into  the most important positions,  and with access to vast arsenals of weapons to ensure the unarmed peasants conform to their oppression and tyranny. The peasants they are ruthlessly stealing from have become unable to protect their own territory from the legal machinations of the  evil bastards that have used  propaganda to convince the long suffering public  they have our best interests at heart.

The greed of the ruling mafia has become so  colossal that more and more billionaires are being created within their ranks and  who loyally serve the Queen Bee thanks to satanic oaths and blackmail that keep them in their subservient place . Great Queen Street in London is the centre of control for her  global tribe of freemasons who have been overseeing the stripping of the  tribal peasants defences and to become easy prey for  the murdering thugs and bullyboys now controlling the planet and its resources primarily to enhance their own tribes  power and  wealth.

Far to many of the peasant tribe's people have been brainwashed into showing deference to the elitist tribe now stripping that peasantry of all their worldly possessions. Many men have seen her  tribal chiefs , the judicial mafia, rob with impunity as those men are further  weakened, by not only being made  defenceless, but with little status , possessions or wealth and like wounded animals find  themselves  separated from their own tribe ending  up wandering the streets homeless and penniless. America is on the verge of creating a  similar situation as has been imposed in the UK for far to long. The ruling tribe are only to happy to see everyone else defenceless so  they can carry on the looting and pillaging that our forefathers would have thought we were mad to give up our means of defending ourselves from  the utter murdering scum and dregs of the earth.



FULL ARTICLE HERE





 IT'S NOT A MATTER FOR CONJECTURE... IT'S AN UMBRELLA VIDEO













INDEPENDENCE? NOT WHILE THE MASONIC MAFIA CONTROL EVERYTHING













 IPCC PROTECTS CORRUPT AND MURDERING FREEMASON COPS VIDEO









ACPO the Association of Chief Police Officers is maybe the single biggest criminal 
racketeering mafia in the UK. 

The IPCC the supposed Independent Police Complaints
Commission is anything but INDEPENDENT when it is stuffed full of ex-cops who 
are every bit as corrupt and murderous as those they claim to investigate and why
mason cops walk free from some of the most hideous crimes thanks to the masonic
protection network controlled by the Duke of Kent for and on behalf of the Royal parasite
herself.

Anyone who acts for and protects  CROWN criminality especially who aids and abets the crowns
judicial mafia to thieve trillions with impunity gets away with MURDER.


"Brotherhood of the Bell" Exposed Masonic Control





 FREEMASONS IN PERTH AUSTRALIA HAVE INFILTRATED THE COPS AND PARLIAMENT VIDEO













PUP TRIES TO RIDE THE TREADMILL  VIDEO













AUSTRALIANS BATTLE AGAINST JUDICIAL TYRANNY








TOMORROW, MILOVAN MOVES BACK ONTO HIS LAND, AGAIN.
 
Today, in the District Court of New South Wales at Parramatta, Milovan Stankovic announced IN COURT that he will MOVE BACK ONTO HIS PROPERTY TOMORROW  .. being Saturday 2 February 2013 ..... and NEITHER the so-called "Judge" (a skinny Santa Claus impersonator, ie: white beard thingo, called Sides) NOR the POLICE PROSECUTOR made an objection as Milovan told he is sick and disabled and has been living in his truck and on the street for 2 years since he was illegally dispossessed as a result of UNLAWFUL proceedings in Australia's Courts and because of a FALSE INSTRUMENT ISSUED BY A PUBLIC OFFICER.
 
He showed that FALSE INSTRUMENT ISSUED BY A PUBLIC OFFICER to them  .... and, again, not a word from anyone.
 
The FALSE INSTRUMENT ISSUED BY A PUBLIC OFFICER is, in fact the CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE signed by GUILA INGA, the OFFICIAL RECEIVER, on 18 May 2009 IN BREACH of the STAYED ORDER from the Federal Magistrates' Court of Australia dated 12 May 2009 .... please see attachments "MS trustee app001.pdf (36.3 KB)" and "MS ORDER sealed001.pdf (716 KB)", respectively.
 
They might has got away with it BUT Milovan PAID that ILLEGAL ORDER on 25 May 2009 (see attachment "MS Receipt001.pdf (32.0 KB)".... and, rather than admitting defeat, the THIEVES ganged up more against our man .. and we have all the evidence of that, too....... but if you think that, anywhere in the Courts of Australia, JUSTICE is a possibility, then think again!
 
Milovan is battling leukaemia, diabetes, chronic heart and chest illnesses .... BUT he will NOT SURRENDER.
 
Milovan wants to Subpoena GUILA INGA but she has "left I.T.S.A." and no one will tell us where she is so that the Subpoena can be served on her... because it is an OFFENCE under section 337 of the Crimes Act 1900 for her to do such a thing and has a punishment of "imprisonment for 5 years".
 
Indeed, I believe these other PUBLIC OFFICERS are rather NERVOUS about the whole thing ... hence the silence when Milovan was holding up the FALSE INSTRUMENT and adding that "NO ACTION ARISES FROM A FRAUD" (which is a Legal Maxim, of course).
 
The CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD Milovan has been worked by a never-ending parade of corrupt and treasonous lawyers and Judges ... not forgetting the "Local Government", who initiated the campaign (being THE HILLS SHIRE COUNCIL)..... and they do it by using the vile "BANKRUPTCY RACKET" (NO Trial by Jury being the key element, naturally) which is the favourite modus operandi of our "false brethren".
 
Now, Milovan has had a GUT FULL of these THIEVES ... and, tomorrow, he RE-RETAKES Lot B President Road, Kellyville.
 
The first time he RETOOK his property was in September and the NSW POLICE FORCE arrested him and, subsequently, a typically corrupt "Magistrate" in the Local Court of NSW at Parramatta, by the name of MURPHY, DISREGARDED the PLAIN-AS-THE-NOSE-ON-YOUR-FACE documentary EVIDENCE and fined Milovan $100 ... which is why he is making an "APPEAL" to the District Court which, like all the other cases he has had to endure, is set to be dragged on and on and headed for the expected corrupt outcome.
 
When I left him, after having a fish-and-chips lunch with a beer at the Parramatta Leagues Club, he went off back to the Registry to get a copy of the "Court Result" of today and the transcript from the farcical Local Court "Conviction" ... and then off to the Castle Hill POLICE to tell them he is moving back and for them not to interfere as they did, last time, because IT IS HIS LAND.

 
WELL DONE, MILOVAN......... THIS WORLD NEEDS MORE LIKE YOU!!!! 
 

John Wilson.


MORE AUSTRALIAN JUDICIAL TYRANNY  HERE





 'LAW' MANUFACTURED BY THE RULING MAFIA TO OPPRESS THE 'POOR' VIDEO













 	THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE BELL VIDEO









"Brotherhood of the Bell" Exposed Masonic Control






 AMERICA NEEDS WHISTLEBLOWERS MORE THAN EVER VIDEO








	CIA VETERAN JOHN KIRIAKOU






LARGEST CRIME WAVE IN HUMAN HISTORY IS SERIAL MORTGAGE FRAUD







As we have been warning for a very long time and confirmed in this latest report that property theft under the guise of a 
bank mortgage system is the single biggest criminal racket across the planet and this report shows how in America at least
crooked freemason judges, lawyers, cops, bailiffs and bankers are all implicated in the largest global crime wave ever.


Largest crime-wave in human history in terms of the number of acts of fraud is serial mortgage fraud

In the first decade of this century, the Wall Street crime syndicate perpetrated the largest crime-wave in human history in terms of the number of acts of fraud: its serial mortgage fraud. This initial crime-wave was conducted in order to facilitate an even larger crime-wave (by dollar value): the “securitization” of these fraud-tainted mortgages.

None of the ring-leaders of this crime-wave have even been charged, let alone prosecuted, let alone convicted. An estimated 60+ million U.S. mortgages (more than half of all outstanding mortgages) have been tainted by Wall Street mortgage-fraud – primarily through the invalid/illegal use of their own, private “land registry” (known as “MERS”), as opposed to the official/legitimate land title registry required by law.

The Wall Street fraud-factories never even sought permission to bypass official registry requirements. They simply collectively and unilaterally flouted the law, partially to “streamline” (i.e. evade) processing fees and requirements, but mostly to facilitate the $trillions in mortgage-related fraud which Wall Street built atop their original crime-wave.

It’s important to take a moment here to note that we are talking about “fraud” on numerous levels. The fraudulent registering of approximately 60 million “MERS” mortgages was only one facet of this fraud. There were millions upon millions of other acts of fraud connected with these mortgages.

The fraud-chain began with the “liars’ loans” – primarily instigated at the lenders’ end – where mortgage applicants were assured that no one told the truth on these documents, and thus applicants were free to fill in whatever numbers the mortgage-broker told them would help to facilitate purchase. On top of the Liars’ Loans, on top of the 60 million fraudulent entries in the MERS pseudo-registry; the Wall Street crime syndicate piled on 10’s of millions of additional acts of fraud.

This primarily revolves around the “robo-signing” scandal: serial, deliberate fraud, where the Wall Street crime syndicate literally “manufactured” fraudulent documents to create entirely separate, fallacious paper-trails for these already fraud-tainted mortgages. Indeed, some of the individual foot-soldiers for these fraud-factories are known to have committed thousands of acts of fraud per month.

The corrupt U.S. judiciary has willfully blinded itself to this organized, serial fraud; rubber-stamping 100’s of thousands (millions?) of illegitimate foreclosures, with the result being that the Big Banks illegitimately took possession of these properties based on known, fraudulent documents and without ever proving they had the right to take possession of these properties in accordance with the law.

It is with this context in front of us that we must view the extremely offensive headline from the propagandists at Reuters:

Bank of America, other banks move closer to ending mortgage mess

Obviously the initial paragraphs of this article indicate that nothing has “ended” regarding this “mortgage mess”. Sixty million properties are still tainted with MERS-fraud alone. Many of those properties have been tainted with multiple acts of additional fraud, and some properties outside of the MERS registry have also been tainted with this additional fraud.

This takes place in a land registry system which is supposed to guarantee “perfect title” to any/every bona fide purchaser. Where even the tiniest flaw is discovered, this mandates a thorough litigation: to unearth each/every act of fraud, trace back the land title to a point in time before it was tainted with fraud, and to thus “fix” the title at that time.

What this means in practice is that many (supposed) U.S. “homeowners” will be told they do not own the home which they just finished paying for. If these cheated homeowners are able to identify the specific perpetrators of the original fraud, if those perpetrators have not already been bankrupted by their serial fraud, if the corrupt U.S. judiciary actually does it duty, and if they can afford to hire a lawyer and fight a battle in court; then these would-be homeowners may actually end up with the property they thought they had purchased. Or they could end up with nothing.

With these 60+ million fraud-tainted properties having now been “swept under the carpet” by the U.S. government, the U.S. judiciary, and (of course) the Big Banks themselves; what did Reuters mean when it talked about “an end to the mortgage mess”? It meant that its friends, the Big Banks, were now on the verge of obtaining nearly complete legal immunity to the largest crime-wave in human history.

In other words, many (innocent) purchasers of these fraud-tainted properties will be told that they are barred by law from suing the only parties who can compensate them for the properties they thought they had purchased – guaranteeing that many (most?) of these victims will never be able to obtain either the property they thought they had purchased or the money they paid to purchase that property.

Worse still is simply the unimaginable quantity of these fraud-tainted properties. If every U.S. court with jurisdiction to try such cases ceased to perform any other litigation, and devoted 100% of their time/energy/resources to fixing these fraud-tainted properties (one at a time) it is a virtual certainty that no American currently alive today would see a real “end” to Wall Street mortgage-fraud.

Understand that because of the (additional) serial acts of fraud attached to the 60+ million original acts of mortgage fraud (primarily “robo-signing” fraud) that most of these litigations will be slow, arduous, and time-consuming. This reality is a further condemnation of the U.S. judiciary, where these fraud-accomplices sometimes rubber-stamped dozens of illegitimate foreclosures in a single day.

Obviously, nothing at all has “ended” with respect to U.S. mortgage fraud – other than most of the legal/criminal liability for the original perpetrators of the ‘lion’s share’ of this fraud. In fact, U.S. mortgage-fraud has entered a new era which we can simply call “buyer beware.”

If one was to purchase any U.S. property which has had a mortgage against it at any time in the last decade, the odds are somewhat over 50% that the “purchaser” will not have (legal) bona fide ownership of that property; meaning that “their home” could be taken from them at any time – via some future litigation.

The end to (most) Big Bank liability means that these “homeowners” could have their properties taken from them (at any time), and be legally prevented from even attempting to seek compensation for losing their homes.

Thus, as Reuters dubs the next chapter of U.S. mortgage-fraud as “the end of mortgage fraud”, we have learned one thing: we’ve learned who the Reuters media oligopoly actually represents – the Big Banks. If they are in the clear, then in the eyes of Reuters (and the rest of the Corporate Media) it’s “problem solved.”

Meanwhile, for ordinary Americans the era of “buyer beware” for all would-be homeowners has just begun. Unless you want to hire a lawyer to conduct some exhaustive (and very expensive) title verification  prior to purchasing, then the majority of Americans “buying a home” today are doing little more than rolling the dice – and praying they don’t end up with “snake eyes.”



FULL ARTICLE HERE

 Freemason run Land Registry try and talk up the artificial home ownership scam





FREEMASONRY A GLOBAL STASI










For anyone unfamiliar with the evil agenda of the stasi ,  the official state security service of the German Democratic Republic or GDR (informally known as East Germany), and described as one of the most effective and repressive intelligence and secret police agencies in the world.

However compared with freemasonry it is a drop in the ocean when millions of masonic lackeys globally are controlled  from central London by the Duke of Kent on behalf of Old Lizzie  from the United Grand Lodge of England in Great Queen Street and the 33 degree  freemason haunt behind Chatham House on 10 Duke Street St. James. 

When it comes to persecution and covert surveillance the secret society network, that assures the long term financial security of the richest despot on the planet and her masonic henchmen , makes the stasi pale in how they are hand picked  into positions of power affecting every individual across the planet, yet they leave  little or no trace of their presence thanks to the secret oath swearing and blackmail that ensures loyalty and secrecy while blocking the full exposure of the massive conspiracy they  continue to develop with their high tech toys.

There are many non-mason men who have tasted that persecution when dragged through family courts that are dominated by freemason judges and lawyers only to eager to separate men from their worldly possessions , homes and children. Trillions are being stolen from men not part of their satanic network of power yet despite the enormity of these crimes their subservient media regularly features stories of how those men are rightfully jailed and conned by laws that continue to feed them with  ill gotten gains from  men who find out to late how they manufacture the banking and property scams to allow theft on  a grand scale. 

Freemasons use the power of a global judiciary to seize enormous amounts of wealth from every man who has been  dragged  through their vile courts and with  millions of men facing the prospect of poverty and homelessness thanks to the  actions of freemasons all over the globe. They  have a total monopoly over selling  property , recording the supposed owners in land registers and then putting legislation into place that allows the repossession (theft) through a myriad of legal machinations including family and bankruptcy courts to allow them to thieve with impunity.

Our investigations, from one of our own being bankrupted, took us to Kilwinning  in Scotland, that despite just a small village, it is home to the Accountant in Bankruptcy which turns out to be just a stones throw away from the Mother Lodge of Scotland the birthplace of global freemasonry . Was the stasi agenda mirrored on what the global freemasons have been doing for hundreds of years and continues to this day with ever more high tech equipment making that job much easier for the psychopaths determined to control every aspect of our lives?

Britain is being used as a test bed for their ever expanding surveillance monitoring with more cctv systems fitted per head of population than any other country in the globe. Also watch out for the INDIGO RFID entry systems being fitted to blocks of flats  by masonic run councils across the UK supposedly for security. These entry systems do not work with a key or access code but an RFID  dongle registered to individual users and may be expanded to include entry to public buildings , public transport and a myriad of entry points that may only be possible to get into with these RFID dongles.


BUT NOT IF WE CAN HELP IT !!!!!!!!!!!!!!


HOW MASONS PAMPERING  TO A FEMINIST AGENDA GIVE THEMSELVES POWER OVER MEN

KILWINNING: HOME TO THE KNIGHTS TEMPLAR AND BIRTHPLACE OF FREEMASONS

Indigo RFID door entry systems 

FREEMASONS PROTECTION NETWORK

FREEMASONRY - MARRIAGE WRECKING BALL

The power madness of a demented golddigging ex-wife thanks to freemason judges: 'Now I’m going after my husband’s rich backers' 

Property tycoon worth £400m jailed for six months after hiding financial details from ex-wife during bitter divorce 

Get married, get divorced then GO TO JAIL: Ford Tycoon makes legal history as he is jailed for two years for hiding money from former wife in divorce battle

We are being controlled by our own  paranoia

Bankruptcy a freemason racket operated by their sheriff officer and  sequestration thugs

ACCOUNTANT IN BANKRUPTCY

Mother Lodge of Scotland

A paradise where  freemasons have stashed the worlds wealth

LAW: THE MECHANISM USED BY FREEMASONS TO CONTROL THE WORLD

SAVILE, OPERATION YEWTREE, WAR MEMORIALS AND FREEMASONRY

MUCH MORE ON FREEMASON SCAMS HERE

MUCH MORE ON MASONIC COVER UP OF PREDATORY PAEDO BBC PRESENTER JIMMY SAVILE HERE




EXPOSING THE NEW WORLD ORDER







EXPOSING CORRUPT GOVERNMENTS WHILE DEMANDING LEGAL,JUDICIAL AND POLITICAL REFORM TO ENSURE
PROPER ACCOUNTABLE DEMOCRACIES. A GROWING
RESISTANCE TO THE SATANIC CONTROL OF THE WORLD BY THE ILLUMINATI, SKULL AND BONES, MASONS, BILDERBERGS, SPECULATIVE SOCIETY,KNIGHTS TEMPLAR AND ALL OTHER SECRET SOCIETIES ACTING
AS SHADOW GOVERNMENTS FOR WESTERN SO CALLED DEMOCRACIES.

THE NEW WORLD ORDER MOBSTERS WILL NOT GET AWAY
WITH THEIR PLANS TO ENSLAVE GOOD MEN WITH THEIR EVIL SATANIC NETWORK OF CONTROL,
A WORLDWIDE ZIONIST CABAL AND EVERY SINGLE PROMOTER OF ITS EVIL EMPIRE.
MASONIC RUN COMPANIES PROMOTING HIGH TECH STATE MONITORING SYSTEMS THEY ARE TRYING 
TO FORCE ON ALL FREE MEN.


Join HERE.
The majority of the mass media has a hidden agenda and none of it 
includes fair reporting of men's issues.
Please send comments and articles to EDITORIAL.

World  NEWS  the  government and judicial controlled  mass media wont EXPOSE.







LATEST GLOBAL SUBSERVIENT NEWS UPDATE









































 HOME I ABOUT US I JOIN

I  CONTACT US 

 TERRORISM IS SOCIAL ENGINEERING ON A GLOBAL SCALE 








 By Country 

 Afghanistan 

 Africa  

 Albania 

 Algeria 

Argentina 

 Australia  

 Bahrain 

 Belgium 

 Bolivia 

 Bosnia 

 Brazil 

 Bulgaria  

 Canada 

 Chile 

 China 

 Croatia 

 Denmark

 Dominica

 Dubai

 Egypt 

 England 

 Ethiopia 

 France 

 Gaza 

 Germany 

 Greece 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Holland 

 Iceland 

 India 

 Indonesia 

Iran 

 Iraq 

 Ireland 

 Israel 

 Italy 

 Jamaica 

 Japan 

 Jersey

 Jordan 

Korea 

 Libya 

 Mali 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 New Zealand  

 Nigeria  

 Norway 

 Pakistan 

 Palestine 

 Poland 

 Portugal 

 Romania 

 Russia 

 Saudi Arabia

 Scotland 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 Spain 

 Sweden 

 Switzerland 

 Syria 

 Thailand 

 Tunisia 

 Turkey 

 Uganda 

 Ukraine 

 USA 

 Venezuela 

 Vietnam 

 Wales 

 Yemen 

 Zimbabwe 






































 

















Flag start Apr 2010














