BBC News - England riots: Fightback under way, says PM


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















10 August 2011
Last updated at 21:30 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





England riots: Fightback under way, says PM
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Police try to tackle masked youths in Manchester




Continue reading the main story


England riots


English riots one year on


Who's been prosecuted?


Convictions: How tough are they?


Map with video and timeline



 The prime minister has said the "fightback" is under way, after cities in England suffered a fourth night of violence and looting.
David Cameron said every action would be taken to restore order, with contingency plans for water cannon to be available at 24 hours' notice. 
On Tuesday night, unrest spread to cities including Manchester, Salford, Liverpool, Nottingham and Birmingham.
Three men protecting property died when they were hit by a car in Birmingham.
Haroon Jahan, 21, Shahzad Ali, 30, and Abdul Musavir, 31, who were from the Asian Muslim community, were taken to hospital but died from their injuries.
Mr Cameron said the deaths were "truly dreadful" and offered his condolences to the men's families.


Haroon Jahan, Shahzad Ali and Abdul Musavir were protecting property, residents say

A candle-lit vigil, attended by some 200 people, took place in Birmingham for the men. The BBC's Jeremy Cooke said it was entirely peaceful.
Ladywood MP Shabana Mahmood had appealed for calm, telling a community meeting it was important people did not take matters into their own hands.
Meanwhile, rioters in Manchester and Salford have been told that they face being evicted from their council homes if they are identified on CCTV footage.
Both city councils have issued warnings that if any of their tenants or their children have been involved in violence or looting they will be "thrown out".
Greenwich Council also says it will be seeking the eviction of any council tenants if they are found to have been engaged in criminal activities.



Earlier, the prime minister said police had the legal backing to use any tactics necessary to bring the rioting across England under control, including using baton rounds.
Speaking after a meeting of the government's Cobra emergency committee, he said: "This continued violence is simply not acceptable, and it will be stopped. 
"We will not put up with this in our country. We will not allow a culture of fear to exist on our streets."
But Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) president Sir Hugh Orde ruled out using water cannon or baton rounds for now, saying the tactics were not suited to the current unrest.
"Water cannon are used to deal with fixed crowds to buy distance," he said.
"The evidence... is showing very clearly these are fast-moving crowds, where water cannon would not be appropriate."
He added that baton rounds would only be deployed when his officers' lives were under serious threat.
Meanwhile, Home Secretary Theresa May told the BBC she had ordered all police forces in England and Wales to mobilise special constables, cancel leave and adopt a "tough, robust approach".
Six forces have requested assistance for Wednesday evening, according to Acpo, which is co-ordinating resources in England and Wales.
They are Avon and Somerset, Gloucestershire, Greater Manchester Police, the Metropolitan Police, Nottinghamshire, and West Midlands. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis


Jon Brain
BBC News, Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court



Sitting in the dock in a blue tracksuit top, the 11-year-old boy was barely big enough to see over the wooden ledge into the main body of the courtroom.  
But, according to the prosecution, the child had been among the hundreds arrested in connection with the rioting in London over the past few nights. 
He was the youngest to appear at Highbury on Wednesday, and admitted taking a wastepaper basket from a branch of Debenhams in Romford, which was looted by rioters. 
Others brought before magistrates included a man who works in a primary school, a student and a convicted drug dealer. Nearly all will be sentenced at crown courts which have the powers to impose tougher penalties. 
The 11-year-old is due at a youth court at the end of the month. Despite his tender age, he spent last night in a police cell. He's been told to observe a curfew between 18:00 and 06:00 until his fate is decided.


Analysis: Courts run all night

 Earlier, Mr Cameron said: "We have seen the worst of Britain, but I also believe we have seen some of the best of Britain - the million people who have signed up on Facebook to support the police, coming together in the clean-up operations.
"There are pockets of our society that are not just broken, but are frankly sick.
"It is a complete lack of responsibility in parts of our society, people allowed to feel the world owes them something, that their rights outweigh their responsibilities and their actions do not have consequences. Well, they do have consequences."
The Met Police has made 820 arrests and charged 279 people in connection with violence in the capital. 
In London, three courts will stay open all night on Wednesday to deal with some of the scores of people facing mainly disorder and burglary charges after four nights of rioting.
In other developments: 

 A 32-year-old man is being questioned on suspicion of murder after three men are run over and killed in Birmingham
 Up to 250 officers are sent from Scotland to help colleagues in the Midlands and North of England deal with rioting and disorder
 Canning Circus police station in central Nottingham was firebombed by a male gang on Tuesday evening. Nottinghamshire Police say 90 people were arrested
 The Met says 16,000 officers are available in London on Wednesday night, and advises people to avoid travel to the areas affected by the disorder
 The government launches a website with advice to the public on how to cope with the unrest
 A 21-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of starting a massive fire at a furniture store in Croydon.
 In Liverpool, Merseyside Police arrest 50 people in relation to disorder in the city
 Mr Cameron said anyone convicted of violent disorder would be sent to prison.
London mayor Boris Johnson urged the government to reconsider its "pretty frail" plans to cut police numbers, saying the argument had been "substantially weakened" by the riots.
And Labour shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said agreed, adding the plans needed to be reconsidered.
"It is staggering and utterly shameful if it has taken these appalling events for ministers to start waking up to what everyone else has known all along," she said. 
"Cutting 16,000 officers - the equivalent of every officer on the streets of London last night - at a time like this is deeply irresponsible."
But the Home Office said the reductions in the police budget were manageable.
At a press conference, Greater Manchester Police's Assistant Chief Constable Garry Shewan said he had seen "the most sickening scenes" of his career, and said the force had been overwhelmed.

Continue reading the main story Forces requesting help on Wed night



 Avon and Somerset
 Gloucestershire
 Greater Manchester Police
 Metropolitan Police
 Nottinghamshire
 West Midlands
 Source: Acpo

 Some 113 people have been arrested so far over the trouble in Manchester and Salford, where hundreds of youths looted shops and set fire to cars and buildings.
He said the force was "absolutely intent" on bringing the rioters to justice and his officers were already studying CCTV.
"Hundreds and hundreds of people, we have your image, we have your face, we have your acts of wanton criminality on film. We are coming for you, from today and no matter how long it takes, we will arrest those people responsible," he said.
In the West Midlands, 163 people had been arrested by Wednesday morning, and police chiefs say at the height of the disorder it was at a rate of about one person per minute.
Chief Constable Chris Sims said it was "another very difficult night" in Birmingham and across the region, with gangs of up to 40 people and "limited disorder" in West Bromwich and Wolverhampton.
The riots first flared on Saturday after a peaceful protest in Tottenham over the fatal shooting of Mark Duggan, 29, by police.

 



More on This Story


England riots
	      



Features and Analysis



English riots one year on

One year on from last year's riots, BBC News talks to some of those caught up in the unrest and asks them to reflect on their experiences.




Who's been prosecuted?




Convictions: How tough are they?




Map with video and timeline







Latest News - one year on



Riot problems persist, Mayor says




Rioters jailed for 1,800 years




Service held for Duggan shooting




Plan to rebuild riot-struck area







In Pictures



In pictures: Aftermath of latest riots




In pictures: Rioting spreads




UK riots: Before-and-after




The morning after







Video and Audio



Parents 'not to blame' for riots Watch




Riots: 'Young people need a voice' Watch




'We will mend our broken society' Watch




Birmingham victims mourned Watch









Related Internet links


Metropolitan Police Service


Independent Police Complaints Commission


Acpo




Around the BBC


On This Day: Broadwater Farm riots


BBC London travel



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 2431                  rate this     +37      rate this     +37   Comment number 1350.  Crystal  10th August 2011 - 16:37   I am from New York and I want the UK to know that so many of us here are heartbroken for you and what London is going through.  We are praying that this comes to an end soon and that London can get back to being the great city that it is.  May Peace prevail.    Report this comment (Comment number 1350) Link to this (Comment number 1350)                 rate this     +35      rate this     +35   Comment number 1342.  Smack_Jack  10th August 2011 - 16:27   These rioters have no message. Yes, sadly they may have less fortunate lives but they have to take responsible initiatives to want change. No sympathy or leniency for this behavior. Remember that they have showed no compassion when committing these acts. And stop blaming police.     Report this comment (Comment number 1342) Link to this (Comment number 1342)                 rate this     +50      rate this     +50   Comment number 1306.  Dixie  10th August 2011 - 16:19   This from one of the 'broom' brigade ,"The main problem was broken glass from shopfronts but not all the shops had been targeted. While the looters had cleared out the stock of Currys, Claire's Accessories and Phones4U, nearby Waterstone's had been left "without a scratch"... just about says it all...    Report this comment (Comment number 1306) Link to this (Comment number 1306)                 rate this     +27      rate this     +27   Comment number 1258.  1945MoralFibre  10th August 2011 - 16:04   I am so glad my grandfather is not hear to witness what he faught for and lost many friends and family.  Ian mentioned that society was to blame for these poor souls lacking any moral fibre, I hate to say it but he is right. I am lucky enough to have witnessed such greatness and true courage in my Grandfather and been brought up with some key principles - honour, sel-respect, pride. Army bootcamp!    Report this comment (Comment number 1258) Link to this (Comment number 1258)                 rate this     +71      rate this     +71   Comment number 1215.  Royke  10th August 2011 - 15:47   Part of the reason for all this yobbery and violence is illustrated perfectly by the news today that one of the first yobs to be prosecuted for looting and theft was given a one day sentence. Because he had already been in custody for that time he was allowed to walk free from the court. I feel sorry for the people who suffered at the hands of these yobs - they will never receive justice.    Report this comment (Comment number 1215) Link to this (Comment number 1215)         Comments 5 of 31    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Huhne admits speeding points lie

Former cabinet minister Chris Huhne admits perverting the course of justice over claims his ex-wife Vicky Pryce took speeding points for him a decade ago.



Car park skeleton is Richard III




Match played in England 'fixed'












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Match played in England 'fixed'


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Charges over US sniper's murder









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Richard III dig skull image shown



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: Charges over US sniper's murder



5: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



6: Arctic oil spill plan 'useless'



7: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



8: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



9: Tuberculosis vaccine hopes dashed



10: French target Mali rebel bases



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



2: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



3: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch



4: One-minute World News Watch



5: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



6: Castro appearance at Cuba vote Watch



7: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



8: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



9: Young, candid views on abortion Watch



10: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





