BBC News - Riots: Police defend handling of crisis after criticism


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















12 August 2011
Last updated at 13:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Riots: Police defend handling of crisis after criticism
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Sir Hugh Orde: "The home secretary has been quite outstanding"




Continue reading the main story


England riots


English riots one year on


Who's been prosecuted?


Convictions: How tough are they?


Map with video and timeline



 Police chiefs have defended their handling of this week's riots despite criticism from the prime minister.
Association of Chief Police Officers president Sir Hugh Orde rejected suggestions that the restoration of calm was due to political intervention.
Acting Met Police commissioner Tim Godwin said comments were being made by people "who weren't there".
David Cameron said police did make mistakes over numbers and tactics - but also praised the bravery of officers.
Mr Godwin denied police had been too "timid" in their initial response to the riots on Saturday - but he said that "if police officers had the benefit of hindsight as foresight we would obviously do things slightly differently".
Ministers and police chiefs have clashed over who was responsible for bringing about a surge in police numbers on the streets of London from 6,000 on Monday to 16,000 on Tuesday.
Politicians 'irrelevant' 
Mr Cameron returned from holiday on Monday night and called an urgent meeting of emergencies committee Cobra.
Communities Secretary Eric Pickles said the prime minister had been "very much in charge" of that meeting.

Continue reading the main story 


Danny Shaw
Home affairs correspondent, BBC News



At the heart of the row is the question of operational independence. 
Senior officers value their right to decide tactics without political interference above almost anything else. Set priorities, agree strategy, hold us to account, they say, but don't meddle in what we do on the ground. 
The formula works when the going's good - but when it's as tough as it has been this week the tensions between police and politicians are all too evident.  
The issue of operational independence has added meaning because the government is pressing ahead with plans for directly-elected officials to oversee police forces in England and Wales.  Elections are due to be held next year. 
Police are largely against the idea, fearing greater political interference with candidates promising more on policing than can be delivered at a time of budget cuts.


Profile: Sir Hugh Orde

 But Sir Hugh - who is seen as a leading contender to become the next Met Police commissioner - told the BBC that the subsequent restoration of calm on Tuesday night had not been down to political intervention. 
"The fact that politicians chose to come back [from holiday] is an irrelevance in terms of the tactics that were by then developing," he told BBC Two's Newsnight. 
"The more robust policing tactics you saw were not a function of political interference; they were a function of the numbers being available to allow the chief constables to change their tactics." 
Senior police sources have told the BBC that plans to increase officer numbers in London were well advanced before the Cobra meeting on Tuesday.
BBC home affairs correspondent Danny Shaw has learned that Scotland Yard made several calls to the Police National Information Co-ordination Centre on Monday requesting additional support.
Home Secretary Theresa May said she spoke by conference call to all police chiefs on Wednesday and "ordered that all special constables should be mobilised, all police leave should be cancelled and the robust tactics used on Tuesday by the Metropolitan Police adopted by all forces dealing with public disorder".
But Sir Hugh said she had "no power whatsoever" do that - and decisions about staffing were a matter for force commanders.
'Vital distinction'
He later denied there was any rift with the government and said the home secretary had given him "quite outstanding" support. 
"She has praised police officers. She understands the complexity of the world in which we live and I think she very clearly understands that we cannot get it right all the time," he said.  
"But let's be very clear on one thing - the vital distinction between policing and politics remains. The police service will make the tactical decisions, and quite rightly and robustly, we should and must be held to account [by politicians]." 

Continue reading the main story 






Man attacked in Ealing riot dies
Met boss admits riot shortcomings

 Mrs May also sought to play down any suggestion that the government's was seeking to take credit for restoring calm, insisting: "What I accept is that the people who got the riots under control were the police." 
The prime minister said police chiefs took the decision to increase officer numbers and change tactics, and the Cobra meeting helped commanders "by showing there was political backing for the changes they wanted to make".
But Police Federation vice-chairman Simon Reed said the suggestion that police had changed their approach after the government stepped in was "a cheap shot" - and Sir Hugh was "clearly upset".
'Disingenuous'
"It's a slight on the professionalism of the police service and the rank and file because some of the language, some of the tone used, was that they were too timid - almost that they weren't brave enough. 
"Rank and file officers will be very upset about those comments because these were unprecedented levels of violence that we saw."
Ian Hanson, chairman of the Greater Manchester Police Federation, also said it was "disingenuous of politicians to say that they [had] sorted the problems out".
Labour have said the riots show that planned cuts to police budgets - and in turn, officer numbers - should be abandoned.
Shadow Home Office minister Vernon Coaker told the BBC the government should be given the same sort of protection from spending cuts as the health and education sectors.
And he accused David Cameron and Theresa May of "playing politics" with policing and trying to "take the credit for tough and correct action taken by the police while at the same time trying to pass the buck for any criticisms back to them".
The Police Federation said that if the riots had happened in a year's time - with "10 or 12,000 fewer officers" - police would not have been able to mobilise resources in the way they have done this week.
But during Thursday's debate, the prime minister insisted the cuts were "totally achievable" without any reduction in the visible policing presence and said that a "surge" of officers - as seen in recent days - would still be possible in future. 
In other developments:

 Richard Mannington Bowes, a 68-year-old man who was critically injured in an attack as he tried to stamp out a fire during riots in Ealing, has died. Police have launched a murder inquiry and a 22-year-old man has been arrested
 Magistrates again sat throughout the night on Thursday in London to hear the cases of some those arrested during the violence. Courts also sat late into the evening in Birmingham and Manchester
 The prime minister announced a crackdown on facemasks and a review on the use of curfews
 A man has been arrested over an attack on a Malaysian student who was assaulted by rioters in east London and mugged by people who had initially appeared to be helping him
 More than 100,000 people have signed an online petition calling for anyone convicted of taking part in the riots to lose any benefits they receive 


 



More on This Story


England riots
	      



Features and Analysis



English riots one year on

One year on from last year's riots, BBC News talks to some of those caught up in the unrest and asks them to reflect on their experiences.




Who's been prosecuted?




Convictions: How tough are they?




Map with video and timeline







Latest News - one year on



Riot problems persist, Mayor says




Rioters jailed for 1,800 years




Service held for Duggan shooting




Plan to rebuild riot-struck area







In Pictures



In pictures: Aftermath of latest riots




In pictures: Rioting spreads




UK riots: Before-and-after




The morning after







Video and Audio



Parents 'not to blame' for riots Watch




Riots: 'Young people need a voice' Watch




'We will mend our broken society' Watch




Birmingham victims mourned Watch














Related Internet links


Metropolitan Police Service


Independent Police Complaints Commission


Acpo




Around the BBC


On This Day: Broadwater Farm riots


BBC London travel



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 862                  rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 808.  Rick  12th August 2011 - 22:12   Hear hear for the Police.  It's the Politicians who have caused this so who do they think they are kidding by saying they got it sorted out.  Give us a break - the Police were out dealing with this while Cameron sunned himself for 4 more days as the capital burned.    Report this comment (Comment number 808) Link to this (Comment number 808)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 757.  CatCara  12th August 2011 - 21:01   The police were not "timid" - watching them on television I would have thought rather that they chose to be an "audience" to crime happening right in front of their eyes, rather than act as policemen.That empowered the criminals. Thus the subsequent nights of more crime.    Report this comment (Comment number 757) Link to this (Comment number 757)                 rate this     +44      rate this     +44   Comment number 210.  M4NCUNIA  12th August 2011 - 10:35   Somehow, this country's attitude to people who choose, wilfully, to break the law has got to change.  These kids do this sort of thing every weekend in parts of London, Manchester etc., but just on a much smaller scale.  & they always get away with it.It's time to let the police do their job (keeping the peace!) without fear of being sued, fired or having to keep health and safety regs in mind    Report this comment (Comment number 210) Link to this (Comment number 210)                 rate this     +29      rate this     +29   Comment number 189.  BMT-An Alternative View  12th August 2011 - 10:24   If anyone thinks the answers to this are simple,think again.The people being charged and prosecuted come from all walks of life,in work,in higher education & kids.They have none of the usual claims of hardship or deprivation.Demonising benefit claiments is wrong.Using hardship/deprivation as an excuse doesn't wash,the vast majority of the riots was nothing more than wanton criminal acts and murder    Report this comment (Comment number 189) Link to this (Comment number 189)                 rate this     +70      rate this     +70   Comment number 90.  ladyloulou  12th August 2011 - 8:44   If the police had gone in 'guns blazing' at the start of the riots they would have been criticised for being heavy handed (Student protests...). Now they've taken a more measured approach it's not heavy enough! They did a brilliant job. They had to go out there and put their lives on the line, literally and politically, to try and calm the situation and they succeeded. They deserve some credit!    Report this comment (Comment number 90) Link to this (Comment number 90)         Comments 5 of 9    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Clegg 'shocked' as Huhne quits as MP

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg says he is "shocked and saddened" after Chris Huhne pleads guilty to perverting the course of justice and quits as an MP.



Gay marriage 'the right thing to do'




Osborne backs bank break-up powers












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Match played in England 'fixed'


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Charges over US sniper's murder









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Richard III dig skull image shown



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: Charges over US sniper's murder



5: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



6: Arctic oil spill plan 'useless'



7: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



8: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



9: French target Mali rebel bases



10: Tuberculosis vaccine hopes dashed



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



2: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



3: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



4: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch



5: One-minute World News Watch



6: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



7: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



8: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



9: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



10: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





