BBC News - Does US election matter to us?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Business







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 05:09 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Robert Peston

Business editor

More from Robert



Does US election matter to us?
 






More from Robert


Is there good news in HMV's collapse?


The going rate for Goldman


Heads may roll at RBS over Libor


M&S's premature trading statement



 My colleague Stephanie Flanders, who knows miles more than I do about American politics, will doubtless write the definitive piece about what Obama's re-election means for the US and global economy.
I would just make a few bloomin' obvious points (please don't say "as always").
First, what happens to the American economy matters to us. One of the statistics that never fails to surprise me is how well British businesses do in America: we consistently have a trade surplus with the US.
In the words of the Office for National Statistics' Pink Book on trade, "there has been a current account surplus with the USA in all years for which data are available" - which was typically less than £5bn before 2000, but reached a peak of £23.4bn in 2005, and was an impressive £21.9bn last year.
We make the stuff and create the services that America wants, and - unlike China - without being accused by the failed contender Mitt Romney of manipulating our currency to gain an unfair advantage.
If only we didn't buy so much more from Germany, China and Norway than we sell to them (curses), the massive net indebtedness of our economy might actually start to reduce a bit.
Within Britain's balance of payments, the US is Britain's most important trading and investment partner, accounting for 18% of current account credits and 14% of debits in 2011.
Or to put it another way, economic conditions in what remains the world's largest single economy have a material impact on our prosperity.
Which is why for the British government, and the Chancellor George Osborne, what matters more than the choice of a president is that in the coming weeks the US legislature finds a way of steering America away from the so-called fiscal cliff.
Our Chancellor of the Exchequer, who in December will resist pressure to loosen constraints on public spending (the so-called "spending envelope" will not be increased, which means that any increase in public-sector investment will be financed by cuts elsewhere), is alarmed that backstop measures to reduce America's public sector deficit are draconian - and, if implemented, would force the US (and probably Britain) back into recession.
Doubtless the shadow chancellor Ed Balls will be muttering about pots and kettles. But he would probably agree that this would not be the ideal moment, with the UK economy sluggishly recovering, for our most important export market to shrink.
So the Treasury is hoping that a reinvigorated President Obama will somehow persuade a House of Representatives - whose Republican majority has been enlarged - to over-ride the prescribed $600bn of  tax increases and spending cuts, due to be implemented on 1 January, with a gentler fiscal consolidation package.
Securing Congressional agreement won't be easy.
And one final thing when it comes to the British national interest: for us, almost as important as the choice of president is the selection of a Treasury secretary, which is especially so at a time when reforming the global financial system remains work in progress; and no one seems to have a clue who will replace Tim Geithner.
Update 16:05 GMT
Now that the counts are in, it is clear that the Republican majority in the House of Representatives has fallen a bit. 

 





Article written by Robert Peston
Robert Peston

Business editor

More from Robert



Is there good news in HMV's collapse? 
08:00 UK time, Tuesday, 15 January 2013
Will HMV survive in any form, and is its collapse a sign that banks are feeling more confident that they have sufficient capital to absorb losses from a rising incidence of insolvencies, which could be a precursor to stronger economic recovery?

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Robert
	      






Is there good news in HMV's collapse?




The going rate for Goldman




Heads may roll at RBS over Libor




M&S's premature trading statement




Sainsbury's tells shoppers’ story




Charges brought in HBOS corruption case




Will 2013 be a bull year for shares?




Banks agree minimum liquidity rules




Protecting the new governor's lifestyle













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 154       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 54.  elcamino  7th November 2012 - 14:45   Nice to see the good guys win. Maybe Romney could find a role as Boss Hogg in a Dukes of Hazzard remake ?    Report this comment (Comment number 54) Link to this (Comment number 54)                 rate this     +11      rate this     +11   Comment number 53.  Alex  7th November 2012 - 14:44   What irks me most is when the president of the United States of A is honoured with the title "Leader of the free world" that is utter rubbish and the BBC should stop it.And this incessant coverage of their election? what was that about?“There’s nothing special about America. You’re just the same as the other 190 countries in the world. You shouldn’t expect special treatment.”    Report this comment (Comment number 53) Link to this (Comment number 53)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 52.  DemoDave  7th November 2012 - 14:43   If the terms of trade with the USA are so favourable, the question has to be asked - why are we still in the Eurozone?  Perhaps it is good that we seem to buy so many BMW's and Mercs, but we certainly do not need to also contribute another 6% to the euro budget which has the luxury of revolving HQ in Brussels and Strasburg and has never had their annual accounts signed off as being fair and true !    Report this comment (Comment number 52) Link to this (Comment number 52)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 51.  ComradeOgilvy  7th November 2012 - 14:41   44.CNRe my 47... Whoops! Sorry.    Report this comment (Comment number 51) Link to this (Comment number 51)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 50.  JunkkMale  7th November 2012 - 14:37   'Does US election matter to us?'---Of late I've been interested in when reporters get all-inclusive, & when not.Hence I wonder which 'us' this refers to?Is it the 'us' who the BBC think share the blame for odd 60's cultural excesses that need suppressing, or the 'us' that like big parties in foreign countries to celebrate with fellow travelers on others' uniquely funding dimes?The latter.    Report this comment (Comment number 50) Link to this (Comment number 50)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 49.  Whistling Neil  7th November 2012 - 14:26   36 The BBC provides a worldwide news channel and cable channel in the US which are paid for and profitable, providing revenue to the BBC to subsidise services here. It is part of the positive balance of trade we have - and a reason some in the US actually have some idea of what happens outside their country. Like it or not - what happens and why in the US has an effect here, best be aware why.    Report this comment (Comment number 49) Link to this (Comment number 49)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 48.  LB  7th November 2012 - 14:24   RE: 18.BareBodkinI think many UK citizens don't actually "like" Obama, and we have not forgotten his anti-British antics on history and BP.It's more that we truly dislike the overly religious, war mungers, economically ignorant & selfish nut jobs like Romney.Obama was just the best of a rotten choice, just like professional politicisations every where.    Report this comment (Comment number 48) Link to this (Comment number 48)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 47.  ComradeOgilvy  7th November 2012 - 14:23   42.CNActually, Sandy is expected to cost the US economy about $50bn. The real damage done (and almost forgotten by the mass media) was to the poorer caribbean nations also hit.    Report this comment (Comment number 47) Link to this (Comment number 47)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 46.  Peter_Sym  7th November 2012 - 14:19   38. GDubz Cant remember the last "made in the UK" stamp i seen--Buy a Honda (swindon), Toyota (Derby) or Nissan (Sunderland). Nissan Sunderland is the WORLDS most productive car plant. Equally we have the largest defence firm (BAe - the US use our rifle barrels, mortar, howitzers and Harrier) and the largest pharmaceutical company (GSK). Beats the hell out of 'made in China' toasters.    Report this comment (Comment number 46) Link to this (Comment number 46)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 45.  sizzlestick  7th November 2012 - 14:10   Peston ask “Who will replace Geitner?”Does it matter? It does not.Obama will be on auto-pilot in tax increases on the expiration of Bush’s tax cuts. Then we’ll see how good the Rich at defending stock prices from collapsing. As Obama will not care to help as was in his 1st Term.And the USD will appreciate, as it is being mopped up as tax payments to the Fed.    Report this comment (Comment number 45) Link to this (Comment number 45)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 44.  Comfortably Numb  7th November 2012 - 14:09   Mine @ 42...Please ignore the first para - I'm talking nonsense.I stick by the second.    Report this comment (Comment number 44) Link to this (Comment number 44)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 43.  NonLondonView  7th November 2012 - 14:03   The US economy is just a time bomb waiting to go off - they've kicked it down the road again and again but sooner or later it will go pop in a big way    Report this comment (Comment number 43) Link to this (Comment number 43)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 42.  Comfortably Numb  7th November 2012 - 13:59   $600bn of tax increases and cuts is peanuts compared to the cost of the damage caused by 'Sandy' - which has to be paid for. Fiscal cliff indeed.Probably, nothing much will change in the medium-term. Our collective capacity for change is limited by past excesses. Of more importance, is an awesome economic problem that is rushing through the long-grass towards us. It has a name...Pensions!    Report this comment (Comment number 42) Link to this (Comment number 42)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 41.  vonBraun  7th November 2012 - 13:53   @38  GDubz On my New Balance trainers.I was shocked too. We have a huge amount of design talent but we only manufacture the really high end stuff, as it's not deemed cost-effective to do so in the UK. I think this is more perception than reality, for example Indian IT resource is now not as cheap as it was a year ago and the quality is still very poor.  Bring it back onshore!    Report this comment (Comment number 41) Link to this (Comment number 41)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 40.  John_from_Hendon  7th November 2012 - 13:45   Till the debt bubble is deflated and money is properly prudentially priced again the whole US economy will remain perverted by Wall Street's mobsters.Because Wall Street influences the rest of the World The Depression goes on.Sooner or later the politicians will have to round on the banks and the corrupt business school education of defective economists and return the whole system to sanity!    Report this comment (Comment number 40) Link to this (Comment number 40)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 39.  Actionr  7th November 2012 - 13:44   Simple solutions for UK:-Tax the offshore companies (yes do aim for Jersey and all our British islands which are used in order not to pay tax)-Cut the fat cats in the public sector-Stop the inflation. NOW.-Allow the BTL speculators to be taxed severely. Surely when most of the disposable income of 30% is eaten by rents and inflation, this is the highest priority.    Report this comment (Comment number 39) Link to this (Comment number 39)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 38.  GDubz  7th November 2012 - 13:27   Reliance on any country is a weakness.Anyone watch the British series on Sky? (pillaging of other countries to one side) We made ourselves a super power off the back of innovation, new technology and manufacturing goods to a better quality and in a more cost effective fashion than anyone else could.Cant remember the last "made in the UK" stamp i seen    Report this comment (Comment number 38) Link to this (Comment number 38)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 37.  Acet  7th November 2012 - 13:26   "If only we didn't buy so much more from Germany, China and Norway "If only we hadn't treated Engineers as second class, had not sent our manufacturing to China and had proper cost-effective railways so that we wouldn't need to use as much Oil ...Thankfully, our no-regulation financial-regulation gives us a healthy trade surplus from the sale of the more shady kind of financial services.    Report this comment (Comment number 37) Link to this (Comment number 37)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 36.  devilisindetail  7th November 2012 - 13:20   Slightly off piste here but like the old joke about how many people does it take to change a light bulb? How many BBC people and how much money paid for by licence fee payers does it need to travel to the US to report on a 2 horse race? Not sure myself but do feel sure whatever it did cost could have been better spent reporting UK matters!    Report this comment (Comment number 36) Link to this (Comment number 36)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 35.  davec44  7th November 2012 - 13:19   The re-election of Obama just might stop an Israeli led war on Iran that Romney seemed hellbent on joining.  It's no coincidence that the $trillion defect in the US is also the approximate spend on Iraq/Afghanistan. You could double that for a war on Iran. The British as always would stick their neck in and waste a few more £billion. The oil price would double. Hope Obama stays clear of more war    Report this comment (Comment number 35) Link to this (Comment number 35)         Page 6 of 8    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



6: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



7: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



8: Hillary Clinton's long journey



9: Car park dug up around parked car



10: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



3: The art looking death in the face Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Superdome returns after Katrina Watch



9: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



10: An early masked hero lives on in reissued comics Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





