BBC News - US election: Republicans must change or die


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US and Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 14:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



US election: Republicans must change or die




Latest


What next?


Obama


Romney


Exit polls


Analysis


In pictures


Middle East





 






US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 "We're going to get blamed if we lose," a Texan member of the low-tax, small-government Tea Party movement told me before the first presidential debate appeared to turn the election on its head.
A civil war may be about to break out between fiscal conservatives and what remains of the more moderate wing of the party, but it will be the wrong battle to fight.
The comment came around the time that then-Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and his team seemed to be sliding to near inevitable defeat. The convention hadn't gone well, and the Romney campaign seemed unable to land a punch on the resurgent Democrats.  
It was pretty much the first time that Republicans spoke openly about defeat.
Which is part of a Republican problem, and which is worth coming back to - seeing the world as you would like it to be (the opinion polls are wrong, everyone believes that cuts should come before tax rises, the president isn't actually an American at all) rather than how it actually is.
Republicans had a lot of electoral wind in their favour this time around: a weak economy with anaemic growth, a president who seemed unable to regain the magic of his first campaign, unemployment at 8% or more for what felt like forever.
Ruthless
Perhaps more important than all the economic statistics in the world was the sense that the country was leaderless and going the wrong way. As I pointed out in a blog early on election night, back in September last year, more than three-quarters of the country felt that America was on the wrong track.

“Start Quote
He can't talk like that. It has to stop”
End Quote
Hispanic businesswoman
 But from late spring and early summer, the economy started to show signs of sustained, if slow, life. Housing - which had done nothing but drag the economy down for the whole of the Barack Obama's time in office - started to contribute to growth. Employment grew enough to make small dents in the jobless rate.
It may have been despite, rather than because of, the Obama administration's policies; that's for economists to mull. 
But the turnaround, did, surprisingly quickly, change the perception of the electorate about the way the country was going.
Meanwhile, the Republicans had a candidate whose claim to fame was that - whilst he may have had little or no charisma - he was a businessman who knew how to make the economy work.
In 2010, that alone might have been enough. But Mr Romney's back-story in corporate turnarounds and wealth creation (his own, as well as other people's) was ruthlessly mined by the Democratic campaign machine and used against him. 
A long summer of campaign advertising threw him entirely on to the defensive. 
Two flawed candidates
"I just have trouble voting for someone with an overseas bank account," said an auto worker in Cadillac, north Michigan, who told me that he swung between the Democrats and the Republicans. He also described one of his chief concerns as being the national debt and the way the government spent so much on people who did too little.


Hispanics - including stars like actress Eva Longoria - backed Obama

Republicans spent the summer fighting the impression that Mr Romney was a corporate asset-stripper who cackled as he merrily shipped jobs off to Mexico and China. 
By the autumn, the election was no longer a referendum on four hard and seemingly fruitless years of Mr Obama; it was a choice between two flawed candidates.
At which point, with the benefit of that wonderful thing, hindsight, the election was Mr Obama's. 

“Start Quote
It's not a traditional America anymore”
End Quote
Bill O'Reilly
Talk show host
 Back in the brutal primary battle early in the year, when Republican activists chose their candidate, Mr Romney was forced to paint himself as a tough guy on immigration, so as to outflank his rivals.
"Self-deportation" (a term used by Mr Romney in one of the Republican primary debates) might have seemed like a humane option - and Republican vote winner - to Mr Romney. But to the Republican Hispanics I spoke to in Florida in late January, it was an electoral disaster waiting to happen.
"He can't talk like that. It has to stop," one Hispanic businesswoman told me at a Republican debate watching party in Orlando, Florida.
America is changing at a revolutionary pace: the white majority is hurrying towards minority status. And the electorate reflects that. Non-Hispanic whites were 87% of the voters in 1992. Exit polls suggest that they were 72% this time around.
Hispanics were 2% of voters then. They are 10% now. But over a long summer and autumn of Republican events - the convention, rallies, meetings in diners and homes - I searched in vain for any sign of them.
Republicans opine that there is more to the Hispanic vote than just immigration; they are right. There are plenty of Hispanics who rather like the message of the party on business, on self-reliance and on social issues. But the tone - driven by the immigration debate - is wrong, at local, state and national level.
There is more to Republican electoral discomfort than just the Hispanic vote. Halfway through Tuesday night, renegade conservative commentator David Frum tweeted: "Upper class TV commentators think the only change the GOP needs is on immigration. Of course they all have health insurance."
He was pointing, rather sharply, to the lack of policy ideas that might excite on the Republican side. It was just not good enough to try for a referendum. The Republicans needed more.
But without the increasing Hispanic share - Romney won 27%, down from an already low 32% in 2008 - the Republicans will not win nationally, however good their ideas.
Early on Tuesday evening, a shocked-looking Bill O'Reilly, a firebrand conservative talk-show host, went on the Republicans' favourite news broadcaster, Fox News.
"The white establishment," he said, "is in a minority".
"The demographics are changing. It's not a traditional America anymore."
The challenge for Republicans now is simple: change or die. Because, with or without you, America is changing fast. 

 





Article written by Jonny Dymond
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



@JonnyDymond via Twitter
Ethiopian-American taxi driver complains to me about competition, I commiserate, he says 'that's Adam Smith, isn't it', shrugs. @BBCNewsUS







More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 515       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 35.  Andy Post  7th November 2012 - 20:50   The pendulum swings left and right. It's never as bad for a party as it seems nor as good. The GOP will adjust.    Report this comment (Comment number 35) Link to this (Comment number 35)                 rate this     +45      rate this     +45   Comment number 34.  Ken Westmoreland  7th November 2012 - 20:39   It is a good thing Obama won, the Americans have very short memories.Had the Republicans won I feel sure Romney would have become involved with Iran and not in a nice way, it is time to let other nations take their own course, that goes for Britain too.With the Republicans it is "God bless America, break out the ammunition"    Report this comment (Comment number 34) Link to this (Comment number 34)                 rate this     +81      rate this     +81   Comment number 33.  marvymart  7th November 2012 - 20:35   'Ritch', your post is both offensive and offensively dumb in its final assertions. On what basis do you label Britain "lawless and uneducated"? I suspect it would be really very easy for me to claim - and perhaps with some real evidence - that the USA is much more 'lawless' and 'uneducated'; fortunately, my excellent British state education prevents me from generalising so.    Report this comment (Comment number 33) Link to this (Comment number 33)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 32.  Gregg  7th November 2012 - 20:49   I don't know if the Republicans actually believe in small government any more.  Is it really small government that they want, or is that just the road to big paychecks?  They're fronted by corporations that pay such low wages that they created this 47% mess in the first place.  See, if they want small government, they need to make it so we don't need big government.    Report this comment (Comment number 32) Link to this (Comment number 32)                 rate this     +33      rate this     +33   Comment number 31.  DesktopCynic  7th November 2012 - 20:49   mscracker... I agree!  I'm not expecting anything for free. But the GOP are moving to a position so out on a limb, they seem to abhor contraception never mind abortion & some of the comments about rape defy rational belief. Remind me again exactly what the biological process is that prevents victims of 'legitimate' rape from being impregnated?  It's complete nonsense scientifically. Frightening..    Report this comment (Comment number 31) Link to this (Comment number 31)                 rate this     +38      rate this     +38   Comment number 30.  jurassicflood  7th November 2012 - 20:49   Right-wing extremists such as the Tea Party seem to think that they have all the answers and that the rest of us are just dimwits if we don't see things their way.  In fact, they are the dimwits and the sooner people like Romney et al work out that such people drag them and cost them votes down the sooner they might get back into power.  Divorce the Tea Party and let them look after themselves.    Report this comment (Comment number 30) Link to this (Comment number 30)                 rate this     -8      rate this     -8   Comment number 29.  Darren Shepperd  7th November 2012 - 20:49   spot the BBC hypocrisy when it comes to amer8ica 2% growth is weak and anemic but when it comes to the tories over here a freak 1% is great when we are still in a peression and america is one of the few western contries with growth all the bbc can do is keep on their mindless ultra rightwing agenda    Report this comment (Comment number 29) Link to this (Comment number 29)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 28.  Brian M  7th November 2012 - 20:48   I wouldn't be surprised if Romney was engineered to be a fall guy and that Repub eyes are set on 2016. The GOPs candidates this time were all appalling. I'm sure the intelligentsia in the party were embarrassed by Bachman, Santorum, Romney (not to mention non-candidates Palin and Trump).Then in the final weeks further embarrassments from people like Akin and Eastwood.Horror show.    Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     +27      rate this     +27   Comment number 27.  Jason Dubin  7th November 2012 - 20:48   The Republican party has evolved into the party of white racists,... that is why Mitt lost. White America is shrinking, and as they lose the demographic battle they will lose the political battle,... if they don't redefine themselves and soon, it won't be but a matter of a decade before they lose the House of Reps. Frankly, I would be surprised if they even still exist come 2050.    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 26.  bespokesman  7th November 2012 - 20:46   As of 6 November 2012 the Republican Party is now officially on the wrong side of history.  And, unless it gets its act together, that is where the Party will stay.    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 25.  mscracker  7th November 2012 - 20:43   @11.DesktopCynic ,The economy's what will actually affect women in the end.Free contraception's become the modern "40 acres & a mule" ruse used on women.Generic contraceptives are 10 bucks or less @ WalMart.Or given away at public heath clinics.I'd rather have a decent job & pay for that myself.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 24.  Dan  7th November 2012 - 20:42   Excellent analysis although the GOP is hardly dead. It holds 30 governorships & a solid majority in the HoRs. It also increased its share of the white vote in the presidential election. As the % of the white vote shrinks look for more & more white voters to vote like minorities. In 2030 if 70% of whites vote Rep as Hispanics did for Obama in 2012 the parties will be competitive    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 23.  cymroynyrusa  7th November 2012 - 20:41   It all began with Ronald Reagan, didn't it, and ended with George Bush? The Republicans were once seen as God-fearing, family-loving, hard-working, American individualists, and now they are seen as right-wing nut freaks. It isn't the Republican Party that has changed, it's our perception of them. Now, it's cool to smoke dope, be gay, be on welfare, and laugh at Reps. My how times have changed!    Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 22.  GhostOfTheSun  7th November 2012 - 20:41   Change how? If they go further right chasing Tea Party supporters they become far-right and push any undecided voters firmly towards the Democrats. If they go left, into Democrat territory, they will be seen as betraying their loyal supporters.If Obama's successor gets a comfortable win in 2016 it will be seen as a general shift to the left by America, and may see the rise of a left-wing party.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     +16      rate this     +16   Comment number 21.  grahame  7th November 2012 - 20:31   @5You sir, are ignorant and a perfect example of why America had the good sense to re-elect Obama.  You must belong to the group that believes the world is flat and you would fall off if you travelled too far out of the Atlantic or Pacific oceans.  Oh, we, in the lawless ignorant country don't allow any Tom Dick or Harry to own a gun with which to blow people away.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +13      rate this     +13   Comment number 20.  DesktopCynic  7th November 2012 - 20:37   What this country could really do with is a party which is fiscally conservative but socially liberal. That runs an efficient government, demands individual responsibility but keeps completely out of people's bedrooms and sex lives, and leaves god where god belongs, strictly in people's private lives.  I would probably vote for Bloomberg if he ran.    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 19.  hdx159  7th November 2012 - 20:34   As views grow ever more polarised, how long before the geogrpahically central Republican states decide that, with demographics working aganst them, their vision of the country can only be achieved as a separate nation. UDI for GOP.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     +30      rate this     +30   Comment number 18.  Anil  7th November 2012 - 20:34   I am an immigrant minority and a registered Republican. In 2008 I signed up as a campaign volunteer; all I got was a flood of appeals to donate money. I got disgusted - is that all you want - my money, and not my ideas?    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     -33      rate this     -33   Comment number 17.  echtdampfer  7th November 2012 - 20:34   Ignore the US demographic change at your peril!  The same thing is happening here!  We are sleepwalking towards a situation where indigenous British people will soon be in a minority and because of the rules of the EU we are powerless to stop it!  I just don't recognise my country anymore and it's extremely sad, worrying and downright frightening.    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     +18      rate this     +18   Comment number 16.  bespokesman  7th November 2012 - 20:33   The composition of the two camps televised last evening pretty much told the story: The audience at the Dems' camp in Chicago was composed of virtually every race, gender & ethnic group while the audience at the Republican camp in Boston was almost exclusively Caucasian, with few minorities represented. The Dems' camp looked much more like America. The country has changed; Republicans have not.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)         Page 25 of 26    Newer 1 ... 22 23 24 25 26 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Malala recovering after operation



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Where did Richard III go wrong?



10: Obama shooting picture released



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: One-minute World News Watch



6: The art looking death in the face Watch



7: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



10: US child still hostage in bunker Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





