BBC News - US election: Republicans must change or die


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US and Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 14:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



US election: Republicans must change or die




Latest


What next?


Obama


Romney


Exit polls


Analysis


In pictures


Middle East





 






US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 "We're going to get blamed if we lose," a Texan member of the low-tax, small-government Tea Party movement told me before the first presidential debate appeared to turn the election on its head.
A civil war may be about to break out between fiscal conservatives and what remains of the more moderate wing of the party, but it will be the wrong battle to fight.
The comment came around the time that then-Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and his team seemed to be sliding to near inevitable defeat. The convention hadn't gone well, and the Romney campaign seemed unable to land a punch on the resurgent Democrats.  
It was pretty much the first time that Republicans spoke openly about defeat.
Which is part of a Republican problem, and which is worth coming back to - seeing the world as you would like it to be (the opinion polls are wrong, everyone believes that cuts should come before tax rises, the president isn't actually an American at all) rather than how it actually is.
Republicans had a lot of electoral wind in their favour this time around: a weak economy with anaemic growth, a president who seemed unable to regain the magic of his first campaign, unemployment at 8% or more for what felt like forever.
Ruthless
Perhaps more important than all the economic statistics in the world was the sense that the country was leaderless and going the wrong way. As I pointed out in a blog early on election night, back in September last year, more than three-quarters of the country felt that America was on the wrong track.

“Start Quote
He can't talk like that. It has to stop”
End Quote
Hispanic businesswoman
 But from late spring and early summer, the economy started to show signs of sustained, if slow, life. Housing - which had done nothing but drag the economy down for the whole of the Barack Obama's time in office - started to contribute to growth. Employment grew enough to make small dents in the jobless rate.
It may have been despite, rather than because of, the Obama administration's policies; that's for economists to mull. 
But the turnaround, did, surprisingly quickly, change the perception of the electorate about the way the country was going.
Meanwhile, the Republicans had a candidate whose claim to fame was that - whilst he may have had little or no charisma - he was a businessman who knew how to make the economy work.
In 2010, that alone might have been enough. But Mr Romney's back-story in corporate turnarounds and wealth creation (his own, as well as other people's) was ruthlessly mined by the Democratic campaign machine and used against him. 
A long summer of campaign advertising threw him entirely on to the defensive. 
Two flawed candidates
"I just have trouble voting for someone with an overseas bank account," said an auto worker in Cadillac, north Michigan, who told me that he swung between the Democrats and the Republicans. He also described one of his chief concerns as being the national debt and the way the government spent so much on people who did too little.


Hispanics - including stars like actress Eva Longoria - backed Obama

Republicans spent the summer fighting the impression that Mr Romney was a corporate asset-stripper who cackled as he merrily shipped jobs off to Mexico and China. 
By the autumn, the election was no longer a referendum on four hard and seemingly fruitless years of Mr Obama; it was a choice between two flawed candidates.
At which point, with the benefit of that wonderful thing, hindsight, the election was Mr Obama's. 

“Start Quote
It's not a traditional America anymore”
End Quote
Bill O'Reilly
Talk show host
 Back in the brutal primary battle early in the year, when Republican activists chose their candidate, Mr Romney was forced to paint himself as a tough guy on immigration, so as to outflank his rivals.
"Self-deportation" (a term used by Mr Romney in one of the Republican primary debates) might have seemed like a humane option - and Republican vote winner - to Mr Romney. But to the Republican Hispanics I spoke to in Florida in late January, it was an electoral disaster waiting to happen.
"He can't talk like that. It has to stop," one Hispanic businesswoman told me at a Republican debate watching party in Orlando, Florida.
America is changing at a revolutionary pace: the white majority is hurrying towards minority status. And the electorate reflects that. Non-Hispanic whites were 87% of the voters in 1992. Exit polls suggest that they were 72% this time around.
Hispanics were 2% of voters then. They are 10% now. But over a long summer and autumn of Republican events - the convention, rallies, meetings in diners and homes - I searched in vain for any sign of them.
Republicans opine that there is more to the Hispanic vote than just immigration; they are right. There are plenty of Hispanics who rather like the message of the party on business, on self-reliance and on social issues. But the tone - driven by the immigration debate - is wrong, at local, state and national level.
There is more to Republican electoral discomfort than just the Hispanic vote. Halfway through Tuesday night, renegade conservative commentator David Frum tweeted: "Upper class TV commentators think the only change the GOP needs is on immigration. Of course they all have health insurance."
He was pointing, rather sharply, to the lack of policy ideas that might excite on the Republican side. It was just not good enough to try for a referendum. The Republicans needed more.
But without the increasing Hispanic share - Romney won 27%, down from an already low 32% in 2008 - the Republicans will not win nationally, however good their ideas.
Early on Tuesday evening, a shocked-looking Bill O'Reilly, a firebrand conservative talk-show host, went on the Republicans' favourite news broadcaster, Fox News.
"The white establishment," he said, "is in a minority".
"The demographics are changing. It's not a traditional America anymore."
The challenge for Republicans now is simple: change or die. Because, with or without you, America is changing fast. 

 





Article written by Jonny Dymond
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



@JonnyDymond via Twitter
Ethiopian-American taxi driver complains to me about competition, I commiserate, he says 'that's Adam Smith, isn't it', shrugs. @BBCNewsUS







More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 515       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 515.  Xorism  8th November 2012 - 23:59   #510The idea that the children should be protected from the crimes of their family members, is the whole reason this is a problem.Irregardless of reason, they have BROKEN the law by entering illegally.If parents broke any other law for the benefit of the children - would you still be on the childrens side?You break the law, you should be punished. Anything else just encourages illegal imm.    Report this comment (Comment number 515) Link to this (Comment number 515)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 514.  Tanglewood  8th November 2012 - 23:54   #510: "Would you have a different perspective though if you were the illegal?Should children be punished for the aspirational "crimes" of their parents?"I'd prefer that the government's actions were limited to provision of a free bus ride to the nearest border. Let's see, though, whether Obama proposes a fast-track citizenship program for illegals to buy their votes in 2016.    Report this comment (Comment number 514) Link to this (Comment number 514)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 513.  Yankee_Poodle  8th November 2012 - 23:50   I don't much care what the politician's call themselves, what I care about is whether they earnestly represent my interests and more broadly of those around me.  It was intersting to see the crowds at the final gathering's both Republican and Democrat. It was clear who had embraced the diversity of American society and who did not. If the republicans want to govern, they need to change from within    Report this comment (Comment number 513) Link to this (Comment number 513)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 512.  Billythefirst  8th November 2012 - 23:41   #511Reality is coming, Obama overspending can't be sustained. How will people vote then?-----------Post Bush apocalypse America has to accept the that the extent of the damage done is such that remedial action will take decades not years.    Report this comment (Comment number 512) Link to this (Comment number 512)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 511.  stderr  8th November 2012 - 23:33   If you shift 1 or 2 percent of the vote from Obama to Romney, Romney wins. Then you rewrite this article telling us that Democrats have to change or they are going to die.If Republicans want to win, they should pick candidates that can win their own home states, in this case, WI and MASS. That was 21 EC votes.Reality is coming, Obama overspending can't be sustained. How will people vote then?    Report this comment (Comment number 511) Link to this (Comment number 511)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 510.  Billythefirst  8th November 2012 - 23:21   #509any system that accords more rights to those in the country illegally compared to others is absolutely wrong --------Would you have a different perspective though if you were the illegal?Should children be punished for the aspirational "crimes" of their parents?    Report this comment (Comment number 510) Link to this (Comment number 510)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 509.  Tanglewood  8th November 2012 - 23:13   #496: "If you were very poor, hungry and wanted to make a better life for your family and lived next to a rich country ....would you have a different perspective?"I understand the motives for illegal immigration; however, any system that accords more rights to those in the country illegally compared to others is absolutely wrong - especially if done for political/electoral gain.    Report this comment (Comment number 509) Link to this (Comment number 509)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 508.  Antoine Delaforterie  8th November 2012 - 23:03   Wait. This is too good. I, the fiscal conservative candidate, who has seen time and again the fiscally irresponsible Dems/Reps. renege on spending cuts to provide breads and circuises are "moderate" and I am not grounded in "reality" because I want us to spend within our means am a radical!  Reality is hitting the PIIGS now, our turn is next. Then we'll see who was grounded in "reality".    Report this comment (Comment number 508) Link to this (Comment number 508)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 507.  Bastiat  8th November 2012 - 22:59   Democracy: voting not to raise your own taxes, but to raise somebody elses'. Very "fair". Well said Peter Schiff:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dz7boAzeV7sObama just promised more things than Romney did, and won. What a surprise. Everyone wants something at someone elses' expense.    Report this comment (Comment number 507) Link to this (Comment number 507)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 506.  Dinglish  8th November 2012 - 22:58   America has become a land of children. The Republicans apeal to reason carries no wight with those whos only interest is more candy and cartoons!It really is that simple!    Report this comment (Comment number 506) Link to this (Comment number 506)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 505.  Billythefirst  8th November 2012 - 22:35   #503highlighted by his ill-thought "47 per cent" remark and appointment of Paul Ryan, ---------His 47% remark was not ill thought - it was a rare glimpse of the nearest thing to the "real" Mitt by virtue of the fact that it was clandestine.If the GOP wants to be a mainstream party it has to ditch Murdoch, the Kochs and all the other hard right whackos with bucks.    Report this comment (Comment number 505) Link to this (Comment number 505)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 504.  stevedaytona  8th November 2012 - 22:33   @503 - Absolutely right.  For me, voting for Obama was selecting the least worst alternative.    Report this comment (Comment number 504) Link to this (Comment number 504)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 503.  4FreeSpeech  8th November 2012 - 22:27   First of all, the election was the GOP's and Romney's to lose. Had he struck a moderate tone from the get-go, the result may well have been different. Instead, he pandered to the party's right-wing fringe, highlighted by his ill-thought "47 per cent" remark and appointment of Paul Ryan, losing him support not only among minorities, but moderate whites and working/middle class Americans in general.    Report this comment (Comment number 503) Link to this (Comment number 503)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 502.  Billythefirst  8th November 2012 - 22:25   490. Unashamedly Independent 486. DavidinUSA I also find you amusing. Thanks for giving me a couple of laughs - it helps dispel the post-election gloom.////////Glad to hear it.----------------Dave, you are definitely funnier .    Report this comment (Comment number 502) Link to this (Comment number 502)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 501.  bob  8th November 2012 - 22:25   #396I HATE PEOPLE WHO THINK BNP/UKIP ARE EVEN REMOTELY SIMILAR!!BNP - Protectionist, racist.UKIP - Free market, small government, not racist.Unfortunately, voting for free markets and fiscal responsibility means you also get morally righteous nut jobs forcing Christianity down your throat and a man with no diplomatic skills whatsoever. That's why I wanted Obama, despite my small-govt views.    Report this comment (Comment number 501) Link to this (Comment number 501)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 500.  Alan T  8th November 2012 - 22:22   497. Anthony Mortlock>>> The day a Republican Candidate stands up and publicly disowns Rush Limbaugh and Fox News is the day they take a big step back towards the White House.I'd like to think so, but I don't know, such a move would alienate many of their core voters. We may find Fox News sinister and dangerous, but many Americans swallow its message whole. Disowning Fox could backfire.    Report this comment (Comment number 500) Link to this (Comment number 500)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 499.  stevedaytona  8th November 2012 - 22:22   Until the Republicans select someone people like Limbaugh consider a true conservative and get beaten even worse than Romney has just been beaten will they realize they are unelectable.  Right now they remind me of the Labour party of the early 1980's - "if we can just become more extreme surely we will be more successful".    Report this comment (Comment number 499) Link to this (Comment number 499)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 498.  bozley  8th November 2012 - 22:18   I am white, over 65, educated and middle class. I, along with millions of others with similar backgrounds and in my age group voted without hesitation for Obama.  We are out there people!   To us, basic human rights (read gay marriage health care for all, women's issues etc.) are  just as important as the economy and job creation.   Lighten up,  Republicans. It's the 21st century!    Report this comment (Comment number 498) Link to this (Comment number 498)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 497.  Anthony Mortlock  8th November 2012 - 22:14   The day a Republican Candidate stands up and publicly disowns Rush Limbaugh and Fox News is the day they take a big step back towards the White House.Whenever political parties place ideology over pragmatism, they're in trouble. the irony is that that the Republicans (cheered on by Fox News) have spent four years accusing Obama of being ideological when it's actually the other way round.    Report this comment (Comment number 497) Link to this (Comment number 497)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 496.  Billythefirst  8th November 2012 - 22:13   #461TangleIf you were very poor, hungry and wanted to make a better life for your family and lived next to a rich country  but could never afford the expensive process of legal immigration........would you have a different perspective?    Report this comment (Comment number 496) Link to this (Comment number 496)         Page 1 of 26    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 26 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



5: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



6: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



7: Mars rover hammers down into rock



8: Malala recovering after operation



9: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



10: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: The art looking death in the face Watch



6: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



7: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



8: A fruity guide to American football Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: Apology over police beating footage Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





