BBC News - US election: Republicans must change or die


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US and Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 14:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



US election: Republicans must change or die




Latest


What next?


Obama


Romney


Exit polls


Analysis


In pictures


Middle East





 






US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 "We're going to get blamed if we lose," a Texan member of the low-tax, small-government Tea Party movement told me before the first presidential debate appeared to turn the election on its head.
A civil war may be about to break out between fiscal conservatives and what remains of the more moderate wing of the party, but it will be the wrong battle to fight.
The comment came around the time that then-Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and his team seemed to be sliding to near inevitable defeat. The convention hadn't gone well, and the Romney campaign seemed unable to land a punch on the resurgent Democrats.  
It was pretty much the first time that Republicans spoke openly about defeat.
Which is part of a Republican problem, and which is worth coming back to - seeing the world as you would like it to be (the opinion polls are wrong, everyone believes that cuts should come before tax rises, the president isn't actually an American at all) rather than how it actually is.
Republicans had a lot of electoral wind in their favour this time around: a weak economy with anaemic growth, a president who seemed unable to regain the magic of his first campaign, unemployment at 8% or more for what felt like forever.
Ruthless
Perhaps more important than all the economic statistics in the world was the sense that the country was leaderless and going the wrong way. As I pointed out in a blog early on election night, back in September last year, more than three-quarters of the country felt that America was on the wrong track.

“Start Quote
He can't talk like that. It has to stop”
End Quote
Hispanic businesswoman
 But from late spring and early summer, the economy started to show signs of sustained, if slow, life. Housing - which had done nothing but drag the economy down for the whole of the Barack Obama's time in office - started to contribute to growth. Employment grew enough to make small dents in the jobless rate.
It may have been despite, rather than because of, the Obama administration's policies; that's for economists to mull. 
But the turnaround, did, surprisingly quickly, change the perception of the electorate about the way the country was going.
Meanwhile, the Republicans had a candidate whose claim to fame was that - whilst he may have had little or no charisma - he was a businessman who knew how to make the economy work.
In 2010, that alone might have been enough. But Mr Romney's back-story in corporate turnarounds and wealth creation (his own, as well as other people's) was ruthlessly mined by the Democratic campaign machine and used against him. 
A long summer of campaign advertising threw him entirely on to the defensive. 
Two flawed candidates
"I just have trouble voting for someone with an overseas bank account," said an auto worker in Cadillac, north Michigan, who told me that he swung between the Democrats and the Republicans. He also described one of his chief concerns as being the national debt and the way the government spent so much on people who did too little.


Hispanics - including stars like actress Eva Longoria - backed Obama

Republicans spent the summer fighting the impression that Mr Romney was a corporate asset-stripper who cackled as he merrily shipped jobs off to Mexico and China. 
By the autumn, the election was no longer a referendum on four hard and seemingly fruitless years of Mr Obama; it was a choice between two flawed candidates.
At which point, with the benefit of that wonderful thing, hindsight, the election was Mr Obama's. 

“Start Quote
It's not a traditional America anymore”
End Quote
Bill O'Reilly
Talk show host
 Back in the brutal primary battle early in the year, when Republican activists chose their candidate, Mr Romney was forced to paint himself as a tough guy on immigration, so as to outflank his rivals.
"Self-deportation" (a term used by Mr Romney in one of the Republican primary debates) might have seemed like a humane option - and Republican vote winner - to Mr Romney. But to the Republican Hispanics I spoke to in Florida in late January, it was an electoral disaster waiting to happen.
"He can't talk like that. It has to stop," one Hispanic businesswoman told me at a Republican debate watching party in Orlando, Florida.
America is changing at a revolutionary pace: the white majority is hurrying towards minority status. And the electorate reflects that. Non-Hispanic whites were 87% of the voters in 1992. Exit polls suggest that they were 72% this time around.
Hispanics were 2% of voters then. They are 10% now. But over a long summer and autumn of Republican events - the convention, rallies, meetings in diners and homes - I searched in vain for any sign of them.
Republicans opine that there is more to the Hispanic vote than just immigration; they are right. There are plenty of Hispanics who rather like the message of the party on business, on self-reliance and on social issues. But the tone - driven by the immigration debate - is wrong, at local, state and national level.
There is more to Republican electoral discomfort than just the Hispanic vote. Halfway through Tuesday night, renegade conservative commentator David Frum tweeted: "Upper class TV commentators think the only change the GOP needs is on immigration. Of course they all have health insurance."
He was pointing, rather sharply, to the lack of policy ideas that might excite on the Republican side. It was just not good enough to try for a referendum. The Republicans needed more.
But without the increasing Hispanic share - Romney won 27%, down from an already low 32% in 2008 - the Republicans will not win nationally, however good their ideas.
Early on Tuesday evening, a shocked-looking Bill O'Reilly, a firebrand conservative talk-show host, went on the Republicans' favourite news broadcaster, Fox News.
"The white establishment," he said, "is in a minority".
"The demographics are changing. It's not a traditional America anymore."
The challenge for Republicans now is simple: change or die. Because, with or without you, America is changing fast. 

 





Article written by Jonny Dymond
Jonny Dymond

Washington correspondent

More from Jonny
Follow Jonny on Twitter



@JonnyDymond via Twitter
Ethiopian-American taxi driver complains to me about competition, I commiserate, he says 'that's Adam Smith, isn't it', shrugs. @BBCNewsUS







More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 515       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -11      rate this     -11   Comment number 95.  Scotch Git  7th November 2012 - 22:06   #17echtdampfer,Like you, I'm beginning to feel it's not my country anymore. Time for that referendum Mr. Cameron promised us. With a "cast iron guarantee."#59Lyle,Did we fight the last World War so that a German chancellor can impose her rules upon us? Why don't you ask some of our old soldiers? They'll be on the streets next Sunday.    Report this comment (Comment number 95) Link to this (Comment number 95)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 94.  John  7th November 2012 - 22:03   Just because Americans call something freedom doesn't mean that they are free. More murders, more crime, more extremists, more lifestyle illness than just about anywhere else in the world.  If the USA is that good why do they lock their doors, live in walled communities and carry a gun?    Most Afghan people, Iraqi people, Iranian people, Chinese people, North Korean people don't have to.    Report this comment (Comment number 94) Link to this (Comment number 94)                 rate this     -12      rate this     -12   Comment number 93.  john  7th November 2012 - 22:01   Unless and until the GOP understands and deals with the propaganda weapon, they will never win another election for prezzy if they could not win this one. The mainstream media has become a propaganda machine for Obama, and his handlers have been masterful in exploiting it. The GOP is clueless on the subject.    Report this comment (Comment number 93) Link to this (Comment number 93)                 rate this     +16      rate this     +16   Comment number 92.  Jack  7th November 2012 - 22:02   I shudder to think of what would happen to the world if the Republicans won. A nastier bunch of nutters I have yet to see. Evangelical Cults sprinkled with asset stripping white supremacists. I cannot remember seeing any Black or Hispanic faces at their rallies, except the tokens bussed in. Obama might not be the answer, but he is a zillion light years ahead of Romney.    Report this comment (Comment number 92) Link to this (Comment number 92)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 91.  1963Tiger  7th November 2012 - 22:01   If it was so obvious the Republicans would lose, why didn't you write this yesterday?    Report this comment (Comment number 91) Link to this (Comment number 91)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 90.  Eugene Morice  7th November 2012 - 21:57   Conservative... I don't want to worry you, but I found no less a Republican organ than " Fox News" bemoaning the fact that Romney wasn't able to reach single women and Hispanics.It's a debate the GOP needs to have within itself and its not just the BBC that's making comment.I guess the "tea Party" feel let down    Report this comment (Comment number 90) Link to this (Comment number 90)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 89.  Lisse  7th November 2012 - 21:51   @20.from DesktopCynic 1 Hour ago"What this country could really do with is a party which is fiscally conservative but socially liberal. That runs an efficient government, demands individual responsibility but keeps completely out of people's bedrooms and sex lives, and leaves god where god belongs, strictly in people's private lives."Your comment bears repeating.    Report this comment (Comment number 89) Link to this (Comment number 89)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 88.  Mike in Manila  7th November 2012 - 21:55   Fortunately a majority of Americans agreed with Obama that only by working together so that opportunity exists for all while assisting those in need of help, will their country prosper. They were also smart enough to realize that there are no easy solutions for the problems they face. The Republicans continue to think in simplistic terms on many issues. Finally they blamed Bush for the economy.    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 87.  mirrorbus  7th November 2012 - 21:53   @75 Anne50 - If only Putin thought to have his men wear Putin Hats then he'd have got 100% of the votes instead of rigging the voting machines..oh wait that wasn't Putin that was Bush, sorry my mistake.    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)     Comment number 86.  I am the walrus  7th November 2012 - 21:52    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)                 rate this     -48      rate this     -48   Comment number 85.  Conservative  7th November 2012 - 21:49   What a disgusting, bias, slanted article from the BBC. But then again, that's not really surprising seeing as this corporation has been completely against Romney from the start in its reporting.    Report this comment (Comment number 85) Link to this (Comment number 85)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 84.  Ingvar_Gunnarsson  7th November 2012 - 21:49   Regardless of whether or not the republican party are 'dying'. This election has truly been one bereft of enthusiasm, hope, and more importantly - ideas. Choosing between $24trillion and $28trillion in debt by 2020 is hardly a choice now is it? Both candidates were funded by Wall Street. There was, however, a candidate who served 30 years in congress without taking a dime of lobby money, Ron Paul    Report this comment (Comment number 84) Link to this (Comment number 84)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 83.  Tintiddle  7th November 2012 - 21:42   @I am the walrus Your suggestion that black voters have only voted for Obama as he's black is not borne out by the stats. In the last 30 years black voters have never given Democrats less than 82% of the vote, often even higher. And, by the way, no Republican candidate in those 30 years has had a greater share of the white vote than Romney! Most voters have more pressing concerns than skin colour.    Report this comment (Comment number 83) Link to this (Comment number 83)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 82.  Eugene Morice  7th November 2012 - 21:43   Ms Cracker.As a practicing Catholic I'm more that aware of the issues surrounding Roe/Wade, but in any case I don't remember the complete repeal of the Abortion laws in the US being part of the Republican platform. I'm aware however that the GOP is far too backward looking and also that the church of which I am a part is seen as out of touch by many young people. I cannot but regret the latter.    Report this comment (Comment number 82) Link to this (Comment number 82)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 81.  ProfClio  7th November 2012 - 21:37   I know many Americans who consider themselves to be moderate Republicans but they are totally disaffected because they claim that there is nobody left in the party who speaks for them. To me that speaks volumes about the republican party today.    Report this comment (Comment number 81) Link to this (Comment number 81)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 80.  Backtalk  7th November 2012 - 21:36   This was not so much an affirmation of the status quo, but the selection of the candidate less likely to wreak havoc on the US, and in the world.  Mr. Romney had no specific plans, but promised to continue to inflate the military budget.  War with Iran would be inevitable if he were elected. Mr. Obama faced obstruction from a corporate-owned Congress.  He's been a disappointment, but all we have.    Report this comment (Comment number 80) Link to this (Comment number 80)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 79.  grimprop  7th November 2012 - 21:38   5. RitchGreat comment.  But to stick to facts.  The US has a murder rate 3.5 times as high as the UK and a higher education rate that is 20% lower.    Report this comment (Comment number 79) Link to this (Comment number 79)                 rate this     -28      rate this     -28   Comment number 78.  mscracker  7th November 2012 - 21:35   72.Eugene Morice White middle class kids also support Obama... it isn't a "race" thing its a "generation" thing."**55 million of them-all races & all ethnicities- have died through abortions since Roe vs Wade. Imagine the number of young voters who would have made a difference in the past couple generations...Not to mention, paying into Social Security, etc.    Report this comment (Comment number 78) Link to this (Comment number 78)                 rate this     +36      rate this     +36   Comment number 77.  Darren Shepperd  7th November 2012 - 21:33   just think if the nut jobs (republican) had got power today today the middle east would be in flames by now and it would be dragging us all into a 3rd world war by the end of the week. No wonder most of the world is thankfully over 50% of Americans used their intelligence not greed yesterday    Report this comment (Comment number 77) Link to this (Comment number 77)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 76.  I am the walrus  7th November 2012 - 21:33   @ Ritch. Are you kidding?! The average American is hard-pressed to find Europe on a map thinks "Paris" is a country and Winston Churchill was one of The Beatles! The vast majority of Americans do not hold passports. I've been to the US many times. Your dreadful tv news looks no further than the state line. There are more murders in DC alone each year than in the entire UK. Shall I go on?    Report this comment (Comment number 76) Link to this (Comment number 76)         Page 22 of 26    Newer 1 ... 20 21 22 23 24 ... 26 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Malala recovering after operation



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Where did Richard III go wrong?



10: Obama shooting picture released



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: One-minute World News Watch



6: The art looking death in the face Watch



7: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



10: US child still hostage in bunker Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





