BBC News - A Point of View: Making sense of six decades on the throne


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports



















13 April 2012
Last updated at 12:37 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





A Point of View: Making sense of six decades on the throne




Continue reading the main story


The Diamond Jubilee


Royals end Australia Jubilee trip


Camilla's hug with orphaned joey


Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea


Duchess makes first speech abroad



 Few monarchs make it to their diamond jubilee - and in the past century or so, many of the world's royal dynasties have fallen by the wayside. So the festivities can carry a hint of relief and thankfulness, says historian David Cannadine.
It may not yet have fully impinged upon the collective public consciousness, but we are well into the season of celebrating the Diamond Jubilee. 
The Queen has received addresses from both houses of parliament at a ceremony in Westminster Hall; she's already driven through the streets of London to widespread popular acclaim; and other members of the royal family have begun their visits, on her behalf, to the countries of the Commonwealth. 
The climax of these celebrations will be the thanksgiving service, to be held at St Paul's Cathedral on 5 June, in conscious replication of that held for Queen Victoria when she celebrated her Diamond Jubilee in the summer of 1897.   

Continue reading the main story Find out more






 A Point of View, with David Cannadine, is on Fridays on Radio 4 at 20:50 BST and repeated Sundays, 08:50 BST
 David Cannadine is a British historian, author and professor of history at Princeton University



Or listen to A Point of View on the iPlayer
BBC Podcasts - A Point of View
Four Thought podcast

 It's undeniably true that in some ways such royal jubilees are a relatively recent invention, but their historic origins do go back to the very distant past. 
In ancient Egypt, pharaohs who reigned for 30 years celebrated jubilees, in the hope that the accompanying festivities would help regenerate their strength and restore their stamina. And according to the Old Testament, there should be jubilees after seven cycles of seven sabbatical years, as explained in the Book of Leviticus: "Consecrate the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."  
Despite these early precedents, it's certainly true that diamond jubilees, marking 60 years on the throne, are very much an invention of the late 19th and early 20th Centuries, both in terms of the grandiose ceremonials accompanying them, and also in terms of the narratives that have invariably been constructed to make some sort of sense of the six decades that are being commemorated. 

Continue reading the main story Long to reign over us



 Queen Victoria: 64 years, from 1837-1901
 Francis Joseph I of Austria: 68 years, 1848-1916
 Emperor Hirohito: 63 years, 1926-89
 King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand: coming up to 66 years, from June 1946
 Queen Elizabeth II: 60 years, from Feb 1952



Will you have a Diamond Jubilee street party?
What's on near you - events calendar
Royal tours maps

 Beyond any doubt, Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee was the grandest pageant of her reign. 
At once her own personal apotheosis, a celebration of 60 years of unprecedented national prosperity, progress and stability, and an incomparable imperial spectacle as princes and potentates and regiments of colonial troops came to London from all corners of the world to pay homage to the gas-lit gloriana, the queen empress, who reigned over the greatest empire the world had ever seen. 
"No one ever, I believe," Victoria later recorded, "has met with such an ovation as was given to me, passing through those six miles of streets… the crowds were quite indescribable, and their enthusiasm truly marvellous and deeply touching." 

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
God of our fathers, known of old / Lord of our far-flung battle line / Beneath whose awful hand we hold / Dominion over palm and pine / Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet / Lest we forget - lest we forget!”
End Quote
Kipling's Recessional 

 The poem in full

 That was indeed the general mood, but it wasn't the whole truth of things. In Ireland, there were many nationalists who had not forgotten the potato famine of the 1840s, and who resented Britain's more recent failure to grant a measure of Home Rule. 
And Rudyard Kipling's poem, Recessional, written especially for the occasion, avoided bombast and boasting, and dwelt instead on the ephemerality of imperial dominion and the transience of worldly power.
Nevertheless, the general tone of Victoria's Diamond Jubilee was festive and upbeat, but this hasn't been true of the limited number of such celebrations that have taken place since. 
The Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria-Hungary completed 60 years on the throne in 1908, and when he died in 1916, he was only two years away from what would have been an unprecedented Platinum Jubilee. This would have marked an astonishing 70-year reign, something no modern monarch has yet achieved. 
At his Diamond Jubilee, there was appropriate praise for the sovereign who had weathered the European revolutions of 1848, who had brought peace and prosperity in the later decades of his reign, and who had presided over the extraordinarily vibrant cultural life of fin de siecle Vienna. 
But there was also a widespread feeling that it was only the emperor himself who was holding together his diverse, disputatious and increasingly disaffected realms, and that with his death the Habsburg Empire must break up - which, indeed, it did, in 1918, only two years after Francis Joseph's passing.
Since the diamond jubilees of Queen Victoria and the Emperor Francis Joseph, there have been two other such celebrations, in more distant parts of the world. In 1986 the Japanese Emperor Hirohito celebrated 60 years on what is termed the Chrysanthemum Throne, and more recently, in 2006 the King of Thailand marked a similar anniversary.  


The King of Thailand is the world's longest reigning monarch

Since the past 100 years or so have not been a good time for monarchs, witnessing the end of the ruling houses in Russia, Germany, Austria-Hungary and a host of lesser realms, one of the themes of these two more recent diamond jubilees was relief and thankfulness that these royal dynasties had survived at all. In the case of Japan, there was also a recognition that the nation itself had been lucky to survive in the light of its aggression and its defeat in World War II. 
And in the case of Thailand, there was a similar sense of sombre gratitude: that the nation had retained its independence under an earlier king during the last great phase of European imperial expansion at the end of the 19th Century; and that in more recent times it had avoided the war, atrocities and bloodshed that had been suffered and endured in nearby Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam.
What then is the equivalent story of the 60 years of Queen Elizabeth's reign? When writing of the 19th Century, to so much of which Queen Victoria had inimitably given her name, the historian GM Young observed that there were certain moments of concentrated emotion which seemed to gather up the purposes of a whole generation, and he had no doubt that the Diamond Jubilee of 1897 was just such an occasion. 
He probably exaggerated and over-simplified, and he certainly ignored both the dissenting voices and also those who rightly and presciently wondered whether Britain's 19th century global and economic preeminence would last.  
And in our own post-modern times, characterised by what is termed de-centred discourse and multiple narratives, it's even more difficult to believe that any one single account of the past 60 years would command universal assent, agreement and approval.


Japan's Emperor Hirohito saw great change during his 63 years on the throne

One way of seeing the present queen's reign is that it has successfully witnessed the downsizing of the British nation and the British monarchy. The Empire has gone, Britannia no longer rules the waves, the great industries based on coal and steel have all but disappeared, the royal yacht has been decommissioned and even Buckingham Palace is now open to the public during the summer months.  
From this perspective, the Queen has presided over 60 recessional years of deimperialisation, deindustrialisation, and de-Victorianisation. But put more positively, this also means that during the past 60 years, and notwithstanding the current economic downturn, Britain has become a more open, a more diverse, a more liberal, a more mobile, a more tolerant and a more prosperous society. Although Queen Elizabeth herself may not have had all that much to do with these developments, this is surely cause for some form of thanksgiving in her Diamond Jubilee year.


Celebrations will cross the Commonwealth

And for the Queen herself, there is another, very different, story to tell about her reign. Despite the ending of the British Empire, she remains the only monarch whose range and reach are authentically global, as head of state in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many other countries, and also as head of the Commonwealth. 
The other great-power monarchies may have vanished, but Elizabeth II still commands an unrivalled worldwide allegiance. Her Diamond Jubilee will be in many ways a post-imperial anniversary, there will also be some faint echoes of those far-off celebrations of 1897.  
Perhaps, like Queen Victoria, Queen Elizabeth will confide her thoughts to her diary once the thanksgiving service at St Paul's is over. Perhaps she will resolve to reign longer than her great great grandmother's 64 years. Perhaps, indeed, she has already set her sights on the Platinum Jubilee which she may celebrate in 2022. Unless the King of Thailand gets there first, it will be an occasion utterly without precedent, and once this Diamond Jubilee is over, the people who plan such royal events at Buckingham Palace might want to start preparing for it.

Here is a selection of your comments:


 King Sobhuza II of Swaziland celebrated his 80th year on the throne two years before his death in the 1980s - so QEII still has a long way to go to beat the record. Louis XIV of France was also king for over 70 years.

Colin Edwards, Exeter


 No mention of George III who's long and memorable reign had many highlights, but then he missed the jubilee date by nine months. Were there any plans for a celebration?

Roy Batham, Osborne, Australia


 One modern Platinum Jubilee to note - that of Louis XIV, le Grand monarque, in 1713. It happened though not at a moment of grandeur, swagger, glory, braggadocio and bombast, as monarch and his nation had known before. In 1713, Versailles was icy cold, death had reduced the royal family, France had come to know well the English general, John Churchill, and the nation was in some considerable distress. A Platinum Jubilee, to note, nonetheless.

Michael Davies, France





More on This Story


Previously in A Point of View


The bear truth (David Cannadine)
Roll up for the inauguration (DC)
Staring at the Shard (Will Self)
The biggest decision (WS)
A bizarre view of Americans (WS)
The British vomitorium (WS)
And all shall worship money... (WS)
Nostalgia - it's not like it used to be (WS)
Which comes first - trust or trustworthiness? (Onora O'Neill)
When students answer back (Mary Beard)
Pompeii's not-so-ancient Roman remains (MB)
Why rules aren't pick-and-mix (MB)
Why the rich look down on the poor (MB)
Is China more democratic than the West? (Martin Jacques)
How China sees a multicultural world (MJ)
What kind of superpower could China be? (MJ)
Making sense of China (MJ)
What is history's role in society? (Sarah Dunant)
The strange allure of teeth (SD)
Charity shop blues (SD)
And prizes for all (SD)
Does the sex debate exclude men? (SD)
JG Ballard and the alchemy of memory (John Gray)
Does democracy always equal freedom? (JG)
The enduring appeal of Sherlock Holmes (JG)
Are tyrants good for art? (JG)
Why sales of stamps flourish in tough times (JG)
Would you want to live forever? (JG)
What would Keynes do? (JG)
A time when violence is normal (JG)
The curse of a ridiculous name (Adam Gopnik)
Don’t mention the war? (AG)
How to get your own back on your critics (AG)
Why are the Beatles still so popular? (AG)
Teenagers and embarrassing parents (AG)







The Diamond Jubilee
	      



Latest news



Royals end Australia Jubilee trip




Camilla's hug with orphaned joey




Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea




Duchess makes first speech abroad




Prince wishes for 'two children'




Charles and Camilla visit Jersey







In pictures and video



In Pictures: Royal diamonds




McGuinness used 'bloodstained hand' Watch




Queen's 1953 NI visit in colour Watch




God Save the Queen sung Watch




In pictures: Jubilee concert




See how the UK celebrated







Features



NI jubilee: 1977 versus now




A final flourish




A day at the pageant




In pictures: Millennium artists at the Jubilee pageant




Diamond Jubilee: Avoiding the hype




France switches on to Jubilee









Related Stories



Are you having a Diamond Jubilee party?

05 APRIL 2012,    
                                                UK



The Diamond Jubilee: Events calendar

13 JUNE 2012,    
                                                UK



Diamond Jubilee: Royal tours maps

26 JUNE 2012,    
                                                UK






Related Internet links


The Queen's Diamond Jubilee




Around the BBC


The Queen's reign



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



8: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



9: 'Pork in halal' meat supplier named



10: Hillary Clinton's long journey



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: The art looking death in the face Watch



5: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



8: An early masked hero lives on in reissued comics Watch



9: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



10: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





