BBC News - US election: Four more years... of what? 


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Business







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 07:32 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Stephanie Flanders

Economics editor

More from Stephanie



US election: Four more years... of what? 
 


Investors expect Fed policy to be looser under Barack Obama 




More from Stephanie


Long-term thinking for the UK economy


The Bank, the chancellor and the target


2013: The 'sigh of relief' Davos


Straws of hope from GDP



 Americans voted for four more years of President Obama -  but what else did they vote for? 
How Republicans and Democrats in Washington choose to answer that question will have a major impact on the next four months for the US economy, let alone four years. That's because it will determine how - and how far - they take the country over the so-called "fiscal cliff".
The first piece of good news is that the cliff is not quite as large as it looks. The other is that it is not, really, a cliff. Unlike Wile E Coyote, a divided Congress could step over the cliff, look down, and step back onto solid ground again. 
That is more or less what the "smart money" now expects them to do. But that's not to say there won't be some moments of vertigo on the way. 
More on that in a moment. But the big economic conclusion that investors have already drawn from the election result is about US monetary policy, not fiscal. Put simply: they think that the US central bank's policy is now going to be looser - for longer - than if Mitt Romney had won.
The argument is that Mr Obama is more likely to replace departing "doves" on the Federal Reserve Board of Governors with other doves - ie, people who are more likely to support the current policy of pumping money into the economy for as it takes to bring down US unemployment.
Investors also think that there will now be a relatively dovish successor to Ben Bernanke, if the current Fed chairman decides to stand down when his term expires in 2014. 
These assumptions are probably right - though the definition of "dove" and "hawk" is always a bit simplistic. There are plenty of examples where presidents have appointed Fed governors (or judges) to do one thing, only to see them turn into something very different. Today's monetary dove might, in different circumstances, be tomorrow's hawk. 
Other things equal, "four more years" of Obama-style monetary policy probably suggests the dollar will be weaker than it might have been under President Romney. 
That, and the prospect of more years of quantitative easing, may not be welcome news to many emerging market economies, who worry that Ben Bernanke's Fed is sending a wave of cheap liquidity into their already challenged financial systems. 
Whether it's good or bad news for the eurozone is harder to judge.
To have a chance of surviving in its current state, most economists say the eurozone needs growth and the only way it will get that - across the region - is through a weaker currency. Some would say the same about the UK. A weak dollar could make that more difficult. 
But most important of all to anyone in Europe - Britain included - is that America achieves decent growth. Will that be stronger under President Obama?
A majority of voters in the key "swing states" seems to have decided that it will - or at least, they have decided that the risks in Mr Romney's approach to fixing the country's problems outweighed the potential benefits. 
Crucial to that, however, will be what happens to that "fiscal cliff": the $600-690bn - or 4-4.5% of GDP (depending on how you measure it) in spending cuts, tax rises and other measures that could come in January, if there is no deal between Congressional Democrats and Republicans to stop them.
I said the cliff is not as large as you might think. That's because at least $230bn of that $690bn involves regular quirks of the crazy US tax system - like the raising of the threshold for the Alternate Minimum Tax - which always get fixed and almost certainly will be this time. 
So we're talking about a somewhat smaller cliff of maybe $460bn, or 2.6% of GDP. (Thanks to Kevin Logan at HSBC for pulling some of these figures together). 
About $125bn of that - the expiry of both President Obama's temporary payroll tax cut and extension of unemployment benefits - will almost certainly go ahead. The administration did not even bother to incorporate them in the President's budget plan. 
That degree of tightening - about three quarters of 1% of GDP - is unlikely to send the US back into recession. In fact, you might think it the bare minimum, for a country that is still running a federal deficit of more than $1 trillion. 
The real argument is over the remaining $110bn in spending cuts - including defence cuts which the Republicans hate - and the $200bn or so in tax rises that will happen if the Bush tax cuts are allowed to expire - which Republicans also hate.
Democrats are determined to see these tax rises go ahead for households earning more than $250,000 a year, which would raise about $50bn. Republicans are equally determined to stop them - or at least, they have been. 
Has the result done anything to break the stalemate? Medium term, perhaps. Many in Washington I speak to think the Republican party that emerges out of this very bad outcome will be resigned to higher taxes on the richest households. They may well also be thinking of an election strategy that reaches further beyond their core vote. 
But there are some basic realities that the "hands across the aisle" scenario has to deal with. One is that almost every Republican member of the House if Representatives has signed a pledge not to raise taxes on anyone. The other is that the president has said he will not delay those automatic spending cuts without a "balanced" 10-year plan to lower the deficit - i.e. one that involves higher taxes on the rich.
It's possible that the election has changed the dynamic for this "lame duck" Congress. More likely, though, might be the scenario that many Washington insiders now expect - which is that the $460bn in spending cuts and tax rises are allowed to happen, but then partially reversed, in a deal early in 2013. 
Why would it be easier to do this in January than December? Because then, Republicans can say they are voting to cut taxes for the majority of Americans, rather than raise them for the rich. 
That might sound to you like a distinction without a difference. But I suspect you are not a House Republican who has sworn not to raise taxes. 
Remember, the Republican party retained control of the House. Future Republican contenders for President may draw major lessons from Obama's re-election. It's not obvious that Congressional Republicans will. 

 





Article written by Stephanie Flanders
Stephanie Flanders

Economics editor

More from Stephanie



Long-term thinking for the UK economy 
13:24 UK time, Thursday, 31 January 2013
A new report from the London School of Economics sheds some light on what really matters for the UK's long-term economic health.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Stephanie
	      






Long-term thinking for the UK economy




The Bank, the chancellor and the target




2013: The 'sigh of relief' Davos




Straws of hope from GDP




Eurozone crisis: Worst over?




More red ink for George Osborne




Trading places: The UK, Germany and France




Cars bring more exports than jobs




The ONS puts consistency first




Obama puts trusted man at the Treasury 




Fairness and the welfare bill




An economic mid-term review




The US in 2013: Economics trumps politics?




Cliffhanger: Still hanging




Slipping towards the fiscal slope 




Does it pay to be flexible?




New Year messages from Japan




Fed gives itself a new target













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 75       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 55.  purple  7th November 2012 - 21:42   The amount of funding involved is actually tiny, if micro managing an economy as diverse and strong as that of the USA it is spitting in the wind.The noise, aggro and spin is from those who loose tax cuts..... which is a broad range but l shouldn't expect Obama to bust a gut on this one. There are far more taxing issues, like repatriating the ocean of Corp profits held offshore avoiding 35% tax    Report this comment (Comment number 55) Link to this (Comment number 55)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 54.  fleche_dor  7th November 2012 - 21:35   It sounds like there are several possible outcomes to attempts to renegotiate the fiscal cliff betweem Congress & the Oval Office.The US fiscal cliff will affect us all if these  presedential negotiations with Congress fail. Let's hope that Republican Congressmen/women are amenable to an appropriate deal, promoting US & global growth.    Report this comment (Comment number 54) Link to this (Comment number 54)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 53.  purple  7th November 2012 - 21:18   Here is example of what is going on, http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/eu/forecasts/index_en.htmIt is vast, it is a monster, it is banking and economists strangling nations with an ethos of 'their' cult of superiority and obedience to their logic.These organisations represent who, exactly. Who really understands what is going on and why is none of this in open debate outside the EC.    Report this comment (Comment number 53) Link to this (Comment number 53)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 52.  purple  7th November 2012 - 21:07   I hope, that UK's best and bravest minds are honed into EC's latest efforts to decentralise national democracy.http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/events/2012/2012-11-27-workshop/index_en.htmThe workshop will discuss evidence and prospects of fiscal decentralization and budgetary discipline, the role played by domestic fiscal governance in promoting discipline in a decentralized... ho hum...    Report this comment (Comment number 52) Link to this (Comment number 52)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 51.  purple  7th November 2012 - 20:08   "Major policy decisions have laid the foundation for strengthening confidence," said the Commission's vice-president for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Olli Rehn.The guy was here at Parliament last week being quizzed....... not a hint at the economic figures just published by the European Commission cutting its growth forecast, warning a "difficult process of rebalancing will last some time".    Report this comment (Comment number 51) Link to this (Comment number 51)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 50.  Off_switch  7th November 2012 - 20:08   Help me please. We cannot continue throwing money like confetti. Wars, defence, health, space, whatever. This cannot be paid for indefinitely with money we dont have.One day over there and over here, the music will stop and whoever has the hot potato will get burned. How long can we all keep playing this game? Its lose-lose. This election has not changed anything.    Report this comment (Comment number 50) Link to this (Comment number 50)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 49.  purple  7th November 2012 - 19:48   47. mattmatt81~ Govt spends around 10% more than its collects, which is decent going after the bebacle of inflated assets from private finance. People should have been shot over what took place, not left to enjoy their rewards.QE earns a living, it is productive.With Yo Bama! re~elected it will be more of the same, good.Romney was anti tax. Hubbard, his money guy was with GW Bush before.    Report this comment (Comment number 49) Link to this (Comment number 49)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 48.  SRB  7th November 2012 - 19:37   @47 mattmatt81“...., no one wants that.”Oh yes they do.Cheating is delusional. Reality is not kind to those who cheat. No one wants that.    Report this comment (Comment number 48) Link to this (Comment number 48)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 47.  mattmatt81  7th November 2012 - 19:05   43 purple .Forget all the spin . QE as currently practised by us and UK , is all about providing a market for gov debt . Basically those 10% + defecits could not be financed from the markets without soaring rates . So we cheated and printed the money .There was no other reason for starting QE , Stopping it would leave gov borrowing rates open to the markets , no one wants that .    Report this comment (Comment number 47) Link to this (Comment number 47)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 46.  prudeboy  7th November 2012 - 18:53   Elected - and therefore electable - politicians dare not actually do anything lest they become unelectable.The economy falls neatly into the hands of business folk, bankers, that simply rip us off. They think they are so clever.In reality they have been gifted a free run.I blame the teachers. And of course the 4th estate.    Report this comment (Comment number 46) Link to this (Comment number 46)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 45.  rifra  7th November 2012 - 17:58   @43.purple The effect of QE on T bonds.. simples.  You need to catch-up    Report this comment (Comment number 45) Link to this (Comment number 45)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 44.  nautonier  7th November 2012 - 17:50   28.mscracker 24.nautonier ,+I've lived ex-pat in the USA - depends where you are in USA & as is not full up like UK/Japan on pop v land mass but Obama is pushing an expensive EU health service model at wrong time as is fine in boom but unaffordable for expanding pop (& unfair if providing health care to illegals). Real GDP growth per capita requires firm population control - c.f. 'China'    Report this comment (Comment number 44) Link to this (Comment number 44)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 43.  purple  7th November 2012 - 17:46   The exercise of QE as praticed was a conceptual doctrine that is now a real practice. What is its purpose?Until that is broadly accepted (argued), a majority offering opinion are writing their names in snow.Until QE‘s currently practiced VARIOUS forms are understood by economists, it cannot be analysed properly for effect or be refined and improved. What is QE?Why is austerity stupid?    Report this comment (Comment number 43) Link to this (Comment number 43)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 42.  purple  7th November 2012 - 17:33   11͵20͵36 ~ There are huge imbalances in national and global economies, a trading issue. Because it generates vast untaxed personal wealth at its margins, personal wealth from investment grows at the expense of taxation. Wealth avoids taxImbalances are huge, a global asset bubble earning inflated returns funded by wages, savings and pension income. That is where wealth comes from ~ over pricing    Report this comment (Comment number 42) Link to this (Comment number 42)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 41.  Prognosticus  7th November 2012 - 17:33   Normally I disregard all emissions from writers associated with the NY Times however I have to respect anyone that can insert While E. Coyote into a commentary on U.S. fiscal and monetary policy. Well done Stephanie!    Report this comment (Comment number 41) Link to this (Comment number 41)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 40.  rifra  7th November 2012 - 17:29   @37.purple Meanwhile as the debt clockwhirs up a few notches to the next trillion and AAA rating is lost by the US and as investors flee in panic from Wall Street, Mr Bernanke scratches his head... and a few flakes of dandruff fall    Report this comment (Comment number 40) Link to this (Comment number 40)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 39.  grouting tiles  7th November 2012 - 17:27   #38I agree. This continued policy of QE and low interest rates is just propping up the weak / delaying the day of judgement. Time for the banks to have an "honest" appraisal of the state of their balance sheets.The economy can only really take off when the slate has been wiped / painful in the short term but necessary.    Report this comment (Comment number 39) Link to this (Comment number 39)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 38.  John_from_Hendon  7th November 2012 - 17:20   Most informed observers see that the credit/asset bubble is still crushing the life out of the US (and UK) economy.Countries such as Spain and Ireland where the bubble is being actively deflated will recover far more quickly - but are seen as basket case by the banks as it highlights their stupidity & they are in denial.Fix the banks asap or we will relive the 1870/1890 Long Depression!    Report this comment (Comment number 38) Link to this (Comment number 38)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 37.  purple  7th November 2012 - 17:16   The war between tax dodging investors right to wealth and peoples right to happiness will continue. Excessive personal wealth is not seen for the disease and disinsentive that it is.I hope Benanke stays with the job, which actually is about setting and sticking to policy. US monetry policy by Bernanke was orthodox, is understood and kept their economy earning. It worked but can be refined.    Report this comment (Comment number 37) Link to this (Comment number 37)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 36.  oldgrizzly  7th November 2012 - 17:00   #11 and #20  To deflate the bubble we are in by 30% saya) 20 years at 0% growthb) 10 years if we can  courageously manage the pain of a planned steady -1% to -2% reduction p.a.The consequences of option c), a 30% reduction in 1 year doesn't bear thinking about.    Report this comment (Comment number 36) Link to this (Comment number 36)         Page 2 of 4    Newer 1 2 3 4 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



6: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



7: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



8: Malala recovering after operation



9: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



10: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



4: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



5: Apology over police beating footage Watch



6: An early masked hero lives on in reissued comics Watch



7: Digital artists inspired by the gif's resurgence Watch



8: Superdome returns after Katrina Watch



9: The art looking death in the face Watch



10: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





