The bad and the beautiful - FT.com

































ft.com
 > Life&Arts
 > 


House & Home

 










Search
Advanced search





Sign in
Site tour
Register
Subscribe



Welcome 
Subscribe
Your account
Site tour
Sign out






Email address



Password



Forgot password?





Remember me on this computer

Sign in


"Remember me" uses a cookie. View our Cookie Policy.











Home 


Video


Interactive


Blogs


Alphaville


beyondbrics


Portfolio


Special Reports


In depth


Today’s Newspaper



World 


Africa


Asia-Pacific

Asia-Pacific  China

 India

 Japan

 North Korea




Europe

Europe  Brussels




Latin America & Caribbean

Latin America & Caribbean  Business

 Economy

 Finance

 Politics & Policy

 Regulation

 Society




Middle East & North Africa

Middle East & North Africa  Economy

 Finance

 Politics & Society

 Gulf

 Iran




UK

UK  Business

 Economy

 UK Companies

 Politics & Policy

 UK Small Companies




US & Canada

US & Canada  Economy

 Politics & Policy

 Society

 Canada




The World Blog



Companies 


Energy

Energy  Mining

 Oil & Gas

 Utilities




Financials

Financials  Banks

 Insurance

 Property

 Financial Services




Health

Health  Health Care

 Pharmaceuticals




Industrials

Industrials  Aerospace & Defence

 Automobiles

 Basic Resources

 Chemicals

 Construction

 Industrial Goods

 Support Services




Luxury 360


Media


Retail & Consumer

Retail & Consumer  Food & Beverage

 Personal & Household Goods

 Retail

 Tobacco

 Travel & Leisure




Tech

Tech  Science

 Tech Blog




Telecoms


Transport

Transport  Airlines

 Shipping

 Rail




By Region

By Region  US Companies

 UK Companies

 European Companies

 Americas Companies

 Asia-Pacific Companies

 African Companies

 Middle Eastern Companies

 UK Small Companies





Markets 


Alphaville


FTfm

FTfm  Regulation

 ETFs

 Investment Strategy

 Pensions

 People

 Opinion

 Video




Markets Data

Markets Data  Bonds & Rates

 Commodities

 Funds

 Director Deals

 ETFs

 Companies

 Currencies

 Investor Relations

 Equity Indices

 Interactive Charting

 Data Archive

 Portfolio

 Economic Calendar




Trading Room

Trading Room  Clearing & Settlement

 Developing Markets & Asia

 Markets Regulation

 Trading Technology

 Quick View

 Carbon Markets

 Exchanges Consolidation




Equities

Equities  US

 UK

 Europe

 Asia-Pacific




Currencies


Capital Mkts


Commodities


Emerging Mkts / beyondbrics



Global Economy 


Economic Calendar


Money Supply


Americas


China


EU


India


Middle East


UK


US



Lex 


About Lex


Lex Biographies


Lex In depth


Best of Lex


Lex on Mobile


Lex by Email


Lex Video


Lexicon


Subscribe to Lex



Comment 


Columnists

Columnists  Samuel Brittan

 Christopher Caldwell

 Janan Ganesh

 John Gapper

 Chris Giles

 Brian Groom

 John Kay

 Edward Luce

 Sebastian Mallaby

 Jurek Martin

 Wolfgang Munchau

 David Pilling

 Ingram Pinn

 Gideon Rachman

 Robert Shrimsley

 Gary Silverman

 Philip Stephens

 Lawrence Summers

 Gillian Tett

 Martin Wolf




Analysis


Opinion


The A-List


Editorial


Blogs

Blogs  beyondbrics

 Brussels Blog

 Business Blog

 Economists’ Forum

 FT Alphaville

 FT Data

 FT Long Short

 Gavyn Davies

 Martin Wolf’s Exchange

 Material World

 MBA Blog

 Money Supply

 Nick Butler

 Tech Blog

 The World Blog

 Westminster Blog




Letters


Corrections


Obituaries



Management 


Business Education

Business Education  All Rankings

 MBA

 MBA Blog

 Masters in Management

 Executive MBA

 Executive Education

 Features of the Week

 Business School News

 Women at Business School




Entrepreneurship

Entrepreneurship  Business Speak

 Business Questions




Business Books

Business Books  Business Book of the Year Award




Business Travel


Recruitment


The Connected Business



Life & Arts 


Arts

Arts  Collecting

 Design & Architecture

 Film & Television

 Music

 Theatre & Dance

 Visual Arts




FT Magazine

FT Magazine  FT Magazine Slideshows




Food & Drink

Food & Drink  Jancis Robinson on Wine

 Lunch with the FT

 Restaurant reviews

 Rowley Leigh on Cookery

 Recipes




House & Home


Style


Books

Books  Essay

 Fiction

 Non-Fiction




Pursuits

Pursuits  Crossword

 Sudoku




Travel

Travel  UK

 North America

 Europe

 Asia & Australia

 Africa

 Americas

 Luxury

 Adventures

 Pink Snow

 Family

 City Breaks




Columnists


How To Spend It

Tools 
Tools 
Portfolio 

FT clippings 

Alerts hub 

Email briefings 

MBA rankings 

Newslines 

FT Lexicon 

Mobile 

Currency converter 

FT ebooks 

ePaper 

Executive jobs 

FT press cuttings 

Privilege Club 

Social Media hub 

Economic calendar 
















Share



Share this on








Clip


Reprints


Print






January 11, 2013 8:02 pm
The bad and the beautiful

By Edwin Heathcote











Have we lost the knack of creating attractive cities? The pursuit of beauty has become slightly taboo

“The purpose of evolution,” wrote Joseph Brodsky, “is beauty.” And, if the zenith of civilisation is the city, then surely it follows that beauty is also the ideal of urbanity. In the imagination, or the memory, it often is. Think of the approach to Istanbul, Venice or New York from the water, each shimmering above its own reflection. Or, perhaps, of the mountains rearing up behind Rio or the cherry blossoms in Kyoto.
©GettyWavy patterns in Lisbon’s Rossio SquareSome cities have had beauty imposed on them. Paris was planned as the City of Light, a place of tree-lined avenues and urbane squares in which height, mass and ornament were meticulously controlled to create harmony. Other cities achieve beauty through their setting, San Francisco or Sydney with their bays and sweeping views. Others still become beautiful through the skill of their architects: Siena, Vienna, St Petersburg or Barcelona. And some become beautiful merely because of the intensity of their urbanity, Hong Kong or Manhattan with their bristling clusters of towers and sparkling city lights.
But what is beauty in a city and is it something we can still create? Is it even desirable in the first place? Perhaps we have lost the knack of creating beautiful cities. Whether it is Milton Keynes, Rotterdam, Shenzhen or Dubai, contemporary cities are excoriated for their fumbling attempts at creating new forms of urbanity, new ideals of beauty. As in art, the pursuit of beauty has become slightly taboo.
When the great Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer died last month aged 104, the man who created the symbols of the city of Brasília was criticised for creating buildings that, while elegant, often didn’t work, sacrificing function for beauty. The critics are right. Brasília has failed to reconcile the informal and the formal, its traffic and its walkability. But whereas most modern architects and planners have been castigated for creating buildings that are both ugly and that don’t work, at least Niemeyer got it half right. The criticisms do, however, reflect the difficulty, or even the impossibility, of building beautiful new cities.
MoreIN House & Home Flippin’ good fun Far from the Balearic beatsHot property Home gymsExpat lives From Queensland to the banks of the NileThe last time urban beauty came under real discussion was more than a century ago when the City Beautiful movement flourished in the US and beyond. A response to the squalor of the tenement quarters in big cities, the movement aimed to put picturesque parks, tree-lined avenues and bombastically classical civic and cultural buildings at the heart of cities from Washington, DC, to Canberra.
In putting parks at the centre of cities, the idea of the City Beautiful represented an acceptance that nature should be at the heart of the city, even if the landscape was artificial in its emulation of the natural. Nature and topography certainly play a part in the construction of beauty. Central Park is so mesmeric partly because of the contrast of its green expanses with the density surrounding it and partly because of the way the bedrock of Manhattan, the essential topography of the island, comes crashing through in the form of rocky outcrops. London is not a conventionally beautiful city yet its huge royal parks have become models across the world. But beyond greenery, topography defines beauty through grandeur, through a sense of the sublime and the danger of being overwhelmed. Istanbul, Manhattan, Hong Kong and Venice are exciting because of a Calvino-esque absurdity, the squeezing of unbelievable density on to islands and archipelagos.
This, however, is all about grandeur, spectacle, the beauty of scale. These are the beautiful cities of cliché and fairy tale. You could equally argue that too much beauty hinders a city. Think of Venice, the sinking tourist city mired in its own past, a city that has become a theme park of decaying beauty.
London, a city to which the epithet “beautiful” can be applied only sparingly, has been threatened with losing its Unesco World Heritage status with dull, yet increasingly strident, towers impinging on historic views of Westminster and the Tower of London. In other cities, such as New York, Chicago, or Hong Kong, skyscrapers are the essence of the city. In London, it is more difficult, particularly as so many towers are so poorly designed, but this municipal carelessness does allow the city to adapt, to keep itself relevant. That is part of the reason London has been able to maintain its status as a trading centre for six centuries.
Perhaps, instead, we should look for the beautiful not only in the macro but in the micro. In that way we might be able to find life-affirming beauty in even the dullest metropolis. There is a beauty of sweeping panoramas and dazzling views but there is also the thrill of the unexpected, of serendipity. To wander from a tight, dark alley into a small square with a fountain. To find yourself in a courtyard in which the line between public and private is unclear – whether in a Beijing hutong or an Italian cloister. Or the momentary transformation of a city square to a market or a fairground, these are among the real thrills of urbanity.
The London garden square, for instance, has been used ad infinitum as an exemplar of density and greenness. What once made it special, though, was its element of surprise, coming across a square of brick terraces surrounding an elegant garden after wandering through ramshackle tenements. Its beauty is, in part, in its contrast from its surroundings, in the rhythm of density and intensity that distinguishes the city from the suburb.
To compile a list of the most conventionally beautiful cities would be nearly pointless. The panoramic beauties would win every time. But these are tourist views. The moments of beauty that affect the lives of city dwellers are those that are more private or, perhaps, more meaningful than the familiar views. If anything, it is these everyday delights that define life in cities. For me, it might be the alleys of St James’s in London, and the little cobbled yards behind. It might be turning off Budapest’s busy ring road into a tightly packed street and into a musty apartment block courtyard with the smell of Sunday lunch hanging heavy in the stairwells. Or perhaps the collage of iron fire escapes leading the eye up to a New York roofscape populated by ad hoc water towers and the Chrysler building behind. These serendipitous moments of juxtaposition and surprise keep the city alive.
“Beauty,” wrote the Marquis de Sade, “belongs to the sphere of the simple, the ordinary, whilst ugliness is something extraordinary.” We often concentrate on the ugliness of cities, the desire to escape to the country or the suburbs, or at least the rarefied quarters of luxury. But perhaps it is precisely because beauty is in the ordinary that we are just looking for it in the wrong places.
 . . . 

Beautiful moments in cities

Venice

Emerging from the darkness of a sottoportego in Venice and finding the shimmering light of the Grand Canal opening out before you.
Beijing

Stumbling from the banal wide streets of Beijing into the complex warrens of hutong courtyard houses.
New York

The snaggle-toothed incongruity of a Victorian walk-up tenement, with its fire escapes and faded signs for long forgotten brands on its walls, dwarfed by the scale of a neighbouring commercial skyscraper.
London

Moving from the bustle and traffic of Regent Street through the dark, Piranesian grandeur of Air Street into the backstreets of Soho.
Lisbon

A view of the wonderful wavy patterns in the pavements, which seem to reflect the watery nature of a city once destroyed by earthquake.
Los Angeles

The city seen at night from Mulholland Drive. David Lynch captured it in the eponymous movie, a film noir vision of an illuminated grid or a chessboard in which the inhabitants’ actions seem to be controlled by destiny.
Hong Kong

Mongkok’s sparkling street markets at night hemmed in by vast cliffs of apartment dwellings.
Istanbul

The beams of light admitted from the ceilings at the Grand Bazaar in which the fug of trade, cigarette smoke, tea steam and conversation congeals in an essential mist through which the strong sunlight cuts like a razor.
-------------------------------------------
Edwin Heathcote is the FT’s architecture critic

Send us your pictures of beautiful city moments. You can email your images to 
HH@FT.com
, or upload them to Twitter or Instagram using the hashtag #FTHH. For more details visit 
www.ft.com/hh




Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2013. You may share using our article tools.

Please don't cut articles from FT.com and redistribute by email or post to the web.



Share


Clip


Reprints


Print














































EDITOR’S CHOICE





Travel: India’s Pench national park




©Alamy


Are the tourists helping or harming the big cats they come to see?

 


Beautiful city images sent by readers




©Munch Hausen


Submit pictures of ordinary objects with extraordinary stories

 

















MOST POPULAR IN LIFE & ARTS






When a man is tired of Paris …




Israel: perched between hope and fear




Lunch with the FT: Robert B Silvers




Arsène’s austerity




Lunch with the FT: David Fincher











LIFE AND ARTS ON TWITTER



Follow @FTlifeandarts


More FT Twitter  accounts



















MOST RECENT FROM LIFE & ARTS






Super Bowl Sunday: the ad zone




David Fincher




Hidden tigers




Fashion special: the shoes must go on




William Dalrymple’s ‘Return of a King’










FINANCIAL TIMES JOBS





Enter job search

Search





General Manager - Budgeting & Forecasting


Jet2.com




Chief Operating Officer (COO)


Scribol, Technology




Resources Director


CBI




Assistant Investment Manager


Family Office





Register for free to receive the latest executive jobs by email







TOOLS & SERVICES



Multimedia




Video




Blogs




Podcasts




Interactive graphics




Audio slideshows




Picture slideshows




Tools




Portfolio




FT Lexicon




FT clippings




Currency converter




MBA rankings




Newslines




Today's newspaper




FT press cuttings




FT ebooks




FT ePaper




Economic calendar




Updates




Alerts Hub




Daily briefings




FT on Facebook




FT on Twitter




FT on your mobile




Share prices on your phone


RSS feeds




Quick links




Mergermarket




How to spend it




Social Media hub




The Banker




The Banker Database




fDi Intelligence




fDi Markets




Professional Wealth Management




This is Africa




Investors Chronicle




MandateWire




FTChinese.com




Pensions Week




Services




Subscriptions




Corporate subscriptions




Education subscriptions




Syndication




FT Fine Wine Plan




Conferences




Annual reports




Executive job search




Non-Executive Directors' Club




Businesses for sale




Contracts & tenders




Analyst research




Commercial Property listings




Company announcements




FT Collection
















Help
•Contact us
•About us
•Sitemap
•Advertise with the FT
•Terms & conditions
•Privacy policy
•Copyright
•Cookie policy



© The Financial Times Ltd 2013 
FT and 'Financial Times' are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.



















Printed from:  http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/501d4ff6-54fa-11e2-a628-00144feab49a.html
Print a single copy of this article for personal use. Contact us if you wish to print more to
distribute to others.
© The Financial Times Ltd 2013 FT
and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.

Privacy policy |
Terms |
Copyright











