BBC News - India profile - Timeline


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




South Asia







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















9 January 2013
Last updated at 04:01 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





India profile




Overview


Facts


Leaders


Media


Timeline


In pictures





A chronology of key events: 
India has been home to several ancient civilisations and empires, some dating back to more than 2,000 BC. Culture and religions have flourished over the millennia, and foreign influence has ebbed and flowed. 
1858 - India comes under direct rule of the British crown after failed Indian mutiny. 
1885 - Indian National Congress founded as forum for emerging nationalist feeling. 

Continue reading the main story 




Mahatma Gandhi steered India to independence


Mahatma Gandhi's fading dream
BBC - History - Historic Figures Mohandas Gandhi (1869 - 1948)

 1920-22 - Nationalist figurehead Mahatma Gandhi launches anti-British civil disobedience campaign. 
1942-43 - Congress launches "Quit India" movement. 
1947 - End of British rule and partition of sub-continent into mainly Hindu India and Muslim-majority state of Pakistan. 
Newly independent 
1947-48 - Hundreds of thousands die in widespread communal bloodshed after partition. 
1948 - Mahatma Gandhi assassinated by Hindu extremist. 
1948 - War with Pakistan over disputed territory of Kashmir. 
1951-52 - Congress Party wins first general elections under leadership of Jawaharlal Nehru. 
Regional tensions 
1962 - India loses brief border war with China. 
1964 - Death of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. 


The rail network covers the length and breadth of India

1965 - Second war with Pakistan over Kashmir. 
1966 - Nehru's daughter Indira Gandhi becomes prime minister. 
1971 - Third war with Pakistan over creation of Bangladesh, formerly East Pakistan. 
1971 - Twenty-year treaty of friendship signed with Soviet Union. 
1974 - India explodes first nuclear device in underground test. 
Democratic strains 
1975 - Indira Gandhi declares state of emergency after being found guilty of electoral malpractice. 
1975-1977 - Nearly 1,000 political opponents imprisoned and programme of compulsory birth control introduced. 
1977 - Indira Gandhi's Congress Party loses general elections. 
1980 - Indira Gandhi returns to power heading Congress party splinter group, Congress (Indira). 
1984 - Troops storm Golden Temple - Sikhs' most holy shrine - to flush out Sikh militants pressing for self-rule. 


Indira Gandhi served four terms as prime minister

1984 - Indira Gandhi assassinated by Sikh bodyguards, following which her son, Rajiv, takes over. 
1984 December - Gas leak at Union Carbide pesticides plant in Bhopal. Thousands are killed immediately, many more subsequently die or are left disabled. 
1987 - India deploys troops for peacekeeping operation in Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict. 
1989 - Falling public support leads to Congress defeat in general election. 
1990 - Indian troops withdrawn from Sri Lanka. 
1990 - Muslim separatist groups begin campaign of violence in Kashmir. 
1991 - Rajiv Gandhi assassinated by suicide bomber sympathetic to Sri Lanka's Tamil Tigers. 
1991 - Economic reform programme begun by Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao. 
1992 - Hindu extremists demolish mosque in Ayodhya, triggering widespread Hindu-Muslim violence. 
BJP to the fore 
1996 - Congress suffers worst ever electoral defeat as Hindu nationalist BJP emerges as largest single party. 
1998 - BJP forms coalition government under Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. 


Tensions over Kashmir brought India and Pakistan to war

1998 - India carries out nuclear tests, leading to widespread international condemnation. 
1999 February - Vajpayee makes historic bus trip to Pakistan to meet Premier Nawaz Sharif and to sign bilateral Lahore peace declaration. 
1999 May - Tension in Kashmir leads to brief war with Pakistan-backed forces in the icy heights around Kargil in Indian-held Kashmir. 
1999 October - Cyclone devastates eastern state of Orissa, leaving at least 10,000 dead. 
Population: 1 billion 
2000 May - India marks the birth of its billionth citizen. 
2000 - US President Bill Clinton makes a groundbreaking visit to improve ties. 
2001 January - Massive earthquakes hit the western state of Gujarat, leaving at least 30,000 dead. 
2001 April - 16 Indian and three Bangladeshi soldiers are killed in border clashes. 
A high-powered rocket is launched, propelling India into the club of countries able to fire big satellites deep into space. 
2001 July - Vajpayee meets Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf in the first summit between the two neighbours in more than two years. It ends without a breakthrough because of differences over Kashmir. 
2001 September - US lifts sanctions which it imposed against India and Pakistan after they staged nuclear tests in 1998. The move is seen as a reward for their support for the US-led anti-terror campaign. 
Kashmir tensions rise 


Disputed Siachen, dubbed the world's highest battlefield

2001 October - India fires on Pakistani military posts in the heaviest firing along the dividing line of control in Kashmir for almost a year. 
2001 December - Suicide squad attacks parliament in New Delhi, killing several police. The five gunmen die in the assault. 
2001 December - India imposes sanctions against Pakistan, to force it to take action against two Kashmir militant groups blamed for the suicide attack on parliament. Pakistan retaliates with similar sanctions, and bans the groups in January. 
2001 December - India, Pakistan mass troops on common border amid mounting fears of a looming war. 
2002 January - India successfully test-fires a nuclear-capable ballistic missile - the Agni - off its eastern coast. 
2002 February - Inter-religious bloodshed breaks out after 59 Hindu pilgrims returning from Ayodhya are killed in a train fire in Godhra, Gujarat. More than 1,000 people, mainly Muslims, die in subsequent violence. Police and officials blamed the fire on a Muslim mob, but a 2005 government investigation said it was an accident. In 2012 a court convicts 32 people over the Naroda Patiya riots in Ahmedabad.
2002 May - Pakistan test-fires three medium-range surface-to-surface Ghauri missiles, which are capable of carrying nuclear warheads. War of words between Indian and Pakistani leaders intensifies. Actual war seems imminent. 
2002 June - UK, US urge their citizens to leave India and Pakistan, while maintaining diplomatic offensive to avert war. 
2002 July - Retired scientist and architect of India's missile programme APJ Abdul Kalam is elected president. 
2003 August - At least 50 people are killed in two simultaneous bomb blasts in Bombay. 
Kashmir ceasefire 
2003 November - India matches Pakistan's declaration of a Kashmir ceasefire. 
2003 December - India, Pakistan agree to resume direct air links and to allow overflights. 
2004 January - Groundbreaking meeting held between government and moderate Kashmir separatists. 
2004 May - Surprise victory for Congress Party in general elections. Manmohan Singh is sworn in as prime minister. 
2004 September - India, along with Brazil, Germany and Japan, launches an application for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council. 
2004 November - India begins to withdraw some of its troops from Kashmir. 
Asian tsunami 


The Golden Temple at Amritsar is a place of pilgrimage for Sikh devotees

2004 December - Thousands are killed when tidal waves, caused by a powerful undersea earthquake off the Indonesian coast, devastate coastal communities in the south and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
2005 7 April - Bus services, the first in 60 years, operate between Srinagar in Indian-administered Kashmir and Muzaffarabad in Pakistani-administered Kashmir. 
2005 July - More than 1,000 people are killed in floods and landslides caused by monsoon rains in Mumbai (Bombay) and Maharashtra region. 
2005 October - An earthquake, with its epicentre in Pakistani-administered Kashmir, kills more than 1,000 people in Indian-administered Kashmir. 
Bombs kill 62 people in Delhi. A little-known Kashmiri group says it is behind the attacks. 
2006 February - India's largest-ever rural jobs scheme is launched, aimed at lifting around 60 million families out of poverty. 
Nuclear deal 
2006 March - US and India sign a nuclear agreement during a visit by US President George W Bush. The US gives India access to civilian nuclear technology while India agrees to greater scrutiny for its nuclear programme. 


Millions of Indians depend on the farming sector

14 people are killed by bomb blasts in the Hindu pilgrimage city of Varanasi. 
2006 May - Suspected Islamic militants kill 35 Hindus in the worst attacks in Indian-administered Kashmir for several months. 
2006 11 July - More than 180 people are killed in bomb attacks on rush-hour trains in Mumbai. Investigators blame Islamic militants based in Pakistan. 
2006 8 September - Explosions outside a mosque in the western town of Malegaon kill at least 31 people. 
2006 November - Hu Jintao makes the first visit to India by a Chinese president in a decade. 
2006 December - US President George W Bush approves a controversial law allowing India to buy US nuclear reactors and fuel for the first time in 30 years. 
Train attack 
2007 18 February - 68 passengers, most of them Pakistanis, are killed by bomb blasts and a blaze on a train travelling from New Delhi to the Pakistani city of Lahore. 
2007 February - India and Pakistan sign an agreement aimed at reducing the risk of accidental nuclear war. 
2007 March - Maoist rebels in Chhattisgarh state kill more than 50 policemen in a dawn attack. 
2007 April - India's first commercial space rocket is launched, carrying an Italian satellite. 
2007 May - At least nine people are killed in a bomb explosion at the main mosque in Hyderabad. Several others are killed in subsequent rioting. 
2007 May - Government announces its strongest economic growth figures for 20 years - 9.4% in the year to March. 
First woman president 
2007 July - Pratibha Patil becomes first woman to be elected president of India. 
2008 July - Congress-led coalition survives vote of confidence brought after left-wing parties withdraw their support over controversial nuclear cooperation deal with US. After the vote, several left-wing and regional parties form new alliance to oppose government, saying it has been tainted by corruption. 
2008 July - Series of explosions kills 49 in Ahmedabad, in Gujarat state. The little-known group Indian Mujahideen claims responsibility. 
2008 October - Following approval by the US Congress, President George W Bush signs into law a nuclear deal with India, which ends a three-decade ban on US nuclear trade with Delhi. 
India successfully launches its first mission to the moon, the unmanned lunar probe Chandrayaan-1. 
Mumbai attacks 


The 2008 Mumbai attacks were blamed on Pakistani gunmen

2008 November - Nearly 200 people are killed and hundreds injured in a series of co-ordinated attacks by gunmen on the main tourist and business area of India's financial capital Mumbai. India blames militants from Pakistan for the attacks and demands that Islamabad act against those responsible. 
2008 December - India announces "pause" in peace process with Pakistan. Indian cricket team cancels planned tour of Pakistan. 
2009 February - India and Russia sign deals worth $700m, according to which Moscow will supply uranium to Delhi. 
2009 May - Resounding general election victory gives governing Congress-led alliance of PM Manmohan Singh an enhanced position in parliament, only 11 seats short of an absolute majority. 
2009 July - Pakistani, Indian premiers pledge to work together to fight terror irrespective of progress on improving broader ties. 
A Dehli court rules that homosexual intercourse between consenting adults is not criminal, overturning a 148-year-old colonial law. 
2009 December - The government says it will allow a new state, Telangana, to be carved out of part of the southern state of Andhra Pradesh. Violent protests for and against break out. 
2010 February - Bomb explosion in a restaurant popular with tourists in Pune, in the western state of Maharashtra, kills 16 people.
2010 May - The solve surviving gunman of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Ajmal Amir Qasab, is convicted of murder, waging war on India and possessing explosives. 
2010 June - A court in Bhopal sentences eight Indians to two years each in jail for "death by negligence" over the 1984 Union Carbide gas plant leak. Thousands died in this, the world's worst industrial accident. 
Ayodha ruling
2010 September - Allahabad High Court rules that disputed holy site of Ayodhya should be divided between Hindus and Muslims; the destruction of a mosque on the site by Hindu extremists in 1992 led to rioting in which about 2,000 people died. 
2011 March - Results of 2011 census put India's population at 1.21bn, an increase of 181 million over ten years. 
India overtakes China to become the world's largest importer of arms, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. 


India tested its long-range Agni V missile in 2012

2011 August - Prominent social activist Anna Hazare stages 12-day hunger strike in Delhi in protest at state corruption.
2011 November - Fourteen people including a government minister go on trial in one of India's biggest ever corruption scandals - a telecoms deal alleged to have involved the selling of mobile phone licenses at knock-down prices in exchange for bribes.
2012 January - Threats by Islamic extremists force British author Sir Salman Rushdie first to cancel his visit to the prestigious Jaipur Literary Festival, then to drop a video appearance. The extremists object to his book The Satanic Verses, which is banned in India.
2012 May - Manmohan Singh pays first official visit to Burma by an Indian prime minister since 1987. He signs agreements aimed at providing border area development and an Indian credit line.
2012 June - Police in Delhi arrest a key figure allegedly involved in planning the 2008 Mumbai attacks. They say Abu Hamza, also known as Syed Zabiuddin, was the "handler" of the 10 gunmen.
2012 July - Pranab Mukherjee from the ruling Congress party is elected as president, comfortably beating his rival P.A. Sangma.
2012 August - Court convicts 32 people over the 2002 religious riots in Gujarat and acquits 29 others. Among those convicted in the Naroda Patiya killings in Ahmedabad are former state minister Maya Kodnani and Babu Bajrangi, a former leader of the militant Hindu group Bajrang Dal.
2012 September - The West Bengal left-wing All India Trinamool Congress withdraws from the coalition government over plans to allow foreign supermarket giants to operate in India and cuts to fuel subsidies. Prime Minister Singh says the supermarket move is needed to increase foreign investment, despite widespread protests by shopkeepers.
2012 November - Mohammad Ajmal Amir Qasab, the sole surviving gunman of the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, is executed in Pune prison. The Supreme Court upheld his death sentence in August.
2012 December - The rape and murder of a young woman in Delhi triggers nationwide protests and a debate about sexual violence.




More on This Story


Country profiles: Asia


Afghanistan 
Australia 
Bangladesh 
Bhutan 
Brunei 
Burma 
Cambodia 
China 
Cook Islands 
East Timor 
Fiji 
French Polynesia 
Guam 
Hong Kong 
India 
Indonesia 
Japan 
Kashmir 
Kazakhstan 
Kiribati 
North Korea 
South Korea 
Kyrgyzstan 
Laos 
Macau 
Malaysia 
Maldives 
Marshall Islands 
Micronesia 
Mongolia 
Nauru 
New Caledonia 
Nepal 
New Zealand 
Niue 
Northern Marianas
Pakistan 
Palau 
Papua New Guinea 
Philippines 
Samoa 
Singapore 
Sri Lanka 
Solomon Islands 
Taiwan 
Tajikistan 
Thailand 
Tibet 
Tokelau 
Tonga 
Turkmenistan 
Tuvalu 
Uzbekistan 
Vietnam 
Xinjiang 











Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More South Asia stories
RSS




US general in Afghanistan fired

A US commander in Afghanistan is dismissed after making disparaging comments about Afghan President Hamid Karzai in an interview.



Karzai warning at Afghan summit




Cricket verdict 'hurts' Pakistan












Top stories



UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Netanyahu asked to form coalition









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



5: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



8: Pound in big fall against euro



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: The history of the future in 10 images



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



3: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



5: One-minute World News Watch



6: What is inside a zombie's mind? Watch



7: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



8: 'Pork found' in Halal prison food Watch



9: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



10: 'Anne' in Les Mis spoof and more news Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





