Aaron Swartz’ Alleged Victim ‘Regretted’ Being Drawn Into Hacking Case - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Headlines
			> Nation

Nation


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousBrother and Sister Reunite After 65 Years
NextCat Lost on Vacation Travels 190 Miles Home

 

 By Alyssa Newcomb@alyssanewcombFollow on Twitter  
Jan 13, 2013 12:48pm

Aaron Swartz’ Alleged Victim ‘Regretted’ Being Drawn Into Hacking Case





 
			
Email

15
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print





The suicide of Internet activist Aaron Swartz, who was due to stand trial on federal hacking charges, sparked anger from friends, family and followers, while the subscription-based journal service he was accused of hacking said it “regretted” ever being drawn into the case.”
Swartz’ federal trial on computer fraud charges was scheduled to begin in April. In 2011, Swartz was arrested after prosecutors alleged he illegally downloaded millions of scientific journals from JSTOR and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
JSTOR, which had stated it did not want to pursue charges against Swartz after he return the articles he had downloaded, posted a statement offering condolences to his family.
“He was a truly gifted person who made important contributions to the development of the internet and the web from which we all benefit,” JSTOR, or Journal Storage, said in a statement. “The case is one that we ourselves had regretted being drawn into from the outset.”
Swartz, 26, had pleaded not guilty to the charges. If convicted, he could have faced decades in prison and millions of dollars in fines.
(Flickr/Fred Benenson/Creative Commoners)
His family and partner issued a statement blaming the prosecution for playing a role in his suicide.
“Aaron’s death is not simply a personal tragedy. It is the product of a criminal justice system rife with intimidation and prosecutorial overreach,” the statement said.
“Decisions made by officials in the Massachusetts U.S. Attorney’s office and at MIT contributed to his death. The US Attorney’s office pursued an exceptionally harsh array of charges, carrying potentially over 30 years in prison, to punish an alleged crime that had no victims. Meanwhile, unlike JSTOR, MIT refused to stand up for Aaron and its own community’s most cherished principles.”
The family set up a website for people to post their memories of Swartz.
When he was 14 years old, Swartz helped create RSS software, revolutionizing the way people subscribed to and consumed information online.
As an adult, he co-founded Reddit, a social news website, and rallied against Internet censorship through the political action group Demand Progress.
PHOTOS: In Memoriam 2013
Technology pioneers paid tribute to the man who “had more work to do, and who made the world a better place when he did it.”
“The billions of snippets of sadness and bewilderment spinning across the Net confirm who this amazing boy was to all of us,” Creative Commons founder Lawrence Lessig wrote.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the World Wide Web, posted a poem, calling Swartz, who was 26 years old at the time of his death, “a mentor, a wise elder.”
Blogger Cory Doctorow posted on  Boing Boing that Swartz had “an unbeatable combination of political insight, technical skill, and intelligence about people and issues”.
And in true Aaron Swartz fashion, Doctorow’s lengthy tribute came with a disclaimer: “To the extent possible under law,  Cory Doctorow has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to ‘RIP, Aaron Swartz.’”
His funeral is scheduled for Tuesday, in Highland Park, Ill., his family said, and they said that remembrances of Swartz and donations in his name could be made at rememberaaronsw.com. 

SHOWS: World News





 
			
Email

15
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print













 
 
 


PreviousBrother and Sister Reunite After 65 Years
NextCat Lost on Vacation Travels 190 Miles Home






 

User Comments



I suppose we will have to suffer through the crocodile tears of MIT soon. What a craven bunch of eggheads they are.




			Posted by: Thom Hartt | January 13, 2013, 1:23 pm 1:23 pm		



I agree that his death is a tragedy and I also agree that Mr. Swartz made significant contributions to the development of the internet. But I do not agree that it was right for him to take copyrighted material from JSTOR. Nor do I think it was wrong to prosecute him for it. It is absurd to think that the existence of the internet means that anyone can simply steal another person’s intellectual property anytime he feels like it. There is probably a lot information that rightfully should be posted so that everyone can have access to it. These are things like government rules and regulations and proceedings. Sometimes there is a fairly high charge for getting these. But, also, someone does have to maintain them and vouch for their integrity. So even some charge for public information is somewhat reasonable. But much of what JSTOR has is copyrighted material for which JSTOR has paid. Such payments help keep the journals in business. Though scientific authors rarely receive royalties, some authors do and some authors need those royalties in order to live and to support their families. I can understand that it might be good to reform the copyright (and patent) systems but just taking stuff is not the answer. He was never proven guilty, so he died with the presumption of innocence. But I cannot fault the prosecutors for prosecuting what appears to have been a crime. Based on my limited knowledge of his problems, if I fault anyone I would fault his family and friends for not getting him to a psychiatrist to treat his depression. A large number of young people die from suicide and a good percentage of those could have been helped.




			Posted by: Sigmund Derman | January 13, 2013, 2:35 pm 2:35 pm		



Did he knowingly break the law or not ? 
If so, then sad to say, his persecution is his own fault, not some third party.
Being clever is not a sound defense against a legal breach, unfortunately.
Mental issues may be, however, and it seems as though he may have needed some help as far as that was concerned.




			Posted by: Ali | January 13, 2013, 2:59 pm 2:59 pm		



“Nor do I think it was wrong to prosecute him for it.”
The problem is that internet crimes are over-prosecuted and over-punished.  He was facing 30+ years for stealing information that had a very limited value.  That’s more than 5 times more than what he’d get for stealing a car.  He even returned the information and the victim didn’t even want to press charges…yet the government decided it should do so anyways.  How is that justice?
There’s a not so fine line between prosecution and persecution.




			Posted by: AmericaThePitiful | January 13, 2013, 3:16 pm 3:16 pm		



That Aaron Swartz was a gifted individual beloved by many makes his passing very sad.  Some would have us overlook the other sadness associated with Mr. Swartz’ life – that he behaved as though the law – the legal contract by which we live – did not apply to him.  He stole.  Can we overlook the stealing of docs, data, or dollars by some and not by others?  Where do we draw the line?  In my view government was right to take a tough stand.  We are living through Wild West write-your-own-rules-days of the internet where some see themselves as heroes for flaunting the contract by which we live rather than patiently working to change it in a safe and orderly way through established channels that protect us all.  Our legal representatives must prosecute to the full extent of the law each and every Wild West cowboy who harbors a take-the-law-into-your-own-hands attitude.  Aaron Swartz actions required prosecution, but prosecution did not require him to commit suicide.  He was young.  He made some bad choices … several of them.  I am deeply and genuinely sorry.




			Posted by: Damie | January 13, 2013, 3:29 pm 3:29 pm		



From all I read, it appears he is a genius who can do reckless things at times.  He also suffers from severe bouts of depression.  I wonder if he was ever diagnosed with the bipolar disorder.  If that is the case, it is indeed to sad that this cruel illness has claimed the life of another productive citizen.  I am not sure if it is the prosecution’s fault.  It is just doing its job.




			Posted by: dcmove | January 13, 2013, 3:46 pm 3:46 pm		



Right, so we are to believe that a 26 year old millionaire just hung himself because of some cheesy federal charges that he might have gotten a 6 month sentence in a camp for?  Well, he certainly had nothing to live for! Funny how all these enemies of the establishment are turning up murdered, dead by “accident”, or “suicided” by who knows…




			Posted by: CTLovesNathanHale | January 13, 2013, 3:52 pm 3:52 pm		



This is absurd to me. The crime does not fit the punishment. I wonder if the there is an undercurrent to this tragedy. I don’t believe that he killed himself. What a loss. . . .




			Posted by: Margueritte Hillman | January 13, 2013, 5:16 pm 5:16 pm		



The old Fa rts in US attorney’s office and Crummy Admins at MIT are worth much less to the world than Aaron was. He changed the world before he was 25, and these cretins drove a national asset to suicide over a mere network break in of a database of medical research papers largely funded by the public.
Its our data, and we should have access to it. The companies holding it ransom to fees and hounding people who fight back should be shut down. University administrators involved should be terminated. Lack of judgement and actions of US attorneys should be investigated and action taken against those agents responsible.




			Posted by: David | January 13, 2013, 6:43 pm 6:43 pm		



He was murdered by our government.




			Posted by: Speak_Truth_to_Power | January 13, 2013, 8:53 pm 8:53 pm		



Something doesn’t smell right about this…………..and yes, it reminds me of the Clinton admin when enemies of Clinton just mysteriously died.   Foster supposedly killed himself too………cept he supposedly did it with a broken gun in the wrong hand and his papers just happened to wind up in Hilliary’s bedroom.




			Posted by: saiditrabbit | January 13, 2013, 8:55 pm 8:55 pm		



Apparently Mr Swartz’s “crime” was breaking JSTORS terms of agreement that limited how many articles that could be downloaded at one time. He had a legal right to download the articles as he had a legal right to access the MIT computers. For this he was going to be prosecuted with 13 felonies, a possible sentence of decades in jail and millions of dollars in fines? Where is the balance between the crime and the punishment?




			Posted by: FB Dislike button | January 14, 2013, 3:17 am 3:17 am		



@ Thomm Harr
Your wrong on so many levels I can’t even begin to start. First, JSTOR is FEDERALLY FUNDED. Hence it should never be privatized by a few in the first place, AND unlike you I think that DOJ should be going after MIT for violating the (Freedom For Information Act), instead of hacker. MIT and others are like it are greedy, snobby, a waste of pit for taxpayers). Mr. Swartz was our Robin Hood, against a corrupt MIT that is publicly funded.  Second, It is absurd to think that we waste our taxpayer dollars on MIT and not get to see what they do or publish and its’ even more absurd to think that the one person (who wants everyone to benefit) because that is what government should do (benefit everyone) that we prosecute him like a common criminal, because DOJ itself is bought out by this crap. ALL of the information of JSTOR we should have access to get, because its’ funded by taxpayer dollars, and the one person making it available for everyone should be rewarded with a medal, and we should fire DOJ for making a genius to their job for them. JSTOR is using PUBLIC money in some form to have that copyrighted material. Now the journal argument is just offensive, you mean to tell me that professors that contribute to that journal that on average (MIT) make over $300,000 dollars a year NEED the money? Are you stupid? or do you think the rest of us our stupid? What: Do they need the money for their yacht club? Those greedy .. I wish I could fire every single one of those people and replace them with people like Swartz. We have plenty of young/ caring talent that don’t mind giving away their information, while taking a high salary, why can’t we fire the old farts? and hire the new talented generation who is willing to pay their dues to the public at large? Oh.. Thats right.. We can’t fire them because they are supposed to be “respectable”. Does respectable me mooching off the taxpayer dollar, while keeping all the knowledge for themselves? As a taxpayer I want to hire a person who will give their work for FREE when they are receiving a PROFESSORS salary, because I know for a fact that are better qualified wanting to have that job wanting to PERFORM that function. I fault the judges and the prosecutors for placing a case on trial that should have been dismissed, when FOIA should have applied, first amendment rights, due process, and a number of civil rights that were disregarded, and finally let me guess your one of those professors now aren’t you. SHAME ON YOU.




			Posted by: Peter Graves | January 14, 2013, 5:56 am 5:56 am		



Making the connection between a private enterprise (JSTOR) and an institution that benefits from public funding (MIT), and claiming that all information generated by the private enterprise (documents) suddenly belong to the public as a result, is ridiculous.  If that were true, then everything from theme parks to football games should be free as well.  If the private enterprise contracts for the development, production, and distribution of information, then they have the copyright authority of said information.  It’s not about who “needs the money,” it’s about who correctly owns the information under the law. (And, consequently, who tries to steal it.)




			Posted by: jo | January 14, 2013, 9:32 am 9:32 am		



@ALI: “Did he knowingly break the law or not ?”
The problem is that you assume he actually did break the law, which is not at all obvious. Let’s review the facts, shall we?
He was accessing a network he had full rights to access (so there was NO hacking involved), and he was accessing content he had been given rights to access. Furthermore, the only alleged victim (JSTOR) did not want to pursue charges against him.
I’m not saying the guy is entirely innocent. Had he not been caught, he would have likely distributed the material he downloaded publicly, which would most likely violate copyright laws.
But there is a BIG difference between charging someone for a crime they actually committed, and charging them for a crime that they might have committed. It’s like arresting someone for “drunk driving” as soon as they leave the bar, simply because they had their car keys in their hand.
So in essence, you have an alleged crime that never happened, and an alleged victim that didn’t want to press charges…which begs the question why federal prosecutors wanted to throw the book at him, when they never really had much of a case to begin with?
I don’t think it’s entirely fair to blame the legal system entirely for his suicide, since he most likely suffered from clinical depression. That said, we need to ask ourselves whether we want our tax dollars being used to go after soft targets (like 26-year-old nerds who’ve actually contributed to society and made a mistake that probably isn’t even illegal) or to go after actual criminals.




			Posted by: MarkML | January 14, 2013, 5:55 pm 5:55 pm		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About NationThe latest national news and original reporting from ABC News following coverage around the United States.Categories 
Crimes Against Christmas

Investigative

Middle East

Nation

Olympics

Picture This: ABC News

Press Release

Religion

Standing Up for Heroes

World


  Top Posts 
Super Bowl XLVII Live: Score, Commercials and More
British Police Arrest, Taser Man Outside Buckingham Palace
Florida Boy’s 911 Call Helps Police Nab Burglars
JetBlue Flight Makes Landing in Denver Because of ‘Unruly Customer’
Today in Pictures: Marion Cotillard, Tear Gas Cloud, The Shard

Top Stories on ABC NewsKyle's Killing Puts Spotlight on PTSD'American Sniper' Was Mentor of Murder Suspect, Cops SayWatch:  Super Bowl 2013: Jennifer Hudson, Sandy Hook Students PerformWatch:  Super Bowl 2013: Alicia Keys Sings 'The Star-Spangled Banner'Super Bowl 2013 Commercials: Best of the Big GameSubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 




 






















