BBC News - Cancer fight 'hampered in UK by stiff upper lip'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Health







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















29 January 2013
Last updated at 21:52 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Cancer fight 'hampered in UK by stiff upper lip'
 

By Michelle Roberts
Health editor, BBC News online



Researchers surveyed nearly 20,000 adults in a number of countries


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Cancer fight: Your stories


'People fear wasting doctor's time' Watch


Mass cancer mapping centre opens



The UK's "stiff upper lip" culture may explain why it lags behind other countries when it comes to beating cancer, say experts.
Researchers, who surveyed nearly 20,000 adults in six high-income countries, said they found embarrassment often stopped Britons visiting the doctor.
Respondents in the UK were as aware of cancer symptoms as those in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, but more reluctant to seek help, they said.
A third feared wasting a doctor's time. 
One in six of the men and women aged 50-and-over surveyed in the UK was embarrassed about sharing their symptoms with a doctor, the researchers from King's College London and University College London, with help from Cancer Research UK and Ipsos Mori, found.
They said, in the British Journal of Cancer, that this may partly explain why the UK has a far lower cancer survival rate than other developed nations, despite good access to skilled medical staff and cutting-edge treatments.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
We don't know why British people feel like that. It may be that we are more stoic and have a war-time mentality”
End Quote
Dr Lindsay Forbes
Lead researcher

 BBC Health: Cancer

 The researchers surveyed people in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, but not Scotland.
'UK phenomenon'
Data shows that for cancer survival, the UK ranks behind many countries, including the five other nations looked at in the study.
According to estimates, the lives of more than 5,000 cancer patients could be saved each year in England alone if the country matched the best European survival rates.
Former Health Secretary Andrew Lansley pledged to achieve this target by the next general election in 2015, with the government's cancer strategy. 
Lead researcher Dr Lindsay Forbes said: "This is a real UK phenomenon. UK people really stood out in our study. 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 "As a nation we are much more likely to say we are embarrassed about going to the doctor or we are worried that we will take up a doctor's time.
"We don't know why British people feel like that. It may be that we are more stoic and have a war-time mentality. 
"We know that older people in particular can get a symptom and then wait for weeks or months before going to see their doctor."
Sara Hiom, of Cancer Research UK, said the charity "and others are working hard to understand and address these potential barriers to early presentation and encourage people to tell their doctor if they have noticed something different about their body". 
"More work also needs to be done to tackle the poor awareness that cancer risk increases with age," she added.
The researchers note that Denmark also ranks relatively low for cancer survival. They suspect this could be due to delays in patients accessing timely hospital care - something which may also apply to the UK to some extent.

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Cancer fight: Your stories

30 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                HEALTH



'People fear wasting doctor's time' Watch

30 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                HEALTH



Mass cancer mapping centre opens

28 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                HEALTH



More people 'are surviving cancer'

06 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                HEALTH











Related Internet links


Department of Health: Improving Outcomes - A Strategy for Cancer


British Journal of Cancer



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 265       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 105.  Drx2  30th January 2013 - 14:00   Unfortunately, family doctors are paid rather poorly for their time esp for counselling.  The worst time-wasting disease in my office is "internetitis" aka anxiety.  People troll the internet for minor symptoms and come up with dread diagnoses that are often not just wrong but ludicrous.  They are often the hardest to reassure because they believe the internet instead of me because they read it.    Report this comment (Comment number 105) Link to this (Comment number 105)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 104.  Marco  30th January 2013 - 13:59   I think this is due as much to the cultural heritage of not making a fuss over nothing and the fact that surgeries are not always the most helpful of places.My surgery is closed for lunch (...), it takes a week for an appointment and the doctor will try to get it all done in under 15 minutes. And most times they tell me to take painkillers for a week and come back if the symptoms are still there.    Report this comment (Comment number 104) Link to this (Comment number 104)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 103.  Theresa Mayhem  30th January 2013 - 13:59   Having a Tory government obsessed with privatising the NHS hampers the fight against cancer.    Report this comment (Comment number 103) Link to this (Comment number 103)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 102.  rs24  30th January 2013 - 13:55   My GP's surgery has an automated appointments system. I had to make an appointment a couple of weeks ago. The system responded that there were no appointments available. Fortunately, I persisted and called again at 7.30 the next morning, getting what was probably a cancellation. How many other people would have bothered to try again?    Report this comment (Comment number 102) Link to this (Comment number 102)                 rate this     +16      rate this     +16   Comment number 101.  Uncle Fester  30th January 2013 - 13:49   My sister was recently informed she had stomach cancer. Further tests proved the condition is well established and she is to have her stomach removed in the next couple of weeks.She had been attending her GP for two years over stomach problems, with no tests done. It was only when she saw a trainee GP late last year that she was referred to a specialist. This trainee has probably saved her life.    Report this comment (Comment number 101) Link to this (Comment number 101)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 100.  Kalel9002  30th January 2013 - 13:54   It's also the work environment that doesn't help.  This culture that you need to work every single hour that God sends until you die, never mind quality of life with family etc, this causes lots of stress for people which also has a knock on of illness of course some of that comes from wanting and needing more instead of happy with present.    Report this comment (Comment number 100) Link to this (Comment number 100)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 99.  maria house  30th January 2013 - 13:52   People are still frightened of cancer. The investigations for cancer tend to be very unpleasant. We all hope the pain/cough/problem will go away without them. On the one hand we don't want to trouble our overworked GPs with a bit of a cough/dodgy gut but on the other, by the time things get bad enough to do so it may be a bit late. Not stiff upper lip - fear.    Report this comment (Comment number 99) Link to this (Comment number 99)                 rate this     +12      rate this     +12   Comment number 98.  frogandspanner  30th January 2013 - 13:51   Three years ago I developed a lump in a lymph node. I phoned my GP and was seen within 20 minutes, then referred to a specialist. It was an indolent cancer, treated successfully by radiotherapy. During one of my regular checks my consultant was concerned, and further tests  revealed that the cell line had transformed into an aggressive cancer. Following chemo I am clear. NHS: wonderful.    Report this comment (Comment number 98) Link to this (Comment number 98)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 97.  Alison  30th January 2013 - 13:51   Thirty plus years ago my 60 year old father was certainly very embarrased about seeing a doctor even though he was suffering from prostate cancer. Treatment might have been an option if he'd been prepared to. This was not "stiff upper lip", more a case of being unable to discuss anything "down there". Once his kidneys were affected, he felt able to discuss his illness.    Report this comment (Comment number 97) Link to this (Comment number 97)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 96.  Matthew  30th January 2013 - 13:50   @77.Andy SMate most of Europe has private health care, the only issue with our NHS, is that it should have been split in two years ago, with NHS(C) and NHS(M) so “C” would deal with old people, aka the bed blockers, and “M” would deal with the actual medical stuff, with separate facilities for both C & M, although all of the UK would have to do this.    Report this comment (Comment number 96) Link to this (Comment number 96)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 95.  Steve  30th January 2013 - 13:50   78.Indication- Yesterday I went for an appointment to get the results of a CT scan I'd had a week ago. However, the specialist had to wait 15 minutes for the admin staff to print off the results. The problem isn't necessarily the computer systems - it's getting the admin staff to prepare the patient notes for the day's clinic. The solution - fire staff in the NHS when they don't pefrom their jobs.    Report this comment (Comment number 95) Link to this (Comment number 95)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 94.  AKS  30th January 2013 - 13:49   To hell with the stiff upper lip , a few years ago now I had lumps in my underarm , I went to the doctors to be told its cysts and nothing to worry about . I apologized to the doctor and I got the biggest telling off and told anything that worries you like a lump get strait to the doctors . So again to hell with the stiff upper lip . P.S. I am a male    Report this comment (Comment number 94) Link to this (Comment number 94)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 93.  Devonian expat  30th January 2013 - 13:46   My family and I are now living in the US, and experiencing a different health service has made me realize how the British/NHS culture "trains" us to not go to the Dr.  It isn't about a stiff upper lip, it is about being made to feel like a hyperchondriac every time you go to the doctor - from childhood (and is even worse as you reach adulthood).    Report this comment (Comment number 93) Link to this (Comment number 93)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 92.  VIKI  30th January 2013 - 13:45   I was sick for months in 2011. I went to my GP, they were convinced that it was stress I kept going back almost every week for months.They finally decided to do a blood test after I almost collapsed at work. It took them 2 months to test me! I had glandular fever and anaemia, something so easily diagnosed and treated, yet ignored. I don't think it would be any different if I thought I had cancer.    Report this comment (Comment number 92) Link to this (Comment number 92)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 91.  Graham  30th January 2013 - 13:45   I went to the doctors a couple of years back for major chest problems. My appointment was at 1650 and when I got there it was apparent the doctor wanted to leave by 1700. He didn't ask me what my symptoms were and claimed it was tietze's syndrome, which was a respiratory problem I had when I was 6. He couldn't get me out the door quick enough. I've not been back since.    Report this comment (Comment number 91) Link to this (Comment number 91)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 90.  himmal  30th January 2013 - 13:48   More like a complete lack of confidence in GP's.  Particularly if you are a man.    Report this comment (Comment number 90) Link to this (Comment number 90)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 89.  Margaret Heath  30th January 2013 - 13:47   I asked to be tested for sleep apnoea and was told I didn't have it.  6 yrs later I insisted I be overnight tested and was found to have 'severe' apnoea (498 times 8 hours). I was by then so sleep deprived I was barely alive.  When I mentioned the earlier appointment and the failure to listen to me, I was told "we all make mistakes". True but we expect doctors to listen to us and act accordingly.    Report this comment (Comment number 89) Link to this (Comment number 89)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 88.  dmcc  30th January 2013 - 13:46   How many men could be saved from cancer each year just through better awareness? Prostate cancer affects as many men as breast cancer affects women, but all the campaigns, money, awareness goes towards "female" cancers.    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     +11      rate this     +11   Comment number 87.  Monty Cuthbert  30th January 2013 - 13:41   I have survived prostate cancer because a widow of a prostate cancer victim diagnosed me. Our full story can be seen on www.prostatecancercheckitout.me.uk . We realised that the only way men could be saved from this cancer was to inform them of the common symptoms and advise them to get checked out if they have them. From our web site posters and awareness raising material can be down loaded.    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 86.  Perpetual Sigh  30th January 2013 - 13:45   There's also the massive disparity in funding between breast cancer and prostate cancer. Funny how that wasn't brought up.    Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)         Page 9 of 14    Newer 1 ... 7 8 9 10 11 ... 14 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Health stories
RSS




Unhappy childhood heart risk link

Emotional behaviour in childhood may be linked with heart disease in middle age, especially in women, research suggests.



Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed




Older mums should be induced early












Top stories



'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Two Philippines hostages released


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



2: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



3: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Dancer flees Bolshoi over 'threats'



6: Two Philippines hostages released



7: Pound in big fall against euro



8: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



9: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



10: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



Video/Audio




1: A fruity guide to American football Watch



2: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



5: Twitter passwords stolen by hackers Watch



6: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



7: Why is Southampton Polish 'magnet'? Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: Black taxi sale to China 'symbolic' Watch













BBC Future





The killer on your couch
The week’s best science and tech stories Read more...












Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





