Egyptian president imposes state of emergency in 3 cities after deadly clashes - World News




 
MSN
Hotmail

More

Autos
My MSN
Video
Careers & Jobs
Personals
Weather
Delish
Quotes
White Pages
Games
Real Estate
Wonderwall
Horoscopes
Shopping
Yellow Pages
Local Edition
Traffic
Feedback
Maps & Directions
Travel
Full MSN Index


Bing 

 

NBCNews.com
sites & shows:
TODAY
Nightly News
Rock Center
Meet the Press
Dateline
msnbc
Breaking News
EveryBlock
Newsvine

 
Home
US
World
Politics
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Health
Tech & science
Travel
Local
Weather



Advertise | AdChoices 







Recommended: Analysis: Israel's airstrike likely to complicate Syria crisis
Recommended: US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack
Recommended: Malala, teen champion of girls' rights, nominated for Nobel Peace Prize 
Recommended: At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion





First for breaking news and analysis: Compelling world news stories from NBC News journalists. Follow us on Twitter and  Facebook.

↓ About this blog↓ Archives E-mail updates Follow on Twitter Subscribe to RSS













312commentsPrint








5daysagoEgyptian president imposes state of emergency in 3 cities after deadly clashesA day after 37 people were killed in protests, chaos erupted among the thousands who walked to mourn them. Meanwhile, President Morsi declared a state of emergency. NBC's Ayman Moyeldin reports. Follow @NBCNewsWorld

By Edmund Blair and Yasmine Saleh, ReutersCAIRO - Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi declared a month-long state  of emergency on Sunday in three cities along the Suez Canal which have been the  focus of anti-government violence that has killed dozens of people over the past  four days.
 Seven people were shot dead and hundreds were injured in Port  Said on Sunday during the funerals of 33 protesters killed at the weekend. A  total of 49 people have been killed in demonstrations around the country since  Thursday and Morsi's opponents have called for more protests on Monday. 
"Down, down Morsi, down down the regime that killed and tortured us!" people  in Port Said chanted as the coffins of those killed on Saturday were carried  through the streets.


Advertise | AdChoices 



 





 In a televised address, Morsi said a nightly curfew  would be introduced in Port Said, Ismailia and Suez, starting Monday evening. He  also called for dialogue with top politicians. About 200 people protested in  Ismailia after the announcement."The protection of the nation is the  responsibility of everyone. We will confront any threat to its security with  force and firmness within the remit of the law," the president said, adding that  he offered condolences to families of the victims of those who died in the  cities.In Cairo the newly appointed interior minister Mohamed Ibrahim  was ejected from the funeral of one of the police officers who died during  Saturday's clashes in Port Said, according to witnesses and police sources.

A police officer at the funeral said many of his colleagues blame the interior  minister on the deaths of at least two policemen during Saturday's clashes as he  did not allow the police there to carry weapons and were only given teargas  bombs.
 State television said seven people died from gunshot wounds on  Sunday. Port Said's head of hospitals, Abdel Rahman Farag, told Reuters more  than 400 people had suffered from teargas inhalation, while 38 were wounded by  gunshots.Gunshots had killed many of the 33 who died on Saturday when  residents went on the rampage after a court sentenced 21 people, mostly from the  Mediterranean port, to death for their role in deadly soccer violence at a  stadium there last year.A military source said many people in Port  Said, which lies next to the increasingly lawless Sinai Peninsula, possess guns  because they do not trust the authorities to protect them. However it was not  clear who was behind the deaths and injuries.In Cairo, police fired  teargas at dozens at protesters throwing stones and petrol bombs in a fourth day  of clashes over what demonstrators there and in other cities say is a power grab  by Islamists two years after Hosni Mubarak was overthrown.In Ismaila  city, which lies on the Suez Canal between the cities of Suez and Port Said,  police also fired teargas at protesters attacking a police station with petrol  bombs and stones, according to witnesses and a security source there.The protesters accuse Morsi, elected in June with the support of his  Muslim Brotherhood group, of betraying the democratic goals of the revolution.  Most of the deaths since Thursday were in Port Said and Suez, both cities where  the army has now been deployed.The violence adds to the daunting task  facing Morsi as he tries to fix a beleaguered economy and cool tempers before a  parliamentary election expected in the next few months which is supposed to  cement Egypt's transition to democracy.Deep riftIt has exposed a deep rift in  the nation. Liberals and other opponents accuse Morsi of failing to deliver on  economic promises and say he has not lived up to pledges to represent all  Egyptians. His backers say the opposition is seeking to topple Egypt's first  freely elected leader by undemocratic means.Heba Morayef of Human  Rights Watch in Cairo said a state of emergency reintroduced laws that gave  police sweeping powers of arrest "purely because (people) look suspicious"."It is a classic knee jerk reaction to think the emergency law will help  bring security," she said. "It gives so much discretion to the Ministry of  Interior that it ends up causing more abuse which in turn causes more anger."

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





The opposition Popular Current and other groups have called for more  protests on Monday to mark what was one of the bloodiest days of the 2011  uprising.On a bridge close to Tahrir  Square, youths hurled stones at police in riot gear who fired teargas to push  them back towards the square, the cauldron of the uprising that erupted on  January 25, 2011 and toppled Mubarak 18 days later. "None of the  revolution's goals have been realized," said Mohamed Sami, a protester in  Cairo's Tahrir Square on Sunday."Prices are going up. The blood of  Egyptians is being spilt in the streets because of neglect and corruption and  because the Muslim Brotherhood is ruling Egypt for their own interests."Clashes also erupted in other streets near the square. The U.S. and  British embassies, both close to Tahrir, said they were closed for public  business on Sunday, normally a working day.The army, Egypt's interim  ruler until Morsi's election, was sent back onto the streets to restore order in  Port Said and Suez, which both lie on the Suez canal. In Suez, at least eight  people were killed in clashes with police.Many ordinary Egyptians are  frustrated by the violence that have hurt the economy and their livelihoods."They are not revolutionaries protesting," said taxi driver Kamal  Hassan, 30, referring to those gathered in Tahrir. "They are thugs destroying  the country."Call for dialogueThe National Defence Council,  headed by Morsi, called on Saturday for national dialogue to discuss political  differences.That offer has been cautiously welcomed by the opposition  National Salvation Front. But the coalition has demanded a clear agenda and  guarantees that any agreements will be implemented.The Front, formed  late last year when Morsi provoked protests and violence by expanding his powers  and driving through an Islamist-tinged constitution, has threatened to boycott  the parliamentary poll and call for more protests if its demands are not met,  including for an early presidential vote.Egypt's transition has been  blighted from the outset by political rows and turbulence on the streets that  have driven investors out and kept many tourists away. Its currency, the pound,  has steadily weakened against the dollar.
Related:

At least 30 killed in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster

Copyright 2013 Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions.Explore related topics: egypt, morsi
older5daysagoPolice: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 233newer5daysagoTens of thousands march in support of gay marriage in ParisDiscuss this post

Jump to discussion page: 1 2 3 4 5
toons222What are you people against mashed potatos?
3 votes#54 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:48 PM ESTnhheathenPersonally I prefer my potatoes Au gratin.3 votes#54.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:53 PM ESTJohnny Gigantic 6670085I love French Fries...    :(1 vote#54.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:13 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitFreedom Fries?
Actually we wouldn't have won independence if not for the French.  Visit Yorktown's Battle Field national park.  Very cool.
Mel Gibson's "The Patriot" captures some of this as well.
How 'bout Sweet Potatoes??1 vote#54.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:17 PM EST@!$%#_youiz liks 'em all#54.4 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:08 AM ESTron1234-3729650Didn't Hilary do a great job!#55 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:53 PM ESTtoons222You bet she did,the way she.......wait a minute she did a shtty job!!!1 vote#55.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:55 PM ESTtoons222and I hear she is against mashed potatos.3 votes#55.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:56 PM ESTcaljam71Everywhere she goes.......riots, war and death!
Where is that damn reset button, Vladimir?3 votes#55.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:16 PM ESTJohnny Gigantic 6670085It is all about the French Fries. Follow the FF trail.2 votes#55.4 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:15 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroit"ROGER THAT!" a la The Schnitt Show...2 votes#55.5 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:19 PM ESTTarzan7Mubarek in his hospital bed, 'Do you miss me yet'? Mubarek kept the radicals in check just like Saddam Hussien did. Muslims need a Strong hand to keep them under control or else the Religious fanatics take over. The only trouble with Islam are the ones who are using it for their own crazy agenda, like Morsi.2 votes#56 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:56 PM ESTtoons222or obama3 votes#56.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:57 PM ESTsnarf-snarfLike a brewing volcano, this was coming ever since Morsi replaced Mubarak!  Way to go Egyptians!!  Take back what is yours, oust Morsi and finally cleanse your land of many years of brutality at the hands of the corrupt brotherhood as well!
- Some day soon, Americans and all others from all over the world who wish to visit your Holy land to indulge in the incredible history your great country has to offer, will be able to do so in peace once again! 
Prayers to all Egyptians as they fight for their land and for their freedom.  This is history in the making and may the Egyptian people prevail!!1 vote#57 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 6:57 PM ESTDee TenEgypt's big problem is there's Africans living there...after a few thousand years of slavery, civil wars and revolutions one would be tempted to conclude that killing each other comes as natural to Africans as breathing...1 vote#58 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:01 PM ESTcaljam71no.....their biggest problem is Islam3 votes#58.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:17 PM ESTDee TenWell the Africans made up Islam to further their desire to kill each other...1 vote#58.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:24 PM ESTMaliktoWhen a leader convinces the voters he is their savior and then goes about an agenda that is not democratic and takes away rights and discriminates against the minority, you will get this reaction.  How foolish can voters be to trust a party that is attached at the hip with other Muslim extremist groups?  Did they really believe democracy  could exist with a religion based government?    The US may have it's problems and it's own savior to contend with but at least we don't have to deal with a mullah and medieval laws and mindsets. #59 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:05 PM ESTcaljam71You say we don't have to deal with a mullah and medieval laws and mindsets........hmmmm3 votes#59.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:24 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitWhich Savior?  Karl Marx or our current Community Organizer in Chief?  Are voters here any more wise than the Egyptians?
"The government which robs Peter to pay Paul can count on the support of Paul."  George Bernard Shaw [www_lpboulder_com/quotes]  The Party of Paul won the election in November, and the rest of us keep getting robbed...2 votes#59.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:25 PM ESTTimes-Running-OutMalikto

When a leader convinces the voters he is their savior and then goes about an agenda that is not democratic and takes away rights and discriminates against the minority, you will get this reaction

I think you have nailed it on the head for this country as well3 votes#59.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:27 PM ESTJamesPupp
Morsi needs to come up with a plan and one he can let the public know about, that will help Egypt. I have not heard any thing new of what will turn around Egypt’s economy. It can’t all be blamed on the people still protesting and rioting. There is a lot more of Egypt then 3 cities. What about building things and selling things? What does Egypt sell and who will buy it? Maybe he could try to start new business with other countries. Why not lower the taxes and try and help the people and make things affordable. If people are standing in the way and are ruining chances to get out of this hole, he should tell the people about it and be truthful and say they are hurting themselves. It may be that some of the people of Egypt are sabotaging their country and chances to regain the economy. If he lets the people know enough of what the problems are and gives them time to change before an action, I would think he made the right decision. Maybe Egypt needs a new government that will make all people happier. Maybe the people are afraid of attacks on and from other countries in the future. Morsi should make sure no one around Egypt wants to attack it and work on diplomacy with other countries so the people have nothing to fear. Morsi should make sure not to fight with other countries as long as he is president.2 votes#60 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:08 PM ESTcaljam71He needs to do a couple of things:  drop out of the Muslim Brotherhood and stop rattling sabers at Israel and getting involved with terrorists...............then re-write the constitution QUICKLY and make it secular.....where NO religion is favored but all are guaranteed freedom of practice.
Will he do it?  NO4 votes#60.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:20 PM ESTTarzan7Mubarek did it but the people Still weren't happy. I don't think the Egyptian people know what the hell they want.1 vote#60.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:00 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitBut they DID get what they asked for.  Hope we don't keep asking for the same thing.
"Careful what you ask for.  You may get it..."2 votes#60.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:31 PM ESTTimes-Running-OutJamesPupp
It sure sounds like you are talking about the USA:

MorsiOBAMA needs to come up with a plan and one he can let the public know about, that will help EgyptUSA. I have not heard any thing new of what will turn around Egypt USA’s economy
Why not lower the taxes and try and help the people and make things affordable. If people are standing in the way and are ruining chances to get out of this hole, he should tell the people about it and be truthful and say they are hurting themselves.
Morsi OBAMA should make sure no one around EgyptUSA wants to attack it and work on diplomacy with other countries so the people have nothing to fear. MorsiOBAMA should make sure not to fight with other countries as long as he is president.

P.S.  Why would LOWERING TAXES there help... But here in the USA we Need to RAISE them to get out of the 'Hole"?2 votes#60.4 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:33 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitTruth hurts, eh?  Times-man, you nailed it again.
OBTW, how much time do we have?  Will there still be an America in 2016?1 vote#60.5 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 11:36 PM ESTJamesPupp
The holes in America you are talking about are fixed with money paying them off, like the hole of national debt. In Egypt the hole I was talking about is one of people not being able to afford basic living. In Egypt the problems I was thinking of was people not being able to afford food and basic living. In America people have jobs and these people make money and pay taxes. In Egypt people don’t have as much work and I think there unemployment is up. I was thinking of people eating and buying things easier in Egypt. People might be looking to leave Egypt for work and better living too. In America people are going to be staying there mainly and you can get away with taxing them to pay off things because they don‘t leave. If you tax the people of Egypt rate now, no one would be able to afford to live there and the population would go down and people would riot and it would result in crime waves. I guess I misspoke saying it was a hole.#60.6 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 12:13 AM ESTJamesPuppI would lower taxes so people can afford basic living better and so people stay in Egypt and don't riot. Then I would start creating jobs in Egypt so the unemployment goes down and the jobs could be make things that other countries will buy and that will also improve diplomacy with those countries too. Rate now it seems that it would be about helping the people of Egypt as the main goal.#60.7 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 12:25 AM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





backtobasics-1076842Egyptians, welcome to the Muslim Brotherhood! You picked this guy as your president, but it only shows you are impressionable, uninformed, gullible, emotional and seriously misled. Have a nice civil war while al-Qaida takes over your country, too.3 votes#61 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:10 PM ESTDee TenYup...same way Obama got elected and re-elected...3 votes#61.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:16 PM ESTSteve-2352647I would like to say it is their own fault for electing idiots with hidden agendas ... but that would be like the kettle calling the pot black.  As you can see from Dee Ten's comment, conservatives feel liberals in this country are uninformed and gullible, while it is clear to everyone not in the tea party how gullible and mis-led they are.
If we have not figured this out in over two hundred years, I can not expect the Egyptians to do it in less than two years.1 vote#61.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:36 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitHidden agendas?  So what exactly did our President mean in his first term when he stated our national security needed more than just the military, "a national force as well financed and just as powerful as the military"? 
Is the President's re-election over? I hope so, unless he runs again in 2016 in violation of the 22nd Amendment. Unfortunately, given that not everyone will roll-over just because "We won the Election..." it would seem that our President’s party wants to expunge ANY political opposition. The President’s campaign organization being made a tax-exempt 501 (c) (4), “Organizing For America” (and the SEIU and Organized Labor) advocating for the President’s policy positions sounds more-than-a-little like Germany in the 1930’s, with the Brownshirts busting heads, busting windows and burning books on behalf of the Chancellor. Is this the beginnings of a new Waffen SS? The President's legacy is still being written. My oh my, we are off to a promising start to his second term.
Hidden agenda?  NAH, nothing to see here, Folks.  Go back to ESPN2 and drool over the next draft pick...1 vote#61.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:38 PM ESTrlb43And our President Odumbo thinks these idiots in the middle east can manage "Democracy".  They are just like him:  "My way or the highway."  There is no democracy about him or them.  5 votes#62 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:22 PM ESTjeff-674209Imagine that ,  citizens arming themselves because they don`t trust  those in authority .
john hunt sure is one dumb son of a bitch4 votes#63 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:25 PM ESTJamesPuppWhy do some of the people of Egypt protest still and why do they not like Morsi? Morsi should find out and for the good of the people, do what will change their views of him and build on reassurances of the people. They need to get out of protests and back to normal life. Why not start a plan to sell things to Israel and countries they don’t have the best diplomacy with. This will buy confidence of the people and bring about prosperity.1 vote#64 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:25 PM ESTcaljam71What you are asking is much deeper than a political question.  It delves into the psyche of the muslim mindset. Salmon Rusdie said last year that the whole muslim world is now basically going psychotic.  Someone else noted that.... If a religion has to use thuggery methods to protect their monopoly by dictating free thought, then the religion is the wrong religion. When one has huge populations that are unemployed, such as in the Mideast, then religion provides the spark to blame everyone or anything for the disparity created between the have an have nots. This have and have not disparity between the ever growing wealth of the wealthy on the backs of the poor is a sure recipe for a religion to morph into a more radical form that creates more power for the religion and their leaders that use the poor and uneducated to enhance their power positions because the protestors, now a mob, will listen to anything that will provide them some sort of relief even if they have to revert to medieval hopes and ideas founded by a violent man worshipping a pagan moon god. 
When a country has been in existence for 3,000 watches a fledging democracy (America) make huge technical advances in about three hundred years and one is still in the Mideast dumps of poverty, no amount of American foreign aid is going to resolve the angst of the mob; the money goes to the the wealthy and their military to keep the lid on their tempest.  We should immediately stop this military aid.4 votes#64.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:41 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitCaljam71, incredibly well said.  Machiavellian sociopaths can use anything, whether religion or enforced lack of religion, to justify their own power.
W. Cleon Skousen made essentially the same point you did in his book "The 5000 Year Leap" [National Center for Constitutional Studies, 1981].#64.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 9:50 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Arm Chair Quarter BackJust goes to show what can happen in any country if the leadership gives itself unlimited power.  What has caused most of the problem in Egypt to date are the unlimited powers Egypt’s President Mohamed Morsi has given himself in the Muslim brotherhood authored constitution.  Now you’re going to see that constitution used to attach a mill stone around the neck of the Egyptian people.  Keep in mind what you see going on in Egypt can happen here with Presidential Executive Orders.   In the United States far too many points of law are being dictated by Presidential Executive Order the latest one being considered involving the 2nd Amendment to the Constitution.   If any changes are made to the first ten amendments to the Constitution, it should be done in congress by the elected legislature not a single man.      3 votes#65 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:33 PM ESTizamytThe United States Constitution is unusually difficult to amend.  As spelled out in Article V, the Constitution can be amended in one of two ways.  First, amendment can take place by a vote of two-thirds of both the House of Representatives and the Senate followed by a ratification of three-fourths of the various state legislatures (ratification by thirty-eight states would be required to ratify an amendment today).  This first method of amendment is the only one used to date.  Second, the Constitution might be amended by a Convention called for this purpose by two-thirds of the state legislatures, if the Convention's proposed amendments are later ratified by three-fourths of the state legislatures. 5 votes#65.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:38 PM ESTRoadkillIz - You actually read the troll-poop, from "the armchair quarterback"?  Your bad.#65.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:57 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitRoadkill, Troll-poop is in the eye of the beholder.  These are real issues, for us as well as the Egyptian people.  This is an excellent hands-on laboratory for how NOT to form a government.  Our founders were products of the Enlightenment, the lessons of all of known history to that point, and for most of them, devout Protestant Christian faith.  If you are so inclined, you might like a book written by a Notre DamePhD professor of history at Baylor University.  Thomas S. Kidd wrote "God of Liberty:  A Religious History of the American Revolution"  [New York:  Basic Books/Perseus, 2010].  Part of his book's thesis is that theAmerican Revolution would not have occurred if it hadn't been for the First and Second Great Awakening, revivals of Christian fervor that swept the colonies during and prior to the 1760's. 
Mohammad Morsi was one of several players who agitated to kick out Mubarak, then maneuver himself and his party into power to the exclusion of his rivals.  Once we "legitimized" him by letting him mediate between Netanyahu and Hamas, he immediately set himself up as dictator.  Watch now on the evening news as he "declares an emergency" and uses the Egyptian military, bought and paid for by OUR TAX DOLLARS, to crush any opposition "in the name of the people" kinda like China did in Tianamen Square.  (OBTW, today's young people in China DON'T KNOW that Tianamen Square EVEN HAPPENED because it's been expunged from their Internet.  So why would the Obama Administration want to regulate content on the Internet???)1 vote#65.3 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 10:03 PM ESTgary f. maynardI am sorry for the deaths of the people killed but I find it humerous to some degree that the families of the deceased are blaming the government that they helped to install after deposing Muabarak.  There is not a single individual in Egypt who knows or understands what a democracy is or means.  Here in the US we have lost the meaning also.  This country was not designed to be a democracy it was meant to be a REPUBLIC and there is a great deal of difference between the two.  In a democracy, government is by the majority, in a republic government is by the consent of the governed in free and independant states.  The republic ended on April 15, 1865, when Lee surrendered to Grant at Appomattox.  The only way to get it back is through another revolution.2 votes#66 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:38 PM ESTRoadkillYep, we live in a representative (democratic) republic.#66.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:59 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitMr. Maynard, you make the same point Thomas Jefferson did in the Declaration.  However, do not advocate "another revolution" lightly.  625,000 soldiers died in the Civil War, and that was before nuclear weapons.
You might like Ken Burns' PBS series "The Civil War" on DVD where Shelby Foote, a historian from Memphis, brought a very human perspective to what it was like for half the country to decide it didn't want to be a part of the rest of the country.  Mel Gibson's portrayal of a South Carolinian in "The Patriot" brings the cost of war home as well.
I do agree with you that Mubarak's dictatorship has been replaced by Morsi's Islamist dictatorship, and the result is mass-bloodshed.  Hope we never see anything like that here...1 vote#66.2 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 10:14 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Dee TenIf you really want to f*ck with the Egyptians, send them about 500,000 liberals with no guns...when they saw the liberals they'd start laughing so hard it just might end the conflict...#67 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:46 PM ESTgary f. maynardFreedom, liberty, are the most expensive of of God's endowments to the human race.  It often requires the sweat, tears and blood of patriots to keep and maintain freedom.  No one is going to give you freedom you have to stand up and take it, by force if necessary.  I thank God for the generation of heroes that fought WW II.  Never before have so many sacrificed so much for a word, FREEDOM.  The only other time in our history was  in the period from 1861-1865.  9 million Southerners had had enough of the tyranny of the the 23 million Northerners, and decided to leave the Union. #68 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:48 PM ESTrmorrowgaWe have our own Morsi, congradulations to the people of Egypt who do something about it!2 votes#69 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:49 PM ESTchuck-3392754There you go O-Abomination,, Now you can aid and bed your Muslim brother HOODS, again with more military arms, F-16s and tanks.. You only see this deception starting to take place. Everyone claiming wars knowing that this criminal government of the USA will ARM them with military weapons and aid packages costing the tax payers billions, now trillions of dollars,, And all going to people who hate Americans and would use the weapons we supply in a second against our men and women. O-Abomination arming and bedding our enemies each time they cry wars, the rebels criminal gangsters just like O-Abomination and his minions.. One big gangster criminal Muslim brother hood party and this dictator O-Abomination getting right in the middle AGAIN with his Arms and weapons sales and investments into blood trophies to hole up in his hallelujahs 2 votes#70 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:50 PM ESTdrkangelPay attention America.  This sort of thing will be coming to America soon.  The great divider sitting in the white house will bring his arab spring to cities near you.  He has done everything he can to divide America where it comes to race, ecomony, freedom, religion, politics, social standards, constitutional, morals, financial, rights, etc.  He is hoping he can bring total civil unrest to America so he can declare martial law and declare himself the dictator/king of America.  This will be the beginning of a second civil war that will make the first one look like a day at Disney World.  Wake up!4 votes#71 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:52 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitPray that it won't come down that way.  PRAY HARD!#71.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 10:17 PM EST@!$%#_youi am davey,but praying will not bring us salvation, i fear drkangel is right. our only way out of this mess is IF everyone votes against the incumbent and we put all new people in office,sorry to say that will NEVER HAPPEN.#71.2 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:34 AM ESTATPnNWOits just sick that obama has given morsi (the muslim brotherhood) jets and tanks to kill the citizens of Egypt.
If obama could arm morsi to do this, just what do you think obama has in mind here?4 votes#72 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:53 PM ESTopenuriznowWow!  The picture of democracy! NOT!!  You can not allow a terrorist organization to rule a country and expect that democracy will be their form of government!!!!!  America, please hold back the following items, money, weapons, parts for those weapons, and any major equipment to be used to attack people or other countries!!!2 votes#73 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 7:59 PM ESTCastlerokWell... let's look at the strategy:
Step 1:  Get rid of a very cooperative, quasi-American Puppet like Hosni Mubarek.
Step 2:  Quietly support the rise to power of the Muslim Brotherhood - who supports Sharia law. 
Now there's violence, hangings, women being oppressed, "anti-government violence" (read - people trying to establish democracay)...
Now THAT was hard to predict.  Same thing happening in Libya. 
Now Come ON!!  Really?  I mean Really?  ANY of you still think Obama's foreign policy is worth a pooty?4 votes#74 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:00 PM EST@!$%#_younot really,wonder why he supported the overthrow of two of our "allies" after our leaving iraq?#74.1 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:42 AM ESTJ.A-522495there was plenty in the Obama background to warn our citizens about how radical Obama is and always has been. We now have a media that totally supports that radicalism while keeping the facts from being openly discussed. Every element of Obamas radicalism is trivialized and poo pood into oblivion. I believe that Obama feels that he is really significant in the world picture if he can keep the world stirred up. The status of our country is of little importance to him when he feels that he leads on the world stage and that there is enough chaos. Another poster asked if we thought that Obamas wife was now proud of our country... I suggest that as long as the liberals and their media admire him without question and the level of world chaos exists, that she must be extremely happy.#74.2 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 10:52 AM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Marcus D-4300696Barack Obama - Wearing his pants "easy access"
Such an idiot - sending fighter jets and hundreds of tanks to the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt - even after the $450 million he sent them last year - and after their people were throwing shoes and tomatoes at Hillary
We know who's driving this Crazy Clown Car - Barack with Chuckles Biden riding shotgun - and Hillary in the back seat reading the map - giving directions
"What difference at this point does it make?" 
Incompetence and failure - leading by excuses and using the Bush BandAid for cover - pathetic and sad2 votes#75 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:04 PM ESTYoussef G. Sobhi
Encouraging this Muslim brotherhood to control the Arabicspring is a huge mistake from the US government, there will be no peace withShari law, when Mr. Obama weak up and stop supporting who wants to kill us...itis time to communicate with the Egyptian young revolutionists the real deal notMuslim fanatic …we must try to win the people of Egypt by understanding the newchanges in the area not been stupid and have someone like Hilary Clinton as ourrepresentative and she is not capable of communication at all and have the sameold mistakes.2 votes#76 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:04 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitMr. Sobhi, thank you, Shokran, for your courage in speaking out.  I had a roommate for two years who was born in Cairo, and his family came here when he was young.
It is not for us in the States to dictate policy to the Egyptian people, but I do hope we DO NOT make things worse by stirring the pot.
Yes, sadly, we do tend to make the same old mistakes.  May you and your family find safety, peace and prosperity here.1 vote#76.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 10:29 PM EST@!$%#_yousobhi- i am embarrassed our goverment interfered with your country and aided these people,good luck in your new revolution.hopefully we stay out of YOUR BUSINESS.2 votes#76.2 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:45 AM ESTdrjillThank you Youssef for your post. And for the two other responses to it. I live in Heliopolis and I agree with you. The best we can do as Americans is to leave it up to the Egyptians. I have more faith in the Egyptian people than I do in the American Embassy staff (The American there are HORRIBLE!!!) I have written articles about them. I feel safe and have since 1997.
Please be assured that H. H. Pope Tadros and the Sheik of the Grand Mosque are doing what they can to help the young revolutionaries and communication.
I would like to think that the intervening countries mean well, they just do not understand the entire situation or the Egyptian culture.
In kind regards,#76.3 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 8:08 PM ESTRoadkillI bet the Muslim Brotherhood wants prayer in school!#77 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:20 PM ESTDaveyJonesDetroitWell, Stalin didn't, and look what he accomplished for his people!  Let's see, an economy and environment that still have yet to recover 60 years after his death.  50,000 soldiers killed on the mere SUSPICION of disloyalty.  20 - 25 MILLION of his own people variously shot, starved, diseased, exiled or worked to death.  Great Job, Uncle Joe!
Yep, eliminating prayer in school really helped the Russians.  Maybe it'll work here--Newtown CT massacre of the innocents, anyone?  This a couple of miles down the road from Danbury, where in a past age, the Danbury Baptist Association petitioned President Thomas Jefferson for religious freedom.  "We've come a long way, Baby!"
As in Cairo, as in the U.S.--Elections have consequencces...#77.1 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 10:23 PM ESTATPnNWOlook it up people
The Muslim Brotherhood and The U.S. Department of Education.
THEY ARE COMING!!!#78 - Sun Jan 27, 2013 8:23 PM ESTJump to discussion page: 1 2 3 4 5Leave a Comment:Name: Email Address (will be verified, but never shown): You're in Easy Mode. If you prefer, you can use XHTML Mode instead.You're in XHTML Mode. If you prefer, you can use Easy Mode instead.(XHTML tags allowed - a,b,blockquote,br,code,dd,dl,dt,del,em,h2,h3,h4,i,ins,li,ol,p,pre,q,strong,ul)


Post to my Facebook Wall

Newsvine Privacy StatementAs a new user, you may notice a few temporary content restrictions. Click here for more info.





Most popular postsolder5daysagoPolice: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 233newer5daysagoTens of thousands march in support of gay marriage in ParisMost popular posts628Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 2335daysago82'Not survivable': Wreckage of missing Antarctica plane found, rescuers say7daysago416Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues4daysago1889US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack4hoursago498At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict6daysago



Browsefeatured, world-news, syria, china, europe, afghanistan, middle-east, israel, egypt, pakistan, iran, uk, world, london, russia, africa, protest, environment, military, al-qaida, assad, britain, france, taliban, north-korea, asia, india, terrorism, japan, germany, economy, crime, human-rights, weather, mexico, libya, security, nuclear, italy

Also

Advertise | AdChoices 



 







Archives2013February (11)January (323)2012December (332)November (332)October (313)September (360)August (362)July (310)June (351)May (427)April (404)March (427)February (347)January (284)2011December (357)November (3)Most CommentedUS Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack (1890)Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 233 (628)At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict (498)UN panel's report: Israel must withdraw all settlers from West Bank (463)Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues (416)Zimbabwe checks its bank balance, finds only $217 (256)At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion (224)Other blogsThe Body OddCosmic LogRed Tape ChroniclesPhotoBlogGadgetboxTechnologUS NewsOpen ChannelInGame top stories

3147,10



© 2013 NBCNews.com


World news on NBCNews.com 

About us


Contact


Help


Site map


Careers


Closed captioning


Terms & Conditions






Privacy policy


Advertise
 








