BBC News - Oscars: Silver Linings surprise contender, while Lincoln dominates


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Entertainment & Arts







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















10 January 2013
Last updated at 11:45 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Oscars: Silver Linings surprise contender, while Lincoln dominates
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper have both been nominated for Silver Linings Playbook




Continue reading the main story


OSCARS 2013


Oscars 2013: Full list of nominees


Director defends Zero Dark Thirty 


Tarantino's Django in firing line


Academy's snubs and surprises



 Silver Linings Playbook has become the first film to win Oscar nominations in all four acting categories for more than 30 years.
The comedy drama, starring Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper, received eight nominations in total.
Steven Spielberg's drama Lincoln dominated the shortlist with 12, while Ang Lee's Life of Pi picked up 11.
Nine films vie for the best picture award including action thriller Zero Dark Thirty, Argo and Les Miserables.
The musical, which takes its lead from Victor Hugo's historical novel set during the Paris uprising, received eight nominations in total - including nods for stars Hugh Jackman and Anne Hathaway. 
Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained, Beasts of the Southern Wild and French language film Amour complete the list of best picture contenders.


Quvenzhane Wallis was just six when she filmed Beasts of the Southern Wild

Tarantino told the BBC that Django Unchained, a western which sees Jamie Foxx as a freed slave on a mission to rescue his wife from a Mississippi plantation owner, would not win best picture, but said "it's nice to be invited to the party".
The ceremony will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles on 24 February.
Emmanuelle Riva and Quvenzhane Wallis are the oldest and youngest nominees in the best actress category at the age of 85 and nine respectively.
Wallis, who was picked from obscurity to play the lead in Benh Zeitlin's Sundance winner Beasts of the Southern Wild, was just six when she took the role of a young girl stranded by rising waters and tending to a sick father in a remote corner of Louisiana.
Riva, a respected film actress in France, plays a retired music teacher afflicted by a stroke in Michael Haneke's Amour, which won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival last year.

Continue reading the main story Silver Linings, Glad Tidings


Romantic comedy Silver Linings Playbook has eight nominations, four of them in each of the four acting categories.
The last film to achieve this feat was Reds in 1982, which earned nods for Warren Beatty, Diane Keaton, Jack Nicholson and Maureen Stapleton.
Stapleton, who played the real-life anarchist Emma Goldman in the film, was the only one of the four to win an Oscar for acting.
Yet Beatty did not leave empty handed, taking home an award for directing this sprawling epic about the Russian revolution of 1917.

 As well as both films appearing in the best film nominations, Haneke and newcomer Zeitlin won nominations in the best director category.
They will face competition from Spielberg, Ang Lee and Silver Linings Playbook's David O Russell.
But there was no nomination for Zero Dark Thirty's Kathryn Bigelow, who was named best director by the National Board of Review in the autumn and had been considered a frontrunner following nominations at the Baftas and the Golden Globes.
Bigelow became the first woman to win the best director Oscar with The Hurt Locker at the Academy Awards in 2010.
Tarantino also failed to secure a best director nomination. He told the BBC "it bites a little bit, but I got it from Bafta" - referring to his success in the Bafta nominations earlier this week.
Britain's Tom Hooper - who was named best director for The King's Speech in 2011 - was also snubbed, for his work on Les Miserables.

Continue reading the main story Oscars 2013: Main contenders 





Lincoln (pictured) - 12 nominations
Life of Pi - 11 nominations
Les Miserables - 8 nominations
Silver Linings Playbook - 8 nominations
Argo - 7 nominations

 "It was a complete shock," said Working Title's Eric Fellner. "But not just for Tom, but also for Kathryn Bigelow for Zero Dark Thirty and Ben Affleck for Argo."
Prior to the nominations it had been suggested that Skyfall might become the first James Bond film to win a best picture nod.
But the film was not shortlisted in any of the major categories, despite receiving Bafta nominations for Dame Judi Dench and Javier Bardem earlier this week.
"That's a great, great pity," Dame Judi told BBC Radio 4. "I thought Sam Mendes directed it absolutely beautifully. I thought it was a wonderful story, and I thought it was very exciting."
However, Adele did win a place on the best song shortlist and said she felt "like Meryl Streep", while the film received a further four nominations in the technical categories. 
Aside from Riva and Wallis, the best actress category is completed by Jennifer Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook, Naomi Watts in The Impossible and Jessica Chastain, who plays a CIA agent hunting Osama Bin Laden in Zero Dark Thirty.
Watts is the only nomination for The Impossible, the real-life story of a family caught up in the devastating 2004 tsunami. The actress said she was "truly honoured". 
"I am so thrilled and humbled with this morning's wonderful news," she said. "The journey of telling Maria Belon's miraculous story of survival has been an incredible experience." 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Quentin Tarantino spoke to the BBC after finding out about the nominations.



 Previous Oscar winner Dame Helen Mirren missed out on a best actress nomination for Hitchcock, which leaves Daniel Day-Lewis as the key British hope at this year's ceremony.
The 55-year-old is currently the bookmakers' favourite to win the best actor award for his role as US president Abraham Lincoln.
Should he win he will become the first actor to win the best actor honour three times, after earlier triumphs with There Will Be Blood (2008) and My Left Foot (1989).
Bradley Cooper, best known for the Hangover films, is among his competition, which also includes Hugh Jackman for Les Miserables, Joaquin Phoenix in Paul Thomas Anderson's cult drama The Master and former winner Denzel Washington, as an alcoholic pilot in Flight.
There were no British contenders in the supporting categories. All five supporting actors, including Silver Linings' Robert De Niro, Argo's Alan Arkin, Philip Seymour Hoffman in The Master, Christoph Waltz in Django Unchained and Lincoln's Tommy Lee Jones, have won Oscars previously.
Anne Hathaway leads the supporting actress category for her role as the tragic Fantine, with competition from Amy Adams in The Master, Sally Field in Lincoln,  Helen Hunt in The Sessions and Australia's Jacki Weaver in Silver Linings Playbook.


Life of Pi did not receive any nominations for its acting

Animated film The Pirates! Band of Misfits (also known as The Pirates! In An Adventure with Scientists!) may also bring British success for Aardman Animations - of Wallace and Gromit fame - who have previously won four Oscars.
Producer Peter Lord called the nomination "amazing". "We tried to do something a little different with The Pirates!, in terms of tone and comedy, and it's just brilliant that the Academy has responded to it in such a wonderful way."
The Oscars ceremony, which will feature a tribute to 50 years of the James Bond movie franchise, will be hosted by Seth MacFarlane, who created the animated series Family Guy. 
The star, who is hosting for the first time, also secured an Oscar nomination on Thursday for best song, having written the lyrics for Everybody Needs A Best Friend from the movie Ted.

 



More on This Story


OSCARS 2013
	      






Oscars 2013: Full list of nominees

The nominees for the 2013 Academy Awards have been revealed. Find out who is up for an Oscar here.







Latest news



Director defends Zero Dark Thirty 




Tarantino's Django in firing line




Academy's snubs and surprises




In pictures: Best film nominees




Dench: Skyfall omission 'a pity'




Globes confirm Oscar favourites




Oscars ceremony to salute Bond




Seth MacFarlane to host ceremony







Nominee profiles



Best picture




Best actor




Best actress




Best supporting actor




Best supporting actress




Best director







Audio and video



What's the truth in film-making? Watch

Three of the films up for a best picture Oscar this year Lincoln, Zero Dark Thirty and Argo are films based on true stories and real personalities.




Watch the nominations Watch




What you need to know Watch




Long films and bladder strength Watch




Waltz 'overwhelmed' by nod Watch









Related Internet links


Oscars.com



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 220       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 120.  MoneyMaster  10th January 2013 - 15:54   This is How the Story Goes..Since her Independence with Britain..US States had Plantation Which Would not Free Servants Bound to By Slave Trade but Only South of Mason/Dixon Line..But in the North there were Free Men -No Slaves at all.MeanWhile Abolitionist Campaign To Free Slaves With even African Congressman in Certain States Ask Lincoln.BTW.Lincoln was Assasinated For Greenbacks Not Slave but $    Report this comment (Comment number 120) Link to this (Comment number 120)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 119.  andyd  10th January 2013 - 15:53   Typical of the Oscars, which are more about hype, advertising, brown-nosing and sticking to what they know, than actually deciding nominations based on who/what is actually best.They will always pick some of the best in each category, but more often than not they overlook genius if the film isn't produced by, or starring a 'name', it's only looking back 10 years later that anyone notices.    Report this comment (Comment number 119) Link to this (Comment number 119)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 118.  Chris   10th January 2013 - 15:53   BGI think that we should accept that the Brits were very bad people who did lots of horrible things. America on the other hand has behaved in an exemplary fashion most of the time, excepting civil rights, treatment of indiginous populations, gub control etc. They should be made the World Police. Another film that was not nominated - strangely.    Report this comment (Comment number 118) Link to this (Comment number 118)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 117.  PragueImp  10th January 2013 - 15:52   Amazing! Les Miserables is a truly terrible film!! The Oscars have lost what little credibility they had left!    Report this comment (Comment number 117) Link to this (Comment number 117)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 116.  Ian22   10th January 2013 - 15:51   I'm just finding the Oscars less interesting or exciting each year. They should make a movie called Yawnsville.... about the fact that actors swim in the money we give them, whilst millions of people are starving around the world. I used to love watching movies, but now I just wait till they come out in dvd bargain bins. How much is a movie ticket these days ???    Report this comment (Comment number 116) Link to this (Comment number 116)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 115.  grouting tiles  10th January 2013 - 15:50   I thought Skyfall would definitely get a nod in the cinematography category.    Report this comment (Comment number 115) Link to this (Comment number 115)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 114.  CappyC  10th January 2013 - 15:49   @ 77. BeyondGeniusI do not think I have ever seen anyone slated as much as you on BBC.co.uk, you must actually The Worst.    Report this comment (Comment number 114) Link to this (Comment number 114)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 113.  AndyC555  10th January 2013 - 15:45   #102 "Lincoln wrote in 1962"1862 of course!  a typo    Report this comment (Comment number 113) Link to this (Comment number 113)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 112.  Mooker  10th January 2013 - 15:44   The country is falling apart as the seams and here we have these lovelys running about patting each other on the back for doing their job.Stinks    Report this comment (Comment number 112) Link to this (Comment number 112)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 111.  BPMKent  10th January 2013 - 15:44   That BeyondGenius chap seems a little upset.    Report this comment (Comment number 111) Link to this (Comment number 111)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 110.  joe  10th January 2013 - 15:42   Being a Brummie like Tolkien, I wanted to see The Hobbit shortlisted somewhere, so much of what we see- inspired by scenery on my doorstep- which Jackson has brought so well to life- really surprised!    Report this comment (Comment number 110) Link to this (Comment number 110)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 109.  foxyeric  10th January 2013 - 15:42   will Brad pitt win an award for chanel add?    Report this comment (Comment number 109) Link to this (Comment number 109)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 108.  IfImay  10th January 2013 - 15:41   86. Shawn 14 MINUTES AGO Hate to tell you, but pyramids were built by contracted labour..  its the exodus story etc that is the fairy tale... not saying no slaves used, but in general hired Egyptian labour   And Lincoln only abolished slavery in the areas under the confederate forces.. not the entire USA, he did not have that power.    Report this comment (Comment number 108) Link to this (Comment number 108)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 107.  ichabod  10th January 2013 - 15:39   Very suspicious when a few films get lots of nominations.Seems an incredible fluke if the best work in lots of categories all just happen to be in the same film.Smacks more of laziness among the nominators and voters than inherent excellence.Disappointing.    Report this comment (Comment number 107) Link to this (Comment number 107)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 106.  Perpetual Sigh  10th January 2013 - 15:38   What an achievement it will be if Daniel Day-Lewis wins his third Best Actor award this year. He'd be the first man to do it, which would be especially impressive since he's English/Irish in an Awards ceremony that tends to lean towards West Coast mainstays.    Report this comment (Comment number 106) Link to this (Comment number 106)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 105.  Barbara RDavis  Comment number 105 is an Editors' Pick 10th January 2013 - 15:37   The nominations excluded one of the best films of the year: "Anna Karenina" (Best Picture), and, Kiera Knightley, Best Actress, Joe Wright, Best Director, and Seamus McGarvey Best Cinematography. "Skyfall", too, was an omission in the Best Picture category.    Report this comment (Comment number 105) Link to this (Comment number 105)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 104.  rod3mc  10th January 2013 - 15:36   @ 87. BeyondGenius Actually it was the Dutch. You're on fire today aren't you?????You should take AndyC555's advice and be quiet to prevent yourself looking foolish.    Report this comment (Comment number 104) Link to this (Comment number 104)     Comment number 103.  Removed  10th January 2013 - 15:36    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 103) Link to this (Comment number 103)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 102.  AndyC555  10th January 2013 - 15:35   BeyondGenius - before you get too excited about Lincoln and slavery, here's a quote from a letter Lincoln wrote in 1962.  Guess you don't really know what you're talking about..."If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it, and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that."    Report this comment (Comment number 102) Link to this (Comment number 102)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 101.  Nemesis65  10th January 2013 - 15:33   91. AndyC555 I often disagree with your comments but here you are spot on. The Dutch did indeed bring slavery to what is now the USA first, way before us Brits.    Report this comment (Comment number 101) Link to this (Comment number 101)         Page 6 of 11    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 ... 11 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Entertainment & Arts stories
RSS




Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show

Beyonce wows audiences and critics with her live half-time performance at the Super Bowl in New Orleans.



Bolshoi director leaves hospital




'New material' on Fleetwood Mac tour












Top stories



French jets target Mali rebel bases


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Match played in England 'fixed'


Charges over US sniper's murder


Spain's Rajoy pledges to battle on









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: Malala: 'I am getting better'



5: The bloody last moments of a king



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The bloody last moments of a king



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: What happens at an atheist church?



6: Charges over US sniper's murder



7: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



8: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



9: Killer Dutroux asks to be freed



10: French target Mali rebel bases



Video/Audio




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



4: Earth's close brush with asteroid Watch



5: Alabama hostage stand-off continues Watch



6: 'God has given me a second life' Watch



7: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



8: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



9: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



10: Dolphin 'asks divers for help' Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





