2014 World Cup





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/2014 world cup 
2014 World Cup 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page
















Videos
Video Details

Images


Wiki
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

history


















2014 World Cup






2014 World Cup



2014 FIFA World Cup
World Cup
Robin van Persie
Jonathan dos Santos


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
People
Places
Video Suggestions




WN Shopping


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                






































..." width="225" height="168" class="playvideo1 gotop"  onClick="activateTab('playlist1'); return false" style="display: block;" />
          
























Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...










Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME





Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









1934 FIFA World Cup
1938 FIFA World Cup
1950 FIFA World Cup
1954 FIFA World Cup
1958 FIFA World Cup
1962 FIFA World Cup
1966 FIFA World Cup
1970 FIFA World Cup
1974 FIFA World Cup
1978 FIFA World Cup
1982 FIFA World Cup
1986 FIFA World Cup
1990 FIFA World Cup
1994 FIFA World Cup
1998 FIFA World Cup
2002 FIFA World Cup
2006 FIFA World Cup
2010 FIFA World Cup
2014 FIFA World Cup
2016 Olympic Games
2018 FIFA World Cup
2022 FIFA World Cup
AFC Ajax
AFC Asian Cup
Amsterdam Arena
Antarctica
Anti
Anti-terrorism
Arena Amazônia
Arena Cidade da Copa
Arena da Baixada
Arena das Dunas
Arena Fonte Nova
Arena Pantanal
Association football
Bahia Arena
Barra da Tijuca
Belo Horizonte
Belo Horizonte Metro
Belém
BNDES
Bomb
Brasilia
Brasília
Brasília Metro
Brazil
Brazilian art
Brazilian Carnival
Brazilian cuisine
Brazilian government
Brazilian literature
Brazilian painting
Brazilian people
Brazilian police
Brazilian real
Brazilian sculpture
Brazilians
Campo Grande
CARIFTA Games
Castelão (Ceará)
Category Brazil
Cinema of Brazil
City council
Climate of Brazil
Coastline of Brazil
Colonial Brazil
CONCACAF
CONCACAF Gold Cup
CONMEBOL
Copa América
Corinthians
CPTM
Crime in Brazil
Cuiabá
Culture of Brazil
Curitiba
Database
Dilma Rouseff
Disability
Economy of Brazil
Education in Brazil
Elections in Brazil
Empire of Brazil
Equator
Estádio Beira-Rio
Estádio do Maracanã
Estádio do Morumbi
Facepalm
Facial
Fan (person)
Festival
FIFA
FIFA Ballon d'Or
FIFA U-17 World Cup
FIFA U-20 World Cup
FIFA World Cup
FIFA World Cup hosts
FIFA World Ranking
FIFA World Rankings
Final (competition)
Florianópolis
Foreign languages
Fortaleza
Fortaleza Metro
Geography of Brazil
Geraldo Alckmin
Gilberto Kassab
Gisele Bündchen
Glasses
Goiânia
Good (economics)
Government of Brazil
Greater São Paulo
Health in Brazil
History of Brazil
Homophobia
Image
Industry in Brazil
Infraero
Interpol
Ivete Sangalo
Johannesburg
Jérôme Valcke
Languages of Brazil
Law of Brazil
Light rail
Local ordinance
Maceió
Manaus
Maracanã (stadium)
Marina da Glória
Mesoregion (Brazil)
Microregion (Brazil)
Mineirão
Monorail
Multi-sport event
Music of Brazil
N.F.-Board
North Region, Brazil
Odebrecht
OFC Nations Cup
Olinda
Opening ceremony
Oscar Niemeyer
Passenger
Paulo Coelho
Pelé
Politics of Brazil
Portal Brazil
Porto Alegre
President of Brazil
Private sector
Public safety
Quinta da Boa Vista
Racism in Brazil
Rapid transit
Recife
Recife Metro
Regions of Brazil
Religion in Brazil
República Velha
Ricardo Teixeira
Rio 2
Rio Branco
Rio de Janeiro
Rio de Janeiro Metro
Robot
Salvador Metro
Salvador, Bahia
Seating capacity
Sepp Blatter
South Region, Brazil
Southern Hemisphere
Southern hemisphere
Sport in Brazil
States of Brazil
Sustainability
São Paulo
São Paulo Metro
Tax break
Tijuca
Time in Brazil
Tourism in Brazil
Transport in Brazil
Trensurb
UEFA
UTC−03
Vargas Era
Visa (document)
Viva World Cup
Wikipedia Link rot
Wildlife of Brazil
Zurich
Zürich














Antarctica

Antarctica
This map uses an orthographic projection, near-polar aspect. The South Pole is near the center, where longitudinal lines converge.

Antarctica (i/æntˈɑrtɨkə/ or /ænˈtɑːktɨkə/) is Earth's southernmost continent, containing the geographic South Pole. It is situated in the Antarctic region of the Southern Hemisphere, almost entirely south of the Antarctic Circle, and is surrounded by the Southern Ocean. At 14.0 million km2 (5.4 million sq mi), it is the fifth-largest continent in area after Asia, Africa, North America, and South America. For comparison, Antarctica is nearly twice the size of Australia. About 98% of Antarctica is covered by ice that averages at least 1 mile (1.6 km) in thickness.

Antarctica, on average, is the coldest, driest, and windiest continent, and has the highest average elevation of all the continents. Antarctica is considered a desert, with annual precipitation of only 200 mm (8 inches) along the coast and far less inland. The temperature in Antarctica has reached −89 °C (−129 °F). There are no permanent human residents, but anywhere from 1,000 to 5,000 people reside throughout the year at the research stations scattered across the continent. Only cold-adapted organisms survive there, including many types of algae, animals (for example mites, nematodes, penguins, seals and tardigrades), bacteria, fungi, plants, and protista. Vegetation where it occurs is tundra.

wn.com/Antarctica





Arena Cidade da Copa

                            Arena Cidade da Copa or Arena Pernambuco is a new multi-use stadium in Recife metropolitan area, Brazil, that is currently in the building stages. Once completed, it will be used mostly for football matches and will be used to host matches during the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The stadium will have a capacity of 46,160 people. It was bought by Nautico Capibaribe Sport Club.

Time Line

March 2012 - 32% ready.

February 2012 - 30% ready.

January 2012 - 25% ready.
External Link www.odebrechtnacopa.com.br
Coordinates: 8°2′24″S 35°00′29″W﻿ / ﻿8.04°S 35.00806°W﻿ / -8.04; -35.00806

wn.com/Arena_Cidade_da_Copa





Arena da Baixada

                            Estádio Joaquim Américo Guimarães, commonly referred to as Arena da Baixada (Portuguese pronunciation: [aˈɾẽnɐ dɐ bajˈʃadɐ]), is a football stadium in the Água Verde neighborhood of Curitiba, Paraná. Opened in 1914, it is the home field of Atlético Paranaense, who also owns and operates the stadium. The stadium will be one of the host venues for the 2014 FIFA World Cup.

The stadium was built at the previous location of a Brazilian Army powder depot. In 1934, the stadium was renamed Estádio Joaquim Américo Guimarães. In the 1970s, the original stadium was closed down. After being reopened in 1984 and operating for some years, the old stadium building was demolished on March 26,1997, right after a construction project of a new arena was announced. In June 1999, the new stadium was built. In 2005, the stadium was renamed Kyocera Arena, after the Japanese company Kyocera purchased the naming rights.

The inaugural match of the old stadium was played on September 6, 1914, when Flamengo beat Internacional 7–1. The first goal of the stadium was scored by Flamengo's Arnaldo.

wn.com/Arena_da_Baixada




Arena das Dunas

                            The Arena das Dunas or Dunas Arena (lit. "Dunes Arena") is a football stadium designed by Populous (formerly HOK Sport) and that its construction will start in January 2011 to host football matches for the 2014 FIFA World Cup which will be held in Brazil. Is being built in the city of Natal in the capital of Rio Grande do Norte Brazilian state. The stadium is due to be built in place of the Machadão stadium the Machadinho gym, whose buildings will be demolished in 2011.

This project replaces the old project called "Estádio Estrela dos Reis Magos" that would be located in the neighboring municipality of Parnamirim. In the new project, the stadium will have capacity for 45 thousand people. A shopping center and commercial buildings, hotels of international standard and an artificial lake around the stadium will be built..

The stadium is going to be located by the Senador Salgado Filho Avenue (BR-101 highway), a multi-lane road already served by the Complexo Viário do Quarto Centenário (Fourth Centennial Complex road). The project was one of the most praised by inspectors from FIFA.

wn.com/Arena_das_Dunas




Arena Pantanal

                            Arena Pantanal is a new multi-use stadium in Cuiabá, Brazil, that is currently in the planning stages. Once completed in 2012, it will be used mostly for football matches and will be used to host matches during the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The stadium will have a capacity of 42,500 people. It will replace the Verdão.
Coordinates: 15°36′11″S 56°07′14″W﻿ / ﻿15.60306°S 56.12056°W﻿ / -15.60306; -56.12056

wn.com/Arena_Pantanal





Barra da Tijuca

Coordinates: 22°59′57.84″S 43°21′56.75″W﻿ / ﻿22.9994°S 43.3657639°W﻿ / -22.9994; -43.3657639 Barra da Tijuca is a famous borough in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, located southwest of the city on the Atlantic Ocean. Barra, as it is popularly known, will have most of the venues of the 2016 Summer Olympics, which will be the first edition held in South America. Barra is well known for its beaches and its uncountable lakes and rivers. Barra da Tijuca is also the name of the economic center of the borough, the neighborhood of Barra da Tijuca, classified as one of the richest places in the country and based on the 2010 Brazil Census, it has the highest HDI (0.970) in Brazil. It is believed to be the safest of Rio's upper class neighborhoods due to its lack of favelas and plentiful private and public security. With large mansions and luxury condominiums, Barra da Tijuca is well known for being the home of celebrities, soccer stars and the Brazilian elite society.

Barra da Tijuca is divided into eight municipal districts (officially neighbourhoods): Barra da Tijuca neighborhood, Recreio dos Bandeirantes, Vargem Pequena, Vargem Grande, Camorim, Grumari, Joá, and Itanhangá. Its total area is 165.59 km². Those born in Barra da Tijuca, or those who live there, are called Barristas.

wn.com/Barra_da_Tijuca





Belo Horizonte

                            Belo Horizonte (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˌbɛloɾiˈzõtʃi],Beautiful Horizon) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, located in the southeastern region of the country. It is the third largest metropolitan area in the country. Belo Horizonte (also known as "Belô", "Beagá", or "BH") has a population of 2,475,440 inhabitants (2010) in the city and 5,497,922 people in the official Metropolitan Area (2010).

The region was first settled in the early 18th century, but the city as it is known today was planned and constructed in the 1890s, in order to replace Ouro Preto as the capital of Minas Gerais. The city features a mixture of contemporary and classical buildings, and is home to several modern Brazilian architectural icons, most notably the Pampulha Complex. In planning the city, Aarão Reis and Francisco Bicalho sought inspiration in the urban planning of Washington, D.C. The city has employed notable programs in urban revitalization and food security, for which it has been awarded international accolades.

wn.com/Belo_Horizonte





Belém

                            Belém (literally "Bethlehem") is a Brazilian city, the capital and largest city of state of Pará, in the country's north region. It is the entrance gate to the Amazon with a busy port, airport and bus/coach station. Belém lies approximately 100 km upriver from the Atlantic Ocean, on the Pará River, which is part of the greater Amazon River system, separated from the larger part of the Amazon delta by Ilha de Marajó (Marajo Island). With an estimated population of 1,402,056 people — 2,249,405, or considering its metropolitan area — is the 11th most populous city in Brazil (besides being the second largest in the North Region, second only Manaus, in Amazonas state) as well as be the 16th by economic relevance.

Founded in 1616 by the Kingdom of Portugal, Belém was the first European colony on the Amazon but did not become part of Brazil until 1775. The newer part of the city has modern buildings and skyscrapers. The colonial portion retains the charm of tree-filled squares, churches and traditional blue tiles. The city has a rich history and architecture from colonial times. Recently it witnessed a skyscraper boom. Its metropolitan area has over 2 million inhabitants.

wn.com/Belém





Brasília

                            Brasília (pronounced [bɾaˈziʎɐ] nationwide, in both colloquial and educated speech) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city is located in the Federal District, and is in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,562,963 (3,716,996 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site UNESCO.

As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.

wn.com/Brasília





Brazil

                            Brazil i/brəˈzɪl/ (Portuguese: Brasil, IPA: [bɾaˈziw]), officially the Federative Republic of Brazil (Portuguese: República Federativa do Brasil,  listen (help·info)), is the largest country in South America. It is the world's fifth largest country, both by geographical area and by population with over 192 million people. It is the only Portuguese-speaking country in the Americas and the largest lusophone country in the world.

Bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of 7,491 km (4,655 mi). It is bordered on the north by Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and the French overseas region of French Guiana; on the northwest by Colombia; on the west by Bolivia and Peru; on the southwest by Argentina and Paraguay and on the south by Uruguay. Numerous archipelagos form part of Brazilian territory, such as Fernando de Noronha, Rocas Atoll, Saint Peter and Paul Rocks, and Trindade and Martim Vaz. It borders all other South American countries except Ecuador and Chile.

Brazil was a colony of Portugal from the landing of Pedro Álvares Cabral in 1500 until 1815, when it was elevated to the rank of kingdom and the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves was formed. The colonial bond was in fact broken in 1808, when the capital of the Portuguese colonial empire was transferred from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro, after Napoleon invaded Portugal.Independence was achieved in 1822 with the formation of the Empire of Brazil, a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system. The country became a presidential republic in 1889, when a military coup d'état proclaimed the Republic, although the bicameral legislature, now called Congress, dates back to the ratification of the first constitution in 1824. Its current Constitution, formulated in 1988, defines Brazil as a Federal Republic. The Federation is formed by the union of the Federal District, the 26 States, and the 5,564 Municipalities.

wn.com/Brazil





Campo Grande

Coordinates: 20°27′44″S 54°36′40″W﻿ / ﻿20.46222°S 54.61111°W﻿ / -20.46222; -54.61111

Campo Grande (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈkɐ̃pu ˈɡɾɐ̃dʒi], Great Field) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul in the Center-West region of the country. The city is nicknamed Cidade Morena ("Swarthy City" in Portuguese) because of the reddish-brown colour of the region's soil. It has a population of 796,252, according to a 2011 IBGE estimate, while its metropolitan area is home to 991,420 people (2010).[citation needed]

The region where the city is located was in the past a waypoint for travellers who wanted to go from São Paulo or Minas Gerais to northern Mato Grosso by land. In the early 1900s a railway was completed connecting Campo Grande to Corumbá, on the Bolivian border, and to Bauru, São Paulo. Also in the beginning of the 20th century, the Western Brazilian Army Headquarters was established in Campo Grande, making it an important military center.

With a population growth from 140,000 people in 1970 to 750,000 people in 2008, Campo Grande is the third largest urban center of the Center-West region, and the 23rd largest city in the country. In 1977, the State of Mato Grosso was split into two, and Campo Grande became the capital of the new state of Mato Grosso do Sul, comprising the southern portion of the former state. By that time, Campo Grande had long surpassed the latter's capital city of Cuiabá in population, which is unusual in Brazil, where most capitals are also the states' largest cities.

wn.com/Campo_Grande





Colonial Brazil

                            The Viceroyalty of Brazil (Portuguese: Vice-Reino do Brasil) comprises the period from 1500, with the arrival of the Portuguese, until 1815, when Brazil was elevated to kingdom alongside Portugal as the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves.

During the over 300 years of Brazilian colonial history, the economic exploration of the territory was based first on brazilwood extraction (16th century), sugar production (16th–18th centuries), and finally on gold and diamond mining (18th century). Slaves, especially those brought from Africa, provided most of the working force of Brazilian economy.

In contrast to the neighbouring fragmented Spanish possessions, the Portuguese colony, built up by the Portuguese in Latin America, kept its territorial unity and linguistic integrity after the independence, giving rise to the largest country in the region.
Portugal and Spain pioneered the European discovery of sea routes that were the first channels of interaction between all of the World's continents, thus beginning the process of globalization. In addition to the adventurous undertaking of discovery and colonization of far off lands, these years were filled with pronounced advancements in cartography, shipbuilding and navigational instruments, from which the Portuguese and Spanish explorers took advantage.

wn.com/Colonial_Brazil





Cuiabá

                            Cuiabá (Portuguese pronunciation: [kujaˈba]) is the capital city of the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso. It is located in the exact centre of South America and forms the metropolitan area of the state, along with the neighbouring town of Várzea Grande.

The name is of obscure South American Indian origin, reportedly meaning "arrow-fishing", and alludes to the Bororo custom of using arrows to fish. Another version says that there was an Indian tribe called Ykuiapá. Others say that, while a Portuguese man was once taking a bath in the river using a kind of plate made with half a coconut (named cuia), the stream carried it away, prompting the man to exclaim "Cuia ba" (something like "the cuia is gone"). Cuiabá is the largest centre for tourism, business, agribusiness, trade, and culture in Mato Grosso.

The new Marechal Rondon International Airport connects Cuiabá with many Brazilian cities and also operates some international flights.

The city is home to the Federal University of Mato Grosso.

Cuiabá was founded on January 1, 1727 by Rodrigo César de Menezes, then the "captain" of the captaincy of São Paulo in the aftermath of the discovery of gold mines. It was given township status in 1818 and became the capital in 1835.

wn.com/Cuiabá





Curitiba

                            Curitiba (Tupi: "Pine Nut Land", Portuguese pronunciation: [kuɾiˈtibɐ] or [kuɾiˈtʃibɐ]) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Paraná. The city's population numbers approximately 1.75 million people, making it the 8th most populous in the country, and the largest in the Brazil's South Region. Its metropolitan area, called Curitiba Metropolitan Area (Região Metropolitana de Curitiba, in Portuguese), comprises 26 municipalities with a total population of over 3.2 million (IBGE estimate in 2010), the seventh most populous in the country.

Curitiba is an important cultural, political and economic centre in the country and in Latin America. The city sits on a plateau at 932 metres (3,058 ft) above sea level. It is located 105 kilometres (65 mi) west of the sea port of Paranaguá and is served by the Afonso Pena International and Bacacheri airports. The city hosts the Federal University of Paraná, established in 1912, one year before electric streetcars were first deployed.

Curitiba's rapid expansion was based on the cattle trade, the city being located half-way between the cattle breeding country to the south and the markets to the north. Waves of European immigrants started arriving after 1850, mainly Germans, Italians, Poles and Ukrainians, contributing to the economic and cultural development of the city. Nowadays, only smaller numbers of foreign immigrants arrive, mainly from Middle Eastern and others Latin American countries, but there is a substantial inward flow of Brazilians from other states of the country (approximately half the population of Curitiba was not born in the city).

wn.com/Curitiba





Empire of Brazil

                            The Empire of Brazil was a 19th-century state that broadly comprised the territories which form modern Brazil. Its government was a representative parliamentary constitutional monarchy under the rule of Emperors Dom Pedro I and his son Dom Pedro II, both members of the House of Braganza—a branch of the Capetian dynasty. A colony of the Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil became the seat of the Portuguese colonial Empire in 1808, when the Portuguese Prince regent, later King Dom João VI (John VI), fled from Napoleon I's invasion of Portugal and established himself and his government in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro. João VI later returned to Portugal, leaving his eldest son and heir, Pedro, to rule Brazil as regent.

wn.com/Empire_of_Brazil





Estádio do Morumbi

                            Estádio Cícero Pompeu de Toledo is a stadium in São Paulo, Brazil, home of São Paulo Futebol Clube and its formal name honors Cícero Pompeu de Toledo, who was São Paulo FC's chairman during most of the stadium construction, and died before its inauguration.

The stadium was designed by the architect João Batista Vilanova Artigas.

It is also a football venue of the 2016 Summer Olympics.

In the early years of its existence, São Paulo FC used for their headquarters and home field the Finca Forest, located beside the Bridge of Flags next to Tietê river in the center of São Paulo. This is why their home is referred to as the São Paulo da Floresta during the club's first incarnation, from January 1930 until May 1935.

When the club was refounded in December 1935, it had its own field until 1938, when the union with Estudantes Paulista gave São Paulo possession of the Bristol stadium belonging to Antarctica.

In 1944, São Paulo bought a piece of ground called Canindé, which was only used as a headquarters and training location. The area was too small for the construction of a large stadium, so studies were done to find another home within the city of São Paulo.

wn.com/Estádio_do_Morumbi





Florianópolis

                            Florianópolis (Portuguese pronunciation: [floɾi.aˈnɔpolis] or [floɾjɐˈnɔpʊliʃ]) is the capital city and second largest city of Santa Catarina state in the Southern region of Brazil. It is composed of one main island, the Island of Santa Catarina (Ilha de Santa Catarina), a continental part and the surrounding small islands. It has a population of 427,298, according to a 2009 Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics estimate, the second most populous city in the state (after Joinville), and the 47th in Brazil. The metropolitan area has an estimated population of 1,096,476, the 21st largest in the country. The city is known for having a very high quality of life, being the Brazilian capital city with the highest HDI (0.905) according to the UN.

The economy of Florianópolis is heavily based on information technology, tourism and services. The city has 42 beaches and is a center of surfing activity. The New York Times reported that "Florianopolis is the Party Destination of the Year in 2009." on January 11, 2009. Newsweek placed Florianópolis in the "Ten most dynamic cities of the world" list in 2006.Veja magazine, a Brazilian publication, named the city as "the best place to live in Brazil." As a result of this publicity, Florianópolis is growing as a second home destination for many Paulistas, Argentines, Americans and Europeans.

wn.com/Florianópolis





Fortaleza

                            Fortaleza (Portuguese pronunciation: [foʁtaˈlezɐ], Fortress) is the state capital of Ceará, located in Northeastern Brazil. With a population close to 2.3 million (metropolitan region over 3.4 million), Fortaleza is the 5th largest city in Brazil. It has an area of 313 square kilometres (121 sq mi) and one of the highest demographic densities in the country (8,001 per km²). To the north of the city lies the Atlantic Ocean; to the south are the municipalities of Pacatuba, Eusébio, Maracanaú and Itaitinga; to the east is the municipality of Aquiraz and the Atlantic Ocean; and to the west is the municipality of Caucaia. Residents of the city are known as Fortalezenses. The current mayor is Luizianne Lins a former academic at the local Federal University of Ceará and well known feminist. The city will be one of the host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, for which Brazil is the host nation.


Fortaleza's history began on February 2, 1500, when Spaniard Vicente Pinzón landed in Mucuripe's cove and named the new land Santa Maria de la Consolación. Because of the Treaty of Tordesillas, the discovery was never officially sanctioned. Colonisation began when the Portuguese Pero Coelho de Souza constructed the Fortim de São Tiago in the estuary of Ceará River in 1603. Later, the Dutch occupied the Brazilian Northeast and founded the Fort Schoonenborch. When they were expelled from Ceará, the Portuguese renamed it to Fortaleza de Nossa Senhora da Assunção. In 1726, the town of the fort was raised to the condition of village. In 1799, the Province of Ceará was separated from the Province of Pernambuco and Fortaleza was chosen as its capital.

wn.com/Fortaleza





Geography of Brazil

                            The country of Brazil occupies roughly half of South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean. Brazil covers a total area of 8,514,215 km2 (3,287,357 sq mi) which includes 8,456,510 km2 (3,265,080 sq mi) of land and 55,455 km2 (21,411 sq mi) of water. The highest point in Brazil is Pico da Neblina at 2,994 m (9,823 ft). Brazil is bordered by the countries of Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela.

Much of the climate is tropical, with the south being relatively temperate. The largest river in Brazil, and one of the longest in the world, is the Amazon. The rainforest that covers the Amazon Basin constitutes almost half of the rainforests on Earth.

Geographic coordinates: 10°S 55°W﻿ / ﻿10°S 55°W﻿ / -10; -55Coordinates: 10°S 55°W﻿ / ﻿10°S 55°W﻿ / -10; -55

With its expansive territory, Brazil occupies most of the eastern part of the South American continent and its geographic heartland, as well as various islands in the Atlantic Ocean. The only countries in the world that are larger are Russia, Canada, the People's Republic of China, and the United States. The national territory extends 4,395 kilometres (2,731 mi) from north to south (5°16'20" N to 33°44'32" S latitude) and 4,319 kilometres (2,684 mi) from east to west (34°47'30" W to 73°59'32" W longitude). It spans three time zones, the easternmost of which is one hour ahead of Eastern Standard Time in the United States. The time zone of the capital (Brasília) and of the most populated part of Brazil along the east coast (UTC-3) is two hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time, except when it is on its own daylight saving time, from October to February. The Atlantic islands are in the easternmost time zone.

wn.com/Geography_of_Brazil





Goiânia

                            Goiânia (Portuguese pronunciation: [ɡoˈjɐ̃niɐ], English pronunciation: /ɡɔɪˈɑːniə/ ) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Goiás. With a population of 1,301,892, it is the largest city in the Central-Western Region and the 13th-largest in the country. Its metropolitan area has a total population of 2,063,744, making it the 11th-largest in Brazil.

Goiânia is a planned city founded on October 24, 1933 by then Governor Pedro Ludovico to serve as the new state capital and administrative center. Prior to this date, the state capital was the town of Goiás. Goiânia has the largest green area per inhabitant in Brazil, and is the second of the world, losing only to Edmonton in the world.

The idea of creating a new state capital had been bounced around from early on in the history of the state of Goiás. The first plan came from D. Marcos de Noronha who in 1753 wanted to establish the state capital in the municipality of Pirenópolis, then again in 1863 José Vieira Couto de Magalhães put forward a plan to move the capital to the edge of the river Araguaia.

wn.com/Goiânia





Greater São Paulo

                            The Greater São Paulo (Portuguese: Grande São Paulo) is a nonspecific term for one of the multiple definitions the large metropolitan area located in the São Paulo state in Brazil.

A legally defined specific term, Região Metropolitana São Paulo (RMSP), one definition for Metropolitan São Paulo, consists of 39 municipalities, including the capital, São Paulo.

The RMSP of São Paulo is known as a financial and economic centre of Brazil, with a total population of 19.889.559 inhabitants (2010 National Census). The largest municipalities are São Paulo, with a population of 11,253,503, Guarulhos with a population of 1,221,979 people, plus several municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, such as São Bernardo do Campo (765,463 inh.) and Santo André (676,407 inh.) in the ABC Region. The ABC Region (from Santo André, São Bernardo do Campo and São Caetano do Sul) in the south of Grande São Paulo is an important location for industrial corporations, such as Volkswagen and Ford. It represents the "core" cities of the greater region.

wn.com/Greater_São_Paulo





Interpol

Coordinates: 45°46′56″N 4°50′54″E﻿ / ﻿45.78219°N 4.84838°E﻿ / 45.78219; 4.84838 The International Criminal Police Organization (ICPO), widely known as INTERPOL or Interpol, is an organization facilitating international police cooperation. It was established as the International Criminal Police Commission (ICPC) in 1923 and adopted its telegraphic address as its common name in 1956.

Its membership of 190 countries provides finance of around €59 million through annual contributions. The organization's headquarters is in Lyon, France. It is the second largest intergovernmental organization after the United Nations, in terms of number of member states.

Its current Secretary-General is Ronald Noble, a former United States Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement. Its current President is Singapore's Senior Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs and former Commissioner of Police Khoo Boon Hui; the President before that, Jackie Selebi, National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, held his term from 2004 till his resignation on 13 January 2008, after which he was charged in South Africa on three counts of corruption and one of defeating the course of justice, and replaced by Arturo Herrera Verdugo, current National Commissioner of Investigations Police of Chile and former vice president for the American Zone, who remained acting president until the organization meeting in October 2008.

wn.com/Interpol





Johannesburg

                            Johannesburg (/dʒoʊˈhænɪsbɜrɡ/; Afrikaans: [joˈhɑnəsbʏrx]) also known as Jozi, Jo'burg or eGoli, is the largest city in South Africa, by population. Johannesburg is the provincial capital of Gauteng, the wealthiest province in South Africa, having the largest economy of any metropolitan region in Sub-Saharan Africa. The city is one of the 50 largest metropolitan areas in the world, and is also the world's largest city not situated on a river, lake, or coastline. It claims to be the lightning capital of the world, though this title is also claimed by others.

While Johannesburg is not one of South Africa's three capital cities, it is the seat of the Constitutional Court, which has the final word on interpretation of South Africa's new post-Apartheid constitution. The city is the source of a large-scale gold and diamond trade, due to its location on the mineral-rich Witwatersrand range of hills. Johannesburg is served by O.R. Tambo International Airport, the largest and busiest airport in Africa and a gateway for international air travel to and from the rest of Southern Africa. More recently Lanseria International Airport has started international flights, and is situated conveniently on the opposite side of the metropolis.

wn.com/Johannesburg





Maceió

                            Maceió (Portuguese pronunciation: [masejˈjɔ]) is the capital and the largest city of the coastal state Alagoas, Brazil. The name "maceió" is of Indian origin, and designates the naturally spontaneous courses of water which flow out of the soil. Most maceiós flow to the sea, but some get trapped and form lakes ("lagoas", in Portuguese).

There are plenty of maceiós and lakes in this part of Brazil; because of this, the city was named Maceió, and the State, Alagoas. The new Zumbi dos Palmares International Airport connects Maceió with many Brazilian cities and also operates some international flights. The city is home to the Federal University of Alagoas.

The city began in an old sugar mill and plantation complex around the 19th century. Its development started with the arrival of ships taking wood from Jaraguá bay.

With the installation of the sugar mills, Maceió started to export sugar, then tobacco, coconut, leather, and some spices. Prosperity made it possible for the settlement to become a village on December 5, 1815. Thanks to its continued growth, Maceió became the capital of the Alagoas Province on December 9, 1839.

wn.com/Maceió





Manaus

Coordinates: 03°06′00″S 60°01′00″W﻿ / ﻿3.1°S 60.0166667°W﻿ / -3.1; -60.0166667

Manaus (Portuguese pronunciation: [maˈnaws]) is a city in Brazil, the capital of the state of Amazonas. It is situated at the confluence of the Negro and Solimões rivers. It is the most populous city of Amazonas, according to the statistics of Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, and is a popular ecotourist destination. Manaus belongs to mesoregion Center Amazonense and microregion Manaus. It is located in northern Brazil, 1,936 kilometers (1,203 mi) from the federal capital, Brasília.

The city was founded in 1669 as the Fort of São José do Rio Negro. It was elevated to a town in 1832 with the name of "Manaus", which means "mother of the gods" in tribute to the indigenous nation of Manaós, and legally transformed into a city on October 24 of 1848 with the name of Cidade da Barra do Rio Negro, Portuguese for "The City of the Margins of Black River". Only on September 4 of 1856 did it revert to its current name.

wn.com/Manaus





Mineirão

                            Mineirão (Portuguese pronunciation: [minejˈɾɐ̃w]), officially Estádio Governador Magalhães Pinto (Governor Magalhães Pinto Stadium) established in 1965 in Belo Horizonte, is the largest football stadium in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, and the second largest in the country, after Maracanã. It will be a host stadium in the 2014 FIFA World Cup to be held in the country.

It is also a football venue of the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics.

Mineirão construction project came before its opening in more than 25 years. In the 1940s, timid movements began, involving managers, entrepreneurs, athletes and journalists. The idea was to build on Belo Horizonte a field that followed the evolution of Minas Gerais' football.

The top three teams in the state capital had their stadiums, but they were cramped, uncomfortable and no longer supported the demand of fans. Stadium Otacílio Negrão de Lima (Alameda Stadium, Francisco Sales Avenue), of América; Antônio Carlos Stadium (located on Olegário Maciel Avenue), of Atlético; and Juscelino Kubitschek Stadium (located on Augusto de Lima Avenue), of Cruzeiro did not support more than 10,000 spectators. Atlético, the team with the wealthiest members in Belo Horizonte, planned to build a stadium for 30,000 people, after the winning the Brazilian "Champion of Champions" title, in 1937. It nearly went out of paper. But then they found a huge debt of the club, forcing the directors to allot and sell the properties that the club had in the neighborhood where the stadium would be built, Antônio Carlos Avenue, near the airport.

wn.com/Mineirão





Olinda

                            Olinda (Portuguese pronunciation: [oˈlĩdɐ]) is a historic city in the Brazilian state of Pernambuco, located on the country's northeastern Atlantic Ocean coast, just north of Recife and south of Paulista. It has a population of 397,268 people  and is one of the best-preserved colonial cities in Brazil.

Olinda features a number of major touristic attractions, such as a historic downtown area (World Heritage Site), churches, and the Carnival of Olinda, a popular street party, very similar to traditional Portuguese carnivals, with the addition of African influenced dances. Unlike in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador, in Olinda, admission to Carnival is free. All the festivities are celebrated on the streets, and there are no bleachers or roping. There are hundreds of small musical groups (sometimes featuring a single performer) in many genres.

Several indigenous tribes occupied the coast of Northeastern Brazil for several thousand years, and the hills of the present day municipality of Olinda had settlements of Caetés and Tupinambá tribes, which were frequently at war. French mercenaries are thought to be the first Europeans to get to the region, but the Portuguese exploited intertribal rivalries and managed to build a stronghold on the former Caeté village in the higher hill. Recent studies by the Universidade Federal de Pernambuco have uncovered new evidence of the pre-colonial population of the area. The settlement of Olinda was founded in 1535 by Duarte Coelho Pereira; it was elevated to a town on March 12, 1537. It was made the seat of the Territorial Prelature of Pernambuco in 1614, becoming the Diocese of Olinda in 1676.

wn.com/Olinda





Porto Alegre

                            Porto Alegre (local Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈpoɾtʊ aˈlɛɡɾi] ( listen);Merry Harbour) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul. The city population is 1,509,939 inhabitants (2010), the tenth most populous city in the country and the centre of Brazil's fourth largest metropolitan area, with 4,405,760 inhabitants (2010). The city is the southernmost capital city of a Brazilian state. Porto Alegre is one of the top cultural, political and economic centers of Brazil. Two Mercosul countries, Argentina and Uruguay, border on the State of Rio Grande do Sul.

Porto Alegre was founded in 1772 by immigrants from the Azores, Portugal. In the late 19th century the city received many immigrants from other parts of the world, particularly Germany, Italy, and Poland. The vast majority of the population is of European descent.

The city lies on the eastern bank of the Rio Guaiba (Guaiba Lake), where five rivers converge to form the Lagoa dos Patos (Lagoon of the Ducks), a giant freshwater lagoon navigable by even the largest of ships. This five-river junction has become an important alluvial port as well as a chief industrial and commercial center of Brazil.

wn.com/Porto_Alegre





Recife

                            Recife (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁeˈsifi] ( listen), Reef) is the fifth-largestmetropolitan area in Brazil with 4,136,506 inhabitants, the largest metropolitan area of the North/Northeast Regions, the 5th-largest metropolitan influence area in Brazil, and the capital and largest city of the state of Pernambuco. The population of the city proper was 1,536,934 in 2010.

Recife is located where the Beberibe River meets the Capibaribe River to flow into the Atlantic Ocean. It is a major port on the Atlantic Ocean. Its name is an allusion to the coral reefs that are present by the city's shores. The many rivers, small islands and over 50 bridges found in Recife city center characterize its geography and gives it the moniker of the "Brazilian Venice."

The Metropolitan Region of Recife is the main industrial zone of the State of Pernambuco; most relevant products are those derived from cane (sugar and ethanol), electronics, food, and others; thanks to the fiscal incentives of government, many industrial enterprises were started in the 1970s and 1980s. Recife has a tradition of being the most important commercial center of the North/Northeastern region of Brazil with more than 52,500 business enterprises in Recife itself plus 32,500 in the Metro Area which totals more than 85,000.

wn.com/Recife





Rio Branco

                            Rio Branco (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʁiu ˈbɾɐ̃ku], White River) is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Acre. Located in the valley of the Acre River in northern Brazil, it is the most populous county in the state, with 305,954 inhabitants – almost half the state population, according to a 2009 estimate.

Rio Branco was one of the first settlements to appear on the banks of the Acre River. In 1913 it became a county. In 1920 it became the capital of the territory of Acre, and in 1962, the state capital. It is the administrative center for the economic and cultural region.

Rio Branco is located at 9° 58' 29" south and 67° 48' 36" west, at an altitude of 153 metres (502 ft) above sea level. The city is bisected by the Acre River, which divides it into the First and Second Districts. The river is crossed by six bridges, the newest bridge being the Catwalk Joaquim Macedo.

Rio Branco is located in the mesoregion of Vale do Jurua and the microregion of Rio Branco. It is bordered on the north by the municipalities of Bujari and Porto Acre; to the south by the municipalities of Xapuri, Capixaba, and Plácido de Castro; to the east by the municipality of Senador Guiomard; and to the west by the municipality of Sena Madureira.

wn.com/Rio_Branco





Rio de Janeiro

                            Rio de Janeiro ( /ˈriːoʊ deɪ ʒəˈnɛəroʊ/ or /ˈriːoʊ deɪ dʒəˈnɛəroʊ/; Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈʁi.u dʒi ʒaˈnejɾu],River of January), commonly referred to simply as Rio, is the capital city of the State of Rio de Janeiro, the second largest city of Brazil, and the third largest metropolitan area and agglomeration in South America, boasting approximately 6.3 million people within the city proper, making it the 6th largest in the Americas, and 26th in the world.

The city was the capital of Brazil for nearly two centuries, from 1763 to 1815 during the Portuguese colonial era, 1815 to 1821 as the capital of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves, and 1822 to 1960 as an independent nation. Rio is nicknamed the Cidade Maravilhosa or "Marvelous City."

Rio de Janeiro represents the second largest GDP in the country (and 30th largest in the world in 2008), estimated at about R$ 343 billion (IBGE/2008) (nearly US$ 201 billion), and is the headquarters of two major Brazilian companies – Petrobras and Vale, and major oil companies and telephony in Brazil, besides the largest conglomerate of media and communications companies in Latin America, the Globo Organizations. The home of many universities and institutes, it is the second largest center of research and development in Brazil, accounting for 17% of national scientific production – according to 2005 data.

wn.com/Rio_de_Janeiro





Southern hemisphere

Coordinates: 45°0′0″S 0°0′0″E﻿ / ﻿45°S 0°E﻿ / -45; 0

The Southern Hemisphere is the part of Earth that lies south of the equator. The word hemisphere (from the Greek word σφαιρα (sphere) +ημι (half)) literally means 'half ball' or "half sphere". It is also that half of the celestial sphere south of the celestial equator.

The Southern Hemisphere contains all or parts of four continents (Antarctica, Australia, most parts of South America and southern half of Africa), four oceans (South Atlantic, Indian, South Pacific, and Southern) and most of Oceania. Several islands off the Asian continental mainland are also in the Southern Hemisphere. Due to the tilt of Earth's rotation relative to the Sun and the ecliptic plane, summer is December to March and winter is June to September. September 22 or 23 is the vernal equinox and March 20 or 21 is the autumnal equinox.

Climates in the Southern Hemisphere overall tend to be slightly milder than those in the Northern Hemisphere at similar latitudes except in the Antarctic which is colder than the Arctic. This is because the Southern Hemisphere has significantly more ocean and much less land. Water heats up and cools down more slowly than land.

wn.com/Southern_hemisphere





Southern Hemisphere

Coordinates: 45°0′0″S 0°0′0″E﻿ / ﻿45°S 0°E﻿ / -45; 0

The Southern Hemisphere is the part of Earth that lies south of the equator. The word hemisphere (from the Greek word σφαιρα (sphere) +ημι (half)) literally means 'half ball' or "half sphere". It is also that half of the celestial sphere south of the celestial equator.

The Southern Hemisphere contains all or parts of four continents (Antarctica, Australia, most parts of South America and southern half of Africa), four oceans (South Atlantic, Indian, South Pacific, and Southern) and most of Oceania. Several islands off the Asian continental mainland are also in the Southern Hemisphere. Due to the tilt of Earth's rotation relative to the Sun and the ecliptic plane, summer is December to March and winter is June to September. September 22 or 23 is the vernal equinox and March 20 or 21 is the autumnal equinox.

Climates in the Southern Hemisphere overall tend to be slightly milder than those in the Northern Hemisphere at similar latitudes except in the Antarctic which is colder than the Arctic. This is because the Southern Hemisphere has significantly more ocean and much less land. Water heats up and cools down more slowly than land.

wn.com/Southern_Hemisphere





São Paulo

                            São Paulo (/ˌsaʊ ˈpaʊloʊ/; Portuguese pronunciation: [sɐ̃w ˈpawlu] ( listen); Saint Paul;), popularly known as Sampa, is the largest city in Brazil, the largest city in the southern hemisphere and Americas, and the world's seventh largest city by population. The metropolis is anchor to the São Paulo metropolitan area, ranked as the second most populous metropolitan area in the Americas and among the five largest metropolitan areas on the planet. São Paulo is the capital of the state of São Paulo, which is the most populous Brazilian state, and exerts strong regional influence in commerce and finance as well as arts and entertainment. São Paulo maintains strong international influence and is considered an Alpha- World City. The name of the city honors Saint Paul.

The metropolis has significant cultural, economic and political influence both nationally and internationally. It houses several important monuments, parks and museums such as the Latin American Memorial, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, São Paulo Museum of Art and the Ibirapuera Park. The Paulista Avenue is the most important financial center of São Paulo. The city holds many high profile events, like the São Paulo Art Biennial, the Brazil Grand Prix Formula 1 Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo Fashion Week, ATP Brasil Open, and the São Paulo Indy 300.

wn.com/São_Paulo





Tijuca

                            Tijuca Portuguese pronunciation: [tʃiˈʒukɐ] (meaning marsh or swamp in the tupi language, from ty ("water") and îuká ("to kill")) is a neighbourhood of the Northern Zone of the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It comprises the region of Saens Peña and Afonso Pena squares. According to the 2000 Census, the district has close to 150,000 inhabitants. It borders with Praça da Bandeira, Maracanã, Vila Isabel, Andaraí, Grajaú and Alto da Boa Vista neighbourhoods.

It is one of the most traditional districts of Rio de Janeiro and has the third largest urban forest in the world, the Tijuca Forest, which is result of reforestation from coffee fields that led to lack of water at that time. Mainly a middle class district, it has been historically inhabited by Portuguese immigrant families and the families of military officers.

Tijuca hosts GRES Acadêmicos do Salgueiro, GRES Império da Tijuca and GRES Unidos da Tijuca, three of the main Rio de Janeiro Samba Schools, that together have won 9 titles.

Tijuca is also home to many favelas such as Salgueiro, Borel, Formiga, Turano and Casa Branca.

wn.com/Tijuca














Brazilian people

                            Brazilians (brasileiros in Portuguese) are all people born in Brazil. A Brazilian can be also a person born abroad to a Brazilian parent or a foreigner living in Brazil who applied for Brazilian citizenship.

According to the Constitution of Brazil, a Brazilian citizen is:

According to the Constitution, all people who hold Brazilian citizenship are equal, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender or religion.

A foreigner can apply for Brazilian citizenship after living for 4 (four) uninterrupted years in Brazil and being able to speak Portuguese. A native person from an official Portuguese language country (Portugal, Angola, Mozambique, Cape Verde, São Tomé and Príncipe, Guinea Bissau and East Timor) can request the Brazilian nationality after only 1 uninterrupted year living in Brazil. A foreign born person who holds Brazilian citizenship has exactly the same rights and duties of the Brazilian citizen by birth, but cannot occupy some special public positions such as the Presidency of the Republic, Vice-presidency of the Republic, Minister (Secretary) of Defense, Presidency (Speaker) of the Senate, Presidency (Speaker) of the House of Representatives, Officer of the Armed Forces and Diplomat.

wn.com/Brazilian_people





Geraldo Alckmin

                            Geraldo José Rodrigues Alckmin Filho (born in Pindamonhangaba, November 7, 1952), known as Geraldo Alckmin (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒeˈɾawdu ˈaɫkmĩ]) is a Brazilian politician, who has been elected as the new governor of São Paulo, doing it for the second time, and former candidate for president of Brazil in the 2006 Elections. He attended the Universidade de Taubaté's medical school, specializing in Anesthesiology, before going on to work in the São Paulo Public Service Hospital. He is governor of São Paulo since 2011.

While still in his first year of medical school, Alckmin began his political career in 1972 when he was elected to the Pindamonhangaba city council (1973–1977), and then its mayor (1977–1982). At age 25, he was the youngest Brazilian mayor. He was elected a federal deputy for two terms, (1983–1987 and 1987–1994), distinguishing himself by authoring consumer protection laws. In 1988, he was one of the founders of the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB).

He was elected vice governor of São Paulo, Mário Covas's running-mate first in the 1994 election and then again in 1998. With the death of Covas, he assumed the governorship of the state of São Paulo in March, 2001, he continued Covas' policies, investing in large, state-run projects, health and education programs. All of these investments were possible through privatization programs that sold off public and state-owned companies. He was elected governor on October 27, 2002 for the 2003-2006 term, with 12 million votes (or 58.64%). His current administration is marked by a reduction in the state payroll from 49% to 46% of the state's budget, the unification of purchasing systems and other "smart spending" initiatives, as well as the implementation of Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs). He was recently appointed Secretary of Development for the State of São Paulo by Governor José Serra.

wn.com/Geraldo_Alckmin





Gilberto Kassab

                            Gilberto Kassab (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒiwˈbɛɾtʊ kaˈsab(ɪ)] or [ʒiwˈbɛʁtu kaˈsab(i)]; born August 12, 1960 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian politician, current mayor of São Paulo. His term ends in 2012. A civil engineer and economist, one of the most famous Brazilians of Lebanese descent, Kassab took over from José Serra, after Serra decided to run for governor of São Paulo. He is from the Partido Social Democrático (PSD).

Kassab has been heavily criticized by the advertising industry for his Cidade Limpa law, which prohibits all forms of external media and visual pollution such as billboards. Ad companies tried to keep the billboards in the streets with injunctions, but the supreme court determined the law to be constitutional.

Mayor Kassab appeared at length in the Morgan Spurlock 2011 documentary The Greatest Movie Ever Sold talking about the decision of the City Council to ban advertising in the city.

wn.com/Gilberto_Kassab





Gisele Bündchen

                            Gisele Caroline Bündchen (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒiˈzɛli ˈbĩtʃẽ], German pronunciation: [gi:zɛlə ˈbʏndçn̩]; born 20 July 1980) is a Brazilian fashion model and occasional film actress. She is the goodwill ambassador for the UN Environment Programme. In the late 1990s, Bündchen became the first in a wave of Brazilian models to find international success. In 1999, Vogue magazine dubbed her "The Return of the Sexy Model" and she was credited with ending the "heroin chic" era of modeling. Bündchen was one of Victoria's Secret Angels from 2000 until 2006. Since 2004, she has been the highest-paid model in the world and the sixteenth richest woman in the entertainment industry (as of 2007) with an estimated $150 million fortune.

Models Claudia Schiffer and Naomi Campbell have stated that Bündchen is the only true remaining "supermodel" and according to Forbes she may become the world's first ever billionaire supermodel. In June 2011, Forbes magazine estimated that Bundchen's total earnings over the last 10 years have passed the $250 million mark. As an occasional actress, she had supporting roles in Taxi (2004) and The Devil Wears Prada (2006). From 2000 to 2005, Bündchen was in a much-publicized relationship with American actor Leonardo DiCaprio. She married New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in 2009.

wn.com/Gisele_Bündchen





Interpol

Coordinates: 45°46′56″N 4°50′54″E﻿ / ﻿45.78219°N 4.84838°E﻿ / 45.78219; 4.84838 The International Criminal Police Organization (ICPO), widely known as INTERPOL or Interpol, is an organization facilitating international police cooperation. It was established as the International Criminal Police Commission (ICPC) in 1923 and adopted its telegraphic address as its common name in 1956.

Its membership of 190 countries provides finance of around €59 million through annual contributions. The organization's headquarters is in Lyon, France. It is the second largest intergovernmental organization after the United Nations, in terms of number of member states.

Its current Secretary-General is Ronald Noble, a former United States Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement. Its current President is Singapore's Senior Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs and former Commissioner of Police Khoo Boon Hui; the President before that, Jackie Selebi, National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, held his term from 2004 till his resignation on 13 January 2008, after which he was charged in South Africa on three counts of corruption and one of defeating the course of justice, and replaced by Arturo Herrera Verdugo, current National Commissioner of Investigations Police of Chile and former vice president for the American Zone, who remained acting president until the organization meeting in October 2008.

wn.com/Interpol





Ivete Sangalo

                            Ivete María Dias de Sangalo Cady (born May 27, 1972 in Juazeiro, Bahia) is a Latin Grammy Award-winning Brazilian Axé and MPB singer, songwriter, and occasional actress and television show host. She is one of the most popular and best-selling Brazilian female singers of the present, with six albums released with "Banda Eva", and seven more albums in a solo career, with a total of over 12 million albums sold worldwide. Sangalo is most often recognized by her powerful voice, charisma and live performances. Her music is also very popular in Portugal. She has received 14 nominations for Latin Grammy Awards alongside her career.

As a child, started to sing and play violin at events, festivals and presentations of the school where she studied. Ivete Sangalo's debut show happened in Ondina Neighborhood, Salvador, in August 1992. With that show she won the Dorival Caymmi trophy, the Grammy of Bahia music. The solo singer was once part of a group called Banda Eva, and with them she recorded six CDs and sold over four million copies.

wn.com/Ivete_Sangalo




Jérôme Valcke

                            Jérôme Valcke (born 1961) is a French Manager and as of 27 June 2007 he is employed as the General Secretary of the international football federation (FIFA) in Zürich.

Valcke was employed as a journalist at the French TV company Canal+. From 1991 until 1997 he held the office of deputy chief of sports. In 1997 he took over the position of Chief executive officer at the Sport+ sports channel, which he occupied until 2002. From 2002 until 2003 Valcke worked for the sports rights agency Sportfive at their headquarters in Genf as Chief Operating Officer. In the summer of 2003 Valcke switched to the international football federation FIFA in Zürich and took the position of Director of Marketing & TV. At the meeting of FIFA's Executive Committee on 27 June 2007 Valcke was installed as the new general secretary, as proposed by FIFA President Sepp Blatter, and was thereby elected as the successor of Urs Linsi who stepped down on 11 June 2007. Markus Kattner, who had acted as interim general secretary between 11 and 27 June 2007, was installed as his deputy. Kattner had already been working for FIFA since 2003 as chief of finance. Valcke is the first general secretary of FIFA since 1956 who wasn't born in Switzerland.

wn.com/Jérôme_Valcke





Oscar Niemeyer

                            Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho (born December 15, 1907) is a Brazilian architect specializing in international modern architecture. In the 1940s, '50s and '60s "he established himself as one of Modernism's greatest luminaries," while he “reshaped Brazil’s identity in the popular imagination and mesmerized architects around the globe."  During the 1950s while Brasilia was starting to develop, Oscar Niemeyer made incredible amounts of contributions to the country by designing many important buildings in Brasilia. He is a pioneer in exploring the formal possibilities of reinforced concrete solely for their aesthetic impact. He is currently 104 years old and still working.

Niemeyer is most famous for his use of abstract forms and curves that specifically characterize every one of his works; he didn’t stick to traditional straight lines, for he is not attracted to straight angles or lines but rather he is captured by ”free-flowing, sensual curves… [like that] on the body of the beloved woman.” He was able to design and build curved architecture through his revolutionary useage of concrete. His designs are daring: mixing innovation and courage, plastic freedom and invention. His buildings are often characterized by being spacious and exposed, mixing volumes and empty space to create unconventional patterns and often propped up by piloti. His work with concrete is described as elegant and harmonious. Oscar Niemeyer was able to connect the baroque style with modern architecture leading to a new form of architecture, which had never been built in Brazil before.

wn.com/Oscar_Niemeyer





Paulo Coelho

                            Paulo Coelho (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈpawlu koˈeʎu]; born August 24, 1947) is a Brazilian lyricist and novelist. He has become one of the most widely read authors in the world today. The recipient of numerous prestigious international awards, amongst them the Crystal Award by the World Economic Forum and France's Legion d'Honneur.

Paulo Coelho was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He attended a Jesuit school. As a teenager, Coelho wanted to become a writer. Upon telling his mother this, she responded with "My dear, your father is an engineer. He's a logical, reasonable man with a very clear vision of the world. Do you actually know what it means to be a writer?" After researching, Coelho concluded that a writer "always wears glasses and never combs his hair" and has a "duty and an obligation never to be understood by his own generation," amongst other things. At 16, Coelho's introversion and opposition to following a traditional path led to his parents committing him to a mental institution from which he escaped three times before being released at the age of 20. Coelho later remarked that "It wasn't that they wanted to hurt me, but they didn't know what to do... They did not do that to destroy me, they did that to save me."

wn.com/Paulo_Coelho





Pelé

                            Edson Arantes do Nascimento (name given as Edison on birth certificate, born 21 October 1940 (however, Pelé himself claims that he was born on 23 October) ), known by his nickname Pelé (Brazilian Portuguese pronunciation: [peˈlɛ]), is a retired Brazilian footballer. He is widely regarded as the best football player of all time. In 1999, he was voted Football Player of the Century by the IFFHS International Federation of Football History and Statistics. In the same year French weekly magazine France-Football consulted their former "Ballon D'Or" winners to elect the Football Player of the Century. Pelé came in first place. In 1999 the International Olympic Committee named Pelé the "Athlete of the Century". In his career he scored 760 official goals. He is also the most successful Top Division goal scorer of all time with 541 League goals. In total Pelé scored 1281 goals in 1363 games.

In his native Brazil, Pelé is hailed as a national hero. He is known for his accomplishments and contributions to the game of football. He is also acknowledged for his vocal support of policies to improve the social conditions of the poor (when he scored his 1,000th goal he dedicated it to the poor children of Brazil). During his career, he became known as "The King of Football" (O Rei do Futebol), "The King Pelé" (O Rei Pelé) or simply "The King" (O Rei).

wn.com/Pelé





Ricardo Teixeira

                            Ricardo Terra Teixeira (pronounced: [ʁiˈkaɾdu ˈtɛʁɐ tejˈʃejɾɐ]; born June 20, 1947) was president of the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) from January 16, 1989 to March 12, 2012. In November 2010 he was alleged by the BBC to have taken bribes in the 1990s regarding the awarding of World Cup television rights.

Born in Carlos Chagas, Ricardo Teixeira married Lúcia Havelange, the daughter of João Havelange. They divorced in 1997 after almost 30 years of marriage. His son, Ricardo Teixeira Havelange born in 1974 bears his mother's last name, opposing the Brazilian custom.

In 1989, Teixeira was first elected the president of CBF succeeding Octávio Pinto Guimarães and defeating Nabi Abi Chedid, the president of Federação Paulista de Futebol at the time. BBC journalist Tim Vickery has suggested that he would not have been elected "had he not at the time been the son-in-law of vastly influential former FIFA boss Joao Havelange." At the time of his resignation Teixeira was serving his sixth term as head of the CBF.

wn.com/Ricardo_Teixeira





Sepp Blatter

                            Joseph S. Blatter (born 10 March 1936), commonly known as Sepp ("Giuseppe") Blatter, is a Swiss football administrator, who serves as the 8th and current President of FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association). He was elected on 8 June 1998, succeeding João Havelange. He was re-elected as President in 2002, 2007 and 2011.

Despite winning four terms as President, Blatter has often been dogged by controversy and allegations of corruption. His tenure has seen controversy over allegations of financial mismanagement and the acceptance of bribes resulting in Qatar's successful 2022 World Cup bid. Blatter personally has attracted criticism from the media, senior football figures and players due to several controversial statements. These include suggesting that female football players should wear tighter shorts to appear more attractive to men, that Latin American countries would 'applaud' John Terry for having an extramarital affair, that homosexuals should 'refrain from any sexual activity' while attending the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, and that on-field racism could be corrected with a 'handshake'. Blatter also received criticism for not postponing his 2011 election in which his term as FIFA President was extended through 2015, despite the fact that all other candidates for the role had been suspended or withdrew. Prior to his election as FIFA President, Blatter was a senior FIFA official for 23 years. In his earlier professional life, Blatter held a variety of senior management positions in several Swiss organizations.

wn.com/Sepp_Blatter






























Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












2014 World Cup Trailer - Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:39
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


A WX-D4 Ent. Group Tracks compiled by Audiomachine - Guardians At the Gate - Breathe and Life
http://wn.com/2014_World_Cup_Trailer_Brazil




				
					A WX-D4 Ent. Group Tracks compiled by Audiomachine - Guardians At the Gate - Breathe and Life

published: 12 Dec 2010
views: 29644

author:
narnstrong















Brazil 2014 World Cup venues near completion

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:05
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


Subscribe for the latest news from SNTV: bit.ly An update on construction works at 2014 World Cup stadiums in Brazil, ahead of the mark of 500 days to go on Monday. With 500 days left to go until the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil, the country's stadia are nearing their final stages of construction. 12 new stadiums have been built especially for the world football show-piece. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister, says the country will be ready for the event. Not only the many new stadiums but the nation as a whole. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister: "In addition to the big event that will be staged successfully, it is also a milestone opportunity, a unique opportunity to foster development in the country, creating twelve regional development hubs, surrounding each host city." While some of the stadiums, like the Castelao Arena in Fortaleza is nearing completion, Other stadiums like the Amazonia Arena in Manaus are believed to be just fifty percent complete. Delivery of the stadia was expected by the end of 2012, but with the speed of construction, they are now expected to be delivered very close to the opening date of the start of the competition. Breaking sports news: www.youtube.com Follow SNTV on Twitter: www.twitter.com SNTV: www.sntv.com
http://wn.com/Brazil_2014_World_Cup_venues_near_completion




				
					Subscribe for the latest news from SNTV: bit.ly An update on construction works at 2014 World Cup stadiums in Brazil, ahead of the mark of 500 days to go on Monday. With 500 days left to go until the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil, the country's stadia are nearing their final stages of construction. 12 new stadiums have been built especially for the world football show-piece. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister, says the country will be ready for the event. Not only the many new stadiums but the nation as a whole. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister: "In addition to the big event that will be staged successfully, it is also a milestone opportunity, a unique opportunity to foster development in the country, creating twelve regional development hubs, surrounding each host city." While some of the stadiums, like the Castelao Arena in Fortaleza is nearing completion, Other stadiums like the Amazonia Arena in Manaus are believed to be just fifty percent complete. Delivery of the stadia was expected by the end of 2012, but with the speed of construction, they are now expected to be delivered very close to the opening date of the start of the competition. Breaking sports news: www.youtube.com Follow SNTV on Twitter: www.twitter.com SNTV: www.sntv.com

published: 26 Jan 2013
views: 569

author:
SNTVonline















cmon england 2014 world cup

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:56
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


2014 England world cup qualifiers anthem for Brazil
http://wn.com/cmon_england_2014_world_cup




				
					2014 England world cup qualifiers anthem for Brazil

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 13

author:
goingtosouthafrica















Portugal VS Azerbaijan 3-0 - World Cup 2014 Qualifiers - All Goals & Full Highlights

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:06
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Portugal 3 VS Azerbaijan 3-0 World Cup 2014 qualifications Europe || Coupe du Monde 2014 Qualifications real madrid vs barcelona 1-1 16.04.2011 xavi hernandez la pelopina skill dribble andres iniesta victor valdes david villa lionel messi sergio busquets dani alves gerard pique fontas dos santos thiago alcantara la masia ballon dor tiki taka rooney 5-0 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 6-0 1-1 2-1 3-1 4-1 5-2 4-2 3-3 barcelona barca real madrid camp nou pedro goal passing leo blaugrana santander sevilla passing game panathinaikos zaragoza ceuta beautiful sevilla kazan camp nou free kick penalty complication new world cup holland germany chile paraguay eric abidal puyol keita yaya toure fc barcelona video HD how to make goal blaugrana 551 rihanna T-pain lil wayne justin bieber F50 la más ligera jugador rápido tv tox Oliver smith-Nimbus(Original mix) crush Schiller mit Mila Mar - Liebe (ATB Dub Remix) FC Barcelona vs RCD Espanyol 18.12.10 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 21.12.10 All goals and FC Barcelona vs Levante UD 02.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 05.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Deportivo 09.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Málaga CF 16.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Racing 23.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Hercules 30.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletico Madrid 06.02.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Sporting Gijón 13.02.11 All goals and ...
http://wn.com/Portugal_VS_Azerbaijan_3-0_World_Cup_2014_Qualifiers_All_Goals_Full_Highlights




				
					Portugal 3 VS Azerbaijan 3-0 World Cup 2014 qualifications Europe || Coupe du Monde 2014 Qualifications real madrid vs barcelona 1-1 16.04.2011 xavi hernandez la pelopina skill dribble andres iniesta victor valdes david villa lionel messi sergio busquets dani alves gerard pique fontas dos santos thiago alcantara la masia ballon dor tiki taka rooney 5-0 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 6-0 1-1 2-1 3-1 4-1 5-2 4-2 3-3 barcelona barca real madrid camp nou pedro goal passing leo blaugrana santander sevilla passing game panathinaikos zaragoza ceuta beautiful sevilla kazan camp nou free kick penalty complication new world cup holland germany chile paraguay eric abidal puyol keita yaya toure fc barcelona video HD how to make goal blaugrana 551 rihanna T-pain lil wayne justin bieber F50 la más ligera jugador rápido tv tox Oliver smith-Nimbus(Original mix) crush Schiller mit Mila Mar - Liebe (ATB Dub Remix) FC Barcelona vs RCD Espanyol 18.12.10 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 21.12.10 All goals and FC Barcelona vs Levante UD 02.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 05.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Deportivo 09.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Málaga CF 16.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Racing 23.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Hercules 30.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletico Madrid 06.02.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Sporting Gijón 13.02.11 All goals and ...

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 13387

author:
Arinsal2008















USA Prepares To Dominate 2014 World Cup: JC's American Soccer Spectacular

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:11
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


25 guys have been called up into training camp ahead of the last round of World Cup qualifiers. But why so soon? Jimmy Conrad explains why this camp is unlike any around the world and why it's important that those called into camp put out their best showing. Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/USA_Prepares_To_Dominate_2014_World_Cup_JC's_American_Soccer_Spectacular




				
					25 guys have been called up into training camp ahead of the last round of World Cup qualifiers. But why so soon? Jimmy Conrad explains why this camp is unlike any around the world and why it's important that those called into camp put out their best showing. Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 11 Jan 2013
views: 22436

author:
kick















Spain To Win 2014 World Cup & Ronaldo To Win Ballon d'Or? The Mixer

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:01
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


Will Cristiano Ronaldo win the Ballon d'Or for the first time since 2008 this season? Are Spain already favorites to win the World Cup in 2014? Alessandro Del Piero will have a camera fixated on him at this weekend's Sydney FC match. What will fans see? Jimmy Conrad and Ryan Bailey discuss this and more on The Mixer. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calico -- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Spain_To_Win_2014_World_Cup_Ronaldo_To_Win_Ballon_d'Or?_The_Mixer




				
					Will Cristiano Ronaldo win the Ballon d'Or for the first time since 2008 this season? Are Spain already favorites to win the World Cup in 2014? Alessandro Del Piero will have a camera fixated on him at this weekend's Sydney FC match. What will fans see? Jimmy Conrad and Ryan Bailey discuss this and more on The Mixer. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calico -- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 09 Oct 2012
views: 11801

author:
kick















Qatar vs Korea Republic: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Round, Match Day 2)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:31
Updated: 22 Jan 2013


Qatar 1-4 Korea Republic: Ulsan Hyundai trio Lee Keun-ho, Kwak Tae-hwi and Kim Shin-wook scored as Korea Republic came from behind to open their final round qualifying campaign for the 2014 FIFA World Cup finals with a 4-1 win over Qatar. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl
http://wn.com/Qatar_vs_Korea_Republic_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_Asian_Qualifiers_Final_Round,_Match_Day_2




				
					Qatar 1-4 Korea Republic: Ulsan Hyundai trio Lee Keun-ho, Kwak Tae-hwi and Kim Shin-wook scored as Korea Republic came from behind to open their final round qualifying campaign for the 2014 FIFA World Cup finals with a 4-1 win over Qatar. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 08 Jun 2012
views: 38494

author:
AsianQualifiers2014














..." style="float: right; margin-right: 25px;">
FIFA World Cup 2014 Brasil / Brazil - Take Me There

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:42
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Many people wanted me to re-upload this video that I posted to my old channel some time ago, well here it is :) Bobsled (Sleds) 17/09/10 , Milan-Lecce 29-8-2010 ,david BECKHAM COMEBACK Stjarnan's celebration against Keflavík - HAND ;AC Oulu - FC Lahti // Litmanen 1-2 saksarilla , ronaldo back pass , Free Kick 1 C.RONALDO◮BECKHAM training 1 / 10 HD , PIRLO SUPER GOAL , weltmassesoccer , Korean Amateur Player Free Kick , All the FreeKicks from David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo Time Force Commercial (ft. Elsa Pataky) , Once Brothers Petrovic Divac ,BECKHAM FREE KICK TUTORIAL 3 /100 HD , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series ,Human toilet blooper (FC Stjarnan) , Zeckes Außenbahn , | Mehmet Scholl erschreckt sich , Berlins Most Wanted - Weg eines Kriegers , Enzo Zidane 2010 Full Video , Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) , Amazing keeper goal , ,Real Madrid Vs Ajax Amsterdam 2 : 0 - Özil Traumhaft ,Hoffenheim-FC Bayern 1-2 BL-Saison 2010/2011 5.Spieltag , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Full Trailer , Mystery Guitar man Movie ,David Beckham scores in a AMAZING free kick! , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series, Episode 7 - "Futbolin, Foosball in Madrid" ,Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) ,MANCHESTER CITY-CHELSEA 1-0 HIGHLIGHTS [25-09-2010] Tevez Goal , ALLE TORE, FC Bayern 0 - 0 FC Köln 18.9.2010 ,Diego talks about match against Hamburg , [Cristiano Ronaldo All 33 goals 2009-10(HD)] ,St. Pauli [1 - 1] Hamburger SV 19.9.2010 ALLE TORE , Dana White UFC 119 Video Blog ,Gol contra de bunda ...
http://wn.com/FIFA_World_Cup_2014_Brasil_Brazil_Take_Me_There




				
					Many people wanted me to re-upload this video that I posted to my old channel some time ago, well here it is :) Bobsled (Sleds) 17/09/10 , Milan-Lecce 29-8-2010 ,david BECKHAM COMEBACK Stjarnan's celebration against Keflavík - HAND ;AC Oulu - FC Lahti // Litmanen 1-2 saksarilla , ronaldo back pass , Free Kick 1 C.RONALDO◮BECKHAM training 1 / 10 HD , PIRLO SUPER GOAL , weltmassesoccer , Korean Amateur Player Free Kick , All the FreeKicks from David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo Time Force Commercial (ft. Elsa Pataky) , Once Brothers Petrovic Divac ,BECKHAM FREE KICK TUTORIAL 3 /100 HD , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series ,Human toilet blooper (FC Stjarnan) , Zeckes Außenbahn , | Mehmet Scholl erschreckt sich , Berlins Most Wanted - Weg eines Kriegers , Enzo Zidane 2010 Full Video , Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) , Amazing keeper goal , ,Real Madrid Vs Ajax Amsterdam 2 : 0 - Özil Traumhaft ,Hoffenheim-FC Bayern 1-2 BL-Saison 2010/2011 5.Spieltag , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Full Trailer , Mystery Guitar man Movie ,David Beckham scores in a AMAZING free kick! , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series, Episode 7 - "Futbolin, Foosball in Madrid" ,Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) ,MANCHESTER CITY-CHELSEA 1-0 HIGHLIGHTS [25-09-2010] Tevez Goal , ALLE TORE, FC Bayern 0 - 0 FC Köln 18.9.2010 ,Diego talks about match against Hamburg , [Cristiano Ronaldo All 33 goals 2009-10(HD)] ,St. Pauli [1 - 1] Hamburger SV 19.9.2010 ALLE TORE , Dana White UFC 119 Video Blog ,Gol contra de bunda ...

published: 26 Jan 2011
views: 67268

author:
D11Productionz















England 1-1 Ukraine - Official Highlights and Goals - FIFA World Cup 2014 Qualifier | FATV

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:35
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive news, match highlights and more at www.youtube.com/england To find out more about the England team log on to: www.thefa.com Become a fan of England on Facebook at www.facebook.com And follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com England's World Cup qualifying campaign was almost dealt a blow at Wembley as a late penalty from the ever-reliable Frank Lampard rescued a draw against an impressive Ukraine team. A draw was probably a fair result on reflection, with England's territorial domination equalled out by a Ukrainian side who looked particularly threatening when on the counter-attack. It was Ukraine who came closest to opening the scoring after a high-tempo start to the game when Oleh Gusev's attempted cross from the left deflected off Leighton Baines and nearly caught Joe Hart out, clipping the post as it bounced wide. Gusev then beat Baines again and England were fortunate that Glen Johnson was alert to the danger by clearing his resulting cross from within a crowded area and with Ukranian runners abound. It was Johnson who created England's first opening at the other end too, racing down the right before cutting into the area, only for his low centre to be cleared just before reaching Jermain Defoe. England thought they had the lead in the tenth minute, when Defoe collected a pass before turning towards goal and firing an unstoppable shot past Andriy Pyatov. However, Turkish referee ...
http://wn.com/England_1-1_Ukraine_Official_Highlights_and_Goals_FIFA_World_Cup_2014_Qualifier_|_FATV




				
					Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive news, match highlights and more at www.youtube.com/england To find out more about the England team log on to: www.thefa.com Become a fan of England on Facebook at www.facebook.com And follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com England's World Cup qualifying campaign was almost dealt a blow at Wembley as a late penalty from the ever-reliable Frank Lampard rescued a draw against an impressive Ukraine team. A draw was probably a fair result on reflection, with England's territorial domination equalled out by a Ukrainian side who looked particularly threatening when on the counter-attack. It was Ukraine who came closest to opening the scoring after a high-tempo start to the game when Oleh Gusev's attempted cross from the left deflected off Leighton Baines and nearly caught Joe Hart out, clipping the post as it bounced wide. Gusev then beat Baines again and England were fortunate that Glen Johnson was alert to the danger by clearing his resulting cross from within a crowded area and with Ukranian runners abound. It was Johnson who created England's first opening at the other end too, racing down the right before cutting into the area, only for his low centre to be cleared just before reaching Jermain Defoe. England thought they had the lead in the tenth minute, when Defoe collected a pass before turning towards goal and firing an unstoppable shot past Andriy Pyatov. However, Turkish referee ...

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 218123

author:
england















Oman vs Japan: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 6)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:31
Updated: 22 Jan 2013


Oman 1-2 Japan: Shinji Okazaki struck with just over a minute remaining as AFC Asian Cup champions Japan moved within touching distance of qualifying for the 2014 FIFA World Cup after the unbeaten Group B leaders snatched a 2-1 win over Oman. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl
http://wn.com/Oman_vs_Japan_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_Asian_Qualifiers_Final_Rd,_Match_Day_6




				
					Oman 1-2 Japan: Shinji Okazaki struck with just over a minute remaining as AFC Asian Cup champions Japan moved within touching distance of qualifying for the 2014 FIFA World Cup after the unbeaten Group B leaders snatched a 2-1 win over Oman. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 14 Nov 2012
views: 15116

author:
AsianQualifiers2014















Jordan vs Australia: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 4)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:31
Updated: 20 Dec 2012


Jordan 2-1 Australia: Jordan emphatically kickstarted their FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign as Hasan Abdel Fattah and captain Amer Deeb scored to secure a 2-1 win over winless Australia at King Abdullah International Stadium. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl
http://wn.com/Jordan_vs_Australia_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_Asian_Qualifiers_Final_Rd,_Match_Day_4




				
					Jordan 2-1 Australia: Jordan emphatically kickstarted their FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign as Hasan Abdel Fattah and captain Amer Deeb scored to secure a 2-1 win over winless Australia at King Abdullah International Stadium. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 35282

author:
AsianQualifiers2014















Georgia - Belarus 1-0 (Fifa World Cup 2014 QR)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:21
Updated: 14 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Georgia_Belarus_1-0_Fifa_World_Cup_2014_QR






published: 07 Sep 2012
views: 26296

author:
GeorgianSportTV















Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012

Order: Reorder
Duration: 10:42
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012 Armenia vs Italy 1 - 2 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Osvaldo - Armenia vs Italy 1 - 3 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal De Rossi - Armenia vs Italy 2 - 1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Pirlo - Armenia vs Italy 1-1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Excellent ball from Pirlo, which crosses the head of De Rossi. The steering wheel replaces the Italian Azzurra in front of the scoreboard. The ball still hit the crossbar before entering. Pirlo Goal!! With great category, the steering wheel moves the goalkeeper, hitting the right corner of Berezovskiy, who fell to the other side!
http://wn.com/Armenia_1_x_3_Italia_Italy_Best_Moments_2014_World_Cup_Qualification_12_10_2012




				
					Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012 Armenia vs Italy 1 - 2 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Osvaldo - Armenia vs Italy 1 - 3 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal De Rossi - Armenia vs Italy 2 - 1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Pirlo - Armenia vs Italy 1-1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Excellent ball from Pirlo, which crosses the head of De Rossi. The steering wheel replaces the Italian Azzurra in front of the scoreboard. The ball still hit the crossbar before entering. Pirlo Goal!! With great category, the steering wheel moves the goalkeeper, hitting the right corner of Berezovskiy, who fell to the other side!

published: 12 Oct 2012
views: 13424

author:
FootbalStars















Chicharito, Dos Santos Lead Mexico into World Cup 2014

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:14
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Mexico manager José Manuel "Chepo" de la Torre talks with KICKTV about preparation for World Cup Qualifying. Coming off a gold medal at the 2012 Olympic games, expectations are high for Chicharito, Giovanni Dos Santos and the young stars that defeated Brazil for the gold medal. Carlos Vela is hot for Real Soceidad in La Liga, but will "Chepo" settle his differences with the former Arsenal man and call him back into the national team? Mexico get ready for WCQ on January 30th when they take on Denmark at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. Click here to buy tickets: bit.ly El Tri starts the final stage of CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying on February 6th against Jamaica. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Chicharito,_Dos_Santos_Lead_Mexico_into_World_Cup_2014




				
					Mexico manager José Manuel "Chepo" de la Torre talks with KICKTV about preparation for World Cup Qualifying. Coming off a gold medal at the 2012 Olympic games, expectations are high for Chicharito, Giovanni Dos Santos and the young stars that defeated Brazil for the gold medal. Carlos Vela is hot for Real Soceidad in La Liga, but will "Chepo" settle his differences with the former Arsenal man and call him back into the national team? Mexico get ready for WCQ on January 30th when they take on Denmark at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. Click here to buy tickets: bit.ly El Tri starts the final stage of CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying on February 6th against Jamaica. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 15 Jan 2013
views: 34482

author:
kick















Kenya reaches 2014 World Cup qualifiers

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:21
Updated: 07 Jan 2013


www.ntv.co.ke Kenya has booked a place in the group stages of the 2014 World Cup qualifiers. Kenya reached the group stages in audacious fashion as the Harambee Stars demolished Seychelles 4-0 at the Nyayo National Stadium today. The resounding 7-0 goal aggregate left coach Francis Kimanzi beaming with confidence as he turns his focus to the forthcoming CECAFA Senior challenge cup.
http://wn.com/Kenya_reaches_2014_World_Cup_qualifiers




				
					www.ntv.co.ke Kenya has booked a place in the group stages of the 2014 World Cup qualifiers. Kenya reached the group stages in audacious fashion as the Harambee Stars demolished Seychelles 4-0 at the Nyayo National Stadium today. The resounding 7-0 goal aggregate left coach Francis Kimanzi beaming with confidence as he turns his focus to the forthcoming CECAFA Senior challenge cup.

published: 15 Nov 2011
views: 11088

author:
NTVKenya















Georgia - Spain 0-1 (FIFA World Cup 2014 QR)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 22:00
Updated: 29 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Georgia_Spain_0-1_FIFA_World_Cup_2014_QR






published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 14309

author:
GeorgianSportTV















Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:33
Updated: 23 Nov 2012


Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014 Proved Van Gaal right for fielding him with a superb goal to break the deadlock in the first half. Worked hard to make himself available and showed some decent link-up play. Unfortunate not to add a second after the break. Jigsawwill Robin van Persie Holland Netherlands Manchester city brazil AC milian cristiano ronaldo lionel messi real madrid barcelona manchester united chealse arsenal liverpool tottenham rooney robben kun aguero nasri david silva mesut ozil kaka di maria xavi iniesta inter juventus drogba mata robin van persie eden hazard neymar mario gotze Vs
http://wn.com/Robin_van_Persie_Vs_Turkey_●_World_Cup_Qualifying_2014




				
					Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014 Proved Van Gaal right for fielding him with a superb goal to break the deadlock in the first half. Worked hard to make himself available and showed some decent link-up play. Unfortunate not to add a second after the break. Jigsawwill Robin van Persie Holland Netherlands Manchester city brazil AC milian cristiano ronaldo lionel messi real madrid barcelona manchester united chealse arsenal liverpool tottenham rooney robben kun aguero nasri david silva mesut ozil kaka di maria xavi iniesta inter juventus drogba mata robin van persie eden hazard neymar mario gotze Vs

published: 09 Sep 2012
views: 28376

author:
JigsawWill















Japan vs Oman - 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round

Order: Reorder
Duration: 86:12
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round - Group B - Match Day 1
http://wn.com/Japan_vs_Oman_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_qualification_AFC_4th_Round




				
					2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round - Group B - Match Day 1

published: 03 Jun 2012
views: 85561

author:
TheAsianFootball















Iran vs South Korea GOAL - 2014 FIFA World Cup Qualification - October 16, 2012

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:43
Updated: 28 Jan 2013


www.facebook.com
http://wn.com/Iran_vs_South_Korea_GOAL_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_Qualification_October_16,_2012




				
					www.facebook.com

published: 16 Oct 2012
views: 29801

author:
IranFootballMagazine















Ethiopia 2 Central African Rep. 0 -2014 World Cup Qualifier

Order: Reorder
Duration: 13:08
Updated: 27 Jan 2013


Ethiopia won their second world cup qualifier today with a brilliant 2-0 victory over Central African Republic here in Addis Ababa. Egypt based Salahdin Said who scored a week ago against South Africa scored both goals first in the 37th minute then in the 88th minute to confirm the result. Since South Africa could only draw 1-1 against Botswana yesterday, this result means Ethiopia for th first time in its history, tops a world cup qualifying group after 2 rounds with 4 points. A great victory! A great day! Bravo Tikur Sew! Bravo Black Lions! Bravo Ethiopia! Ethiopia's starting 11: 1. Sisay Bancha (GK) 4. Abebaw Butako 2. Degu Debebe (C) 6. Alula Girma 12. Biyadgelegn Elias 17. Seyoum Tesaye 8. Asrat Megersa 20. Addis Hintsa 15. Minyahil Teshome 19. Adane Girma 7. Salahdin Said Africa World Cup Qualifying Group A Standings Pos. Team GWDL Gf Ga Gd Pts 1. Ethiopia 2 1 1 0 3 1 +2 4 2. CAR 2 1 0 1 2 2 0 3 3.South Africa 2 0 2 0 2 2 0 2 4. Botswana 2 0 1 1 1 3 -2 1 Ethiopia's next game is March 22nd 2013 vs Botswana in Addis Ababa. Ethiopia has played 4 games in world cup qualifying until now. Ethiopia 0 Somalia 0 Ethiopia 5 Somalia 0 Ethiopia 1 South Africa 1 Ethiopia 2 CAR 0 Ethiopia's top scorers so far Salahdin Said 3 goals Getaneh Kebede 2 goals Shimeles Bekele 2 goals Omod Okori 1 goal Ethiopia is undefeated after 4 games of qualifying
http://wn.com/Ethiopia_2_Central_African_Rep_0_-2014_World_Cup_Qualifier




				
					Ethiopia won their second world cup qualifier today with a brilliant 2-0 victory over Central African Republic here in Addis Ababa. Egypt based Salahdin Said who scored a week ago against South Africa scored both goals first in the 37th minute then in the 88th minute to confirm the result. Since South Africa could only draw 1-1 against Botswana yesterday, this result means Ethiopia for th first time in its history, tops a world cup qualifying group after 2 rounds with 4 points. A great victory! A great day! Bravo Tikur Sew! Bravo Black Lions! Bravo Ethiopia! Ethiopia's starting 11: 1. Sisay Bancha (GK) 4. Abebaw Butako 2. Degu Debebe (C) 6. Alula Girma 12. Biyadgelegn Elias 17. Seyoum Tesaye 8. Asrat Megersa 20. Addis Hintsa 15. Minyahil Teshome 19. Adane Girma 7. Salahdin Said Africa World Cup Qualifying Group A Standings Pos. Team GWDL Gf Ga Gd Pts 1. Ethiopia 2 1 1 0 3 1 +2 4 2. CAR 2 1 0 1 2 2 0 3 3.South Africa 2 0 2 0 2 2 0 2 4. Botswana 2 0 1 1 1 3 -2 1 Ethiopia's next game is March 22nd 2013 vs Botswana in Addis Ababa. Ethiopia has played 4 games in world cup qualifying until now. Ethiopia 0 Somalia 0 Ethiopia 5 Somalia 0 Ethiopia 1 South Africa 1 Ethiopia 2 CAR 0 Ethiopia's top scorers so far Salahdin Said 3 goals Getaneh Kebede 2 goals Shimeles Bekele 2 goals Omod Okori 1 goal Ethiopia is undefeated after 4 games of qualifying

published: 10 Jun 2012
views: 45438

author:
ZekuEtyopia















Why Mexico Will Win The 2014 World Cup Part 3 (Marco Fabian & Jonathan Dos Santos)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:02
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


www.facebook.com Sorry it took so long for a new video, but I am back. Let me know who should be in part 4. Marco Fabian is doing amazing right now, and Jona is starting to get better and better, You can tell by his passing. Follow me at @abrahamreynaga The song is The Weeknd "Rescue You"
http://wn.com/Why_Mexico_Will_Win_The_2014_World_Cup_Part_3_Marco_Fabian_Jonathan_Dos_Santos




				
					www.facebook.com Sorry it took so long for a new video, but I am back. Let me know who should be in part 4. Marco Fabian is doing amazing right now, and Jona is starting to get better and better, You can tell by his passing. Follow me at @abrahamreynaga The song is The Weeknd "Rescue You"

published: 31 May 2012
views: 12569

author:
YOUNGABEWORLD















Iran vs South Korea FULL HIGHLIGHTS - 2014 FIFA World Cup Qualification - October 16, 2012

Order: Reorder
Duration: 15:00
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


www.facebook.com
http://wn.com/Iran_vs_South_Korea_FULL_HIGHLIGHTS_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_Qualification_October_16,_2012




				
					www.facebook.com

published: 16 Oct 2012
views: 58730

author:
IranFootballMagazine















England 1-1 Ukraine - Tunnelcam Highlights - FIFA World Cup 2014 Qualifier | FATV

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:31
Updated: 29 Jan 2013


England's World Cup qualifying campaign was almost dealt a blow at Wembley as a late penalty from the ever-reliable Frank Lampard rescued a draw against an impressive Ukraine team. A draw was probably a fair result on reflection, with England's territorial domination equalled out by a Ukrainian side who looked particularly threatening when on the counter-attack. It was what Hodgson had warned his squad about ahead of the match and is something that the Three Lions are well used to over the previous campaigns. But Ukraine certainly didn't arrive at Wembley with the sole intention of 'parking the bus'. They could quite easily have been more than one goal ahead before England's late pressure ended in Lampard's leveller. Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive news, match highlights and more at www.youtube.com/england To find out more about the England team log on to: www.thefa.com Become a fan of England on Facebook at www.facebook.com And follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com
http://wn.com/England_1-1_Ukraine_Tunnelcam_Highlights_FIFA_World_Cup_2014_Qualifier_|_FATV




				
					England's World Cup qualifying campaign was almost dealt a blow at Wembley as a late penalty from the ever-reliable Frank Lampard rescued a draw against an impressive Ukraine team. A draw was probably a fair result on reflection, with England's territorial domination equalled out by a Ukrainian side who looked particularly threatening when on the counter-attack. It was what Hodgson had warned his squad about ahead of the match and is something that the Three Lions are well used to over the previous campaigns. But Ukraine certainly didn't arrive at Wembley with the sole intention of 'parking the bus'. They could quite easily have been more than one goal ahead before England's late pressure ended in Lampard's leveller. Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive news, match highlights and more at www.youtube.com/england To find out more about the England team log on to: www.thefa.com Become a fan of England on Facebook at www.facebook.com And follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com

published: 12 Sep 2012
views: 12700

author:
england





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































2:39



2014 World Cup Trailer - Brazil
A WX-D4 Ent. Group Tracks compiled by Audiomachine - Guardians At the Gate - Breathe and L...


published: 12 Dec 2010
author: narnstrong


2014 World Cup Trailer - Brazil


				
					A WX-D4 Ent. Group Tracks compiled by Audiomachine - Guardians At the Gate - Breathe and Life

published: 12 Dec 2010
views: 29644

author:
narnstrong















1:05



Brazil 2014 World Cup venues near completion
Subscribe for the latest news from SNTV: bit.ly An update on construction works at 2014 Wo...


published: 26 Jan 2013
author: SNTVonline


Brazil 2014 World Cup venues near completion


				
					Subscribe for the latest news from SNTV: bit.ly An update on construction works at 2014 World Cup stadiums in Brazil, ahead of the mark of 500 days to go on Monday. With 500 days left to go until the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil, the country's stadia are nearing their final stages of construction. 12 new stadiums have been built especially for the world football show-piece. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister, says the country will be ready for the event. Not only the many new stadiums but the nation as a whole. Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister: "In addition to the big event that will be staged successfully, it is also a milestone opportunity, a unique opportunity to foster development in the country, creating twelve regional development hubs, surrounding each host city." While some of the stadiums, like the Castelao Arena in Fortaleza is nearing completion, Other stadiums like the Amazonia Arena in Manaus are believed to be just fifty percent complete. Delivery of the stadia was expected by the end of 2012, but with the speed of construction, they are now expected to be delivered very close to the opening date of the start of the competition. Breaking sports news: www.youtube.com Follow SNTV on Twitter: www.twitter.com SNTV: www.sntv.com

published: 26 Jan 2013
views: 569

author:
SNTVonline















2:56



cmon england 2014 world cup
2014 England world cup qualifiers anthem for Brazil...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: goingtosouthafrica


cmon england 2014 world cup


				
					2014 England world cup qualifiers anthem for Brazil

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 13

author:
goingtosouthafrica















5:06



Portugal VS Azerbaijan 3-0 - World Cup 2014 Qualifiers - All Goals & Full Highlights
Portugal 3 VS Azerbaijan 3-0 World Cup 2014 qualifications Europe || Coupe du Monde 2014 Q...


published: 11 Sep 2012
author: Arinsal2008


Portugal VS Azerbaijan 3-0 - World Cup 2014 Qualifiers - All Goals & Full Highlights


				
					Portugal 3 VS Azerbaijan 3-0 World Cup 2014 qualifications Europe || Coupe du Monde 2014 Qualifications real madrid vs barcelona 1-1 16.04.2011 xavi hernandez la pelopina skill dribble andres iniesta victor valdes david villa lionel messi sergio busquets dani alves gerard pique fontas dos santos thiago alcantara la masia ballon dor tiki taka rooney 5-0 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 6-0 1-1 2-1 3-1 4-1 5-2 4-2 3-3 barcelona barca real madrid camp nou pedro goal passing leo blaugrana santander sevilla passing game panathinaikos zaragoza ceuta beautiful sevilla kazan camp nou free kick penalty complication new world cup holland germany chile paraguay eric abidal puyol keita yaya toure fc barcelona video HD how to make goal blaugrana 551 rihanna T-pain lil wayne justin bieber F50 la más ligera jugador rápido tv tox Oliver smith-Nimbus(Original mix) crush Schiller mit Mila Mar - Liebe (ATB Dub Remix) FC Barcelona vs RCD Espanyol 18.12.10 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 21.12.10 All goals and FC Barcelona vs Levante UD 02.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletic Club 05.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Deportivo 09.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Málaga CF 16.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Racing 23.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Hercules 30.01.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Athletico Madrid 06.02.11 All goals and highlights FC Barcelona vs Sporting Gijón 13.02.11 All goals and ...

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 13387

author:
Arinsal2008















4:11



USA Prepares To Dominate 2014 World Cup: JC's American Soccer Spectacular
25 guys have been called up into training camp ahead of the last round of World Cup qualif...


published: 11 Jan 2013
author: kick


USA Prepares To Dominate 2014 World Cup: JC's American Soccer Spectacular


				
					25 guys have been called up into training camp ahead of the last round of World Cup qualifiers. But why so soon? Jimmy Conrad explains why this camp is unlike any around the world and why it's important that those called into camp put out their best showing. Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 11 Jan 2013
views: 22436

author:
kick















3:01



Spain To Win 2014 World Cup & Ronaldo To Win Ballon d'Or? The Mixer
Will Cristiano Ronaldo win the Ballon d'Or for the first time since 2008 this season? Are ...


published: 09 Oct 2012
author: kick


Spain To Win 2014 World Cup & Ronaldo To Win Ballon d'Or? The Mixer


				
					Will Cristiano Ronaldo win the Ballon d'Or for the first time since 2008 this season? Are Spain already favorites to win the World Cup in 2014? Alessandro Del Piero will have a camera fixated on him at this weekend's Sydney FC match. What will fans see? Jimmy Conrad and Ryan Bailey discuss this and more on The Mixer. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calico -- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 09 Oct 2012
views: 11801

author:
kick















1:31



Qatar vs Korea Republic: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Round, Match Day 2)
Qatar 1-4 Korea Republic: Ulsan Hyundai trio Lee Keun-ho, Kwak Tae-hwi and Kim Shin-wook s...


published: 08 Jun 2012
author: AsianQualifiers2014


Qatar vs Korea Republic: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Round, Match Day 2)


				
					Qatar 1-4 Korea Republic: Ulsan Hyundai trio Lee Keun-ho, Kwak Tae-hwi and Kim Shin-wook scored as Korea Republic came from behind to open their final round qualifying campaign for the 2014 FIFA World Cup finals with a 4-1 win over Qatar. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 08 Jun 2012
views: 38494

author:
AsianQualifiers2014















3:42



FIFA World Cup 2014 Brasil / Brazil - Take Me There
Many people wanted me to re-upload this video that I posted to my old channel some time ag...


published: 26 Jan 2011
author: D11Productionz


FIFA World Cup 2014 Brasil / Brazil - Take Me There


				
					Many people wanted me to re-upload this video that I posted to my old channel some time ago, well here it is :) Bobsled (Sleds) 17/09/10 , Milan-Lecce 29-8-2010 ,david BECKHAM COMEBACK Stjarnan's celebration against Keflavík - HAND ;AC Oulu - FC Lahti // Litmanen 1-2 saksarilla , ronaldo back pass , Free Kick 1 C.RONALDO◮BECKHAM training 1 / 10 HD , PIRLO SUPER GOAL , weltmassesoccer , Korean Amateur Player Free Kick , All the FreeKicks from David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo Time Force Commercial (ft. Elsa Pataky) , Once Brothers Petrovic Divac ,BECKHAM FREE KICK TUTORIAL 3 /100 HD , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series ,Human toilet blooper (FC Stjarnan) , Zeckes Außenbahn , | Mehmet Scholl erschreckt sich , Berlins Most Wanted - Weg eines Kriegers , Enzo Zidane 2010 Full Video , Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) , Amazing keeper goal , ,Real Madrid Vs Ajax Amsterdam 2 : 0 - Özil Traumhaft ,Hoffenheim-FC Bayern 1-2 BL-Saison 2010/2011 5.Spieltag , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Full Trailer , Mystery Guitar man Movie ,David Beckham scores in a AMAZING free kick! , FIFA SOCCER 11: "We Are 11" Series, Episode 7 - "Futbolin, Foosball in Madrid" ,Bobsled Celebration (FC Stjarnan) ,MANCHESTER CITY-CHELSEA 1-0 HIGHLIGHTS [25-09-2010] Tevez Goal , ALLE TORE, FC Bayern 0 - 0 FC Köln 18.9.2010 ,Diego talks about match against Hamburg , [Cristiano Ronaldo All 33 goals 2009-10(HD)] ,St. Pauli [1 - 1] Hamburger SV 19.9.2010 ALLE TORE , Dana White UFC 119 Video Blog ,Gol contra de bunda ...

published: 26 Jan 2011
views: 67268

author:
D11Productionz















5:35



England 1-1 Ukraine - Official Highlights and Goals - FIFA World Cup 2014 Qualifier | FATV
Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive...


published: 11 Sep 2012
author: england


England 1-1 Ukraine - Official Highlights and Goals - FIFA World Cup 2014 Qualifier | FATV


				
					Subscribe to the official YouTube channel of the England football team featuring exclusive news, match highlights and more at www.youtube.com/england To find out more about the England team log on to: www.thefa.com Become a fan of England on Facebook at www.facebook.com And follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com England's World Cup qualifying campaign was almost dealt a blow at Wembley as a late penalty from the ever-reliable Frank Lampard rescued a draw against an impressive Ukraine team. A draw was probably a fair result on reflection, with England's territorial domination equalled out by a Ukrainian side who looked particularly threatening when on the counter-attack. It was Ukraine who came closest to opening the scoring after a high-tempo start to the game when Oleh Gusev's attempted cross from the left deflected off Leighton Baines and nearly caught Joe Hart out, clipping the post as it bounced wide. Gusev then beat Baines again and England were fortunate that Glen Johnson was alert to the danger by clearing his resulting cross from within a crowded area and with Ukranian runners abound. It was Johnson who created England's first opening at the other end too, racing down the right before cutting into the area, only for his low centre to be cleared just before reaching Jermain Defoe. England thought they had the lead in the tenth minute, when Defoe collected a pass before turning towards goal and firing an unstoppable shot past Andriy Pyatov. However, Turkish referee ...

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 218123

author:
england















1:31



Oman vs Japan: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 6)
Oman 1-2 Japan: Shinji Okazaki struck with just over a minute remaining as AFC Asian Cup c...


published: 14 Nov 2012
author: AsianQualifiers2014


Oman vs Japan: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 6)


				
					Oman 1-2 Japan: Shinji Okazaki struck with just over a minute remaining as AFC Asian Cup champions Japan moved within touching distance of qualifying for the 2014 FIFA World Cup after the unbeaten Group B leaders snatched a 2-1 win over Oman. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 14 Nov 2012
views: 15116

author:
AsianQualifiers2014















1:31



Jordan vs Australia: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 4)
Jordan 2-1 Australia: Jordan emphatically kickstarted their FIFA World Cup qualifying camp...


published: 11 Sep 2012
author: AsianQualifiers2014


Jordan vs Australia: 2014 FIFA World Cup Asian Qualifiers (Final Rd, Match Day 4)


				
					Jordan 2-1 Australia: Jordan emphatically kickstarted their FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign as Hasan Abdel Fattah and captain Amer Deeb scored to secure a 2-1 win over winless Australia at King Abdullah International Stadium. For more, visit goo.gl Visit our channel: goo.gl FACEBOOK: goo.gl TWITTER: goo.gl

published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 35282

author:
AsianQualifiers2014















9:21



Georgia - Belarus 1-0 (Fifa World Cup 2014 QR)
...


published: 07 Sep 2012
author: GeorgianSportTV


Georgia - Belarus 1-0 (Fifa World Cup 2014 QR)




published: 07 Sep 2012
views: 26296

author:
GeorgianSportTV















10:42



Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012
Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012 Arme...


published: 12 Oct 2012
author: FootbalStars


Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012


				
					Armenia 1 x 3 Italia (Italy) - Best Moments - 2014 World Cup Qualification 12 10 2012 Armenia vs Italy 1 - 2 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Osvaldo - Armenia vs Italy 1 - 3 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal De Rossi - Armenia vs Italy 2 - 1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Goal Pirlo - Armenia vs Italy 1-1 - Eliminatorias Brazil 2014 Excellent ball from Pirlo, which crosses the head of De Rossi. The steering wheel replaces the Italian Azzurra in front of the scoreboard. The ball still hit the crossbar before entering. Pirlo Goal!! With great category, the steering wheel moves the goalkeeper, hitting the right corner of Berezovskiy, who fell to the other side!

published: 12 Oct 2012
views: 13424

author:
FootbalStars















4:14



Chicharito, Dos Santos Lead Mexico into World Cup 2014
Mexico manager José Manuel "Chepo" de la Torre talks with KICKTV about preparation for Wor...


published: 15 Jan 2013
author: kick


Chicharito, Dos Santos Lead Mexico into World Cup 2014


				
					Mexico manager José Manuel "Chepo" de la Torre talks with KICKTV about preparation for World Cup Qualifying. Coming off a gold medal at the 2012 Olympic games, expectations are high for Chicharito, Giovanni Dos Santos and the young stars that defeated Brazil for the gold medal. Carlos Vela is hot for Real Soceidad in La Liga, but will "Chepo" settle his differences with the former Arsenal man and call him back into the national team? Mexico get ready for WCQ on January 30th when they take on Denmark at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. Click here to buy tickets: bit.ly El Tri starts the final stage of CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying on February 6th against Jamaica. SUBSCRIBE for more KICKTV Videos. It's FREE: bit.ly Visit the KICKTV Homepage: bit.ly Follow us on Twitter: bit.ly Like us on Facebook: on.fb.me Follow us on Tumblr: bit.ly ABOUT KICKTV: KICKTV is YouTube's global headquarters for the beautiful game. Football, soccer, futbol, calcio-- whatever you call it, this is your place for video, analysis, commentary and comedy around the world's most popular sport. KICKTV brings you the latest on the best players in the world, like: Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar. And the world's top leagues: the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga, Ligue 1, the Eredivisie & the Brazilian league. Plus, coverage of all the biggest football events: UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, the Euros, Copa Libertadores and more. www.youtube.com

published: 15 Jan 2013
views: 34482

author:
kick










Youtube results:







2:21



Kenya reaches 2014 World Cup qualifiers
www.ntv.co.ke Kenya has booked a place in the group stages of the 2014 World Cup qualifier...


published: 15 Nov 2011
author: NTVKenya


Kenya reaches 2014 World Cup qualifiers


				
					www.ntv.co.ke Kenya has booked a place in the group stages of the 2014 World Cup qualifiers. Kenya reached the group stages in audacious fashion as the Harambee Stars demolished Seychelles 4-0 at the Nyayo National Stadium today. The resounding 7-0 goal aggregate left coach Francis Kimanzi beaming with confidence as he turns his focus to the forthcoming CECAFA Senior challenge cup.

published: 15 Nov 2011
views: 11088

author:
NTVKenya















22:00



Georgia - Spain 0-1 (FIFA World Cup 2014 QR)
...


published: 11 Sep 2012
author: GeorgianSportTV


Georgia - Spain 0-1 (FIFA World Cup 2014 QR)




published: 11 Sep 2012
views: 14309

author:
GeorgianSportTV















3:33



Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014
Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014 Proved Van Gaal right for fielding ...


published: 09 Sep 2012
author: JigsawWill


Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014


				
					Robin van Persie Vs Turkey ● World Cup Qualifying 2014 Proved Van Gaal right for fielding him with a superb goal to break the deadlock in the first half. Worked hard to make himself available and showed some decent link-up play. Unfortunate not to add a second after the break. Jigsawwill Robin van Persie Holland Netherlands Manchester city brazil AC milian cristiano ronaldo lionel messi real madrid barcelona manchester united chealse arsenal liverpool tottenham rooney robben kun aguero nasri david silva mesut ozil kaka di maria xavi iniesta inter juventus drogba mata robin van persie eden hazard neymar mario gotze Vs

published: 09 Sep 2012
views: 28376

author:
JigsawWill















86:12



Japan vs Oman - 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round
2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round - Group B - Match Day 1...


published: 03 Jun 2012
author: TheAsianFootball


Japan vs Oman - 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round


				
					2014 FIFA World Cup qualification - AFC 4th Round - Group B - Match Day 1

published: 03 Jun 2012
views: 85561

author:
TheAsianFootball











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25 ... The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... "Still, when the world's best compete at the highest level in any sport, risks remain," they added ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



By Alexander Dziadosz and Oliver Holmes ... More than 60,000 people are estimated to have been killed in the Syrian war, the longest and deadliest of the revolts that began throughout the Arab world two years ago. The U.N ... World powers fear the conflict could increasingly envelop Syria's neighbours including Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, further destabilising an already explosive region ... State media did not mention the incident ... FOLLOW WORLD ... ....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime ... Share ... People & Power investigates one of the world's most forgotten conflicts - the West Papuan struggle for independence ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



MEXICO CITY — Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 25 people and injured 101 at the headquarters of Mexico’s state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos ... Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... My son.” ... ....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed. The Syrian Army statement says that the IAF jet fighters’ target was a military research centre near the border with Lebanon. Two people have been reported to be dead and five others injured in the attack ... First Published ... ....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














Name stadium after Eddy

The Star02 Feb 2013

read more



The highlights of his success were capturing seven All-England titles (as good as world titles then) ... Moreover, he was a member of the 1955 Malayan Thomas Cup winning team ... Over the past decades, the venue has seen a range of world-class badminton tournaments, such as the Malaysia Open Super Series, BWF World Championships, Thomas Cup and Uber Cup Tournaments....(size: 2.8Kb)
	    



UD assistant Carr named to U.S. women's national lacrosse team (University of Delaware)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



Women's National Team that is set to compete in the 2013 Federation of International Lacrosse (FIL) World Cup, US Lacrosse announced earlier this week ... (July 5-7), the team will travel to Oshawa for the World Cup....(size: 4.9Kb)
	    



Mancini saddened by Mario exit

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



"We are not happy because I think he did well. "Maybe not in the last three or four months because he had a big problem with injuries, but he did well because he helped the team win the Premier League and the FA Cup ... But his faith in the player's talent has never wavered and he still expects the Italy international to become a star of the world game. He said ... He said ... We have only Premier League and FA Cup, I think that could be enough."....(size: 3.3Kb)
	    



Erakovic out in close one (Tennis New Zealand)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



Earlier in the tournament Erakovic beat third seed and world No27 ... Erakovic currently ranked 75th will travel to Kazakhstan for Fed Cup starting next week at the completion of her rain delayed doubles draw where she is playing with Brit, Heather Watson....(size: 1.6Kb)
	    



Kompany facing three-weeks out

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



Kompany limped out of last week's FA Cup fourth-round win at Stoke with a calf strain and missed the champions' goalless draw at QPR in the Barclays Premier League on Tuesday ... hope he can recover after the FA Cup."....(size: 1.1Kb)
	    



Ghana v Cape Verde preview

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



Ghana coach Kwesi Appiah has warned his side against complacency when they face Cape Verde in the African Cup of Nations Cup quarter-finals on Saturday ... "The GFA is extremely disturbed that at a time the country is solidly behind the Black Stars to bring home the Africa Cup, a tiny minority of journalists would engage in such nation-wrecking activity....(size: 2.1Kb)
	    



Finances still poor - McGlynn

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



The club will face St Mirren in the final of the Scottish Communities League Cup on March 17, but McGlynn insists the rewards of a victory that day will not be enough to move the Jambos out of the red ... Those delays led to the club being issued with transfer restrictions by the Scottish Premier League and McGlynn knows their problems will not be fixed by their cup final date....(size: 4.6Kb)
	    



Reynolds eyes silverware

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



Aberdeen need a result at Easter Road on Sunday, when they face Hibernian in the William Hill Scottish Cup fifth round, to retain hope of winning something this season. The Dons have not won yet in four games in 2013 and cup ties bring their own pressure at the club given Aberdeen have not won a trophy for 18 years or reached a final for 13 seasons....(size: 2.4Kb)
	    



Devine display for NZ

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



A sensational century from Sophie Devine helped New Zealand record a comprehensive 150-run victory over South Africa at the ICC Women's World Cup ... ....(size: 0.9Kb)
	    



Impressive win for Australia

Orange News02 Feb 2013

read more



Australia opened up their ICC Women's World Cup challenge with a convincing 91-run rout of Pakistan. Australia must have feared the worst when they were skittled for just 175 at Barabati Stadium ... ....(size: 1.0Kb)
	    



Panini America Inks Trading Card Deal with Projected No. 1 Overall NFL Draft Pick Geno Smith

Yahoo Daily News02 Feb 2013

read more



Panini America is the only company in the world that manufactures licensed trading cards and stickers for the NBA, NFL, NFL PLAYERS, NHL, NHLPA, MLBPA and FIFA World Cup ... Panini is the world leader in officially licensed collectibles and is the most significant publisher of collectibles in the U.S., with official licenses for MLBPA, NBA, NFL, NHL, FIFA, USA Baseball, Disney, Nickelodeon, Warner Bros....(size: 3.0Kb)
	    



Kia Canada Inc. reports 3,673 vehicle sales in January (KIA Motors Corporation)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source. KIA Motors Corporation) Kia Canada Inc ... In the month of January, Kia Canada revealed the all-new 2014 Kia Forte sedan and significantly redesigned 2014 Kia Sorento SUV at the Montreal International Auto Show (MIAS) ... ###. Kia Canada Inc ... Kia's brand slogan "The Power to Surprise" represents the company's global commitment to surprise the world by providing exciting & inspiring experiences that go beyond expectations....(size: 4.6Kb)
	    



Brits Abroad - Alan Walsh

Sky Sports02 Feb 2013

read more



So I had the chance to see them in the Turkish cup final towards the end of June ... On the weekend they were playing Fenerbahce at home in the second leg of the Turkish cup final ... We had a pre-season in Germany for about three weeks and then came back and had a little sports writers' cup they called it between the three big clubs in Istanbul which was Fenerbahce, Galatasaray and Besiktas....(size: 8.2Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001


















2014 FIFA World Cup

Copa do Mundo da FIFA
Brasil 2014


160px
2014 FIFA World Cup logo


Tournament details


Host country
 Brazil


Dates
12 June – 13 July (32 days)


Teams
32 (from 5 or 6 confederations)


Venue(s)
12 (in 12 host cities)



← 2010
2018 →



The 2014 FIFA World Cup will be the 20th FIFA World Cup, an international association football tournament that will take place in Brazil from 12 June to 13 July 2014.[1]
This will be the second time the country has hosted the competition, the first being the 1950 FIFA World Cup. Brazil will become the fifth country to have hosted the FIFA World Cup twice, after Mexico, Italy, France and Germany. It will be the first World Cup to be held in South America since the 1978 FIFA World Cup in Argentina, the first time two consecutive World Cups are staged outside Europe and the first time two consecutive World Cups are staged in the Southern Hemisphere (the 2010 FIFA World Cup was held in South Africa).




Contents


1 Host selection
2 Qualification

2.1 Qualified teams
2.2 Europe (UEFA)
2.3 South America (CONMEBOL)
2.4 Africa (CAF)
2.5 Asia (AFC)
2.6 North, Central American and the Caribbean (CONCACAF)
2.7 Oceania (OFC)


3 Venues
4 Group stage

4.1 Group A
4.2 Group B
4.3 Group C
4.4 Group D
4.5 Group E
4.6 Group F
4.7 Group G
4.8 Group H


5 Knockout phase

5.1 Round of 16
5.2 Quarter-finals
5.3 Semi-finals
5.4 Third place match
5.5 Final


6 Logo
7 Infrastructure

7.1 Stadiums
7.2 Airports
7.3 Metro, Monorail, and Light rail
7.4 BRT


8 Development programme

8.1 Maracanã projects
8.2 Corinthians projects


9 Host cities
10 Security plan
11 Anti-fraud plan
12 Tax breaks
13 See also
14 References
15 External links




Host selection[link]




Sepp Blatter and the Brazilian victory.


Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup bids
On 7 March 2003, FIFA announced that the tournament would be held in South America for the first time since Argentina hosted the competition in 1978, in line with its policy of rotating the right to host the World Cup amongst different confederations. On 3 June 2003, the South American Football Confederation CONMEBOL announced that Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia wanted to host the 2014 World Cup finals.[2]
By 17 March 2004, the CONMEBOL associations had voted unanimously to adopt Brazil as their sole candidate.[3]
Brazil formally declared its candidacy in December 2006 and Colombia followed a few days later. The Argentina bid never materialized. On 11 April 2007, Colombia officially withdrew its bid, Francisco Santos Calderón the vice president of Colombia announced that instead Colombia would be hosting the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup. With this development, Brazil became the only official candidate to host the 2014 event.[4]
Brazil won the right to host the event on 30 October 2007 as the only country to enter the bidding process.[5]
Qualification[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification
The allocation of places for the final tournament was decided on 3 March 2011, with the distribution of the 31 places determined through the qualification process unchanged from that for the 2010 World Cup.[6]
The qualification draw for the 2014 World Cup was held at the Marina da Glória in Rio de Janeiro on 30 July 2011.[7] As the host nation, Brazil automatically qualifies for the tournament.
Qualified teams[link]


Team
Order of
qualification
Method of
qualification
Date of
qualification
Finals
appearance
Consecutive
World Cups
Last
appearance
Previous best
performance
FIFA Ranking
at start of event


 Brazil
1st
Host
30 Oct 2007
20th
20
2010
Winner (1958, 1962, 1970, 1994, 2002)



Europe (UEFA)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)




  Country qualified
  Country may qualify
  Cannot qualify – games to play
  Country failed to qualify
  Country did not enter World Cup
  Country is not a FIFA member



(53 teams competing for 13 berths)
South America (CONMEBOL)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL)
(9 teams competing for 4 or 5 berths, playoff to determine exact number)
CONMEBOL will have 4 or 5 berths through qualification, with the top four teams in the group qualifying directly to the finals. The fifth place team from the group will play Asia's 5th place team in a home-and-away series to determine who will qualify.
In addition, Brazil automatically qualifies for the finals as host.
Africa (CAF)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (CAF)
(52 teams competing for 5 berths)
Asia (AFC)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (AFC)
(43 teams competing for 4 or 5 berths, playoff to determine exact number)
North, Central American and the Caribbean (CONCACAF)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONCACAF)
(35 teams competing for 3 or 4 berths, with playoff to determine exact number) There are 3 certain berths that would be allocated to the first 3 places in the final group. The 4th place team in the final group will play Oceania's winner in a home and away series to determine who will qualify for the finals.
Oceania (OFC)[link]
Main article: 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (OFC)
(11 teams competing for 0 or 1 berth, playoff to determine exact number) The winner of OFC will play the 4th team from CONCACAF in a home and away series.
Venues[link]




Dilma Rouseff (2nd from the right) and Pelé (center) following the works in Belo Horizonte.


Seventeen cities showed interest in being chosen as World Cup host cities: Belém, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Campo Grande, Cuiabá, Curitiba, Florianópolis, Fortaleza, Goiânia, Manaus, Natal, Porto Alegre, Recife, Olinda (a stadium would be shared by both cities), Rio Branco, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and São Paulo.[8] Maceió withdrew in January 2009.
According to current FIFA practice, no more than one city may use two stadiums, and the number of host cities is limited between eight and ten. The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) requested permission to assign 12 cities hosting World Cup Finals.[9] On 26 December 2008, FIFA gave the green light to the 12-city plan.[10]
Even before the 12 host cities were selected, there were few doubts that the chosen venue for the final match will be the Maracanã in Rio de Janeiro, which also hosted the decisive match of the 1950 FIFA World Cup. Originally the CBF's intentions were to have the opening match at Estádio do Morumbi in São Paulo, the largest city in Brazil. However, on 14 June 2010 the stadium was excluded from hosting games in the tournament due to a failure to provide financial guarantees for the improvements needed to have it as an eligible venue.[11] At the end of August 2010, the CBF announced that the new Corinthians Stadium would host the matches in São Paulo.
The 12 host cities for the 2014 World Cup were announced on 31 May 2009.[12] Belém, Campo Grande, Florianópolis, Goiânia and Rio Branco were rejected. Half of the chosen host cities will have their games in brand new venues built specifically for the World Cup, while the stadium for the capital Brasilia was demolished and will be rebuilt, and the remaining five are upgrading their current stadia.




Belo Horizonte
Brasília
Cuiabá
Curitiba


Estádio Governador Magalhães Pinto
(Mineirão)
Estádio Mané Garrincha
(Estádio Nacional)
Arena Pantanal –
Governador José Fragelli
(Novo Verdão)
Estádio Joaquim Américo Guimarães
(Arena da Baixada)


Capacity: 66,805
(upgraded)
Capacity: 71,412
(rebuilt)
Capacity: 42,968
(rebuilt)
Capacity: 40,000
(upgraded)




200px



Fortaleza






Belo Horizonte



Brasília



Fortaleza



Porto Alegre



São Paulo



Rio de Janeiro



Salvador



Natal



Cuiabá



Curitiba



Manaus



Recife






Manaus


Estádio Plácido Aderaldo Castelo
(Castelão)
Arena Amazonia –
Vivaldo Lima
(Novo Vivaldão)


Capacity: 64,165
(upgraded)
Capacity: 43,710
(rebuilt)






Natal
Porto Alegre


Arena das Dunas –
João Cláudio de Vasconcelos Machado
(Novo Machadão)
Estádio José Pinheiro Borda
(Beira-Rio)


Capacity: 42,001
(rebuilt)
Capacity: 50,287
(upgraded)


200px



Recife
Rio de Janeiro
Salvador
São Paulo


Arena Pernambuco
Estádio Mário Filho
(Maracanã)
Arena Fonte Nova –
Octávio Mangabeira
Arena Corinthians


Capacity: 43,921
(new stadium)
Capacity: 76,935
(upgraded)[13]
Capacity: 56,500
(rebuilt)
Capacity: 65,807
(new stadium)[14]









Group stage[link]




Arena Fonte Nova under construction in Salvador on February, 2011.


All times listed are Brasília official time (UTC−03)
The official match schedule, which is subject to change, was announced at FIFA's headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland on 20 October 2011.[15]
Group A[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


 Brazil
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


A2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


A3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


A4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




12 June 2014
17:00
Brazil 
Match 1
 A2
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo










13 June 2014
 A3
Match 2
 A4
Estádio das Dunas, Natal










17 June 2014
Brazil 
Match 17
 A3
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza










18 June 2014
 A2
Match 18
 A4
Arena Amazônia, Manaus










23 June 2014
Brazil 
Match 33
 A4
Estádio Nacional, Brasília










23 June 2014
 A2
Match 34
 A3
Arena Pernambuco, Recife







Group B[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


B1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


B2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


B3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


B4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




13 June 2014
 B1
Match 3
 B2
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador










13 June 2014
 B3
Match 4
 B4
Arena Pantanal, Cuiabá










18 June 2014
 B1
Match 19
 B3
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro










18 June 2014
 B2
Match 20
 B4
Estádio Beira-Rio, Porto Alegre










23 June 2014
 B1
Match 35
 B4
Arena da Baixada, Curitiba










23 June 2014
 B2
Match 36
 B3
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo







Group C[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


C1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


C2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


C3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


C4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




14 June 2014
 C1
Match 5
 C2
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte










14 June 2014
 C3
Match 6
 C4
Arena Pernambuco, Recife










19 June 2014
 C1
Match 21
 C3
Estádio Nacional, Brasília










19 June 2014
 C2
Match 22
 C4
Estádio das Dunas, Natal










24 June 2014
 C1
Match 37
 C4
Arena Pantanal, Cuiabá










24 June 2014
 C2
Match 38
 C3
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza







Group D[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


D1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


D2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


D3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


D4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




14 June 2014
 D1
Match 7
 D2
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza










14 June 2014
 D3
Match 8
 D4
Arena Amazônia, Manaus










19 June 2014
 D1
Match 23
 D3
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo










20 June 2014
 D2
Match 24
 D4
Arena Pernambuco, Recife










24 June 2014
 D1
Match 39
 D4
Estádio das Dunas, Natal










24 June 2014
 D2
Match 40
 D3
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte







Group E[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


E1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


E2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


E3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


E4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




15 June 2014
 E1
Match 9
 E2
Estádio Nacional, Brasília










15 June 2014
 E3
Match 10
 E4
Estádio Beira-Rio, Porto Alegre










20 June 2014
 E1
Match 25
 E3
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador










20 June 2014
 E2
Match 26
 E4
Arena da Baixada, Curitiba










25 June 2014
 E1
Match 41
 E4
Arena Amazônia, Manaus










25 June 2014
 E2
Match 42
 E3
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro







Group F[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


F1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


F2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


F3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


F4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




15 June 2014
 F1
Match 11
 F2
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro










16 June 2014
 F3
Match 12
 F4
Arena da Baixada, Curitiba










21 June 2014
 F1
Match 27
 F3
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte










21 June 2014
 F2
Match 28
 F4
Arena Pantanal, Cuiabá










25 June 2014
 F1
Match 43
 F4
Estádio Beira-Rio, Porto Alegre










25 June 2014
 F2
Match 44
 F3
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador







Group G[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


G1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


G2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


G3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


G4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




16 June 2014
 G1
Match 13
 G2
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador










16 June 2014
 G3
Match 14
 G4
Estádio das Dunas, Natal










21 June 2014
 G1
Match 29
 G3
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza










22 June 2014
 G2
Match 30
 G4
Arena Amazônia, Manaus










26 June 2014
 G1
Match 45
 G4
Arena Pernambuco, Recife










26 June 2014
 G2
Match 46
 G3
Estádio Nacional, Brasília







Group H[link]


Team
Pld
W
D
L
GF
GA
GD
Pts


H1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


H2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


H3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0


H4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0




17 June 2014
 H1
Match 15
 H2
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte










17 June 2014
 H3
Match 16
 H4
Arena Pantanal, Cuiabá










22 June 2014
 H1
Match 31
 H3
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro










22 June 2014
 H2
Match 32
 H4
Estádio Beira-Rio, Porto Alegre










26 June 2014
 H1
Match 47
 H4
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo










26 June 2014
 H2
Match 48
 H3
Arena da Baixada, Curitiba







Knockout phase[link]



Round of 16

Quarter-finals

Semi-finals

Final



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



28 June – Belo Horizonte
 
 

 
 

 
 







 Winner Group A
 



4 July – Fortaleza



 Runner-up Group B
 
 



 Winner Match 49
 



28 June – Rio de Janeiro



 
 Winner Match 50
 
 



 Winner Group C
 




8 July – Belo Horizonte



 Runner-up Group D
 
 



 Winner Match 57
 



30 June – Brasília



 
 Winner Match 58
 
 



 Winner Group E
 



4 July – Rio de Janeiro




 Runner-up Group F
 
 



 Winner Match 53
 



30 June – Porto Alegre



 
 Winner Match 54
 
 



 Winner Group G
 




13 July – Rio de Janeiro



 Runner-up Group H
 
 



 Winner Match 61
 



29 June – Fortaleza



 
 Winner Match 62
 



 Winner Group B
 



5 July – Salvador




 Runner-up Group A
 
 



 Winner Match 51
 



29 June – Recife



 
 Winner Match 52
 
 



 Winner Group D
 




9 July – São Paulo



 Runner-up Group C
 
 



 Winner Match 59
 



1 July – São Paulo



 
 Winner Match 60
 
 
Third place



 Winner Group F
 



5 July – Brasília

12 July – Brasília



 Runner-up Group E
 
 



 Winner Match 55
 
 Loser Match 61
 



1 July – Salvador



 
 Winner Match 56
 
 
 Loser Match 62
 



 Winner Group H
 








 Runner-up Group G
 
 





Round of 16[link]


28 June 2014
 Winner Group A
Match 49
 Runner-up Group B
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte










28 June 2014
 Winner Group C
Match 50
 Runner-up Group D
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro










29 June 2014
 Winner Group B
Match 51
 Runner-up Group A
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza










29 June 2014
 Winner Group D
Match 52
 Runner-up Group C
Arena Pernambuco, Recife










30 June 2014
 Winner Group E
Match 53
 Runner-up Group F
Estádio Nacional, Brasília










30 June 2014
 Winner Group G
Match 54
 Runner-up Group H
Estádio Beira-Rio, Porto Alegre










1 July 2014
 Winner Group F
Match 55
 Runner-up Group E
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo










1 July 2014
 Winner Group H
Match 56
 Runner-up Group G
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador







Quarter-finals[link]


4 July 2014
 Winner Match 49
Match 57
 Winner Match 50
Estádio Castelão, Fortaleza










4 July 2014
 Winner Match 53
Match 58
 Winner Match 54
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro










5 July 2014
 Winner Match 51
Match 59
 Winner Match 52
Arena Fonte Nova, Salvador










5 July 2014
 Winner Match 55
Match 60
 Winner Match 56
Estádio Nacional, Brasília







Semi-finals[link]


8 July 2014
17:00
 Winner Match 57
Match 61
 Winner Match 58
Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte










9 July 2014
17:00
 Winner Match 59
Match 62
 Winner Match 60
Arena Corinthians, São Paulo







Third place match[link]


12 July 2014
17:00
 Loser Match 61
Match 63
 Loser Match 62
Estádio Nacional, Brasília







Final[link]


13 July 2014
16:00
 Winner Match 61
Match 64
 Winner Match 62
Estádio do Maracanã, Rio de Janeiro







Logo[link]




The official Brazil 2014 logo.


The logo is called "Inspiration", and was created by Brazilian agency Africa. The design stems from an iconic photograph of three victorious hands together raising the world's most famous trophy. As well as depicting the humanitarian notion of hands interlinking, the portrayal of the hands is also symbolic of the yellow and green of Brazil warmly welcoming the world to their country. The logo was unveiled at a ceremony held in Johannesburg on 8 July 2010.[16]
FIFA and the Brazil LOC invited 25 Brazilian-based agencies to submit designs for the Official Emblem of the 2014 tournament and the task of picking the winner was awarded to a high-profile seven-strong judging panel consisting of CBF chairman Ricardo Teixeira, FIFA executive secretary Jérôme Valcke, supermodel Gisele Bündchen, architect Oscar Niemeyer, writer Paulo Coelho, singer Ivete Sangalo, and designer Hans Donner.[17]
Brazilian graphic designer Alexandre Wollner has criticized the design, suggesting it resembles a hand covering a face in shame, and the process through which it was chosen, having a jury that excluded professional graphic designers.[18]
Infrastructure[link]




Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro.


Stadiums[link]
The CBF estimates that the cost of construction and remodeling of stadiums[19] alone will be approximately over R$1.9 billion ($1.1 billion, £ 550 million).[20] In addition to the stadium upgrades and renovations, there will be millions more spent on basic infrastructure needs to get the country ready.
When informed of the decision to host the tournament, CBF President Ricardo Teixeira said: "We are a civilized nation, a nation that is going through an excellent phase, and we have got everything prepared to receive adequately the honor to organize an excellent World Cup." Teixeira was on hand at FIFA's headquarters in Zürich when the announcement was made.
"Over the next few years we will have a consistent influx of investments. The 2014 World Cup will enable Brazil to have a modern infrastructure," Teixeira said. "In social terms will be very beneficial. Our objective is to make Brazil become more visible in global arenas," he added. "The World Cup goes far beyond a mere sporting event. It's going to be an interesting tool to promote social transformation."




Recife International Airport in Recife.


Airports[link]
On 31 August 2009 the state airport management agency Infraero unveiled a R$ 5.3 billion (approx. €3 billion, £ 2 billion) investment plan[21] to upgrade airports of ten of the venue cities, increasing their capacity and comfort for the hundreds of thousands of tourists expected for the Cup. Natal and Salvador are excluded because their upgrade works have been recently completed. A significant amount (55.3%) of the money will be spent overhauling the airports of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. The investment figure covers works to be carried out up to 2014.
The announcement by Infraero came in reply to criticism made by the Brazilian General Aviation Association, a grouping of private aircraft owners, that Brazil's airports currently could not cope with the World Cup inflow. The vice-president of the association, Adalberto Febeliano, told reporters that more than 500,000 football fans were expected, with each one taking between six and fourteen flights during the tournament to get to the games in various cities.[22] In May 2010, the Government of Brazil changed the bidding legislation to allow more flexibility to Infraero.[23]
Metro, Monorail, and Light rail[link]




Light rail in Brasília.






View of São Paulo Metro.






Internal view of São Paulo Metro.



Porto Alegre

In 2012, the Porto Alegre International Airport will have a monorail line that connects the airport with Aeroporto metro station of Greater Porto Alegre Metro. That will connect the airport with downtown Porto Alegre and the stadium.[24]

São Paulo

In 2014, the São Paulo International Airport will have a metro line that connects the airport with downtown São Paulo and the stadium. The new line integrates the São Paulo Metro and Greater São Paulo Metro.[25]

Salvador

In 2014, the Salvador International Airport will have a metro line that connects the airport with downtown Salvador and the stadium. The new line integrates the Salvador Metro.[26]

Fortaleza

In 2014, the Fortaleza International Airport will have a metro line that connects the airport with downtown Fortaleza and the stadium. The new line integrates the Fortaleza Metro.[27]

Manaus

In 2014, the Manaus International Airport will have a monorail line that connects the airport with downtown Manaus and the stadium.[28]

Brasília

In 2014, the Brasília International Airport will have a light rail line that connects the airport with downtown Brasília and the stadium. The new line integrates the Brasília Metro.[29]

Cuiabá

In 2014, the Cuiabá International Airport will have a light rail line that connects the airport with downtown Cuiabá and the stadium.[30]

Natal

In 2014, the Natal International Airport will have a light rail line that connects the airport with downtown Natal and the stadium.[31]
BRT[link]




BRT in Curitiba, the pioneer in the world.



Belo Horizonte

In 2014, Belo Horizonte International Airport will have a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line that connects the airport with downtown Belo Horizonte and the stadium. The BRT system will integrates the Belo Horizonte Metro.

Curitiba

In 2014, the Curitiba International Airport will have a BRT line that connects the airport with downtown Curitiba and the stadium. The future BRT line of International Airport will add to the Rede Integrada de Transporte of Curitiba, one of the largest BRT systems of the world.

Recife

In 2014, the Recife International Airport will have a BRT line, that connects the airport with downtown Recife, metropolitan area, and the stadium. The BRT system will integrates the Recife Metro.

Rio de Janeiro

In 2014, the Rio de Janeiro International Airport will have a BRT line that connects the airport with Barra da Tijuca, a neighborhood in the West Zone of the city, which is the headquarters of 2016 Olympic Games. This will connect the BRT station in Barra da Tijuca with the South Zone (Copacabana, Ipanema, Leblon, etc.), the stadium, and the rest of the city is through the Rio de Janeiro Metro.
Development programme[link]




Brazilian states and cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup.


The Brazilian federal government has earmarked R$ 3 billion (€ 1.8 billion, £ 1.1 billion) for investment in works relating to the 2014 World Cup, and intends to release a package of works, entitled the FIFA World Cup PAC (Portuguese acronym for Growth Acceleration Programme). According to the Brazilian minister of cities, Márcio Fortes, the bulk of funds should go to works pertaining to the tournament itself, but the total figure will only be defined after a meeting with representatives of the municipalities that will host the matches.
"This is only an initial figure. We have not set a figure yet. These R$3 billion will allow us to take the first step. The total value of projects is not known yet. We are going to hold talks with mayors to learn which projects are priorities," said the minister. The funds will be supplied by Pró-Transporte, a financing programme funded by the Severance Pay Indemnity Fund (FGTS) whose regulation was passed last year by the fund's Board of Curators.
According to Fortes, several city councils have already contacted the ministry and showed interest in partnership for carrying out infrastructure work turned exclusively to the Cup that will be held in Brazil. "For some time now, the city councils that will host the matches have been contacting us. The city councils have had meetings with FIFA and several projects were outlined. Our approach consists of dealing only with projects exclusively turned to the Cup. Our goal right now is not to solve transport-related issues in the city. We are going to help solve the issues pertaining to the events," he stated. According to the minister, another factor to be analysed by the Ministry of Cities is usefulness and sustainability of the investment after the competition is over. "We are not going to deal with huge projects. The cheapest and most efficient means of transport will be used. Of course, each case will be analysed separately," he explained.




CPTM train in Greater São Paulo.


Fortes stated that the PAC of the Cup is going to include partnerships with city councils and state governments, as well as some partnerships with the private sector. "The keyword is partnership. The federal government will not undertake anything by itself. It will be similar to the infrastructure PAC, in which we already have partnerships with city councils and state governments, as well as public-private partnerships. We are going to review the type of investment proposed, analyse their size, and the need for private sector participation, which may take place in different ways. The private sector may build and then lease the assets, or perhaps operate them. All of that will be discussed," he stated.
The minister also informed that preparations for the World Cup already include the creation of a line of financing for renewing the bus fleet across the country. The line will be made available by the Brazilian Federal Savings Bank with total funds of R$1 billion (€ 600 million, £ 375 million).[32]
Maracanã projects[link]




Engenhão stadium, will host a training centre for teams in Rio de Janeiro.


Maracanã Stadium, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, has been chosen for the final match. Maracanã was inaugurated in the 1950 World Cup. For the 2014 World Cup, among other adaptations, a new cover will be built. The project also includes construction of a building for parking, above the lines of Supervia and subways, with 3,500 parking spaces. The estimated investment is R$ 460 million. According to the study of Sinaenco, there is a need to improve the visibility for spectators in the first few rows behind the cabins in the Maracanã, redesign the facilities for people with disabilities, and provide general health reform.
The project may also provide for the restoration of Quinta da Boa Vista and the Museum of São Cristóvão, in addition to redevelopment and revitalization of neighborhoods including Tijuca. The Engenhão stadium, completed for the 2007 Pan American Games, has a capacity of 45,000 people and will serve as a training ground for the World Cup.
An investment of R$ 5 billion is required to meet the requirements that Rio de Janeiro faces in the final tournament and other games, covering three areas: logistics (roads, railways, ports, waterways and airports), energy (generation and transmission of electric power, petroleum, natural gas and renewables) and social and urban (light, sanitation, housing, subways and water resources). In relation to the Rio de Janeiro Metro, the Ministry of Transport has held a public hearing regarding the extension of its lines. The line for the new project is 13.5 km (8.4 mi) long, and should cross the South Zone of the city, carrying around 200,000 passengers per day between six metro stations.[33]
Corinthians projects[link]




Morumbi Stadium, will host a training centre for teams in São Paulo.


The New Corinthians Stadium, in the city of São Paulo, has been chosen for the opening ceremony. São Paulo's chances of staging the opening ceremony of soccer's 2014 World Cup improved after FIFA accepted a guarantee that SC Corinthians Paulista's new stadium will be completed in time for the tournament. The stadium, being built by Odebrecht SA, will cost R$800 million (US$ 522 million), according to Corinthians President Andres Sanchez. BNDES, the national development bank, pledged R$ 400 million and the city of São Paulo will provide a property fund worth R$ 400 million.
On a statement on the Corinthians website, Ricardo Teixeira, president of the World Cup local organising committee and the Brazilian Football Confederation, said: "This approval – in record time, less than a year – is the result of efforts by the government of São Paulo, particularly the Governor Geraldo Alckmin and Mayor Gilberto Kassab."[34] FIFA's approval of the project to build a new home for Brazil's biggest soccer club by revenue, which originally had a cost estimate of US$ 1.2 billion, was required for São Paulo to host World Cup games.
In June 2011, then sports minister Orlando Silva said in an interview that the federal government would tell tournament organizer FIFA that São Paulo, Salvador, Belo Horizonte and Brasília are eligible to stage the opening ceremony. FIFA will announce the venue in October. Sanchez said: "I said before that if Corinthians could fulfill all the requirements of FIFA, the opening of the World Cup would be in São Paulo. Corinthians gave the guarantees required by FIFA, so the opening will be in São Paulo."[34] Most of the funding for investment in airports, stadiums, ports and urban transportation before the World Cup will come from the government.[35]
Host cities[link]


Region
1950
2014
Host cities in 1950 and 2014
Host cities in 2014 only


Central-West
0
2
—
Brasília, Cuiabá


North
0
1
—
Manaus


Northeast
1
4
Recife
Fortaleza, Natal, Salvador


South
2
2
Curitiba, Porto Alegre


Southeast
3
3
Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo


In 1950, host cities of the World Cup were concentrated in the southeast and south.[36] In 2014, the host cities are more evenly distributed. Each host city is the capital of its state. The selection covers all the main regions of Brazil and as a result the tournament will require significant long-distance travel for teams. Brazil is the fifth largest nation in the world by geographical size.[37] Although Brazil straddles the equator, all the proposed match venues are in the southern hemisphere, meaning that the games will be held in the winter period (although most venues for the tournament are situated in the tropics). The cold front comes from Antarctica causing cold weather in the south and central part of the country, and rainy weather in the north. However, the future stadiums are being prepared for these conditions.[38]
FIFA agreed to increase the number of host cities from ten to 12 because of the size of Brazil. "In the very beginning, ten cities were going to be chosen, but thanks to the influence of [CBF president] Ricardo Teixeira and the interest of the whole country, we agreed increasing the number to twelve," said FIFA president Sepp Blatter. Teixeira briefed FIFA members about all 17 candidate cities.[39]
A reported US$1 billion (approx. £650 million) is to be approved for the repair, upgrading and maintenance of Brazilian stadiums. However, aiming to build "state of the art" stadiums and, therefore, increasing their chances to be part of 2014's tournament, some Brazilian states are searching for expertise abroad. Recently delegations from Recife and Porto Alegre, for example, visited the Amsterdam Arena in order to understand the formula which made that stadium highly profitable. Amsterdam Arena, the home of AFC Ajax, has developed and is offering its expertise on the multi-use-purpose stadium concept and management. Amsterdam Arena has been developed to accommodate not only football matches but also concerts and events. Amsterdam Arena is currently developing two projects for Brazil: Recife/Olinda and Porto Alegre (Grêmio).[40]
Security plan[link]




Brazilian Federal Police and the anti-bomb robot.






Anti-terrorism investment to 2014 FIFA World Cup.


The Brazilian government said authorities will have an efficient security plan in place for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Justice Minister José Eduardo Cardoso said in an interview with Brazilian radio stations that "the 2014 World Cup will be a very safe event." One of the security measures that the government plans to implement is facial recognition software, in which Brazilian police will use futuristic glasses fitted with facial recognition equipment to identify and root out troublemakers at the 2014 FIFA World Cup.
A small camera fitted to the glasses can capture 400 facial images per second and send them to a central computer database storing up to 13 million faces. Minister Cardoso said the government is developing a public safety plan that will be unveiled "soon."[41]
Secretary José Ricardo Botelho is facing perhaps the most important mission of his life as a civil servant. Heading the newly created Special Secretariat for the Security of Large Events, Botelho has the task of ensuring the safety of Brazilians and tourists during the 2014 FIFA World Cup. To this end, he has developed what might be called an obsession: to integrate the security forces of a country with continental dimensions like Brazil. To prove that the goal will be achieved, he draws on History, his other obsession: "People who have a history know where they want to go."
Integration is the keyword in the Strategic Security Plan prepared for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. In addition to ensuring quick responses, the plan provides for an integrated security system that can be left as a legacy to the country. In total, an estimated 45,000 men linked to the security forces will be mobilized, not to mention reinforcements from the Brazilian Armed Forces and Civil Defense. "The country does not need to create anything new, but just to integrate its existing tools," he said. According to José Ricardo Botelho, the databases of federal and state security forces will be integrated with the Interpol database, which means connecting Brazil to 188 countries. In addition, the government has already sent documents to the United States, Germany, England, Holland, South Africa, Poland and Argentina requesting information about terrorists, "troublemakers" and hooligans.
"We want to work proactively rather than defensively; hence the importance of technology. We are linking everything so that when a person fitting this profile applies for a visa, for example, we will already have the first barrier in place. But in the case of a country for which an entry visa is not required, when the person gets to our borders he or she will not be allowed into Brazil. But what if he or she does? We are working with state-of-the-art equipment to identify these people. We do not want them among us," says the commissioner. Technology pervades all discussions of the Security Plan for the World Cup. Teams from the Special Secretariat for the Security of Large Events are visiting the 12 host cities to follow civil works in the stadiums that will be hosting World Cup games. Anti-bomb groups are monitoring the works up to delivery, in order to ensure that no artifacts are hidden inside pillars and foundations.
In addition to security in the stadiums, the Secretariat for the Security of Large Events is keeping a close eye on fan fests. Each host city will have an operational command center with representatives of the police, the Armed Forces, the Fire Department and Civil Defense. There, decision-making promises to be quick. The central command headquarters will be located in Brasília and Rio de Janeiro.[42]
Brazil is training of 53,000 public safety professionals for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. The professionals will be made by the state governments for each individual games venue. They will be trained in three categories: experts, multipliers (who will help to transfer knowledge to other professionals) and operators. The training courses will include "Public safety without homophobia", application of human rights in policing, Brazilian Sign Language and foreign languages.[43]
Anti-fraud plan[link]




Launch of Transparency Portal.


On 11 June 2010, the federal government launched a program to protect the tenders for work in preparation for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games against the possibility of fraud. The plan, known as Jogando Limpo (Fair Play), includes a series of guidelines and nuggets of advice so that the government institutions, and also the tax authorities and common citizens themselves, may identify and denounce attempts at fraud against the tenders. The program, which was launched by the Ministries for Justice and for Sport, also plans the establishment of a group dedicating to monitoring tenders, to protect them against the threat of fraud and also to avoid delays in construction work.
This initiative, also boosted by the General Financial Controller of the Union (Controladoria Geral da União), also plans a campaign to make the people aware of the need to pay attention to possible fraud and to always denounce the cases. The program emphasizes measures against cartels and possible agreements between competing companies to set prices above market levels, in an attempt to raise the value of the contracts with the state. "Nothing can be worse than someone taking advantage of these two great opportunities to commit crimes. This is a world phenomenon," said the Minister for Justice, Luiz Paulo Barreto, during the ceremony to launch the program.
"The businesspeople could be entering with an agreement on prices, in order to compete in these tenders. This is something that needs to be tackled. We need to promote fair play also in our tenders," Barreto added. "Fair play is something we would expect from a country intending to host events of this size," he added. Barreto also said that, between 2007 and 2010, there were a total of 265 search and seizure warrants issued in Brazil to tackle the crime of cartel formation. In the same period over 100 people were preventively arrested for the same crime, and currently an additional 251 people are being investigated.[44]
Tax breaks[link]




Estádio Nacional in Brasília before upgrading.


Brazil's federal government announced on 17 May 2010 that it shall be granting tax breaks for the construction and refurbishment of the stadiums for the 2014 World Cup. In a note, the Ministry for the Treasury said that it shall be "granting tax exemption to the stadiums of the World Cup, which shall not need to pay Industrialized Products Tax (Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados – IPI), Importation Tax (Imposto de Importação – II) or social contributions (PIS/COFINS)."
In addition, the 12 cities that shall be hosting the World Cup matches shall be able to grant exemption from State Value Added Tax (Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços – ICMS) on all operations involving merchandise and other goods for the construction or the refurbishment of the stadiums. "Conditional on the cumulative concession of the benefits involving Importation Tax, IPI and PIS/COFINS, the exemption of ICMS on imports shall only be applicable if the goods do not have a similar product produced nationally," the note informed, adding that this decision shall be made feasible through a Law or Provisional Measure.
In September 2009, the Brazilian Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social – BNDES) opened a credit line of R$ 4.8 billion (approx. €2.7 billion, £ 1.75 billion) for the World Cup stadiums. Each host city shall be able to finance up to R$ 400 million (approx. €225 million, £ 145 million) or 75% of the project, with bank funds.[45]
See also[link]

2013 FIFA Confederations Cup
Rio 2 - An upcoming computer-animated film. Set for release three or four months before the 2014 FIFA World Cup occurs, the event may tie into the film.[46]

References[link]


^ "Pot allocations for the Preliminary Draw". FIFA. 27 July 2011. http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/preliminarydraw/news/newsid=1480389/index.html. Retrieved 28 July 2011. 
^ "Argentina, Brazil and Colombia want 2014 World Cup". People's Daily. 19 January 2003. http://english.people.com.cn/200301/19/eng20030119_110398.shtml. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ Blatter reiterates wish that the 2014 World Cup be in Brazil[dead link]
^ "Brazil confirms bid – Colombia withdraws". Fifa.com. http://www.fifa.com/worldfootball/releases/newsid=123706.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Brazil confirmed as 2014 hosts". FIFA. 30 October 2007. Archived from the original on 31 October 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20071031182910/http://www.fifa.com/worldfootball/news/newsid=625695.html. Retrieved 30 October 2007. 
^ FIFA.com – Financial report presented, Brazil 2014 slots & host countries decided[dead link]
^ "Draw for World Cup qualifiers at Marina da Glória in Rio" (in Portuguese). globoesporte.com. 8 December 2010. http://globoesporte.globo.com/futebol/copa-do-mundo/noticia/2010/12/sorteio-das-eliminatorias-da-copa-sera-na-marina-da-gloria-no-rio.html. Retrieved 21 January 2011. 
^ "FIFA's Inspection Report" (PDF). http://www.fifa.com/mm/document/affederation/mission/fwc2014%5fbrazil%5fbid%5finspection%5freport%5fen%5f24491.pdf. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "FIFA wants to decide which cities will house World Cup 2014", Sportsya[dead link]
^ "Mondiali 2014 in dodici città" (in Italian). Tuttomercatoweb. http://www.tuttomercatoweb.com/?action=read&id=133956. 
^ "Sao Paulo dropped for 2014". SBS. 17 June 2010. Archived from the original on 28 June 2010. http://theworldgame.sbs.com.au/2014-world-cup/news/1008887/Sao-Paulo-dropped-for-2014. Retrieved 17 June 2010. 
^ "Host Cities for Brazil 2014 to be announced in May". FIFA.com (Fédération Internationale de Football Association). 12 March 2009. http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/brazil2014/news/newsid=1037180.html. Retrieved 6 June 2009. [dead link]
^ "Cadeiras sao retiradas do Maracanã para conclusao da primeira etapa das obras pra a Copa do Mundo – Chairs are removed from Maracanã concluding the upgrading first step". Noticias.r7.com. 6 January 1990. http://noticias.r7.com/rio-de-janeiro/noticias/cadeiras-sao-retiradas-e-maracana-conclui-primeira-etapa-das-obras-para-a-copa-do-mundo-2014-20101006.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Brazil 2014" (in Brazilian Portuguese). esportes.terra.com.br. 30 May 2011. http://esportes.terra.com.br/futebol/brasil2014/noticias/0,,OI5156738-EI10545,00-Apos+prelecao+e+reza+obras+do+estadio+corintiano+tem+inicio.html. Retrieved 7 June 2011. 
^ "2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil Match Schedule". fifa.com. http://www.fifa.com/mm/document/tournament/competition/01/52/99/91/2014fwc_matchschedule.pdf. Retrieved 21 October 2011. 
^ "Journey to Brazil 2014 begins". FIFA.com. Archived from the original on 11 July 2010. http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/brazil2014/media/newsid=1270440.html#journey+brazil+2014+begins. Retrieved 11 July 2010. [dead link]
^ Shanahan, Mark; Goldstein, Meredith (10 July 2010). "Gisele picks logo, shops with Tom – The Boston Globe". Boston Globe. Archived from the original on 11 July 2010. http://www.boston.com/ae/celebrity/articles/2010/07/10/gisele_picks_logo_shops_with_tom/. Retrieved 11 July 2010. 
^ "Designer critica logo da Copa 2014: "É uma porcaria" – Terra – Esportes". Terramagazine.terra.com.br. Archived from the original on 12 July 2010. http://terramagazine.terra.com.br/interna/0,,OI4553699-EI6583,00-Designer+critica+logo+da+Copa+E+uma+porcaria.html. Retrieved 11 July 2010. 
^ All Stadiums for Brazil 2014 World Cup[dead link]
^ "Brazil Named as World Cup 2014 Host". Brazil.homesgofast.com. http://brazil.homesgofast.com/news/brazil-named-as-world-cup-2014-host-I544/. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ Rittner, Daniel; Braga, Paulo Victor (31 August 2009). "Infraero vai gastar R$5 bi em reforma de aeroportos" (in Portuguese). Valor Econômico: pp. A4. 
^ "Future airports of Brazil". Asiaone.com. http://www.asiaone.com/News/Latest%2BNews/Sports/Story/A1Story20080725-78670.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Law reduces bureaucracy". V-brazil.com. 8 June 2010. http://www.v-brazil.com/world-cup/2014/law-bureaucracy-airport-building-easier/. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Copa 2014: Aeromóvel de Porto Alegre começa a sair do papel" (in Portuguese). Portal 2014. 22 July 2011. http://www.portal2014.org.br/noticias/7576/COPA+2014+AEROMOVEL+DE+PORTO+ALEGRE+COMECA+A+SAIR+DO+PAPEL.html. Retrieved 15 October 2011. 
^ "Secretário diz que abertura da Copa pode render R$ 30 bi a São Paulo" (in Portuguese). Portal 2014. 28 September 2011. http://www.copa2014.org.br/noticias/8112/SECRETARIO+DIZ+QUE+ABERTURA+DA+COPA+PODE+RENDER+R+30+BI+A+SAO+PAULO.html. Retrieved 12 October 2011. 
^ "Edital para ampliação do metrô de Salvador deve sair em 45 dias" (in Portuguese). Portal 2014. 18 August 2011. http://www.copa2014.org.br/noticias/7799/EDITAL+PARA+AMPLIACAO+DO+METRO+DE+SALVADOR+DEVE+SAIR+EM+45+DIAS.html. Retrieved 12 October 2011. 
^ "Copa do Mundo deixará legado para o futuro". O POVO Online. http://www.opovo.com.br/hotsite/copa2014/intervencoes-urbanas.html. Retrieved 13 October 2011. 
^ "Obra do monotrilho de Manaus é aprovada". Portal 2014. 15 October 2011. http://www.portal2014.org.br/noticias/7684/OBRA+DO+MONOTRILHO+DE+MANAUS+E+APROVADA.html. Retrieved 4 August 2011. 
^ "Metrô Leve de Brasília – VLT" (in Portuguese). GDF Portal do Cidadão. 2009. http://www.vlt.df.gov.br/. Retrieved 12 October 2011. 
^ "Governo aceita VLT em Cuiabá e metrô em Salvador" (in Portuguese). Portal 2014. 9 September 2011. http://www.portal2014.org.br/noticias/7969/GOVERNO+ACEITA+VLT+EM+CUIABA+E+METRO+EM+SALVADOR.html. Retrieved 13 October 2011. 
^ "Fátima Bezerra diz que VLT está garantido com a Copa 2014" (in Portuguese). Nominuto.com. 3 June 2009. http://www.nominuto.com/noticias/politica/fatima-bezerra-diz-que-vlt-esta-garantido-com-a-copa-2014/32942/. Retrieved 16 October 2011. 
^ "Brazil-Arab news Agency – World Cup". .anba.com.br. http://www2.anba.com.br/noticia_esportes.kmf?cod=8705153. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ nosso time. "Rio and the final match of 2014 FIFA World Cup". Copa2014.org.br. http://www.copa2014.org.br/noticias/296/OS+DESAFIOS+DO+RIO+DE+JANEIRO+PARA+A+COPA+2014.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ a b "Sao Paulo Hopes of Hosting 2014 FIFA World Cup Opening Ceremony Boosted". Sportconnect. 14 July 2011. http://www.isportconnect.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=7512:sao-paulo-hopes-of-hosting-2014-fifa-world-cup-opening-ceremony-boosted&catid=23:stadia--venues-arena-infrastructure&Itemid=32. Retrieved 22 October 2011. 
^ website group (14 July 2011). "Sao Paulo Hopes of Hosting 2014 FIFA World Cup Opening Ceremony Boosted". Sportconnect. http://www.isportconnect.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=7512:sao-paulo-hopes-of-hosting-2014-fifa-world-cup-opening-ceremony-boosted&catid=23:stadia--venues-arena-infrastructure&Itemid=32. Retrieved 22 October 2011. 
^ dom, 31 May 2009. "Host cities in 1950 FIFA World Cup". Colunas.globoesporte.com. http://colunas.globoesporte.com/memoriaec/2009/05/31/sedes-da-copa-de-1950-voltam-no-mundial-de-2014/. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ Selection – Regions of Brazil[dead link]
^ "Winter in Brazil during the FIFA World Cup". Brcactaceae.org. http://www.brcactaceae.org/clima.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Host cities – World Cup". BBC News. 31 May 2009. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/internationals/8075256.stm. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Brazil Insight – Dutch and English website". Brazilinsight.nl. http://www.brazilinsight.nl/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=1001&Itemid=2. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ Steven McLoud (13 October 2011). "Brazil Guarantees Efficient Security Plan for 2014 FIFA World Cup". Diálogo. http://www.dialogo-americas.com/en_GB/articles/rmisa/features/sports/2011/10/13/feature-ex-2593. Retrieved 21 October 2011. 
^ our team. "ntegration is the keyword in the Strategic Security Plan". World Cup Portal. http://www.copa2014.gov.br/noticia/integration-keyword-strategic-security-plan?language=en. Retrieved 21 October 2011. 
^ Brazilian police without homophobia (Portuguese)
^ our team. "Anto-fraud plan in Brazil". Copa2014.org.br. http://www.copa2014.org.br/en/news/3784/GOVERNMENT+LAUNCHES+ANTIFRAUD+PLAN+FOR+WORLD+CUP+AND+OLYMPIC+GAMES.html. Retrieved 9 October 2011. 
^ "Brazil shall grant tax breaks for 2014 stadiums". Portal 2014. 18 May 2010. http://www.copa2014.org.br/en/news/3028/BRAZIL+SHALL+GRANT+TAX+BREAKS+FOR+2014+STADIUMS.html. Retrieved 30 October 2007. 
^ Collis, Clark (January 25, 2012). "Sergio Mendes says a 'Rio' sequel 'looks like it's going to happen'". Inside Movies. http://insidemovies.ew.com/2012/01/25/rio-sequel/. Retrieved March 12, 2012. 


External links[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: 2014 FIFA World Cup



Official website









v
t
e


2014 FIFA World Cup stadia









Mineirão (Belo Horizonte)
Estádio Nacional de Brasília (Brasília)
Arena Pantanal (Cuiabá)
Arena da Baixada (Curitiba)
Castelão (Fortaleza)
Arena Amazônia (Manaus)
Arena das Dunas (Natal)
Estádio Beira-Rio (Porto Alegre)
Arena Cidade da Copa (Recife)
Maracanã (Rio de Janeiro)
Arena Fonte Nova (Salvador)
New Corinthians Stadium (São Paulo)
















v
t
e


FIFA World Cup






Tournaments



Uruguay 1930
Italy 1934
France 1938
Brazil 1950
Switzerland 1954
Sweden 1958
Chile 1962
England 1966
Mexico 1970
West Germany 1974
Argentina 1978
Spain 1982
Mexico 1986
Italy 1990
United States 1994
France 1998
Korea/Japan 2002
Germany 2006
South Africa 2010
Brazil 2014
Russia 2018
Qatar 2022








Finals



1930
1934
1938
19501
1954
1958
1962
1966
1970
1974
1978
1982
1986
1990
1994
1998
2002
2006
2010








Squads



1930
1934
1938
1950
1954
1958
1962
1966
1970
1974
1978
1982
1986
1990
1994
1998
2002
2006
2010








Qualification



19302
1934
1938
1950
1954
1958
1962
1966
1970
1974
1978
1982
1986
1990
1994
1998
2002
2006
2010
2014








Bids



2014
2018 and 2022








Other articles







History
Records
Trophy











Lists and statistics: Droughts
Goalscorers
Hat-tricks
Milestone goals
Own goals
Penalty shoot-outs
Red cards
Referees
Team appearances
Teams with no appearances
Undefeated teams











Miscellaneous: Awards
Balls
Broadcasters
Mascots
Official songs
Video games












1Decisive match of a final group stage. 2No qualification took place as places were given by invitation only.














v
t
e


International association football







FIFA · World Cup · Confederations Cup · U-20 World Cup · U-17 World Cup · Olympics · Minor tournaments · World Rankings · Player of the Year · FIFA Ballon d'Or · Teams · Debuts · Competitions · Federations · Codes






Asia

AFC – Asian Cup









Africa

CAF – Africa Cup of Nations






North America,
Central America
and the Caribbean

CONCACAF – Gold Cup






South America

CONMEBOL – Copa América






Oceania

OFC – Nations Cup






Europe

UEFA – European Championship






Non-FIFA



NF-Board – Viva World Cup
IGA
Island Games








Games



All-Africa Games
Asian Games
CARIFTA Games
East Asian Games
Francophonie Games
IOIG
Lusophony Games
Mediterranean Games
Pan American Games
Pan Arab Games
Pacific Games
South Asian Games
Southeast Asian Games









See also International women's football.














v
t
e


 Brazil






History



First inhabitants
Colonization
Empire
Old Republic
Vargas Era
Second Republic
Military rule
Contemporary








Geography



Regions
States
Mesoregions
Microregions
Municipalities
Islands
Coastline
Climate
Environment
Extreme points
Protected areas
Capitals








Government



Constitution
Federal government
President
National Congress
Foreign relations
Law
Law enforcement
Military








Politics



Elections
Political parties
Human rights

LGBT rights










Economy



Real
Central Bank
List of companies
Agriculture
Industry
International rankings
Economic history
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Science and technology
Energy








Society



Demographics
People
Languages
Religion
Immigration
Education
Health
Crime
Social issues
Largest cities
Apartheid
Racism








Culture



Art (general)
Carnaval
Cuisine
Cinema
Holidays
Literature
Music
Painting
Sculpture
Sports











 Category
 Portal
 WikiProject









http://wn.com/2014_FIFA_World_Cup
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Campionato mondiale di calcio 2014
http://cs.wn.com/Mistrovství světa ve fotbale 2014
http://id.wn.com/Piala Dunia FIFA 2014
http://es.wn.com/Copa Mundial de Fútbol de 2014
http://ru.wn.com/Чемпионат мира по футболу 2014
http://pt.wn.com/Copa do Mundo FIFA de 2014
http://pl.wn.com/Mistrzostwa Świata w Piłce Nożnej 2014
http://fr.wn.com/Coupe du monde de football de 2014
http://de.wn.com/Fußball-Weltmeisterschaft 2014
http://nl.wn.com/Wereldkampioenschap voetbal 2014


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_FIFA_World_Cup
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        











See also: List of World Cups
A World Cup is a type of sporting competition.
World Cup commonly refers to:

FIFA World Cup (men's association football)
ICC Cricket World Cup
Rugby World Cup (rugby union)
Rugby League World Cup (rugby league)

World Cup can also refer to:







Contents


1 Athletics
2 Baseball and softball
3 Cricket
4 Equestrian
5 Football

5.1 Association football
5.2 Australian Rules football
5.3 American football


6 Hockey
7 Rugby
8 Tennis
9 Water sports
10 Winter sports
11 Other sports
12 See also







Athletics[link]

IAAF World Cup in Athletics
ITU Triathlon World Cup

Baseball and softball[link]

Baseball World Cup
Women's Baseball World Cup
World Cup of Softball

Cricket[link]

ICC World Twenty20 (cricket)
Indoor Cricket World Cup
Women's Cricket World Cup

Equestrian[link]

Dubai World Cup (horse racing)
Show Jumping World Cup (equestrian)

Football[link]
Association football[link]

FIFA Club World Cup (men's association football)
FIFA Women's World Cup (women's association football)
FIFA U-20 World Cup
FIFA U-17 World Cup
FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup
FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup
FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup
FIFA Futsal World Cup (indoor association football)
FIFI Wild Cup
VIVA World Cup (non-FIFA nations football)

Australian Rules football[link]

Australian Football International Cup

American football[link]

IFAF World Cup

Hockey[link]

Hockey World Cup (field hockey)
Women's Hockey World Cup (field hockey)
World Cup of Hockey (ice hockey)

Rugby[link]

Rugby World Cup Sevens (rugby union)
Touch Football World Cup
Women's Rugby League World Cup
Women's Rugby World Cup (rugby union)

Tennis[link]

Davis Cup (tennis)
Fed Cup (women's tennis)
World Team Cup (tennis)

Water sports[link]

Canoe Slalom World Cup
FINA Diving World Cup
FINA Swimming World Cup
FINA Water Polo World Cup

Winter sports[link]

Alpine Skiing World Cup
Bandy World Cup
Bandy World Cup for women
Biathlon World Cup
Bobsleigh World Cup
FIS Cross-Country World Cup
FIS Nordic Combined World Cup
FIS Ski Jumping World Cup
FIS Snowboard World Cup
Luge World Cup
Short Track Speed Skating World Cup
Skeleton World Cup (toboggan)
Speed Skating World Cup
World Cup in Ski Orienteering

Other sports[link]

AMF World Cup (ten-pin bowling)
Artistic Gymnastics World Cup
Boxing World Cup
ISSF World Cup (shooting)
Orienteering World Cup
Paralympic World Cup (multiple sports)
Paralympic Winter World Cup (multiple sports)
PBR World Cup (bull riding)
PDC World Cup of Darts
Roller Derby World Cup
Rowing World Cup
Speedway World Cup (motorcycle)
UCI World Cup (various cycling world cups)
Volleyball World Cup
Women's Lacrosse World Cup
Women's World Cup of Golf
World Cup (men's golf)
World Cup of Pool
World Inline Cup (inline speed skating)
World Cup (snooker)

See also[link]

World championship
World Cup trophy (disambiguation)




This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the same title.
If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.



http://wn.com/World_Cup
Related pages:
http://ru.wn.com/Чемпионат мира
http://fr.wn.com/Coupe du monde
http://nl.wn.com/Wereldbeker
http://pt.wn.com/Campeonato Mundial
http://de.wn.com/World Cup
http://it.wn.com/Coppa del Mondo
http://pl.wn.com/Puchar Świata
http://es.wn.com/Copa del Mundo


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Cup
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        












Robin van Persie




Personal information


Full name
Robin van Persie[1]


Date of birth
(1983-08-06) 6 August 1983 (age 28)[1]


Place of birth
Rotterdam, Netherlands


Height
1.86 m (6 ft 1 in) [2]


Playing position
Striker


Club information


Current club
Arsenal


Number
10


Youth career


1998–1999
Excelsior


1998–2001
Feyenoord


Senior career*


Years
Team
Apps†
(Gls)†


2001–2004
Feyenoord
61
(15)


2004–
Arsenal
194
(96)


National team‡


2000–2001
Netherlands U17
14
(8)


2001–2003
Netherlands U19
11
(3)


2004–2006
Netherlands U21
6
(1)


2005–
Netherlands
64
(26)


* Senior club appearances and goals counted for the domestic league only and correct as of 02:06, 31 May 2012 (UTC).
† Appearances (Goals).
‡ National team caps and goals correct as of 02:06, 31 May 2012 (UTC)


Robin van Persie (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈrɔbɪn vɑn ˈpɛrsi] ( listen); born 6 August 1983) is a Dutch footballer who plays as a striker for Arsenal and the Dutch national team. He is a youth product of Feyenoord.[3] Having joined Arsenal in 2004, Van Persie became the club captain on 16 August 2011.[4] His playing style and ability have drawn comparison to Dutch legend Marco van Basten.[5][6]
The son of two artists, Van Persie was encouraged to follow in his parents' footsteps,[7] but he instead preferred football and joined SBV Excelsior's youth squad. He made his breakthrough at his hometown club Feyenoord, where he spent three seasons and won the 2002 UEFA Cup.[8] He was named the Dutch Football Talent of the Year for the 2001–02 season.[9] Disagreements with manager Bert van Marwijk culminated in a change of club and Van Persie moved to Premier League side Arsenal for £2.75 million in 2004 as a long-term replacement for Dennis Bergkamp.[10][11] He won the FA Community Shield and the FA Cup in his first season with the London club and went on to win the 2006 Rotterdam Sportsman of the year award.[12] Van Persie has been named Premier League Player of the Month three times.[13] Van Persie topped the goal assists leader board with 11 assists in the 2008–09 Premier League.[14][15][16]
Van Persie was a Dutch youth international, having represented the Netherlands under-17, under-19 and under-21 sides. He made his senior international debut in 2005 in a friendly match against Romania. One month later, he netted his first senior international goal in a 4–0 win over Finland. Van Persie has 63 caps so far and has scored 26 goals for the Netherlands.[17][18] He has participated in the 2006 and 2010 FIFA World Cups and UEFA Euro 2008, including a World Cup Final in which he lost.[19]




Contents


1 Club career

1.1 Feyenoord
1.2 Arsenal

1.2.1 2004–05
1.2.2 2005–06
1.2.3 2006–07
1.2.4 2007–08
1.2.5 2008–09
1.2.6 2009–10
1.2.7 2010–11
1.2.8 2011–12




2 International career

2.1 2006 FIFA World Cup
2.2 UEFA Euro 2008
2.3 Post-Euro 2008
2.4 2010 FIFA World Cup
2.5 UEFA Euro 2012


3 Personal life
4 Style of play
5 Career statistics

5.1 Club
5.2 National team statistics
5.3 International goals


6 Honours

6.1 Club
6.2 Individual


7 References
8 External links




Club career[link]
Feyenoord[link]
Van Persie joined Dutch side SBV Excelsior's youth squad at the age of 14 years, but left at the age of 15, due to the relationship with the coach and his mother, and thus signed for Feyenoord.[20] He was quickly promoted into the first team due to injury problems among the squad, and made his debut for the club at 17, which was the first of 15 total starts. He received the KNVB Best Young Talent award at the end of the 2001–02 season. He signed a professional three-and-a-half year contract with Feyenoord in the following season, and scored five goals in a 6–1 Amstel Cup thrashing of AGOVV on 6 February 2003. However, clashes with manager Bert van Marwijk saw Van Persie demoted to the reserve squad, and an irate van Marwijk told reporters, "His behaviour made it impossible for him to remain in the squad any longer so he will join the reserve side for the time being."[21] During a match featuring the Feyenoord and Ajax reserves, he was one of several Feyenoord players assaulted by hooligans who had invaded the pitch.[20] Van Persie's rift with van Marwijk continued when he was sent home on the eve of the 2002 UEFA Super Cup final against Real Madrid after the coach was displeased with Van Persie's body language after being asked to warm up for a Champions League qualifier.[22] Van Persie finished his tumultuous debut season on the first team, making a total of 28 appearances and scoring eight goals, in addition to finishing runner-up in the KNVB Cup.



'I don't see things the way my parents do,' he says. 'They can look at a tree and see something amazing, whereas I just see a tree. That's not to say I don't appreciate its beauty. When I watch the sea in somewhere like Sardinia, I see the beauty in that. 'But I think there is a creative connection with my parents. It's hard to explain in words, hard to put my finger on it. But I think football is where my creativity comes out.


Robin van Persie[7]

Feyenoord unsuccessfully attempted to extend Van Persie's contract during the off-season, and his deteriorating relationship with van Marwijk led to his spending most of the 2003–04 season on the bench. He again played 28 matches, but finished with two fewer goals than the previous season. Feyenoord shopped him at the end of the campaign but found few takers due to Van Persie's past disciplinary issues. During the January transfer window, the Eredivisie club opened negotiations with Arsenal, who were seeking a long-term replacement for aging veteran Dennis Bergkamp, but both parties could not agree to terms.
Arsenal[link]
2004–05[link]
On 17 May 2004, Van Persie signed a four-year deal with Arsenal for £2.75 million, just over half of Feyenoord's original asking price of £5 million.[23] Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger, who planned to convert Van Persie from a left winger to a centre forward as he had successfully done with star player Thierry Henry,[24] said of his new acquisition, "He can play on the left side of midfield, as a creative player behind the main strikers or as a target man."[25] Arsenal had further padded their stable of strikers in January by signing Spanish forward José Antonio Reyes,[26] leaving the two to battle for playing time. Van Persie made his debut and won a trophy in the process, as he came on as a substitute in the 3–1 FA Community Shield victory over Manchester United on 8 August 2004. Van Persie spent most of his time on the bench during earlier parts of the 2004–05 season, and made his competitive debut on 27 October by scoring Arsenal's opening goal in a 2–1 League Cup win over Manchester City.



It was the goal of a lifetime. He's played for a long time and I'm not sure he's scored one like that. (Quote made regarding Van Persie's goal against Charlton Athletic in the 2006–07 Premier League)


Arsène Wenger[27]

When the referee has sent off a home player, he is under pressure, so, if any player had to behave, it was him." Meanwhile, Telegraph sportswriter Clive White described Van Persie in his match report as "21 going on nine."[28]
Van Persie was consequently benched for a number of games, starting with Arsenal's upcoming FA Cup replay against Sheffield United,[29] and he was reintroduced into the squad only after Henry was out with a calf injury, and his return to the first team saw him score twice in a FA Cup semi-final win over Blackburn Rovers. The rest of Van Persie's season was cut short by injury, and he finished with ten goals in 41 appearances in all competitions.[30]
2005–06[link]




Van Persie with Thierry Henry in 2006.


Van Persie's good form at the start of the 2005–06 season earned him the Player of the Month award for November 2005 after eight goals in eight starts,[24] and he was rewarded with a five-year contract extension until 2011 on 4 January.[31] Two days after signing the contract, however, Van Persie was again hit by injury when an opponent stepped on his foot and broke his toe during an FA Cup match against Cardiff.[32]
Van Persie played the next three matches with a hole cut into his shoe to alleviate the pain until he was finally rested for Arsenal's Premier League match against West Ham United on 1 February.[22] He was an unused substitute in Arsenal's first Champions League final appearance, a 2–1 loss to FC Barcelona.[33]
2006–07[link]




Van Persie and Chelsea striker Didier Drogba in 2008


The beginning of the 2006–07 season included an airborne volley against Charlton Athletic that Wenger called "the goal of a lifetime"[34] and was later named BBC Sport's Goal of the Month for September,[35] and he capped off the calendar year by being named the 2006 Rotterdam Sportsman of the Year. His season, however, ended early for the second time in his career on 21 January, when he fractured the fifth metatarsal in his right foot while celebrating his late equalizer in a match against Manchester United.[36] Although Van Persie was injured for a large part of the season he still managed to finish as Arsenal's top goalscorer with 13 goals in all competitions.
2007–08[link]
After Henry departed for Barcelona prior to the 2007–08 season, Van Persie assumed the role as Arsenal's main striker. Following a streak of seven goals in ten regular-season games, Van Persie was sidelined for two months with a knee injury suffered on international duty.[37] He made his comeback in Arsenal's Champions League group stage win over Steaua Bucureşti on 12 December and made his Premier League return in the win against Chelsea over the weekend. He picked up, however, a recurrent injury that kept him sidelined until January when he played 45 minutes in a League Cup game against Tottenham Hotspur. He was withdrawn at half-time following another injury scare and featured sporadically throughout the rest of the campaign.[38]
2008–09[link]




Van Persie in 2009


Van Persie opened his 2008–09 account on 31 August with a brace in Arsenal's 3–0 league victory over Newcastle United.[39] On 29 October, he scored his fiftieth career Arsenal goal in a 4–4 home draw with North London derby rivals Tottenham, but was hit with his first red card of the season on 1 November after knocking down goalkeeper Thomas Sørensen with a shoulder charge in a 2–1 loss to Stoke City. Sørensen later admitted to "teasing" Van Persie in an attempt to provoke a reaction.[40] On 30 November, he scored a brace against Chelsea to help Arsenal come from behind and pick up a 2–1 victory at Stamford Bridge.[41] On 21 December 2008, he scored a spectacular goal against Liverpool, which became his second-career BBC Goal of the Month.[42] With captain Cesc Fàbregas injured and regular stand-in skipper Manuel Almunia rested, Van Persie captained Arsenal for the first time on 3 January 2009 for the club's 3–1 third-round FA Cup victory over Plymouth Argyle.[43] Van Persie scored Arsenal's first and third goals, while the second was a result of his cross being deflected into the net by a Plymouth player for an own goal.[44] In January 2009, every Arsenal goal that month was either scored or assisted by Van Persie, which earned him the club's Player of the Month award.[45] His most inspirational display being against Hull City, where he struck the post with a freekick, and provided three assists to his teammates; he later received the Man of the Match award. On 24 February, Van Persie scored a crucial penalty that earned Arsenal a 1–0 win over Roma in the Champions League Round of 16 encounter, after he was fouled by defender Philippe Mexès.[46] He followed it up with a fifth Champions League goal by converting another penalty against Villarreal in a 3–0 victory. On the final day of the Premier League, Van Persie scored a brace against Stoke City, which guaranteed him for the second time in his career as Arsenal's top scorer. He had his best season overall for Arsenal as he scored 11 Premier League goals, along with a league-leading 11 assists and a career-best of 20 goals in all competitions. Van Persie was named the 2008–09 Arsenal.com Player of the Season.[47]



"Robin van Persie's such an amazing footballer. He hardly needs any space or time to become dangerous


Bert van Marwijk[48]

2009–10[link]




Van Persie in 2009


With only one year remaining of his contract, Van Persie was in negotiations with Arsenal about an extension for several months in 2009. Finally, it was announced in July that he had signed a new long-term contract with his club, stating, "My heart is with Arsenal and I just can't picture myself in a different shirt."[49] The departure of Emmanuel Adebayor also meant that the Dutchman was now the main striker in Wenger's 4–3–3 system. Van Persie started the 2009–10 season with two assists in the first match against Everton, which led to a 6–1 victory. As one of the first choice penalty and corner takers, he has set up many of Arsenal's goals, including Thomas Vermaelen's debut goal against Everton. He scored his first goal of the season in the 4–2 loss at Eastlands to Manchester City, where he later had his head stomped on by former teammate Adebayor (an act which the referee failed to notice, but the FA later charged Adebayor with violent conduct and served him with a three-game suspension).[50] He then scored goals against Olympiacos, Fulham, Blackburn Rovers, Birmingham City, West Ham United, and Tottenham. Van Persie's excellent form in October did not go unrecognised as he was named Barclays Player of the Month for October, his second such award.[51] On 14 November, however, he injured his ankle in an international friendly and was initially expected to be out for six weeks,[52] but further tests showed that he would be out for five months. Van Persie made his return on 14 April, in a 2–1 loss to Tottenham Hotspur. He then scored a header against Blackburn Rovers in the 2–1 defeat, and a goal assisted by Theo Walcott in the 4–0 win over Fulham in the last league game of 2009–10 season.
2010–11[link]




Van Persie with Cesc Fabregas and Sergio Busquets


Before the start of the 2010–11 season, Van Persie changed his squad number to 10, previously worn by Arsenal and Netherlands legend Dennis Bergkamp.[53] He made his 200th appearance on 28 August but an ankle injury suffered in the same game placed him on the sidelines once again. He returned as a substitute for Arsenal's 0–1 defeat to Newcastle United on 7 November.
On 1 January 2011, Van Persie scored his first goal of the season in a 3–0 away win over Birmingham City.[54] On 15 January, he added two more goals to his tally in a comfortable 3–0 win over West Ham. This made him only the fourth Dutchman to reach 50 goals in England's top division.[55] Van Persie scored his first career hat-trick in a 3–0 win over Wigan Athletic on 22 January[56] and two goals against Newcastle United in a 4–4 draw on 5 February.[57] Continuing his fine form, he hit a brace the following week against Wolverhampton Wanderers scoring both Arsenal goals in a 2–0 win including a volley from inside the box.[58] The ten goals he scored between 1 January and 12 February set a new Premier League record for most goals scored in the first two months of a calendar year.[59]
Van Persie set the Emirates alight with a goal from an almost impossible angle in Arsenal's fightback against Barcelona in the Champions League Round of 16 which ended 2–1 in favour of the Gunners.[60] On 27 February 2011, Van Persie captained Arsenal at Wembley Stadium in the League Cup final, scoring the first half equalizer for the Gunners. It was his first goal at Wembley and his first in a cup final for Arsenal. However, he was later taken off in the second half with a knee injury he picked up while scoring the goal.
On 1 March 2011 he was ruled out for 3 weeks which would see him miss the Champions League return leg with Barcelona. However, he recovered in time for the return leg at Camp Nou. During the game, he received a yellow card in the first half for a foul. In the second half, he was sent off after he received a second yellow card when the referee, Massimo Busacca, deemed him to be time-wasting by taking a shot at goal after the whistle was blown (one second earlier) for offside. Barcelona went on to score twice more and advanced to the quarter finals on a 4–3 aggregate result. Afterwards, Van Persie described the Busacca's decision as a "total joke", claiming that with the noise of the 95,000-strong crowd he could not hear the whistle. On 19 March 2011, he scored the equalizing goal in a 2–2 against West Bromwich Albion at The Hawthorns. The match finished 2–2 with Arsenal still five points behind the current leaders, Manchester United.
On 10 April 2011 in a match against Blackpool, Van Persie put in a man of the match performance to give Arsenal a crucial 3–1 win as Van Persie set up a goal and scored the 3rd. On 24 April 2011, Van Persie became the first player to score in seven successive Premier League away games when he scored against Bolton, beating Didier Drogba's record who was on six successive away games, between August and November 2009. However, the Gunners lost 2–1, all but ending their title hopes. On 1 May he assisted Aaron Ramsey who scored the winning goal against league leaders Manchester United to add a twist to the Premier League. Van Persie was named EA Sports Player of the Month for April.[61]
On 8 May 2011, Arsenal lost 3–1 against Stoke City at the Britannia Stadium, Van Persie scored the goal for Arsenal and with that goal Van Persie extended his Premier League record by scoring in an eighth successive away match. On the last home game for the season Van Persie scored against Aston Villa, but Arsenal lost the match 2–1. On the last game of the season away to Fulham, Van Persie managed to score in his ninth consecutive away match, bringing his goal tally for the season to a personal record of 18 league goals. He also equalled the record held by Cristiano Ronaldo and Thierry Henry by scoring 18 league goals from the turn of the year to the end of the season. He ended the season just two goals behind joint league top scorers, Carlos Tévez and Dimitar Berbatov in the race for the golden boot, despite being injured for half of the season. He was voted as the second best player of the 2010–11 season on Arsenal's official website and also received the team's Goal of the Season award for his audacious strike in the 2–1 victory over Barcelona in the Champions League.
2011–12[link]




Van Persie and Arsenal against Borussia Dortmund in the UEFA Champions League


Having been appointed vice-captain for the 2010–11 season, Van Persie was promoted to club captain following the transfer of Cesc Fàbregas to FC Barcelona at the start of the 2011–12 season.[62] On 24 August, Van Persie scored his first goal of the 2011–12 season in the second leg of Arsenal's 2–1 away victory against Udinese in a Champions League play off match. On 24 September 2011, Van Persie scored twice against Bolton Wanderers to raise his tally for Arsenal to 100 goals, he became the 17th Arsenal player to reach this milestone. On 16 October 2011, Van Persie scored the fastest goal of the 2011–12 Premier League season, 28 seconds into a home match against Sunderland.[63] He went on to score a late winner from a curling left foot free kick, to put Arsenal 2–1 ahead. After the match, Van Persie stated his dedication to the club after speculation surrounding a future transfer away from the Emirates. On 23 October, Van Persie came on as a substitute on the 66th minute replacing Marouane Chamakh and scored two goals against Stoke City. The match ended 3–1 with another home win for Arsenal.[64] He then continued his scoring run for Arsenal on 29 October by scoring a hat-trick in Arsenal's 5–3 victory against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.[65] Due to his consistent performances and good goal-scoring form, Van Persie was named the Premier League Player of the Month for October 2011. Van Persie continued scoring as he scored Arsenal's opening goal of the match in their 3-0 win over West Bromwich Albion on 5 November along with two assists. Then after the international break Van Persie scored both Arsenal goals against Norwich City to help the Gunners to a 2–1 win on 19 November 2011.[66] In Van Persie's fifth Champions League match of the season he scored twice in the 49th and 86th minute to lift Arsenal to a 2–1 victory over Borussia Dortmund and to qualify Arsenal for the knockout phase on 23 November 2011.[67]
After failing to score against Fulham, Van Persie scored again for Arsenal, this time against Wigan Athletic to make the score 4–0 to Arsenal on 3 December 2011.[68] He then added to his tally with the only goal of the game against Everton, an exquisite volley from an Alex Song long ball.[69] The following match, versus Aston Villa, saw him score a penalty and provide an assist.[70] Van Persie's final goal of the 2011 calendar year came in Arsenal's one-goal win over Queens Park Rangers on the last day of the year. The goal took his tally for the year to 35 goals, one short of Alan Shearer's Premier League record.[71]
The following calendar year started in the same fashion for Van Persie, but Arsenal began to falter, losing three consecutive matches against Fulham, Manchester United and Swansea City, even though Van Persie scored in the latter two. On 29 January, he rescued his team, scoring two penalties against Aston Villa in the fourth-round of the FA Cup to help Arsenal to a 3–2 win after falling 2–0 down in a Man of the Match performance. It was also his 120th goal in an Arsenal shirt, equalling fellow Dutch legend Dennis Bergkamp's total. On 4 February, he overtook Bergkamp as the 10th highest scorer in Arsenal's history,[72] scoring another hat-trick as Arsenal beat Blackburn 7–1 at home, with three close-range goals from crosses by Theo Walcott and Francis Coquelin. He was also credited with two assists in the game as he set up Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain's first Premier League goal and unselfishly passed to Thierry Henry enabling him to score his first Premier League goal since returning on loan.[73] With Arsenal in unpredictable form, van Persie was again of supreme importance for Arsenal, this time in the North London derby against Tottenham Hotspur, played on 26 February. Arsenal went 2–0 down at half in the first half, but Van Persie equalized before half-time. In the second half, Van Persie gave the assist to Walcott's goal as Arsenal performed a remarkable comeback to win the game 5–2.[74] A week later, Van Persie scored both goals in a 2–1 away win at Liverpool, one being a left foot volley assisted by Alex Song which was similar to the one he scored against Everton earlier in the campaign. On 11 April 2012, after scoring the penalty against Wolverhampton Wanderers in a 3–0 away win, he became only the second player to score against 17 different Premier League opponents in a single campaign. Van Persie is currently the top goal-scorer in the Premier League with 30 goals,[75] and Arsenal's 8th all-time top scorer with 132 goals.[76]
International career[link]




Van Persie (right) and Ruud van Nistelrooy training with the Netherlands


Van Persie was a U-21 international and took part in the 2004 and 2006 European Championship qualifying. Van Persie was used in a wider role as a left wing due to the preference of the experienced Klaas-Jan Huntelaar in the striker role.[77] The Jong Oranje failed to qualify for the 2004 tournament and Van Persie did not participate in the latter as he was already in the senior squad for the FIFA World Cup. He earned his first caps for the Netherlands in less than the span of a week, first in a 2–0 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifying win over Romania on 4 June 2005,[78][79] and in another qualifier four days later against Finland, which saw him pick up his first international goal in a 4–0 victory.[80]
2006 FIFA World Cup[link]
Despite not being a regular starter for Arsenal, Van Persie was part of coach Marco van Basten's roster for the 2006 World Cup finals. He played in all four of the Netherlands' matches and scored his only goal in the group stage against Côte d'Ivoire via a free kick as Oranje were eliminated in the Round of 16.[81][82]




Van Persie (right) with Arjen Robben.


UEFA Euro 2008[link]
Van Persie scored a team-best four UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying goals,[83][84] and was deployed as a winger behind lone striker Ruud van Nistelrooy during the tournament after van Basten decided to change to a 4–2–3–1 formation. As Wesley Sneijder and Rafael van der Vaart were preferred in the midfield, Van Persie was left to battle with Arjen Robben for the remaining spot on the wing. On 13 June, he scored as a 55th-minute substitute in a 4–1 Group C victory over 2006 World Cup finalists France, and started the next match against Romania, scoring off a pass from Demy de Zeeuw with an excellent volley into the back of the net. He finished with two goals as the Netherlands finished atop their group but again suffered a first knock-out round, second stage elimination.
Post-Euro 2008[link]
Van Persie scored in the friendlies played against Russia and Sweden, and also scored a header in a World Cup qualifying match against Scotland, which stirred debate whether he should be taking corners or receiving them. He was injured during that match and was substituted early in the second-half.
2010 FIFA World Cup[link]




Van Persie (right) with Klaas-Jan Huntelaar


Van Persie was included in the preliminary squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa.[85] On 27 May 2010, Netherlands manager Bert van Marwijk announced that he was in the final squad of 23 participating in the competition.[86] Van Persie was in the starting line-up for their first match in the competition, a 2–0 victory over Denmark.[87] On 24 June, he scored the first goal against Cameroon in a 2–1 win to ensure that the Netherlands finished as group winners, and was officially named the man of the match.[88] He started every match for the Oranje, though he did not increase his goal tally following the match. However The Oranje reached the 2010 World Cup Final, in which he was on the losing side due to Andrés Iniesta's extra time goal.
UEFA Euro 2012[link]
On 2 September 2011, Van Persie scored four goals in a record breaking 11–0 victory over San Marino. He entered the Dutch national team top 10 all-time topscorer ranking with a tally of 25 goals, dislodging Marco van Basten in the process.[89] Van Persie had not scored four goals in a single match for a long while.[90]
Personal life[link]
Van Persie was born on 6 August 1983 in a multi-ethnic area of Rotterdam to an artistic family. José Ras, his mother, is a painter and jewellery designer who also teaches children with special needs.[91] Bob, his father, is a sculptor. After Van Persie's parents divorced he was brought up by his father. At school, Van Persie was one of the most misbehaved children and was excluded from class almost daily.[91] After joining Arsenal in England, Van Persie settled in Hampstead, an affluent suburb of North London. Van Persie is married to his long-time girlfriend Bouchra. The couple have two children; a boy named Shaqueel and daughter Dina.
In June 2005, while in Rotterdam with the Dutch national team for the 2006 World Cup qualifiers, Van Persie was arrested on suspicion of rape by Dutch police.[92] Sandra Krijgsman, a former Miss Nigeria Holland winner, claimed she was attacked by Van Persie in a hotel.[93] He was held for fourteen nights in prison while the police investigated the allegations made against him[94] but was then released without charge, though he was still under suspicion.[95] In February 2006, the case against Van Persie was dismissed by the Dutch Public Prosecution Service after they completed their investigations stating that no sexual contact with coercion happened, with Van Persie's accuser later admitting she had made up the story to gain publicity.[96][97] Van Persie admitted being unfaithful by having sex with Sandra Krijgsman, and he was forgiven by his wife.[98] Van Persie spoke of his ordeal several months later, saying how degrading the experience was and how he was treated like a criminal despite his innocence. He revealed that conditions in the prison were so hot that they caused him to lose consciousness. It also emerged that over 200 Rotterdam police officers had attempted to view his case files, with the vast majority of them unauthorised to do so.[7][99]
Van Persie uses Twitter to communicate with his fans.[100][101]
Style of play[link]




Van Persie with Dutch admirers


Van Persie started his senior club career as a left winger and possessed exceptional dribbling skills and was also a talented striker of the ball. He was bought by Arsenal as a long term replacement for Dennis Bergkamp. Manager Arsène Wenger planned to convert Van Persie from a left winger to a centre forward as he had successfully done with star player Thierry Henry. He was at first mostly deployed as a second striker in League Cup and FA Cup matches. Due to the retirement of Bergkamp and departure of Freddie Ljungberg, Van Persie was given a starting role to play alongside Henry as a second striker. Van Persie impressed in this position, having many assists and goals to his name. Van Persie is described by Wenger as Bergkamp with goals. Van Persie is highly regarded for his dribbling and shooting technique, but has become prone to injury.[25][102][103][104][105][106] Van Persie has become a pivotal figure for club and country and this was recognized when he was named Arsenal Player of The Season for the 2008–09 season.[107][108][109] Van Persie's 50th Premier League strike made him only the fourth Dutchman to reach 50 goals in England's top division, along with Bergkamp, Ruud van Nistelrooy and Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink.[55]
The departure of Emmanuel Adebayor and Henry meant the Dutchman was now the main striker in Wenger's 4–3–3 system, though Van Persie often drops in the midfield to use his vision and passing skills to create chances for other attacking players in the midfield such as Aaron Ramsey and Theo Walcott. Van Persie topped the goal assists leader board with 11 assists in the 2008–09 Premier League season.[110] Van Persie is also a set piece specialist and a vast number of his assists come from both corners and freekicks. He is also a proven direct freekick taker scoring regularly for his club and country.[111][112]
Career statistics[link]
Club[link]

As of 15 May 2012



Club
Season
League
Cup
Europe
Total


Apps
Goals
Assists
Apps
Goals
Assists
Apps
Goals
Assists
Apps
Goals
Assists


Feyenoord
2001–02
10
0
2
0
0
0
7
0
0
17
0
2


2002–03
23
9
1
3
7
0
2
0
0
28
16
1


2003–04
28
6
6
2
0
0
3
0
0
33
6
6


Total
61
15
9
5
7
0
12
0
0
78
22
9


Arsenal
2004–05
26
5
1
9
4
0
6
1
0
41
10
1


2005–06
24
5
1
7
4
0
7
2
0
38
11
1


2006–07
22
11
7
1
0
0
8
2
1
31
13
8


2007–08
15
7
3
1
0
0
7
2
2
23
9
5


2008–09
28
11
11
6
4
1
10
5
3
44
20
15


2009–10
16
9
7
0
0
0
4
1
1
20
10
8


2010–11
25
18
7
5
2
0
3
2
0
33
22
7


2011–12
38
30
13
2
2
0
8
5
2
47
37
15


Total
194
96
49
31
16
2
53
20
9
278
132
60


Career total
255
111
58
36
23
2
65
20
9
356
155
69


National team statistics[link]
Statistics accurate as of 30 May 2012


Netherlands national team


Year
Apps
Goals


2005
6
1


2006
11
6


2007
4
0


2008
10
5


2009
10
2


2010
11
5


2011
9
6


2012
2
1


Total
64
26


International goals[link]


Goal
Date
Venue
Opponent
Score
Result
Competition


1.
8 June 2005
Olympic Stadium, Helsinki, Finland
 Finland
0–4
0–4
2006 World Cup qualification


2.
16 June 2006
Gottlieb-Daimler-Stadion, Stuttgart, Germany
 Côte d'Ivoire
1–0
2–1
2006 World Cup


3.
16 August 2006
Lansdowne Road, Dublin, Republic of Ireland
 Republic of Ireland
0–4
0–4
Friendly


4.
6 September 2006
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 Belarus
1–0
3–0
Euro 2008 qualification


5.
6 September 2006
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 Belarus
2–0
3–0
Euro 2008 qualification


6.
7 October 2006
Vasil Levski Stadium, Sofia, Bulgaria
 Bulgaria
1–1
1–1
Euro 2008 qualification


7.
11 October 2006
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Albania
1–0
2–1
Euro 2008 qualification


8.
13 June 2008
Stade de Suisse, Berne, Switzerland
 France
2–0
4–1
Euro 2008


9.
17 June 2008
Stade de Suisse, Berne, Switzerland
 Romania
2–0
2–0
Euro 2008


10.
20 August 2008
Lokomotiv Stadium, Moscow, Russia
 Russia
0–1
1–1
Friendly


11.
19 November 2008
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Sweden
1–0
3–1
Friendly


12.
19 November 2008
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Sweden
2–0
3–1
Friendly


13.
28 March 2009
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Scotland
2–0
3–0
2010 World Cup qualification


14.
5 September 2009
Grolsch Veste, Enschede, Netherlands
 Japan
1–0
3–0
Friendly


15.
26 May 2010
Dreisamstadion, Freiburg, Germany
 Mexico
1–0
2–1
Friendly


16.
26 May 2010
Dreisamstadion, Freiburg, Germany
 Mexico
2–0
2–1
Friendly


17.
1 June 2010
De Kuip, Rotterdam, Netherlands
 Ghana
4–1
4–1
Friendly


18.
5 June 2010
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Hungary
1–1
6–1
Friendly


19.
24 June 2010
Cape Town Stadium, Cape Town, South Africa
 Cameroon
1–0
2–1
2010 World Cup


20.
25 March 2011
Stadium Puskás Ferenc, Budapest, Hungary
 Hungary
0–4
0–4
Euro 2012 qualification


21.
29 March 2011
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Hungary
1–0
5–3
Euro 2012 qualification


22.
2 September 2011
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 San Marino
1–0
11–0
Euro 2012 qualification


23.
2 September 2011
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 San Marino
5–0
11–0
Euro 2012 qualification


24.
2 September 2011
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 San Marino
6–0
11–0
Euro 2012 qualification


25.
2 September 2011
Philips Stadion, Eindhoven, Netherlands
 San Marino
8–0
11–0
Euro 2012 qualification


26.
26 May 2012
Amsterdam ArenA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Bulgaria
1–0
1–2
Friendly


Honours[link]




With Holland, Van Persie reached the final of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.


Club[link]

Feyenoord


UEFA Cup (1): 2001–02


Arsenal


FA Cup (1): 2005
FA Community Shield (1): 2004

Individual[link]

KNVB Best Young Talent Award (1): 2000–01
Dutch Football Talent of the Year (1): 2001–02
FA Premier League Player of the Month (3): November 2005, October 2009, October 2011
Rotterdam Sportsman of the Year (1): 2006
BBC Sport Goal of the Month (3): September 2006, December 2008, December 2011
Euro 2008 Bronze Boot (1)
Arsenal Top Goalscorer (4): 2006–07, 2008–09, 2010–11, 2011-12
Arsenal Player of The Season (2): 2008–09, 2011-12
Arsenal Goal of the Season (2): February 2011 vs Barcelona, December 2011 vs Everton
Golden Boot Landmark Award 10[113]
Golden Boot Landmark Award 20[114]
Golden Boot Landmark Award 30
Premier League Golden Boot (1): 2011–12
PFA Players' Player of the Year (1): 2011–12
PFA Premier League Team of the Year (1): 2011–12
FWA Footballer of the Year (1): 2011–12

References[link]


^ a b Hugman, Barry J., ed. (2005). The PFA Premier & Football League Players' Records 1946–2005. Queen Anne Press. p. 627. ISBN 1-85291-665-6. 
^ "Facts - Official van Persie website". http://robinvanpersie.com/facts/. 
^ Robin van Persie AllSportsPeople.com
^ [1] Arsenal.com
^ Rob Draper, Mail on Sunday Chief Football Writer (6 December 2009). "Van Persie can take heart from Van Basten's heroics | Mail Online". Dailymail.co.uk. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1233509/Van-Persie-heart-Van-Bastens-heroics.html. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ "'Van Persie's cast in Van Basten's mould' | News Archive | News". Arsenal.com. 20 October 2009. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/-van-persie-s-cast-in-van-basten-s-mould-. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ a b c Lawton, Matt (6 February 2009). "The Saturday Interview: Robin Van Persie – the artist who draws the best out of Arsenal". Mail Online. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1138300/The-Saturday-Interview-Robin-Van-Persie--artist-draws-best-Arsenal.html. 
^ 2001/02: Van Hooijdonk fires up Feyenoord UEFA.COM
^ Dutch Footballer of the Year Wikipedia
^ Arsenal Striker Robin Van Persie Wants To Follow In Dennis Bergkamp's Foosteps And Wear Number 10 Shirt Goal.com, 7 July 2010
^ "Perfect 10? Robin van Persie to follow in Dennis Bergkamp's footsteps after William Gallas vacates famous jersey". Mail Online. 20 July 2010. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1296290/Robin-van-Persie-follow-Dennis-Bergkamp-No-10-William-Gallas-vacates-jersey.html. 
^ Rotterdam Sportsman of the year Wikipedia
^ Parkinson, Nick (3 December 2005). "Van Persie hits spot for Wenger". The Guardian. http://www.guardian.co.uk/football/2005/dec/03/newsstory.sport6. 
^ 2008–09 Premier League Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
^ Profile/0,,12306~22171~2009,00.html Player Profile | Robin van Persie FA Premier League
^ Statistics FA Premier League
^ FIFA Player Statistics: Robin VAN PERSIE FIFA.com
^ Robin Van Persie Football Profile Yahoo! Eurosport UK
^ 2010 FIFA World Cup™ – Robin VAN PERSIE FIFA.com
^ a b Northcroft, Jonathan (28 November 2004). "Young man’s game". Times Online. http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2093-1378139,00.html. Retrieved 22 May 2010. 
^ Take care with Persie The Sun Sport, 29 April 2004; Retrieved 9 September 2008
^ a b Young Gunner, Times Online, 19 February 2006; Retrieved 19 September 2008
^ Johnson, William (21 January 2004). "Feyenoord slap £5m price tag on Van Persie". The Daily Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/2371643/Feyenoord-slap-5m-price-tag-on-Van-Persie.html. Retrieved 10 March 2012. 
^ a b Van Persie hits spot for Wenger The Guardian, 3 December 2005; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ a b Robin Van Persie Bio, Stats, News ESPN Soccernet
^ Arsenal sign Reyes for record fee CBBC Newsround, 27 January 2004; Retrieved 30 November 2007
^ Warren, Dan (30 September 2006). "Charlton 1–2 Arsenal". BBC Sport. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_prem/5373468.stm. 
^ Brain is not used by Van Persie Telegraph, 26 February 2005; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ Van Persie wants to make amends ESPN Soccernet, 11 March 2005; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ Robin van Persie profile[dead link] 4TheGame; Retrieved 30 November 2008
^ Van Persie signs new Arsenal deal, BBC Sport, 6 January 2006; Retrieved 30 November 2007
^ Arsenal's Van Persie to miss cup tie with broken toe ESPN Soccernet, 10 January 2006; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ Barcelona 2–1 Arsenal BBC Sport, 17 May 2006; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ Wenger: 'Winner was the goal of a lifetime', Arsenal.com, 30 September 2007; Retrieved 19 June 2010
^ Goal of the month, BBC Sport, 8 January 2007; Retrieved 8 December 2007
^ Van Persie set to sit out season, BBC Sport, 30 March 2007; Retrieved 8 December 2007
^ Van Persie could be sidelined for a month, Arsenal.com, 20 October 2007; Retrieved 30 November 2007
^ Arsenal 2–1 Steaua Bucharest, BBC Sport, 12 December 2007; Retrieved 12 December 2007
^ Van Persie double seals winning display The Guardian, 31 August 2008; Retrieved 11 September 2008
^ Stoke keeper admits: I wound Van Persie up to get him red card Northampton Chronicle and Echo, 3 November 2008; Retrieved 9 November 2008
^ Lawton, Matt (1 December 2008). "Chelsea 1 Arsenal 2: Superb Van Persie brace puts Gunners back in title race". Mail Online. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1090660/Chelsea-1-Arsenal-2-Superb-Van-Persie-brace-puts-Gunners-title-race.html. 
^ Goal of the season BBC Sport, 9 June 2009; Retrieved 19 June 2010
^ FA Cup: Arsenal 3–1 Plymouth – Match Report Arsenal.com, 3 January 2009; Retrieved 5 January 2009
^ Arsenal 3–1 Plymouth BBC Sport, 3 January 2009; Retrieved 5 January 2009
^ Van Persie is O2/Arsenal Player of the Month, Arsenal.com, 11 February 2009; Retrieved 15 February 2009
^ "Gunners edge out Roma". FIFA.com. 24 February 2009. http://www.fifa.com/worldfootball/clubfootball/news/newsid=1032053.html?cid=rssfeed&att=. Retrieved 19 April 2010. 
^ Van Persie is the Player of the Season Arsenal.com, 13 July 2009; Retrieved 24 December 2010
^ The Netherlands Coach Bert Van Marwijk Backs Robin Van Persie To Shine Goal.com, 17 November 2010
^ "Van Persie signs new long-term contract". Arsenal.com. 8 July 2009. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/van-persie. 
^ "Van Persie reaction to Adebayor incident". Arsenal.com. 12 September 2009. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/van-persie-reaction-to-adebayor-incident. 
^ England (6 November 2009). "Arsenal's Van Persie & Fulham's Hodgson Scoop October Awards". Goal.com. http://goal.com/en-us/news/85/england/2009/11/06/1609265/arsenals-robin-van-persie-fulhams-roy-hodgson-scoop-october. 
^ Ornstein, David (15 November 2009). "Arsenal hit by Van Persie injury". BBC Sport. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/a/arsenal/8360973.stm. Retrieved 15 November 2009. 
^ Dutch star Van Persie is Arsenal's new No 10 Arsenal.com, 20 July 2010
^ Wyett, Charlie (31 August 2010). "Injury jinx hits van Persie again". The Sun. http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/sport/football/3117948/Injury-jinx-hits-Arsenals-Robin-van-Persie-again.html. 
^ a b Robin Van Persie joins Dutch goalscoring elite The National, 20 January 2011
^ Arsenal 3 – 0 Wigan BBC Sport, 22 January 2011
^ Newcastle 4 – 4 Arsenal BBC Sport, 5 February 2011
^ Arsenal 2 – 0 Wolverhampton BBC Sport, 12 February 2011
^ "Robin van Persie". Arsenal.com. http://www.arsenal.com/first-team/players/robin-van-persie/my-year. Retrieved 11 March 2012. 
^ Arsenal 2 – 1 Barcelona BBC Sport, 16 February 2011
^ "Van Persie is EA SPORTS Player of the Month | News Archive | News". Arsenal.com. 4 May 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/38039/van-persie-is-ea-sports-player-of-the-month. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ Arsenal F.C. (16 August 2011). "Van Persie appointed as Arsenal captain". Arsenal.com. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/van-persie-appointed-as-arsenal-captain. Retrieved 16 August 2011. 
^ "BBC Sport - Arsenal 2-1 Sunderland". Bbc.co.uk. 16 October 2011. http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/15231242. Retrieved 27 March 2012. 
^ "Premier League: Robin Van Persie brace, Shola Ameobi earns point - ESPN Soccernet". Soccernet.espn.go.com. 17 October 2011. http://soccernet.espn.go.com/news/story/_/id/970364/premier-league:-robin-van-persie-brace,-shola-ameobi-earns-point?cc=5901. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ "Premier League: Chelsea 3-5 Arsenal - Report". Arsenal.com. 29 October 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/match-menu/3407931/first-team/chelsea-v-arsenal?tab=report. Retrieved 29 October 2011. 
^ "Premier League: Norwich 1-2 Arsenal - Report". Arsenal.com. 19 November 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/match-menu/3408095/first-team/norwich-v-arsenal?tab=report. Retrieved 19 November 2011. 
^ "Arsenal 2-1 Arsenal - Borussia Dortmund - Match Report". Arsenal.com. 23 November 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/match-menu/3447140/first-team/arsenal-v-borussia-dortmund?tab=report. Retrieved 23 November 2011. 
^ "Premier League: Wigan 0-4 Arsenal - Report". Arsenal.com. 3 December 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/match-menu/3408231/first-team/wigan-athletic-v-arsenal?tab=report. Retrieved 3 December 2011. 
^ "Premier League: Arsenal 1-0 Everton - Report". Arsenal.com. 10 December 2011. http://www.arsenal.com/match-menu/3408266/first-team/arsenal-v-everton?tab=report. Retrieved 10 December 2011. 
^ "BBC: Aston Villa 1 - 2 Arsenal". http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/16173216.stm. Retrieved 25 December 2011. 
^ "Arsenal 1-0 QPR: van Persie scores but falls short of record". Mirror Football. 31 December 2011. http://www.mirrorfootball.co.uk/news/Arsenal-1-0-QPR-match-report-Robin-van-Persie-scores-but-falls-short-of-Alan-Shearer-s-record-article847758.html. Retrieved 1 January 2012. 
^ "Robin Van Persie hat-trick knocks Dennis Bergkamp out of Arsenal top 10 - Football News - Football - Sport". People.co.uk. http://www.people.co.uk/sport/football/news/2012/02/05/robin-van-persie-hat-trick-knocks-dennis-bergkamp-out-of-arsenal-top-10-102039-23737139/. Retrieved 27 March 2012. 
^ "Arsenal 7-1 Blackburn" BBC Sport. 4 February 2012. Retrieved 5 February 2012.
^ "Arsenal 5-2 Tottenham" BBC Sport. 26 February 2012. Retrieved 3 March 2012.
^ "Barclays Premier League Top Goal Scorers". ESPN Soccernet. http://soccernet.espn.go.com/stats/scorers/_/league/eng.1/barclays-premier-league?cc=5901. Retrieved 12 March 2012. 
^ "10. Robin van Persie | Players | First Team". Arsenal.com. http://www.arsenal.com/first-team/players/robin-van-persie. Retrieved 27 March 2012. 
^ Robin van Persie our new leader? Netherlands World Cup Blog
^ 17 Robin van Persie Holland Stats, ITV Sport, World Cup 2006. Retrieved on 11 December 2007.
^ "Stats for Romania vs. Holland game". Soccerbase.com. 4 June 2005. http://www.soccerbase.com/results3.sd?gameid=453273. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Stats for Finland vs. Holland game". Soccerbase.com. 8 June 2005. http://www.soccerbase.com/results3.sd?gameid=453632. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Stats for Van Persie's World Cup (see bottom of list)". Soccerbase.com. 16 May 2004. http://www.soccerbase.com/players_details.sd?playerid=30289&seasonid=135. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Stats for Holland's 2006 World Cup game against Ivory Coast". Soccerbase.com. 16 June 2006. http://www.soccerbase.com/results3.sd?gameid=485632. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Stats for Albania vs. Holland". Soccerbase.com. 11 June 2006. http://www.soccerbase.com/results3.sd?gameid=508667. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Stats for Luxembourg vs. Holland". Soccerbase.com. 2 September 2006. http://www.soccerbase.com/results3.sd?gameid=497543. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ "Van Marwijk trims Dutch squad to 27". AFP. 14 May 2010. http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iO9bETRJh0iovmmUN7ZeFDugTEIg. Retrieved 18 May 2010. 
^ "Holland coach Bert van Marwijk finalises World Cup squad". guardian.co.uk. Press Association. 27 May 2010. http://www.guardian.co.uk/football/2010/may/27/holland-world-cup-23-man-squad. Retrieved 27 May 2010. 
^ "Netherlands-Denmark". FIFA.com. 14 June 2010. http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/matches/round=249722/match=300061478/report.html. Retrieved 16 June 2010. 
^ Bevan, Chris (24 June 2010). "Cameroon 1–2 Netherlands". BBC Sport. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/world_cup_2010/matches/match_44/default.stm. Retrieved 24 June 2010. 
^ "San Marino on the end of record Netherlands win". Berend Scholten on UEFA.com. 2 September 2011. http://www.uefa.com/uefaeuro2012/matches/season=2012/round=15171/match=2002054/postmatch/report/index.html#san+marino+record+netherlands. Retrieved 2 September 2011. 
^ "Dutch proud of record-breaking victory win". Berend Scholten on UEFA.com. 3 September 2011. http://www.uefa.com/uefaeuro2012/matches/season=2012/round=15171/match=2002054/postmatch/quotes/index.html. Retrieved 3 September 2011. 
^ a b Post. "The Times | UK News, World News and Opinion". Timesonline.co.uk. http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/sport/football/article732448.ece. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ "UK | England | London | Arsenal star held over rape claim". BBC News. 14 June 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/london/4091114.stm. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ "Editorial | KT: It's been a long journey for RVP". Espnstar.Com. 30 October 2011. http://www.espnstar.com/editorial/news/detail/item698899/KT:-It%27s-been-a-long-journey-for-RVP/. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ "UK | England | London | Rape quiz Arsenal star still held". BBC News. 16 June 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/london/4099662.stm. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ "UK | England | London | Rape claim Arsenal star released". BBC News. 27 June 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/london/4627351.stm. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ "Van Persie no longer rape suspect | FOOTBALL News". Tvnz.co.nz. 1 March 2006. http://tvnz.co.nz/view/page/411317/670302. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ "Van Persie's lawyer claims police will drop rape charges". Mail on Sunday (Highbeam). 28 August 2005. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-135587858.html. Retrieved 11 March 2012. 
^ "Van Persie wife's rape case agony". The Sun. 16 May 2009. http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/news/2432315/Van-Persie-wifes-rape-case-agony.html. Retrieved 16 May 2009. 
^ "Internet Archive Wayback Machine". Web.archive.org. 12 November 2007. Archived from the original on 12 November 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20071112034119/http://www.telegraaf.nl/binnenland/26760091/Agenten_gluren_in_dossier_Van_Persie.html. Retrieved 13 December 2011. 
^ Robin van Persie (Persie_Official) Twitter
^ "Euro 2008 - Robin van Persie: "Still too emotional at times"". Dutch Football. 8 June 2008. http://www.dutch-football.com/football/articles/robin_van_persie_holland_netherlands_euro_2008.shtml. Retrieved 17 October 2011. 
^ Robin Van Persie: I was written off after Arsenal injury... but now I'm stronger than ever Mail Online, 20 February 2011
^ "Arsenal suffer Van Persie setback". BBC Sport. 7 September 2010. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/a/arsenal/8954958.stm. 
^ Hurt van Persie attracting injuries to small children now Yahoo! Sports, 18 October 2010
^ Van Persie shatters Spurs FIFA.com, 31 October 2009
^ Robin Van Persie Goal.com
^ Robin van Persie: Arsenal is in a player’s heart, it’s not easy to leave Arsenal Blog & Arsenal News, 15 February 2010
^ EPL Debate: Is Arsenal's Robin Van Persie The League's Best Striker? Bleacher Report, 24 January 2011
^ Robin van Persie best striker in Premier League, says Arsenal's Arsene Wenger The Telegraph, 6 November 2009
^ Top assists, 2008–09 Premier League Wikipedia
^ Van Persie denies dive before free-kick goal Sportpost, 1 January 2011
^ Holland 2–1 Ivory Coast BBC Sport, 16 June 2006
^ "Van Persie is Barclays Player of the Month". Arsenal.com. http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/van-persie-is-barclays-player-of-the-month. Retrieved 5 November 2011. 
^ "Van Persie first to reach 20 goals". FA Premier League. http://www.premierleague.com/en-gb/news/news/van-persie-first-to-reach-20-goals.html. Retrieved 9 February 2012. 


External links[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Robin van Persie



Robin van Persie profile Arsenal.com
Robin van Persie – FIFA competition record
Robin van Persie's statistics for the Netherlands Voetbalstats.NL (Dutch)
Robin van Persie career stats at Soccerbase
Robin van Persie profile and stats at Wereld van Oranje (Dutch)
Profile SoccerSurfer.com



Sporting positions


Preceded by
Cesc Fàbregas
Arsenal F.C. captain
2011–
Succeeded by
Incumbent







 
Awards
















v
t
e


Dutch Football Talent of the Year (Johan Cruyff Award)









1984: Been
1985: Van Rooy
1986: Winter
1987: Roy
1988: Huistra
1989: Witschge
1990: Bergkamp
1991: Taument
1992: Overmars
1993: Seedorf
1994: Seedorf
1995: Kluivert
1996: Tomasson
1997: Zenden
1998–1999: Van Bommel
1999–2000: Bruggink
2000–2001: Van der Vaart
2001–2002: Van Persie
2002–2003: Robben
2003–2004: Heitinga
2003: Robben
2004: Sneijder
2005: Kalou
2006: Huntelaar
2007: Afellay
2008: Sulejmani
2009: Elia
2010: Van der Wiel
2011: Eriksen
2012: Maher
















v
t
e


FWA Footballer of the Year









1948: Matthews
1949: Carey
1950: Mercer
1951: Johnston
1952: Wright
1953: Lofthouse
1954: Finney
1955: Revie
1956: Trautmann
1957: Finney
1958: Blanchflower
1959: Owen
1960: Slater
1961: Blanchflower
1962: Adamson
1963: Matthews
1964: Moore
1965: Collins
1966: B. Charlton
1967: J. Charlton
1968: Best
1969: Book/Dave Mackay
1970: Bremner
1971: McLintock
1972: Banks
1973: Jennings
1974: Callaghan
1975: Mullery
1976: Keegan
1977: Hughes
1978: Burns
1979: Dalglish
1980: McDermott
1981: Thijssen
1982: Perryman
1983: Dalglish
1984: Rush
1985: Southall
1986: Lineker
1987: Allen
1988: Barnes
1989: Nicol
1990: Barnes
1991: Strachan
1992: Lineker
1993: Waddle
1994: Shearer
1995: Klinsmann
1996: Cantona
1997: Zola
1998: Bergkamp
1999: Ginola
2000: Keane
2001: Sheringham
2002: Pirès
2003: Henry
2004: Henry
2005: Lampard
2006: Henry
2007: C. Ronaldo
2008: C. Ronaldo
2009: Gerrard
2010: Rooney
2011: Parker
2012: van Persie
















v
t
e


PFA Players' Player of the Year









1974: Hunter
1975: Todd
1976: Jennings
1977: Gray
1978: Shilton
1979: Brady
1980: McDermott
1981: Wark
1982: Keegan
1983: Dalglish
1984: Rush
1985: Reid
1986: Lineker
1987: Allen
1988: Barnes
1989: Hughes
1990: Platt
1991: Hughes
1992: Pallister
1993: McGrath
1994: Cantona
1995: Shearer
1996: Ferdinand
1997: Shearer
1998: Bergkamp
1999: Ginola
2000: Keane
2001: Sheringham
2002: Van Nistelrooy
2003: Henry
2004: Henry
2005: Terry
2006: Gerrard
2007: C. Ronaldo
2008: C. Ronaldo
2009: Giggs
2010: Rooney
2011: Bale
2012: van Persie
















v
t
e


2011–12 Premier League PFA Team of the Year









GK: Joe Hart
DF: Kyle Walker
DF: Vincent Kompany
DF: Fabricio Coloccini
DF: Leighton Baines
MF: David Silva
MF: Yaya Touré
MF: Scott Parker
MF: Gareth Bale
FW: Robin van Persie
FW: Wayne Rooney
















v
t
e


Premier League top scorers









1993: Sheringham
1994: Cole
1995: Shearer
1996: Shearer
1997: Shearer
1998: Sutton/Dublin/Owen
1999: Hasselbaink/Owen/Yorke
2000: Phillips
2001: Hasselbaink
2002: Henry
2003: van Nistelrooy
2004: Henry
2005: Henry
2006: Henry
2007: Drogba
2008: C. Ronaldo
2009: Anelka
2010: Drogba
2011: Berbatov/Tévez
2012: van Persie
















v
t
e


Arsenal F.C. Player of the Year









2006: Henry
2007: Fabregas
2008: Fabregas
2009: van Persie
2010: Fabregas
2011: Wilshere










Awards


Preceded by
Robert Doornbos
Rotterdam Sportsman of the Year
2006
Succeeded by
Francisco Elson














 
Netherlands squads
















v
t
e


Netherlands squad – 2006 FIFA World Cup









1 Van der Sar (c)
2 Jaliens
3 Boulahrouz
4 Mathijsen
5 Van Bronckhorst
6 Landzaat
7 Kuyt
8 Cocu
9 Van Nistelrooy
10 Van der Vaart
11 Robben
12 Kromkamp
13 Ooijer
14 Heitinga
15 De Cler
16 Maduro
17 Van Persie
18 Van Bommel
19 Vennegoor of Hesselink
20 Sneijder
21 Babel
22 Timmer
23 Stekelenburg
Coach: Van Basten



















v
t
e


Netherlands squad – UEFA Euro 2008









1 van der Sar (c)
2 Ooijer
3 Heitinga
4 Mathijsen
5 van Bronckhorst
6 de Zeeuw
7 van Persie
8 Engelaar
9 van Nistelrooy
10 Sneijder
11 Robben
12 Melchiot
13 Timmer
14 Bouma
15 de Cler
16 Stekelenburg
17 de Jong
18 Kuyt
19 Huntelaar
20 Afellay
21 Boulahrouz
22 Vennegoor of Hesselink
23 van der Vaart
Coach: van Basten



















v
t
e


Netherlands squad – 2010 FIFA World Cup Runners-Up









1 Stekelenburg
2 Van der Wiel
3 Heitinga
4 Mathijsen
5 Van Bronckhorst (c)
6 Van Bommel
7 Kuyt
8 De Jong
9 Van Persie
10 Sneijder
11 Robben
12 Boulahrouz
13 Ooijer
14 De Zeeuw
15 Braafheid
16 Vorm
17 Elia
18 Schaars
19 Babel
20 Afellay
21 Huntelaar
22 Boschker
23 Van der Vaart
Coach: Van Marwijk



















v
t
e


Netherlands squad – UEFA Euro 2012









1 Stekelenburg
2 Van der Wiel
3 Heitinga
4 Mathijsen
5 Bouma
6 Van Bommel (c)
7 Kuyt
8 N. de Jong
9 Huntelaar
10 Sneijder
11 Robben
12 Vorm
13 Vlaar
14 Schaars
15 Willems
16 Van Persie
17 Strootman
18 L. de Jong
19 Narsingh
20 Afellay
21 Boulahrouz
22 Krul
23 Van der Vaart
Coach: Van Marwijk


























v
t
e


Arsenal F.C. – current squad









2 Diaby
3 Sagna
4 Mertesacker
5 Vermaelen
6 Koscielny
7 Rosický
8 Arteta
9 J.Y. Park
10 v. Persie (c)
11 A. Santos
13 Szczęsny
14 Walcott
15 Oxlade-Chamberlain
16 Ramsey
17 Song
18 Squillaci
19 Wilshere
20 Djourou
21 Fabiański
23 Arshavin
24 Mannone
25 Jenkinson
26 Frimpong
27 Gervinho
28 Gibbs
29 Chamakh
31 Miyaichi
33 Afobe
34 Aneke
35 Ansah
37 Boateng
39 Coquelin
40 Eastmond
43 Hajrović
44 Henderson
46 Lansbury
48 Meade
49 Miquel
51 Neita
52 Bendtner
53 Özyakup
55 Watt
56 Yennaris
57 Angha
58 Ebecilio
59 Martinez
60 Monteiro
61 Rees
62 Shea
Manager: Wenger










Persondata


Name
Van Persie, Robin


Alternative names
Van Persie, Robin


Short description
Professional football player


Date of birth
6 August 1983


Place of birth
Rotterdam, Netherlands


Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Robin_van_Persie
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://cs.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://id.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://es.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://ru.wn.com/Ван Перси, Робин
http://nl.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://pl.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://fr.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://de.wn.com/Robin van Persie
http://pt.wn.com/Robin van Persie


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robin_van_Persie
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        












Jonathan dos Santos




Personal information


Full name
Jonathan dos Santos Ramírez


Date of birth
(1990-04-26) 26 April 1990 (age 22)


Place of birth
Mexico City, Mexico


Height
1.72 m (5 ft 8 in)


Playing position
Midfielder


Club information


Current club
Barcelona B


Number
8


Youth career


2002–2009
Barcelona


Senior career*


Years
Team
Apps†
(Gls)†


2009–
Barcelona B
80
(5)


2009–
Barcelona
8
(0)


National team‡


2009–
Mexico
8
(0)


* Senior club appearances and goals counted for the domestic league only and correct as of 20 May 2012.
† Appearances (Goals).
‡ National team caps and goals correct as of 30 May 2010


This name uses Spanish naming customs; the first or paternal family name is dos Santos and the second or maternal family name is Ramírez.
Jonathan dos Santos Ramírez (born 26 April 1990 in Mexico City[1]) is a Mexican footballer who plays as a central or defensive midfielder for FC Barcelona B. He has also been called up to the Mexican national team.




Contents


1 Early life
2 Club career

2.1 Barcelona

2.1.1 2008–09 season
2.1.2 2009–10 season
2.1.3 2010-11 season
2.1.4 2011–12 season




3 International career
4 Career statistics
5 Honours
6 References
7 External links




Early life[link]
His father, Zizinho was a Brazilian footballer, and his mother is Mexican. He was competing along with his brother Giovani dos Santos in a youth tournament in France, where he was spotted by FC Barcelona scouts who were impressed with what they saw and decided to bring him and his brother to La Masia after a trial.
Club career[link]
Barcelona[link]
2008–09 season[link]
In the 2008–09 season he was in Juvenil A where he was captain of the team.[2] During that same season he obtained a Spanish passport and thereby acquired Citizenship of the European Union, which enables him to play in the first team.[3]
2009–10 season[link]
In the summer of 2009, he was selected by the manager of FC Barcelona B, Luis Enrique, to form part of the second team Blaugrana.[4] Subsequently, Josep Guardiola called him up to the first team during pre-season in England and the tour in the United States.[5] On 15 August 2009, dos Santos was called up for his first official game with the first team in the Supercopa de España against Athletic Bilbao, although he was eventually ruled out and saw the game as a spectator.[6][7] He made his debut with Barcelona B on 5 September 2009 against Mallorca B. The match finished in a 1–1 draw.[8] dos Santos made his debut for Barcelona on 28 October 2009, coming on as a substitute for Seydou Keita in the 80th minute in an away Copa del Rey match against Cultural Leonesa, which Barcelona won by 2–0.[9] He made his Champions League debut for Barcelona on 24 November 2009 against Internazionale in a 2–0 win at the Camp Nou when he replaced Andrés Iniesta in the 92nd minute.[10] Due to the lengthy 2009-2010 season many Barcelona players were given breaks towards the end of the year. This meant the first team was going to be a few men short, and hence four Barça B players were called up by Josep Guardiola on 29 December 2009. Among these four were dos Santos, Thiago Alcântara, Gai Assulin and Víctor Vázquez.[11] His La Liga debut came on 2 January 2010 when he started against Villarreal CF before being substituted by Andrés Iniesta in the 60th minute.[12]
2010-11 season[link]
Dos Santos was called up by Guardiola to the first team during pre-season along with other players of Barça B. In the first three matches, Guardiola played him as defensive midfielder, a position he had never played before. Nevertheless, dos Santos said, "I've felt comfortable in this position."[13]
2011–12 season[link]
On 26 July 2011, dos Santos started, and scored a goal in the 2–2 tie against Internacional Porto Alegre in the 2011 Audi Cup. The match went to a penalty shootout, where he scored as well. Barcelona advanced to the final, where they beat Bayern Munich 2–0. Dos Santos was part of the starting line-up in both matches, though he played at right defender in the final. Dos Santos made his season debut on 29 August in the 5–0 home win against Villarreal CF, coming in as a substitute for Cesc Fàbregas in the 70th minute. On 24 November, dos Santos signed a contract extension which will keep him at Barcelona until 2015.[14] On 6 December, he appeared in the starting squad and played 58 minutes against FC BATE Borisov for the 2011–12 UEFA Champions League group stage match.[15]
International career[link]
Dos Santos made his debut for the Mexico national football team when he started in a friendly against Colombia on 30 September 2009. He was substituted for Patricio Araujo in the 72nd minute; Colombia won the game 2–1.[16][17] This meant that he represented his international team before debuting for his club team.[18]
On 3 March 2010, dos Santos played 61 minutes against New Zealand. During the game, off a corner from Cuauhtémoc Blanco, the ball rolled towards him and he shot from outside the box but hit the crossbar.
On 31 May 2010, it was announced that dos Santos had been left out of Mexico's 23-man final squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.[19][20]
In May 2011, it was announced that Dos Santos was left out of the 2011 Gold Cup final squad. On 24 May 2011 Jonathan was called up to play the Copa America.[21] He was subsequently dismissed from the team.[22]
On 29 February 2012 ,he returned to the Mexican national team for a friendly match against Colombia in Miami, Florida.
Career statistics[link]

As of 20 May 2012[23]



Club
Season
League
Cup
Europe
Other[24]
Total


Apps
Goals
Apps
Goals
Apps
Goals
Apps
Goals
Apps
Goals


Barcelona B
2009–10
19
1
–
19
1


2010–11
32
2
–
32
2


2011–12
29
2
–
29
2


Total
80
5
–
80
5


Barcelona
2009–10
3
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
6
0


2010–11
2
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
5
0


2011–12
3
0
3
0
2
0
0
0
8
0


Total
8
0
6
0
4
0
1
0
19
0


Career totals
88
5
6
0
4
0
1
0
99
5


Honours[link]

Barcelona


La Liga: (2) 2009–10, 2010–11
Copa del Rey: (1) 2011–12
UEFA Champions League: (1) 2010–2011
Supercopa de España: (2) 2010, 2011
UEFA Super Cup: (1) 2011
FIFA Club World Cup: (2) 2009, 2011

References[link]


^ http://www.fcbarcelona.cat/web/english/futbol/temporada_10-11/futbol_b/plantilla/jugadors/jonathan.html
^ Guardiola sigue de cerca a Jonathan Dos Santos
^ Jonathan Dos Santos ya es comunitario
^ Doce juveniles para el filial
^ Una decena de talentos para Guardiola
^ Messi, ausente en la primera lista de la temporada
^ http://actas.rfef.es/actas/RFEF_CmpActa1?cod_primaria=1000144&CodActa=8847
^ "Barça earn first point (1-1)". Fcbarcelona.cat. 2009-09-05. http://www.fcbarcelona.cat/web/english/noticies/futbol_base/temporada09-10/09/n090905106590.html. Retrieved 2009-10-13. 
^ "Partido al minuto". sport.es. 2009-10-28. http://www.sport.es/alminuto.asp?op=partido&subOp=alMinuto&idPartido=678. 
^ "Barcelona vs Inter Milan". Goal.com. 2009-09-24. http://www.goal.com/en/match/39728/inter-milan-vs-barcelona/lineup-stats. Retrieved 2009-09-24. 
^ "Barca up to 4 of subsidiary". sport.es. 2009-12-29. http://www.sport.es/default.asp?idpublicacio_PK=44&idioma=CAS&idnoticia_PK=673999&idseccio_PK=803. Retrieved 2009-12-29. 
^ "Barça earn first point (1-1)". Goal.com. 2010-01-02. http://www.goal.com/en/news/12/spain/2010/01/02/1721795/barcelona-1-1-villarreal-yellow-submarines-and-cules-share. Retrieved 2010-01-03. 
^ Me he sentido cómodo en esta posición.
^ New deal for Dos Santos. Sky Sports. Retrieved 24 November 2011.
^ [1]. Mediotiempo. Retrieved 6 December 2011.
^ La gran novedad
^ México 1-2 Colombia
^ "Barcelona's Jonathan Dos Santos Delighted With Mexico Call". Goal.com. 2009-09-23. https://www.goal.com/en/news/12/spain/2009/09/23/1518276/barcelonas-jonathan-dos-santos-delighted-with-mexico-call. Retrieved 2010-01-03. 
^ "México 2-0 Nueva Zelanda... Segunda victoria del Tri y comienzan a volar" (in spanish). Mediotiempo.com. http://www.mediotiempo.com/futbol/seleccion-mexicana/cronicas/2010/03/04/mexico-2-0-nueva-zelanda-segunda-victoria-del-tri-y-comienzan-a-volar_28392. Retrieved 2010-03-04. 
^ "World Cup 2010: Mexico drop Jonathan dos Santos". BBC Sports. 31 May 2010. http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/world_cup_2010/8676730.stm. Retrieved 30 May 2010. 
^ "World Cup 2010: Giovani Dos Santos 'considering quitting Mexico squad'". The Telegraph. 1 June 2010. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/world-cup-2010/teams/mexico/7793087/World-Cup-2010-Giovani-Dos-Santos-considering-quitting-Mexico-squad.html. Retrieved 8 July 2010. 
^ "Tena pierde a cinco titulares del Tri Sub-22". Diario Récord. Grupo Editorial Notmusa. 28 June 2011. http://www.record.com.mx/copa-america/2011-06-28/tena-pierde-cinco-titulares-del-tri-sub-22. Retrieved 28 June 2011. 
^ Transfermarkt player statistics
^ Includes other competitive competitions, including the Supercopa de España, UEFA Super Cup, FIFA Club World Cup.


External links[link]

FC Barcelona official profile
BDFutbol profile
Transfermarkt profile
Jonathan dos Santos at National-Football-Teams.com
Jonathan dos Santos – UEFA competition record









v
t
e


FC Barcelona B – current squad










1 Oier
2 Montoya
3 Bartra
4 Ilie
5 Muniesa
6 Carmona
7 Tello
8 Jonathan
9 Rodri
10 S. Roberto
12 Rosell
13 Masip
14 S. Gómez
15 Femenía
16 Armando (c)
17 Lobato
18 Gustavo
20 Riverola
21 Planas
23 Balliu
24 Espinosa
25 Miño
27 Deulofeu
30 Rafinha
34 Dongou
35 Grimaldo
Coach: Eusebio











Persondata


Name
Santos, Jonathan Dos


Alternative names



Short description
Footballer


Date of birth
26 April 1990


Place of birth
Mexico City, Mexico


Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Jonathan_dos_Santos
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://cs.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://id.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://es.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://ru.wn.com/Сантос, Джонатан дос
http://nl.wn.com/Jonathan Dos Santos
http://pt.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://pl.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://fr.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos
http://de.wn.com/Jonathan dos Santos


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_dos_Santos
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all














The 2014 FIFA World Cup will be the 20th FIFA World Cup, an international association football tournament that will take place in Brazil from 12 June to 13 July 2014.
This will be the second time the country has hosted the competition, the first being the 1950 FIFA World Cup. Brazil will become the fifth country to have hosted the FIFA World Cup twice, after Mexico, Italy, France and Germany. It will be the first World Cup to be held in South America since the 1978 FIFA World Cup in Argentina, the first time two consecutive World Cups are staged outside Europe and the first time two consecutive World Cups are staged in the Southern Hemisphere (the 2010 FIFA World Cup was held in South Africa).
On 7 March 2003, FIFA announced that the tournament would be held in South America for the first time since Argentina hosted the competition in 1978, in line with its policy of rotating the right to host the World Cup amongst different confederations. On 3 June 2003, the South American Football Confederation CONMEBOL announced that Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia wanted to host the 2014 World Cup finals.










go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























