Brasilia





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/brasilia 
Brasilia 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page
















Videos
Video Details

Images


Location
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

Travel Booking
history


















Brasilia






Brasilia



Brasília
Oscar Niemeyer


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
People
Places
Video Suggestions

Facebook



WN Shopping


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                
































































Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...









Sorry, your browser does not support IFRAME




Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME









Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









2014 FIFA World Cup
2016 Summer Olympics
20th parallel south
Abuja
Acre (state)
Afro-Brazilian
Agência Brasil
Air sports
Alagoas
Alfredo Volpi
Amapá
American Brazilian
American Flagg!
Amsterdam
Ananindeua, Brazil
Anthony the Great
Aparecida de Goiânia
Arab Brazilian
Aracaju
Argentina
Argentine Brazilian
Armenian Brazilian
Art Deco
Art Nouveau
Asian Brazilian
Asunción
Athos Bulcão
Atlanta
Atlantic Forest
Austrian Brazilian
Bahia
Banco do Brasil
Barbadian Brazilian
Bauhaus
Beijing
Belford Roxo
Belgian Brazilian
Belo Horizonte
Belém
Berlin
Betim
Bicameralism
Blobitecture
Boa Vista, Roraima
Bogotá
Bolivia
Bolivians in Brazil
Boston
BR-060
Brasil Telecom
Brasília
Brasília Metro
Brazil
Brazilian art
Brazilian Carnival
Brazilian cuisine
Brazilian literature
Brazilian painting
Brazilian people
Brazilian real
Brazilian sculpture
Brown people
Bruno Giorgi
Buenos Aires
Burle Marx
Caboclo
Cafuzo
Caldas Novas
Campinas
Campo Grande
Canberra
Capital city
Caracas
Caribbean Brazilian
Category Brazil
Category Modernism
Caxias do Sul
Cayenne
Ceará
Ceilândia
Chicago
Chile
Chilean Brazilian
China
Chinese Brazilian
Cinema of Brazil
Climate of Brazil
Cloud street
Coastline of Brazil
Colombia
Colonial Brazil
Confederados
Congonhas
Conjunto Nacional
Contagem
Copa Airlines
Correios
Crime in Brazil
Critical regionalism
Croatian Brazilian
Cuiabá
Cultural heritage
Culture of Brazil
Curitiba
Czech Brazilian
Dado Villa-Lobos
Daylight saving time
De Stijl
Deconstructivism
Developed country
Doha
Duque de Caxias
Dutch Brazilian
Easter
Economy of Brazil
Ecuador
Education in Brazil
Elections in Brazil
Emas National Park
Embassies
Empire of Brazil
English Brazilian
Espírito Santo
Falkland Islands
Fascist architecture
Federal capital
Federative Unit
Feira de Santana
Female
Fernando de Noronha
Festa junina
Finnish Brazilian
First Comics
Florianópolis
Formosa, Goiás
Fortaleza
French Brazilian
French Guiana
Gama (Brazil)
Geography of Brazil
Georgetown, Guyana
German Brazilian
Germany
Goiás
Goiás, Goiás
Goiânia
Googie architecture
Government Buildings
Government of Brazil
Greek Brazilian
Grytviken
Guarulhos
Guavas
Gustav Lindenthal
Guyana
Haitian Brazilian
Hang gliding
Health in Brazil
History of Brasília
History of Brazil
Hot spring
Hotel
Howard Chaykin
Humidity
Hungarian Brazilian
Hyperboloid
IBGE
Icelandic Brazilian
Iguaçu National Park
India
Industry in Brazil
Infraero
Irish Brazilian
Irreligion
Islamabad
Italian Brazilian
Italy
Itamaraty Palace
Itiquira Falls
Japanese Brazilian
Jaú National Park
John Bosco
Joinville
José Bonifácio
João Pessoa
Judiciary
Juiz de Fora
Juscelino Kubitschek
Kaká
Khartoum
Korean Brazilian
La Paz
Lake Paranoá
Languages of Brazil
Latin language
Latvian Brazilian
Law of Brazil
Lebanese Brazilian
Legislature
Legião Urbana
Lez Бразилиа
Lima
Lisbon
Londrina
Lucio Costa
Luxembourg Brazilian
Lúcio Costa
Macapá
Maceió
Main Page
Malaysia
Male
Manaus
Mangoes
Maranhão
Marcelo Bonfá
Marriage
Massachusetts
Mato Grosso
Mato Grosso do Sul
Mauá
Mesoregion (Brazil)
Metonym
Metropolitan area
Miami
Microregion (Brazil)
Mid-Century modern
Minas Gerais
Mixed-race Brazilian
Modern architecture
Modernisme
Montevideo
Monumental Axis
Mulatto
Multiracial
Music of Brazil
Natal, Brazil
National library
National park
Neomodern
Netherlands
New Delhi
New Years Eve
New York City
Nigeria
Nigerian Brazilian
Niterói
Nova Iguaçu
Novo Basquete Brasil
Olinda
Organic architecture
Osasco
Oscar Niemeyer
Ouro Preto
Pakistan
Palmas, Tocantins
Palácio da Alvorada
Palácio do Planalto
Panama City
Pantanal
Papaya
Paraguay
Paraguayan Brazilian
Paramaribo
Paraná (state)
Paraíba
Pardo
Pará
Patron saint
Pedro I of Brazil
Pernambuco
Peru
Peruvian Brazilian
Pharmaceuticals
Piauí
Pirenópolis
Planaltina
Planalto Central
Planalto Palace
PLUNA
Polish Brazilian
Politec
Politics of Brazil
Portal Brazil
Porto Alegre
Porto Velho
Portugal
Portuguese Brazilian
Portuguese language
Postconstructivism
Poverty in Brazil
Prairie School
President of Brazil
Putrajaya
Qatar
Quito
Race in Brazil
Racism in Brazil
Rapid transit
Recife
Recycling
Rede Bandeirantes
Rede Globo
Rede Record
RedeTV!
Regions of Brazil
Religion in Brazil
Renato Russo
República Velha
Reservoir
Rexam
Ribeirão Preto
Rio Branco
Rio de Janeiro
Rio Grande do Norte
Rio Grande do Sul
Roberto Burle Marx
Rocas Atoll
Rome
Rondônia
Roraima
Russians in Brazil
Saint Peter
Salesian
Salvador, Bahia
Same-sex couple
Santiago, Chile
Santos, São Paulo
Sarará
Satellite town
Scottish Brazilian
Seat of government
Senate of Brazil
Serejão
Sergipe
Serra do Mar
Simone de Beauvoir
Sobradinho, Brasília
Sorocaba
South America
Soy bean
Spanish Brazilian
Spiritism
Sport in Brazil
States of Brazil
Strawberries
Streamline Moderne
Structural engineer
Sucre
Sudan
Suriname
Swiss Brazilian
Syrian Brazilian
São José dos Campos
São João de Meriti
São Luís
São Luís, Maranhão
São Paulo
São Paulo (state)
Telebrás
Television channel
Teresina
The ParkShopping
The Shock of the New
Time in Brazil
Time zone
Tocantins (state)
Tourism in Brazil
Transport in Brazil
TV Brasil
TV Câmara
TV Justiça
TV Senado
Uberlândia
Ukrainians of Brazil
UNESCO
Uniceub BRB
United States
Uruguay
Uruguayan Brazilian
UTC−2
UTC−3
Utopia
Vargas Era
Venezuela
Victor Brecheret
Vila Velha
Vitória, Brazil
Washington D.C.
White Brazilian
Wikitravel
Wildlife of Brazil
World Heritage Site
Xi'an














Abuja

                            Abuja is the capital city of Nigeria. It is located in the center of Nigeria, within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Abuja is a planned city, and was built mainly in the 1980s. It officially became Nigeria's capital on 12 December 1991, replacing Lagos, which is still the country's most populous city. At the 2006 census, the city of Abuja had a population of 778,567, making it one of the top ten most populous cities in Nigeria.

Abuja's geography is defined by Aso Rock, a 400-metre monolith left by water erosion. The Presidential Complex, National Assembly, Supreme Court and much of the town extend to the south of the rock.

Other sights include the Nigerian National Mosque and the Nigerian National Christian Centre. The city is served by the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, while Zuma Rock lies nearby. Abuja is known for being the best purpose-built city in Africa as well as being one of the wealthiest and most expensive; however, the population on the semi-developed edges of the city are living in rural areas such as Karu, Nasarawa State.

wn.com/Abuja





Alagoas

                            Alagoas (Portuguese pronunciation: [alɐˈgoɐs]) is one of the 27 states of Brazil and is situated in the eastern part of the Northeast Region. It borders: Pernambuco (N and NW); Sergipe (S); Bahia (SW); and the Atlantic Ocean (E). It occupies an area of 27,767 km², being slightly larger than Haiti. Its capital is the city of Maceió.

It is made up of 102 municipalities and its most populous cities are Maceió, Arapiraca, Palmeira dos Índios, Rio Largo, Penedo, União dos Palmares, São Miguel dos Campos, Santana do Ipanema, Delmiro Gouveia, Coruripe, Marechal Deodoro, and Campo Alegre.

Next to last Brazilian state in area (larger only than Sergipe) and 16th in population, it is one of the greatest producers of sugarcane and coconuts in the country and has an economy based on cattle raising.

Land of the sururu (or Charru Mussel), lagoon shellfish which serves as food for the coastal population, and of coconut water, Alagoas also possesses some of the country's richest folklore.

Initially, the Alagoano territory constituted the southern part of the Captaincy of Pernambuco and only gained its autonomy in 1817. Its occupation pushed the expansion of the captaincy's sugarcane farming, which required new areas of cultivation, southward. Thus arose Porto Calvo, Alagoas (now Marechal Deodoro) and Penedo, nuclei which guided the colonization, economic, and social life of the region for a long time.

wn.com/Alagoas





Amapá

                            Amapá (Portuguese pronunciation: [amaˈpa]) is one of the states of Brazil, located in the extreme north, bordering French Guiana and Suriname to the north. To the east is the Atlantic Ocean, and to the south and west is the Brazilian state of Pará. The estuary of the River Oiapoque, once considered the northernmost point of Brazil, is at the extreme north of the Brazilian coast. The dominant feature of the region—90 percent of the total area—is the Amazon Rainforest. Unexplored forests occupy 70 percent of its territory. The state's capital and largest city Macapá can only be reached by boat or airplane.

As the "Capitania" of Costa do Cabo Norte, the region was invaded by the English and Dutch, who were repelled by the Portuguese. The Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 established the boundaries between Brazil and French Guiana, but these were not respected by the French. In the 18th century, France retook control of the area. This dispute would continue until 1900.

With the discovery of gold and the increasing value of rubber on the international market during the 19th century, which led to population increases in Amapá, the territorial dispute with France was brought to a head; finally, on December 1, 1900, the Arbitration Commission of Geneva ceded possession of the territory to Brazil, which incorporated it into the state of Pará with the joint name of Araguari (named for the river of the same name). It became the federal territory of Amapá in 1943.

wn.com/Amapá





Amsterdam

                            Amsterdam (English /ˈæmstərdæm/; Dutch: [ˌɑmstərˈdɑm] ( listen)) is the largest city and the capital of the Netherlands. The city's status as the capital of the nation is governed by the constitution. Amsterdam has a population of 790,654 within city limits, an urban population of 1,209,419 and a metropolitan population of 2,289,762. The city is located in the province of North Holland in the west of the country. It comprises the northern part of the Randstad, one of the larger conurbations in Europe, with a population of approximately 7 million.

Amsterdam's name is derived from Amstelredamme, indicative of the city's origin: a dam in the river Amstel. Settled as a small fishing village in the late 12th century, Amsterdam became one of the most important ports in the world during the Dutch Golden Age, a result of its innovative developments in trade. During that time, the city was the leading center for finance and diamonds. In the 19th and 20th centuries, the city expanded, and many new neighborhoods and suburbs were formed. The 17th-century canals of Amsterdam (in Dutch: 'Grachtengordel'), located in the heart of Amsterdam, were added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in July 2010.

wn.com/Amsterdam





Aracaju

                            Aracaju (Portuguese pronunciation: [aɾakaˈʒu]) is the capital of the State of Sergipe, Brazil, located in the northeastern part of the country, about 350 km (217 mi) north of Salvador. It has a population of 570,937 inhabitants, which represents approximately 33% of the state population. The coast of Aracaju has many unspoiled beaches, such as the ones in Santa Luzia Island, and urban beaches, such as the Atalaia. These coastal neighborhoods include playgrounds, squares, football fields, volleyball and basketball courts, residential buildings, bars, nightclubs, restaurants, banks and hotels.

Aracaju, one of the first cities to be planned in Brazil, was built with the intention of becoming the state capital. It was founded in 1855, as the capital of Sergipe.

Although the first contact of the Portuguese in Sergipe was here, the first and most important city of that place which would be a province in the future was São Cristóvão (Saint Christopher), which became a city in 1590 and was capital of Sergipe from 1823 to 1855. In the mid-19th century, there was a sudden need for a purpose-built harbor and administrative centers, and the core of modern Aracaju was constructed overnight, becoming the province capital in 1855, and after 1889 the state capital. In 1910, the city was made the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Aracaju.

wn.com/Aracaju





Argentina

                            Argentina i/ˌɑrdʒənˈtiːnə/, officially the Argentine Republic (Spanish: República Argentina [reˈpuβlika aɾxenˈtina]), is a country in South America, the continent's second largest by land area, after Brazil. It is constituted as a federation of 23 provinces and an autonomous city, Buenos Aires. It is the eighth-largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations.

Argentina's continental area is between the Andes mountain range in the west and the Atlantic Ocean in the east. It borders Paraguay and Bolivia to the north, Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast, and Chile to the west and south. Argentine claims over Antarctica, as well as overlapping claims made by Chile and the United Kingdom, are suspended by the Antarctic Treaty of 1961. Argentina also claims the Falkland Islands (Spanish: Islas Malvinas) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, which are administered by the United Kingdom as British Overseas Territories.

A recognised middle power, Argentina is Latin America's third-largest economy, with a "very high" rating on the Human development index. Within Latin America, Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per capita and the highest in purchasing power terms. Analysts have argued that the country has a "foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods", and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy. Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the Union of South American Nations, the Organization of Ibero-American States, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.

wn.com/Argentina





Asunción

                            Asunción (Spanish pronunciation: [asunˈsjon], Guarani: Paraguay) is the capital and largest city of Paraguay.

The Ciudad de Asunción is an autonomous capital district not part of any department. The metropolitan area, called Gran Asunción, includes the cities of San Lorenzo, Fernando de la Mora, Lambaré, Luque, Mariano Roque Alonso, Ñemby, San Antonio, Limpio, Capiatá and Villa Elisa, which are part of the Central Department. The Asunción metropolitan area has more than 2 million inhabitants. Asunción is located at 25°16′S 57°40′W﻿ / ﻿25.267°S 57.667°W﻿ / -25.267; -57.667 (-25.2667, -57.6667). The Municipality of Asunción is listed on the Asunción Stock Exchange, as BVPASA: MUA, a unique feature of any city.

It is the home of the national government, principal port, and the chief industrial and cultural centre of the country. Local manufacturing production includes footwear, textiles, and tobacco products.

Asunción is one of the oldest cities in South America and the longest continually inhabited area in the Rio de la Plata Basin; for this reason that it is known as "Mother of Cities". It was from here that the colonial expeditions departed to found other cities, including the second foundation of Buenos Aires and of other important cities such as Villarrica, Corrientes, Santa Fe and Santa Cruz de la Sierra.

wn.com/Asunción





Atlanta

                            Atlanta ( /ətˈlæntə/, stressed /ætˈlæntə/, locally  /ætˈlænə/) is the capital and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia with a 2010 population of 420,003. Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, which is home to 5,268,860 people and is the ninth largest in the U.S. It is a major component of a growing southeastern megalopolis known as the Piedmont Atlantic Megaregion. Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County, and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.

Atlanta began as a settlement located at the terminus of a railroad line, and it was incorporated in 1845. Today, the city is a major business city and the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States (via highway, railroad, and air), with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world's busiest airport since 1998. The World Cities Study Group at Loughborough University rated Atlanta as an "alpha(-) world city." With a gross domestic product of US$270 billion, Atlanta's economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation. The city is a center for services, finance, information technology, government, and higher education. Metro Atlanta contains the country's third largest concentration of Fortune 500 companies, and is the world headquarters of The Coca-Cola Company, Turner Broadcasting, The Home Depot, AT&T Mobility, UPS, and Delta Air Lines. As of 2010, Atlanta is the seventh most visited city in the United States, with over 35 million visitors per year.

wn.com/Atlanta





Atlantic Forest

                            The Atlantic Forest (Portuguese: Mata Atlântica) is a region of tropical and subtropical moist forest, tropical dry forest, tropical savanna, semi-deciduous forest and mangrove forests which extends along the Atlantic coast of Brazil from Rio Grande do Norte state in the north to Rio Grande do Sul state in the south, and inland as far as Paraguay and the Misiones Province of Argentina. The Atlantic Forest is characterized by a high species diversity and endemism. It was the first environment that the Portuguese conquerors encountered over 500 years ago when it was thought to have had an area of 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 km2 (390,000 to 580,000 sq mi) and stretching an unknown distance inland. Currently, the Atlantic Forest spans over 4,000 km2 (1,500 sq mi) along the coast of Brazil and in a small part of Paraguay and Argentina. In Argentina, it is known as Selva Atlántica.

The Atlantic Forest region includes forests of several variations:

The Atlantic Forest is unusual in that it extends as a true tropical rainforest to latitudes as high as 24°S. This is because the trade winds produce precipitation throughout the southern winter. In fact, the northern Zona da Mata of northeastern Brazil receives much more rainfall between May and August than during the southern summer.

wn.com/Atlantic_Forest





Bahia

                            Bahia (local pronunciation: [baˈi.ɐ]) is one of the 26 states of Brazil, and is located in the northeastern part of the country on the Atlantic coast. It is the fourth most populous Brazilian state after São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro, and the fifth-largest in size. Bahia's capital is the city of Salvador, or more properly, São Salvador da Bahia de Todos os Santos, and is located at the junction of the Atlantic Ocean and the Bay of All Saints, first seen by European sailors in 1501. The name "bahia" is an archaic spelling of the Portuguese word baía, meaning "bay".

The state's geographical regions comprise the Atlantic Forest. The Recôncavo region radiating from the Bay (the largest in Brazil), the site of sugar and tobacco cultivation. And the Planalto, which includes the fabled sertão region of Bahia's far interior. Bahia is bordered, in counterclockwise fashion, by Sergipe, Alagoas, Pernambuco and Piauí to the north, Goiás and Tocantins to the west, and Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo to the south. The State of Bahia is crossed from north to south by a mountain chain which is marked, in the map, as Chapada Diamantina. This same chain receives other names, like Serra do Espinhaço, in Minas Gerais, and Borborema, in Pernambuco and Paraíba.

wn.com/Bahia





Beijing

                            Beijing ( /beɪˈdʒɪŋ/; Chinese: 北京; pinyin: Běijīng, [peɪ˨˩ t͡ɕiŋ˥]), formerly romanized as Peking ( /piːˈkɪŋ/ or /peɪˈkɪŋ/), is the capital of the People's Republic of China and one of the most populous cities in the world, with a population of 19,612,368 as of 2010. The metropolis, located in northern China, is governed as a direct-controlled municipality under the national government, with 14 urban and suburban districts and two rural counties. Beijing Municipality is surrounded by Hebei Province with the exception of neighboring Tianjin Municipality to the southeast.

Beijing is China's second largest city by urban population after Shanghai and is the country's political, cultural, and educational center, and home to the headquarters for most of China's largest state-owned companies. Beijing is a major transportation hub in the national highway, expressway, railway and high-speed rail network. Beijing's Capital International Airport is the second busiest in the world by passenger traffic.

wn.com/Beijing





Belford Roxo

Coordinates: 22°45′50″S 43°23′56″W﻿ / ﻿22.76389°S 43.39889°W﻿ / -22.76389; -43.39889 Belford Roxo (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈbɛwfɔχ ˈχoʃu]) is a city in the State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It is a part of the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro and was created in 1990. Its population was 480,555 in 2007 and its area is 79 km². Belford Roxo is one of the richest and wealthiest cities in the state, due to its high GDP and relatively low population. Its climate is tropical with an average temperature of 18°C (63°F). Bayer and Lubrizol are the biggest companies in the municipality.[citation needed] It was named after Engineer Raimundo Teixeira Belfort Roxo. While serving as General Construction and Building Inspector for the city of Rio de Janeiro, Engineer Belfort Roxo, together with Engineer Paulo de Frontin, solved the water shortage problems of the area during the summer of 1889.

wn.com/Belford_Roxo





Belo Horizonte

                            Belo Horizonte (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˌbɛloɾiˈzõtʃi],Beautiful Horizon) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, located in the southeastern region of the country. It is the third largest metropolitan area in the country. Belo Horizonte (also known as "Belô", "Beagá", or "BH") has a population of 2,475,440 inhabitants (2010) in the city and 5,497,922 people in the official Metropolitan Area (2010).

The region was first settled in the early 18th century, but the city as it is known today was planned and constructed in the 1890s, in order to replace Ouro Preto as the capital of Minas Gerais. The city features a mixture of contemporary and classical buildings, and is home to several modern Brazilian architectural icons, most notably the Pampulha Complex. In planning the city, Aarão Reis and Francisco Bicalho sought inspiration in the urban planning of Washington, D.C. The city has employed notable programs in urban revitalization and food security, for which it has been awarded international accolades.

wn.com/Belo_Horizonte





Belém

                            Belém (literally "Bethlehem") is a Brazilian city, the capital and largest city of state of Pará, in the country's north region. It is the entrance gate to the Amazon with a busy port, airport and bus/coach station. Belém lies approximately 100 km upriver from the Atlantic Ocean, on the Pará River, which is part of the greater Amazon River system, separated from the larger part of the Amazon delta by Ilha de Marajó (Marajo Island). With an estimated population of 1,402,056 people — 2,249,405, or considering its metropolitan area — is the 11th most populous city in Brazil (besides being the second largest in the North Region, second only Manaus, in Amazonas state) as well as be the 16th by economic relevance.

Founded in 1616 by the Kingdom of Portugal, Belém was the first European colony on the Amazon but did not become part of Brazil until 1775. The newer part of the city has modern buildings and skyscrapers. The colonial portion retains the charm of tree-filled squares, churches and traditional blue tiles. The city has a rich history and architecture from colonial times. Recently it witnessed a skyscraper boom. Its metropolitan area has over 2 million inhabitants.

wn.com/Belém





Berlin

                            Berlin ( /bɜrˈlɪn/; German pronunciation: [bɛɐ̯ˈliːn] ( listen)) is the capital city of Germany and one of the 16 states of Germany. With a population of 3.5 million people, Berlin is Germany's largest city and is the second most populous city proper and the eighth most populous urban area in the European Union. Located in northeastern Germany, it is the center of the Berlin-Brandenburg Metropolitan Region, which has 5.9 million residents from over 190 nations. Located in the European Plains, Berlin is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate. Around one third of the city's area is composed of forests, parks, gardens, rivers and lakes.

First documented in the 13th century, Berlin was the capital of the Kingdom of Prussia (1701–1918), the German Empire (1871–1918), the Weimar Republic (1919–1933) and the Third Reich (1933–1945).Berlin in the 1920s was the third largest municipality in the world. After World War II, the city became divided into East Berlin—the capital of East Germany—and West Berlin, a West German exclave surrounded by the Berlin Wall (1961–1989). Following German reunification in 1990, the city regained its status as the capital of Germany, hosting 147 foreign embassies.

wn.com/Berlin





Betim

                            Betim is a city in Minas Gerais, Brazil. It is located at around 19°58′4″S 44°11′52″W﻿ / ﻿19.96778°S 44.19778°W﻿ / -19.96778; -44.19778. The city belongs to the mesoregion Metropolitan of Belo Horizonte and to the microregion of Belo Horizonte.

Home to one of the Petrobras's oil refineries and Fiat's largest factory, among other plants, the city has an important role not only in the state's economy, but in the whole country's as well.

Betim is also internationally known for Salão do Encontro and Missão Ramacrisma, two entities recognized for their social work with the poor communities.


wn.com/Betim





Bogotá

                            Bogotá, Distrito Capital (Spanish pronunciation: [boɣoˈta] ( listen)), from 1991 to 2000 called Santafé de Bogotá, is the capital, and largest city, of Colombia. It is also designated by the national constitution as the capital of the department of Cundinamarca, even though the city of Bogotá now comprises an independent Capital district and no longer belongs administratively to that department. Bogotá is the most populous city in the country, with 7.363.782 inhabitants as of 2010. Bogotá and its metropolitan area, which includes municipalities such as Chía, Cota, Soacha, Cajicá and La Calera, had a population of 7,881,156 in 2005.

In terms of land area, Bogotá is the largest city in Colombia, and one of the biggest of Latin America. It figures amongst the thirty largest cities of the world and it is the third-highest capital city in South America (after La Paz and Quito) at 2,625 metres (8,612 ft) above sea level. With its many universities and libraries, Bogotá has become known as "The Athens of South America". Bogotá owns the largest moorland of the world, which is located in the Sumapaz Locality. The city ranked 54th in the 2010 Global Cities Index and is listed as global city of the Beta+ kind by the GaWC.

wn.com/Bogotá





Bolivia

Coordinates: 16°42′43″S 64°39′58″W﻿ / ﻿16.712°S 64.666°W﻿ / -16.712; -64.666 Bolivia (i/bəˈlɪviə/, Spanish: [boliˈβja]) officially known as Plurinational State of Bolivia (Spanish: Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, Quechua: Bulivya Mamallaqta, Aymara: Wuliwya Suyu), is a landlocked country in central South America. It is bordered by Brazil to the north and east, Paraguay and Argentina to the south, Chile to the southwest, and Peru to the west.

Prior to European colonization, the Andean region of Bolivia was a part of the Inca Empire –  the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century. During most of the Spanish colonial period, this territory was called Upper Peru and was under the administration of the Viceroyalty of Peru, which included most of Spain's South American colonies. After declaring independence in 1809, 16 years of war followed before the establishment of the Republic, named for Simón Bolívar, on 6 August 1825. Bolivia has struggled through periods of political instability, dictatorships and economic woes.

wn.com/Bolivia





Boston

                            Boston (pronounced /ˈbɒstən/ or locally /ˈbɔstən/ ( listen)) is the capital of and largest city in Massachusetts, and is one of the oldest cities in the United States. The largest city in New England, Boston is regarded as the unofficial "Capital of New England" for its economic and cultural impact on the entire New England region. The city proper, covering only 48.43 square miles, had a population of 617,594 according to the 2010 U.S. Census. Boston is also the anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area called Greater Boston, home to 4.5 million people and the tenth-largest metropolitan area in the country. Greater Boston as a commuting region is home to 7.6 million people, making it the fifth-largest Combined Statistical Area in the United States.

In 1630, Puritan colonists from England founded the city on the Shawmut Peninsula. During the late 18th century, Boston was the location of several major events during the American Revolution, including the Boston Massacre and the Boston Tea Party. Several early battles of the American Revolution, such as the Battle of Bunker Hill and the Siege of Boston, occurred within the city and surrounding areas. Through land reclamation and municipal annexation, Boston has expanded beyond the peninsula. After American independence was attained Boston became a major shipping port and manufacturing center, and its rich history now helps attract many tourists, with Faneuil Hall alone attracting over 20 million every year. The city was the site of several firsts, including America's first public school, Boston Latin School (1635), and the first subway system in the United States (1897).

wn.com/Boston





Brasília

                            Brasília (pronounced [bɾaˈziʎɐ] nationwide, in both colloquial and educated speech) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city is located in the Federal District, and is in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,562,963 (3,716,996 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site UNESCO.

As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.

wn.com/Brasília





Brazil

                            Brazil i/brəˈzɪl/ (Portuguese: Brasil, IPA: [bɾaˈziw]), officially the Federative Republic of Brazil (Portuguese: República Federativa do Brasil,  listen (help·info)), is the largest country in South America. It is the world's fifth largest country, both by geographical area and by population with over 192 million people. It is the only Portuguese-speaking country in the Americas and the largest lusophone country in the world.

Bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of 7,491 km (4,655 mi). It is bordered on the north by Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and the French overseas region of French Guiana; on the northwest by Colombia; on the west by Bolivia and Peru; on the southwest by Argentina and Paraguay and on the south by Uruguay. Numerous archipelagos form part of Brazilian territory, such as Fernando de Noronha, Rocas Atoll, Saint Peter and Paul Rocks, and Trindade and Martim Vaz. It borders all other South American countries except Ecuador and Chile.

Brazil was a colony of Portugal from the landing of Pedro Álvares Cabral in 1500 until 1815, when it was elevated to the rank of kingdom and the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves was formed. The colonial bond was in fact broken in 1808, when the capital of the Portuguese colonial empire was transferred from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro, after Napoleon invaded Portugal.Independence was achieved in 1822 with the formation of the Empire of Brazil, a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system. The country became a presidential republic in 1889, when a military coup d'état proclaimed the Republic, although the bicameral legislature, now called Congress, dates back to the ratification of the first constitution in 1824. Its current Constitution, formulated in 1988, defines Brazil as a Federal Republic. The Federation is formed by the union of the Federal District, the 26 States, and the 5,564 Municipalities.

wn.com/Brazil





Buenos Aires

                            Buenos Aires ( /ˈbweɪnəs ˈɛəriːz/ or /ˈaɪrɪs/,Spanish: [ˈbwenos ˈaiɾes]) is the capital and largest city of Argentina, and the second-largest metropolitan area in South America, after Greater Sao Paulo. It is located on the western shore of the estuary of the Río de la Plata, on the southeastern coast of the South American continent. Greater Buenos Aires conurbation, which also includes several Buenos Aires Province districts, constitutes the third-largest conurbation in Latin America, with a population of around thirteen million.

The city of Buenos Aires is not a part of Buenos Aires Province, nor is it the Province's capital, but an autonomous district. In 1880, after decades of political infighting, Buenos Aires was federalised and removed from Buenos Aires Province. The city limits were enlarged to include the towns of Belgrano and Flores (both are currently neighborhoods of the city). The 1994 constitutional amendment granted the city autonomy, hence its formal name: Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires (Autonomous City of Buenos Aires). Its citizens first elected a Chief of Government (i.e. Mayor) in 1996; before, the Mayor was directly appointed by the President of the Republic.

wn.com/Buenos_Aires





Campinas

                            Campinas (Portuguese pronunciation: [kɐ̃ˈpinɐs], Plains) is a Brazilian city of São Paulo State, in the country's Southeast Region. According the 2010 Census, the city population is 1,080,999, making it the fourteen most populous Brazilian city and the third in the São Paulo state. The city's metropolitan area, the Greater Campinas, as of 2011, contains nineteen cities, including Campinas, and has a total population of 2,832,297 people.

The Viracopos International Airport, localized in city's periphery, connects Campinas with many others Brazilian cities and with the world. The city is home to the State University of Campinas, one of the most prestigious in Latin America.

Campinas means grass fields in Portuguese and refers to its characteristic landscape, which originally comprised large stretches of dense subtropical forests (mato grosso or thick woods in Portuguese), mainly along the many rivers, interspersed with gently rolling hills covered by low-lying vegetation.
Campinas was also known as "Cidade das Andorinhas" (City of Swallows), because it was a favorite spot for these migratory birds, which flocked annually in enormous numbers to downtown Campinas. However, they almost disappeared around the 1950s, probably because the church and plaza where they used to roost were torn down. Campinas' official crest and flag has a picture of the mythical bird, the phoenix, because it was practically reborn after a devastating epidemic of yellow fever in the 1800s, which killed more than 25% of the city's inhabitants.

wn.com/Campinas





Campo Grande

Coordinates: 20°27′44″S 54°36′40″W﻿ / ﻿20.46222°S 54.61111°W﻿ / -20.46222; -54.61111

Campo Grande (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈkɐ̃pu ˈɡɾɐ̃dʒi], Great Field) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul in the Center-West region of the country. The city is nicknamed Cidade Morena ("Swarthy City" in Portuguese) because of the reddish-brown colour of the region's soil. It has a population of 796,252, according to a 2011 IBGE estimate, while its metropolitan area is home to 991,420 people (2010).[citation needed]

The region where the city is located was in the past a waypoint for travellers who wanted to go from São Paulo or Minas Gerais to northern Mato Grosso by land. In the early 1900s a railway was completed connecting Campo Grande to Corumbá, on the Bolivian border, and to Bauru, São Paulo. Also in the beginning of the 20th century, the Western Brazilian Army Headquarters was established in Campo Grande, making it an important military center.

With a population growth from 140,000 people in 1970 to 750,000 people in 2008, Campo Grande is the third largest urban center of the Center-West region, and the 23rd largest city in the country. In 1977, the State of Mato Grosso was split into two, and Campo Grande became the capital of the new state of Mato Grosso do Sul, comprising the southern portion of the former state. By that time, Campo Grande had long surpassed the latter's capital city of Cuiabá in population, which is unusual in Brazil, where most capitals are also the states' largest cities.

wn.com/Campo_Grande





Canberra

                            Canberra ( /ˈkænbᵊrə/ or /ˈkænbɛrə/) is the capital city of Australia. With a population of 358,000, it is Australia's largest inland city and the eighth-largest city overall. The city is located at the northern end of the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), 280 km (170 mi) south-west of Sydney, and 660 km (410 mi) north-east of Melbourne. A resident of Canberra is known as a "Canberran".

The site of Canberra was selected for the location of the nation's capital in 1908 as a compromise between rivals Sydney and Melbourne, Australia's two largest cities. It is unusual among Australian cities, being an entirely planned city. Following an international contest for the city's design, a blueprint by the Chicago architects Walter Burley Griffin and Marion Mahony Griffin was selected and construction commenced in 1913. The Griffins' plan featured geometric motifs such as circles, hexagons and triangles, and was centred around axes aligned with significant topographical landmarks in the Australian Capital Territory.

wn.com/Canberra





Caracas

                            Caracas (Spanish pronunciation: [kaˈɾakas]), officially Santiago de León de Caracas, is the capital and largest city of Venezuela; natives or residents are known as Caraquenians in English (Spanish: Caraqueños).

Caracas is located in the northern part of the country, following the contours of the narrow Caracas Valley on the Venezuelan coastal mountain range (Cordillera de la Costa). Terrain suitable for building lies between 760 and 910 m (2,493.44 and 2,985.56 ft) above sea level. The valley is close to the Caribbean Sea, separated from the coast by a steep 2200 m (7400 ft) high mountain range, Cerro Ávila; to the south there are more hills and mountains.
El Distrito Metropolitano de Caracas (Metropolitan District of Caracas) includes the Distrito Capital (the capital city proper) and four other municipalities in Miranda State: Chacao, Baruta, Sucre, and El Hatillo. The Distrito Capital had a population of 2,097,350 as of 2009, while that of Distrito Metropolitano was estimated at 4,196,514 as of (2008).

wn.com/Caracas





Caxias do Sul

                            Caxias do Sul (Portuguese pronunciation: [kaˈʃias du suw]) is a city in Rio Grande do Sul, Southern Brazil, situated in the state's mountainous Serra Gaúcha region. Coordinates: 29°10′0″ S, 51°11′0″ W. It was established by Italian immigrants on June 20, 1890. Today it is the second largest city in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The demonym of the citizens of Caxias do Sul is caxiense.

The history of Caxias do Sul starts before the arrival of the Italians, when the region was being roamed by cattlemen and occupied by Indians. Back then, the region was called "Indians' Field". The Italian immigrants' occupation, mostly farmers from the Veneto region (northern Italy), started taking place in 1875 in Nova Milano. Hence, they were in search of a better place to live. They also met people from Lombardy, Trento, and other places. Although they had gotten some governmental support, such as tools, supplies, and seeds, everything had to be reimbursed.

Two years later, the colonial headquarters of the Indians' Field was given the name Caxias Colony. The town was created on July 20, 1890 and acknowledged in the same year, on August 24. Many economic cycles marked the evolution of the city throughout that century. The first one is connected to the most peculiar aspect of its cultural identity: the growth of vines and the production of wine for own consumption at first, and later on, for commercialization.

wn.com/Caxias_do_Sul





Cayenne

Coordinates: 4°55′22″N 52°19′37″W﻿ / ﻿4.9227°N 52.3269°W﻿ / 4.9227; -52.3269

Cayenne (French pronunciation: [kajɛn]) is the capital of French Guiana, an overseas region and department of France located in South America. The city stands on a former island at the mouth of the Cayenne River on the Atlantic coast. The city's motto is "Ferit Aurum Industria" which means "Work brings wealth". Most geosynchronous satellites are launched from Cayenne.

At the 2006 census, there were 100,323 inhabitants in the urban area of Cayenne (as defined by INSEE), 50,594 of whom lived in the city (commune) of Cayenne proper, and the remainder in the neighbouring commune of Remire-Montjoly. The commune of Matoury (18,032 inhabitants in 1999), where Cayenne-Rochambeau Airport is located, is also a suburb of Cayenne, but it was not included in the official definition of the urban area by INSEE in 1999.

Cayenne is located on the banks of the estuary of the Cayenne River on the Atlantic Ocean. The city occupies part of the Ile de Cayenne. It is located 268 km from Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni and 64 km from Kourou.

wn.com/Cayenne





Ceará

                            Ceará (Portuguese pronunciation: [siaˈɾa]) is one of the 27 states of Brazil, located in the northeastern part of the country, on the Atlantic coast. It is currently the 8th largest Brazilian State by population and the 17th by area. It is also one of the main touristic destinations in Brazil. The state capital is the city of Fortaleza.

Literally, the name Ceará means "sings the jandaia". According to José de Alencar, one of the most important writers of Brazil and an authority in Tupi Guaraní, Ceará means turquoise or green waters. There are also theories that the state name would derive from Siriará, a reference to the crabs from the seashore.

The state is best known for its extensive coastline, with 573 kilometers (356 mi) of sand. There are also mountains and valleys producing tropical fruits. To the south, on the border of Paraíba, Pernambuco and Piauí, is the National Forest of Araripe.

Ceará has an area of 148,016 km². It is bounded on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, on the east by the states of Rio Grande do Norte and Paraíba, on the south by Pernambuco state, and on the west by Piauí.

wn.com/Ceará





Ceilândia

                            Ceilândia is an administrative region of the Brazilian Federal District.

The city has about 398,374 inhabitants and is the administrative region of largest population in the Federal District.

Located 24 kilometers from Brasília, and linked by a four-lane highway, Ceilândia occupies an area of 230,30 square kilometers and is in one of the most privileged hydrographic areas of the Federal District. It has several streams forming its boundaries and is in the basin of the Descoberto River, which supplies 60% of the population of the Federal District.

Ceilândia was created by the government in the 1970s to keep people from moving into Brasília and setting up shanty towns. The root of the name Ceilândia is 'CEI' (Portuguese: Centro de Erradicação de Invasões (Squatters Eradication Center).[citation needed]

In 1969, after only nine years of existence, Brasília already had 79,128 people living in shacks (favelas), out of a population of 500 thousand inhabitants in all the Federal District. In that year a seminar took place in Brasília concerning social problems of the Federal District. The shanty dwellers were the most serious problem. The Governor at that time, Hélio Prates da Silveira, decided to eradicate the shanty towns and a commission was formed.

wn.com/Ceilândia





Chicago

                            Chicago (i/ʃɪˈkɑːɡoʊ/ or /ʃɪˈkɔːɡoʊ/) is the largest city in the US state of Illinois and the third most populous city in the United States after New York City and Los Angeles. The city has around 2.7 million residents. Its metropolitan area, sometimes called "Chicagoland", is the third largest in the United States, with an estimated 9.8 million people. Chicago is the county seat of Cook County, though a small portion also extends into DuPage County.

Chicago was incorporated as a city in 1837, near a portage between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River watershed. Today, Chicago is listed as an alpha+ global city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network, and ranks seventh in the world on the 2012 Global Cities Index. The city retains its status as an international hub for finance, industry, telecommunications and infrastructure, with O'Hare International Airport being the second busiest airport in the world in terms of traffic movements. In 2008[update], the city hosted 45.6 million domestic and overseas visitors. Among metropolitan areas, Chicago has the 4th largest Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the world, ranking just behind Tokyo, New York City, and Los Angeles. Chicago is one of the most important Worldwide Centers of Commerce and trade.

wn.com/Chicago





Chile

                            Chile (i/ˈtʃɪliː/ or /ˈtʃɪleɪ/), officially the Republic of Chile (Spanish: República de Chile [reˈpuβlika ðe ˈtʃile] ( listen)), is a country in South America occupying a long, narrow strip of land between the Andes mountains to the east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. It borders Peru to the north, Bolivia to the northeast, Argentina to the east, and the Drake Passage in the far south. Along with Ecuador, it is one of two countries in South America that do not border Brazil. Chilean territory includes the Pacific islands of Juan Fernández, Salas y Gómez, Desventuradas and Easter Island. Chile also claims about 1,250,000 square kilometres (480,000 sq mi) of Antarctica, although all claims are suspended under the Antarctic Treaty.

Chile's distinctive shape—4,300 kilometres (2,700 mi) long and on average 175 kilometres (109 mi) wide—makes it the longest country in the world, north to south, with the fifth lengthiest coastline at over 78 thousand kilometers. The diverse climate of Chile ranges from the world's driest desert in the north—the Atacama—through a Mediterranean climate in the centre, humid subtropical in Easter Island, to an Oceanic climate, including alpine tundra and glaciers in the east and south. The northern desert contains great mineral wealth, principally copper. The relatively small central area dominates in terms of population and agricultural resources, and is the cultural and political center from which Chile expanded in the late 19th century when it incorporated its northern and southern regions. Southern Chile is rich in forests and grazing lands, and features a string of volcanoes and lakes. The southern coast is a labyrinth of fjords, inlets, canals, twisting peninsulas, and islands.

wn.com/Chile





China

                            China (i/ˈtʃaɪnə/; Chinese: 中国; pinyin: Zhōngguó; see also Names of China), officially the People's Republic of China (PRC), is the world's most-populous country, with a population of over 1.3 billion. Covering approximately 9.6 million square kilometres, the East Asian state is the world's second-largest country by land area, and the third- or fourth-largest in total area, depending on the definition of total area.

The People's Republic of China is a single-party state governed by the Communist Party of China. It exercises jurisdiction over 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, four directly controlled municipalities (Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, and Chongqing), and two mostly self-governing special administrative regions (Hong Kong and Macau). Its capital city is Beijing. The PRC also claims Taiwan—which is controlled by the Republic of China (ROC), a separate political entity—as its 23rd province, a claim controversial due to the complex political status of Taiwan and the unresolved Chinese Civil War. The PRC government denies the legitimacy of the ROC.

wn.com/China





Colombia

                            Colombia ( /kəˈlʌmbiə/ kə-LUM-biə, or /kəˈlɒmbiə/ kə-LOM-biə), officially the Republic of Colombia (Spanish: República de Colombia [reˈpuβlika ðe koˈlombja]), is a unitary constitutional republic comprising thirty-two departments. The country is located in northwestern South America, bordered to the northwest by Panama; to the north by the Caribbean Sea; to the east by Venezuela and Brazil; to the south by Ecuador and Peru; and to the west by the Pacific Ocean. Colombia has maritime borders with Ecuador, Panama, Venezuela, Jamaica, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Colombia is the 26th largest country by area and the fourth largest in South America after Brazil, Argentina and Peru. With over 46 million people, Colombia is the 27th largest country in the world by population and has the second largest population of any Spanish-speaking country in the world, after Mexico. Colombia is a middle power, with the fourth largest economy in Latin America, and the third largest in South America. Colombia is famous for the production of coffee, flowers, emeralds, coal, and oil. All of these products make up the primary sector of economy.

wn.com/Colombia





Colonial Brazil

                            The Viceroyalty of Brazil (Portuguese: Vice-Reino do Brasil) comprises the period from 1500, with the arrival of the Portuguese, until 1815, when Brazil was elevated to kingdom alongside Portugal as the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves.

During the over 300 years of Brazilian colonial history, the economic exploration of the territory was based first on brazilwood extraction (16th century), sugar production (16th–18th centuries), and finally on gold and diamond mining (18th century). Slaves, especially those brought from Africa, provided most of the working force of Brazilian economy.

In contrast to the neighbouring fragmented Spanish possessions, the Portuguese colony, built up by the Portuguese in Latin America, kept its territorial unity and linguistic integrity after the independence, giving rise to the largest country in the region.
Portugal and Spain pioneered the European discovery of sea routes that were the first channels of interaction between all of the World's continents, thus beginning the process of globalization. In addition to the adventurous undertaking of discovery and colonization of far off lands, these years were filled with pronounced advancements in cartography, shipbuilding and navigational instruments, from which the Portuguese and Spanish explorers took advantage.

wn.com/Colonial_Brazil





Conjunto Nacional

                            The Shopping Conjunto Nacional (Joint National Mall), sometimes called by the CNB - Conjunto Nacional Brasília (Brasilia Joint National), is the first shopping center in Brasília and the second mall to be built in Brazil, it was opened in 1971 and is one of the most traditional city. Located near the Bus station in the Central Zone of Brasília, it is the largest mall in the Distrito Federal (Federal District) and is among the top 30 of Brazil, with 320 stores and 118,100 square meters built.
Coordinates: 23°34′37.23″S 46°41′17.09″W﻿ / ﻿23.5770083°S 46.6880806°W﻿ / -23.5770083; -46.6880806


wn.com/Conjunto_Nacional





Contagem

                            Contagem (Portuguese pronunciation: [kõˈtaʒẽj]) is a city in the center of the state of Minas Gerais, in Brazil. It is located only 21 kilometers from the capital, Belo Horizonte and forms part of a metropolitan area with a population of 4.8 million.

The city belongs to the mesoregion Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte and to the microregion of Belo Horizonte and has a territorial extension of 195.2 km² and borders the municipalities of Ribeirão das Neves, Esmeraldas, Betim, Ibirité and Belo Horizonte. The elevation of the city hall is 939 meters.

According to estimates from 2008 the municipal population was 617,741 making it the second most populous city in the state of Minas Gerais, after Belo Horizonte.

The population is very young with 86% of the population being less than 50 years old.

Educational indicators:

Contagem is primarily a city of heavy industry with a diversified industrial complex; even though minerals processing and chemicals still have a large importance. The municipality is responsible for 4.2% of the state GDP, occupying second place after Belo Horizonte. Serious problems with both water and air pollution exist and the Pampulha Lake (Belo Horizonte) receives large quantities of heavy metals from the city.

wn.com/Contagem





Cuiabá

                            Cuiabá (Portuguese pronunciation: [kujaˈba]) is the capital city of the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso. It is located in the exact centre of South America and forms the metropolitan area of the state, along with the neighbouring town of Várzea Grande.

The name is of obscure South American Indian origin, reportedly meaning "arrow-fishing", and alludes to the Bororo custom of using arrows to fish. Another version says that there was an Indian tribe called Ykuiapá. Others say that, while a Portuguese man was once taking a bath in the river using a kind of plate made with half a coconut (named cuia), the stream carried it away, prompting the man to exclaim "Cuia ba" (something like "the cuia is gone"). Cuiabá is the largest centre for tourism, business, agribusiness, trade, and culture in Mato Grosso.

The new Marechal Rondon International Airport connects Cuiabá with many Brazilian cities and also operates some international flights.

The city is home to the Federal University of Mato Grosso.

Cuiabá was founded on January 1, 1727 by Rodrigo César de Menezes, then the "captain" of the captaincy of São Paulo in the aftermath of the discovery of gold mines. It was given township status in 1818 and became the capital in 1835.

wn.com/Cuiabá





Curitiba

                            Curitiba (Tupi: "Pine Nut Land", Portuguese pronunciation: [kuɾiˈtibɐ] or [kuɾiˈtʃibɐ]) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Paraná. The city's population numbers approximately 1.75 million people, making it the 8th most populous in the country, and the largest in the Brazil's South Region. Its metropolitan area, called Curitiba Metropolitan Area (Região Metropolitana de Curitiba, in Portuguese), comprises 26 municipalities with a total population of over 3.2 million (IBGE estimate in 2010), the seventh most populous in the country.

Curitiba is an important cultural, political and economic centre in the country and in Latin America. The city sits on a plateau at 932 metres (3,058 ft) above sea level. It is located 105 kilometres (65 mi) west of the sea port of Paranaguá and is served by the Afonso Pena International and Bacacheri airports. The city hosts the Federal University of Paraná, established in 1912, one year before electric streetcars were first deployed.

Curitiba's rapid expansion was based on the cattle trade, the city being located half-way between the cattle breeding country to the south and the markets to the north. Waves of European immigrants started arriving after 1850, mainly Germans, Italians, Poles and Ukrainians, contributing to the economic and cultural development of the city. Nowadays, only smaller numbers of foreign immigrants arrive, mainly from Middle Eastern and others Latin American countries, but there is a substantial inward flow of Brazilians from other states of the country (approximately half the population of Curitiba was not born in the city).

wn.com/Curitiba





Doha

                            Doha (Arabic: الدوحة‎, ad-Dawḥa or ad-Dōḥa, literally: "the big tree") is the capital city of the state of Qatar. Located on the Persian Gulf, it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar. Doha is Qatar's largest city, with over 60% of the nation's population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.

Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. Doha is home to the Education City, an area devoted to research and education. Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations. The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, which was the largest Asian Games ever held. Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup. Doha will also host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. The World Petroleum Council held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.

wn.com/Doha





Duque de Caxias

Coordinates: 22°47′09″S 43°18′43″W﻿ / ﻿22.78583°S 43.31194°W﻿ / -22.78583; -43.31194

Duque de Caxias (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈduki dʒi kaˈʃiɐʃ], Duke of Caxias) is a city in southeast Brazil in Rio de Janeiro, bordered by Rio de Janeiro (city) to the south. Its population was 842,890 (2005) and its area is 465 km². Its current Mayor is José Camilo Zito. The city is the third most populous in Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area.

Although the city is the second richest in the State of Rio de Janeiro, it still has sewage rivers running right under domestic porches and balconies. It has important industries such as oil refinery and chemical. It is named after Luís Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of Caxias, who was born there in 1803. The city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Duque de Caxias.
Duque de Caxias Futebol Clube is the local football (soccer) team of the city. The club plays their home matches at Estádio Romário de Souza Faria, which has a maximum capacity of 10,000 people. Estádio De Los Larios, located in the district of Xerém, has a maximum capacity of 11,000 people and it is the home ground of Esporte Clube Tigres do Brasil.

wn.com/Duque_de_Caxias





Ecuador

                            Ecuador (i/ˈɛkwədɔr/ E-kwə-dawr), officially the Republic of Ecuador (Spanish: República del Ecuador [reˈpuβlika ðel ekwaˈðor], which literally translates to the "Republic of the Equator") is a representative democratic republic in South America, bordered by Colombia on the north, Peru on the east and south, and by the Pacific Ocean to the west. It is one of only two countries in South America, (along with Chile), that do not have a border with Brazil. The country also includes the Galápagos Islands in the Pacific, about 1,000 kilometres (620 mi) west of the mainland.

The main spoken language in Ecuador is Spanish. Ecuador straddles the equator, from which it takes its name, and has an area of 275,830 km2 (106,500 sq mi). Its capital city is Quito, which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in the 1970s for having the best preserved and least altered historic center in Latin America. The country's largest city is Guayaquil. The historic center of Cuenca, the third largest city in the country, was also declared a World Heritage Site in 1999, for being an outstanding example of a planned inland Spanish style colonial city in the Americas. Ecuador is also home—despite its size—to a great variety of species, many of them endemic, like those of the Galápagos islands. This species diversity makes Ecuador one of the 17 megadiverse countries in the world. The new constitution of 2008 is the first in the world to recognize legally enforceable Rights of Nature, or ecosystem rights.

wn.com/Ecuador





Emas National Park

                            The Emas National Park (Portuguese: Parque Nacional das Emas, literally meaning "Rhea National Park") is a national park and a UNESCO World Heritage Sitein the states of Goiás and Mato Grosso do Sul in Brazil.

The National Park is located between the states of Goiás and Mato Grosso do Sul in the Center-West Region of Brazil, between 17º50’—18º15’S and 52º39’—53º10’W. It covers 1320 square kilometres of cerrado savannah. The sourrounding area is dominated by large soybean plantations.

Emas National Park shows a typical cerrado ecosystem; a treeless savannah with tall termite houses and an interesting amount of wildlife: the giant anteater, the maned wolf, giant armadillo, pampas deer and the namesake greater rhea, among others. Emas National Park also holds a small Jaguar population, perhaps consisting of about 10-12 animals. Only about 40% of the reserve, which covers 1320 square kilometres in total, is good Jaguar habitat. Other larger mammals include puma, ozelot, Brazilian tapir, collared peccary, white-lipped peccary, marsh deer, red brocket, gray brocket, black howler monkey and capybara.

wn.com/Emas_National_Park





Empire of Brazil

                            The Empire of Brazil was a 19th-century state that broadly comprised the territories which form modern Brazil. Its government was a representative parliamentary constitutional monarchy under the rule of Emperors Dom Pedro I and his son Dom Pedro II, both members of the House of Braganza—a branch of the Capetian dynasty. A colony of the Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil became the seat of the Portuguese colonial Empire in 1808, when the Portuguese Prince regent, later King Dom João VI (John VI), fled from Napoleon I's invasion of Portugal and established himself and his government in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro. João VI later returned to Portugal, leaving his eldest son and heir, Pedro, to rule Brazil as regent.

wn.com/Empire_of_Brazil





Espírito Santo

                            Espírito Santo (Portuguese pronunciation: [esˈpiɾitu ˈsɐ̃tu]) is one of the states of southeastern Brazil, often referred to by the abbreviation "ES". Its capital is Vitória and the largest city is Vila Velha. The name of the state means literally "holy spirit" after the Holy Ghost of Christianity. With an extensive coastline (40% of the territory is on the coast), the state has some of the country's main ports but the beaches are the best tourist attractions. Vitória, the capital, is on an island, next to Guarapari, well known by its sands. In the extreme north is the Itaúnas part of the municipality of Conceição da Barra, whose sand dunes and forró are famous. Also on the coast, the typical gastronomy is another attraction with the moquecas capixabas and many fruits from the ocean and seafood. In the country of the state there are many natural beauties, such as the parks of Pedra Azul and Alto Caparaó, and the Italian and German colonies.

With 46,180 square kilometers (17,830 sq mi), it is about the size of Estonia, or half the size of Portugal, and has a variety of habitats including coastal planes, lakes, mountainous forests, mangroves and many others.

wn.com/Espírito_Santo





Falkland Islands

                            The Falkland Islands (English pronunciation: /ˈfɒlklənd/ or English pronunciation: /ˈfɔːlklənd/; Spanish: Islas Malvinas) are an archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean, located more than 250 nautical miles (460 km; 290 mi) east of the coast of mainland South America. The archipelago comprises East Falkland, West Falkland, and 776 lesser islands. Stanley, the capital and only city, is on East Falkland. The islands are a self-governing British Overseas Territory, with the United Kingdom responsible for their defence and foreign affairs.

Controversy exists over the Falklands' original discovery and subsequent colonisation by Europeans. At various times there have been French, British, Spanish, and Argentine settlements. Britain re-established its rule in 1833, yet the islands continue to be claimed by Argentina. In 1982, following Argentina's invasion of the islands, the two-month-long undeclared Falklands War between both countries resulted in the withdrawal of all Argentine forces. Despite its defeat, Argentina still pursues its claim; however, UK policy supports the islanders' self-determination to remain British citizens.

wn.com/Falkland_Islands





Feira de Santana

                            Feira de Santana (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈfejɾɐ dʒi sɐ̃ˈtɐ̃nɐ], Saint Anne's Market) is a city in Bahia, Brazil. It is the second-most populous city in the state, with a population of 740,000 according to IBGE's estimate. It is located 100 km northwest of Salvador, Bahia's capital city. These cities are connected by BR-324, a four-lane divided highway. Feira de Santana's nickname is a princesa do sertão or "the backcountry's princess".

Feira de Santana takes is name in honor of two of its founders. In the 18th century, Domingos Barbosa de Araujo and his wife Anna Brandoa built a chapel on the Fazenda Sant'Anna dos Olhos D’Água (Saint Anna of the Fountains Plantation). They dedicated the chapel to their Saint, Saint Anna. The city is also known as "The Gateway to the Backcountry", for its location in the Agreste zone, a geographic region that separates the wet "Zona da Mata" from the arid and desert "Sertão";

The location gradually became a common stopping point for voyagers and traders from the high sertão of Bahia and from other states on the trail to the port of Cachoeira and other important villages of Bahia. The area also developed a periodic market together with a prosperous cattle commerce.

wn.com/Feira_de_Santana





Florianópolis

                            Florianópolis (Portuguese pronunciation: [floɾi.aˈnɔpolis] or [floɾjɐˈnɔpʊliʃ]) is the capital city and second largest city of Santa Catarina state in the Southern region of Brazil. It is composed of one main island, the Island of Santa Catarina (Ilha de Santa Catarina), a continental part and the surrounding small islands. It has a population of 427,298, according to a 2009 Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics estimate, the second most populous city in the state (after Joinville), and the 47th in Brazil. The metropolitan area has an estimated population of 1,096,476, the 21st largest in the country. The city is known for having a very high quality of life, being the Brazilian capital city with the highest HDI (0.905) according to the UN.

The economy of Florianópolis is heavily based on information technology, tourism and services. The city has 42 beaches and is a center of surfing activity. The New York Times reported that "Florianopolis is the Party Destination of the Year in 2009." on January 11, 2009. Newsweek placed Florianópolis in the "Ten most dynamic cities of the world" list in 2006.Veja magazine, a Brazilian publication, named the city as "the best place to live in Brazil." As a result of this publicity, Florianópolis is growing as a second home destination for many Paulistas, Argentines, Americans and Europeans.

wn.com/Florianópolis





Fortaleza

                            Fortaleza (Portuguese pronunciation: [foʁtaˈlezɐ], Fortress) is the state capital of Ceará, located in Northeastern Brazil. With a population close to 2.3 million (metropolitan region over 3.4 million), Fortaleza is the 5th largest city in Brazil. It has an area of 313 square kilometres (121 sq mi) and one of the highest demographic densities in the country (8,001 per km²). To the north of the city lies the Atlantic Ocean; to the south are the municipalities of Pacatuba, Eusébio, Maracanaú and Itaitinga; to the east is the municipality of Aquiraz and the Atlantic Ocean; and to the west is the municipality of Caucaia. Residents of the city are known as Fortalezenses. The current mayor is Luizianne Lins a former academic at the local Federal University of Ceará and well known feminist. The city will be one of the host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, for which Brazil is the host nation.


Fortaleza's history began on February 2, 1500, when Spaniard Vicente Pinzón landed in Mucuripe's cove and named the new land Santa Maria de la Consolación. Because of the Treaty of Tordesillas, the discovery was never officially sanctioned. Colonisation began when the Portuguese Pero Coelho de Souza constructed the Fortim de São Tiago in the estuary of Ceará River in 1603. Later, the Dutch occupied the Brazilian Northeast and founded the Fort Schoonenborch. When they were expelled from Ceará, the Portuguese renamed it to Fortaleza de Nossa Senhora da Assunção. In 1726, the town of the fort was raised to the condition of village. In 1799, the Province of Ceará was separated from the Province of Pernambuco and Fortaleza was chosen as its capital.

wn.com/Fortaleza





French Guiana

                            French Guiana (French: Guyane française; French pronunciation: [ɡɥijan fʁɑ̃sɛz]; officially just Guyane) is an overseas region of France, consisting of a single overseas department located on the northern Atlantic coast of South America. It has borders with two nations: Brazil to the east and south, and Suriname to the west. Its 83,534 km2 (32,253 sq mi) have a very low population density of less than 3 /km2 (7.8 /sq mi), with almost half of its 229,000 people in 2009 living in the urban area of Cayenne, its capital.

The addition of the adjective "French" in English comes from colonial times when five such colonies existed (The Guianas), namely from west to east: Spanish Guiana (now Guayana Region in Venezuela), British Guiana (now Guyana), Dutch Guiana (now Suriname), French Guiana, and Portuguese Guiana (now Amapá, a state in far northern Brazil). French Guiana and the two larger countries to the north and west, Guyana and Suriname, are still often collectively referred to as the Guianas and comprise one large shield landmass.

wn.com/French_Guiana





Geography of Brazil

                            The country of Brazil occupies roughly half of South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean. Brazil covers a total area of 8,514,215 km2 (3,287,357 sq mi) which includes 8,456,510 km2 (3,265,080 sq mi) of land and 55,455 km2 (21,411 sq mi) of water. The highest point in Brazil is Pico da Neblina at 2,994 m (9,823 ft). Brazil is bordered by the countries of Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela.

Much of the climate is tropical, with the south being relatively temperate. The largest river in Brazil, and one of the longest in the world, is the Amazon. The rainforest that covers the Amazon Basin constitutes almost half of the rainforests on Earth.

Geographic coordinates: 10°S 55°W﻿ / ﻿10°S 55°W﻿ / -10; -55Coordinates: 10°S 55°W﻿ / ﻿10°S 55°W﻿ / -10; -55

With its expansive territory, Brazil occupies most of the eastern part of the South American continent and its geographic heartland, as well as various islands in the Atlantic Ocean. The only countries in the world that are larger are Russia, Canada, the People's Republic of China, and the United States. The national territory extends 4,395 kilometres (2,731 mi) from north to south (5°16'20" N to 33°44'32" S latitude) and 4,319 kilometres (2,684 mi) from east to west (34°47'30" W to 73°59'32" W longitude). It spans three time zones, the easternmost of which is one hour ahead of Eastern Standard Time in the United States. The time zone of the capital (Brasília) and of the most populated part of Brazil along the east coast (UTC-3) is two hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time, except when it is on its own daylight saving time, from October to February. The Atlantic islands are in the easternmost time zone.

wn.com/Geography_of_Brazil





Germany

                            Germany (i/ˈdʒɜrməni/), officially the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland, pronounced [ˈbʊndəsʁepuˌbliːk ˈdɔʏtʃlant] ( listen)), is a federal parliamentary republic in Europe. The country consists of 16 states while the capital and largest city is Berlin. Germany covers an area of 357,021 km2 and has a largely temperate seasonal climate. With 81.8 million inhabitants, it is the most populous member state and the largest economy in the European Union. It is one of the major political powers of the European continent and a technological leader in many fields.

A region named Germania, inhabited by several Germanic peoples, was documented before AD 100. During the Migration Period, the Germanic tribes expanded southward, and established successor kingdoms throughout much of Europe. Beginning in the 10th century, German territories formed a central part of the Holy Roman Empire. During the 16th century, northern German regions became the centre of the Protestant Reformation while southern and western parts remained dominated by Roman Catholic denominations, with the two factions clashing in the Thirty Years' War, marking the beginning of the Catholic–Protestant divide that has characterized German society ever since. Occupied during the Napoleonic Wars, the rise of Pan-Germanism inside the German Confederation resulted in the unification of most of the German states into the German Empire in 1871 which was Prussian dominated. After the German Revolution of 1918–1919 and the subsequent military surrender in World War I, the Empire was replaced by the Weimar Republic in 1918, and partitioned in the Treaty of Versailles. Amidst the Great Depression, the Third Reich was proclaimed in 1933. The latter period was marked by Fascism and World War II. After 1945, Germany was divided by allied occupation, and evolved into two states, East Germany and West Germany. In 1990 Germany was reunified.

wn.com/Germany





Goiás

                            Goiás (Portuguese pronunciation: [ɡoˈjas]) is a state of Brazil, located in the central part of the country. The name Goiás (formerly, Goyaz) comes from the name of an indigenous community. The original word seems to have been guaiá[verification needed], a compound of gua e iá, meaning "the same person" or "people of the same origin." Neighboring states are (from north clockwise) Tocantins, Bahia, Minas Gerais, the Federal District, Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso.

The most central of the Brazilian states and the most populous of the region, Goiás is characterized by a landscape of chapadões (plateaus). In the height of the drought season, from June to September, the lack of rain makes the level of the Araguaia River go down and exposes almost 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) of beaches, making it the main attraction of the State. At the Emas National Park in the municipality of Mineiros, it is possible to observe the typical fauna and flora from the region. At the Chapada dos Veadeiros the attractions are the canyons, valleys, rapids and waterfalls. Other attractions are the historical city of Goiás (or Old Goiás), 132 km (82 mi) from Goiânia, established in the beginning of 18th Century, and Caldas Novas, with its hot water wells attracting more than one million tourists per year.

wn.com/Goiás





Goiânia

                            Goiânia (Portuguese pronunciation: [ɡoˈjɐ̃niɐ], English pronunciation: /ɡɔɪˈɑːniə/ ) is the capital and largest city of the Brazilian state of Goiás. With a population of 1,301,892, it is the largest city in the Central-Western Region and the 13th-largest in the country. Its metropolitan area has a total population of 2,063,744, making it the 11th-largest in Brazil.

Goiânia is a planned city founded on October 24, 1933 by then Governor Pedro Ludovico to serve as the new state capital and administrative center. Prior to this date, the state capital was the town of Goiás. Goiânia has the largest green area per inhabitant in Brazil, and is the second of the world, losing only to Edmonton in the world.

The idea of creating a new state capital had been bounced around from early on in the history of the state of Goiás. The first plan came from D. Marcos de Noronha who in 1753 wanted to establish the state capital in the municipality of Pirenópolis, then again in 1863 José Vieira Couto de Magalhães put forward a plan to move the capital to the edge of the river Araguaia.

wn.com/Goiânia





Government Buildings

                            Government Buildings (Irish: Tithe an Rialtais) is a large Edwardian building enclosing a quadrangle on Merrion Street in Dublin, Ireland, in which several key offices of the Government of Ireland are located. Among the offices of State located in the building are:

Parts of the building, which was formerly the Royal College of Science for Ireland, have served as the seat of Irish government since 1922.

The building that was to become Government Buildings was the last major public building built under British rule in Ireland. The foundation stone for the building was laid by King Edward VII in 1904. It was built on the site of a row of Georgian houses that were being controversially demolished one by one as the new building was erected. The building itself was designed by Sir Aston Webb, a British architect who was later to redesign the facade of Buckingham Palace. The final completed building was opened by King George V in 1911.

It may have been intended for use by the Royal College of Science, but it soon attracted the attention of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland's Dublin Castle administration. It was chosen to be the location for the first meeting of the new Parliament of Southern Ireland, created under the Government of Ireland Act 1920, in June 1921. The planned State Opening of Parliament proved a fiasco, as only four members of the House of Commons of Southern Ireland and a minority of members of the Senate of Southern Ireland turned up. The Houses were adjourned sine die (although under the Anglo-Irish Treaty on 14 January 1922 “a meeting of members of the Parliament elected for constituencies in Southern Ireland” met to ratify the Treaty).

wn.com/Government_Buildings





Grytviken

                            Grytviken (Swedish for "The Pot Cove") is the principal settlement in the British territory of South Georgia in the South Atlantic. It was so named in 1902 by the Swedish surveyor Johan Gunnar Andersson who found old English try pots used to render seal oil at the site. It is the best harbour on the island, consisting of a bay (King Edward Cove) within a bay (Cumberland East Bay). The site is quite sheltered, provides a substantial area of flat land suitable for building on, and has a good supply of fresh water.

The settlement at Grytviken was established on November 16, 1904, by the Norwegian sea captain Carl Anton Larsen as a whaling station for his Compañía Argentina de Pesca (Argentine Fishing Company). It was phenomenally successful, with 195 whales taken in the first season alone. The whalers used every part of the animals - the blubber, meat, bones and viscera were rendered to extract the oil and the bones and meat were turned into fertilizer and fodder. Elephant seals were also hunted for their blubber. Around 300 men worked at the station during its heyday, operating during the southern summer from October to March. A few remained over the winter to maintain the boats and factory. Every few months a transport ship would bring essential supplies to the station and take away the oil and other produce. The following year the Argentine Government established a meteorological station.

wn.com/Grytviken





Guarulhos

Coordinates: 23°28′00″S 46°32′00″W﻿ / ﻿23.4666667°S 46.5333333°W﻿ / -23.4666667; -46.5333333

Guarulhos (Portuguese pronunciation: [ɡwaˈɾuʎus]) is the second largest city in the Brazilian state of São Paulo and a suburb of São Paulo city itself. In the last few years it has outgrown Campinas. The population in 2006 is 1,283,253, the density is 4,035.26 inh./km² and the area is 318 km². It is 12th largest incorporated city in Brazil.

Ranks 8th by GDP among Brazilian cities; 2nd in São Paulo state. (source:IBGE, Brazil's national institute of statistics. GDP by cities report, published in 2005 with data from 2002).

It is the 10th largest suburb in the world.

The name comes from the Tupi language, and means Eaters, big-bellied people; a reference to the original indigenous inhabitants of the area.

The per capita income for the municipality is R$12,793.
São Paulo-Guarulhos International Airport (GRU), one of the main Brazilian airports, is located there.
Mamonas Assassinas, a 1990s satirical pop/rock group, came from Guarulhos.

wn.com/Guarulhos





Guyana

Coordinates: 5°00′N 58°45′W﻿ / ﻿5°N 58.75°W﻿ / 5; -58.75

Guyana (i/ɡaɪˈænə/ gy-AN-ə), officially the Co-operative Republic of Guyana, previously the colony of British Guiana, is a sovereign state on the northern coast of South America that is culturally part of the Anglophone Caribbean. Guyana was a former colony of the Dutch and (for over 200 years) the British. It is the only state of the Commonwealth of Nations on mainland South America, and the only one on that continent where English is an official language.It is one of the few Caribbean countries that is not an island. It is also a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), which has its secretariat headquarters in Guyana's capital, Georgetown. Guyana achieved independence from the United Kingdom on 26 May 1966, and became a republic on 23 February 1970. In 2008 the country joined the Union of South American Nations as a founding member.

Historically, the region known as "Guiana" or "Guyana" comprised the large shield landmass north of the Amazon River and east of the Orinoco River known as the "Land of many waters". Historical Guyana is made up of three Dutch colonies: Essequibo, Demerara, and Berbice. Modern Guyana is bordered to the east by Suriname, to the south and southwest by Brazil, to the west by Venezuela, and on the north by the Atlantic Ocean.

wn.com/Guyana





India

                            India (i/ˈɪndiə/), officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya), is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by geographical area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people, and the most populous democracy in the world. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the south-west, and the Bay of Bengal on the south-east, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west;China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north-east; and Burma and Bangladesh to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is in the vicinity of Sri Lanka and the Maldives; in addition, India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Thailand and Indonesia.

Home to the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation and a region of historic trade routes and vast empires, the Indian subcontinent was identified with its commercial and cultural wealth for much of its long history. Four of the world's major religions—Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism—originated here, whereas Zoroastrianism, Christianity, and Islam arrived in the 1st millennium CE and also helped shape the region's diverse culture. Gradually annexed by and brought under the administration of the British East India Company from the early 18th century and administered directly by the United Kingdom from the mid-19th century, India became an independent nation in 1947 after a struggle for independence that was marked by non-violent resistance led by Mahatma Gandhi.

wn.com/India





Islamabad

                            Islamabad (Urdu: اسلام آباد Islām ābād, lit. Abode of Islam) is the capital of Pakistan and the tenth largest city in the country. Located within the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT), the population of the city has grown from 100,000 in 1951 to 1.152 million in 2011. The greater Islamabad-Rawalpindi Metropolitan Area is the third largest conurbation in Pakistan with a population of over 4.5 million inhabitants.

Islamabad is located in the Pothohar Plateau in the northern part of the country, within the Islamabad Capital Territory. The region has historically been a part of the crossroads of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with Margalla pass acting as the gateway between the two regions. The city was built during the 1960s to replace Karachi as Pakistan's capital. Islamabad is a well-organized city divided into different sectors and zones. It is regarded as the most developed city in Pakistan. Islamabad is ranked as a Gamma world city. The city is home to Faisal Mosque, the largest mosque in South Asia and the sixth largest mosque in the world.

wn.com/Islamabad





Italy

                            Italy i/ˈɪtəli/ (Italian: Italia [iˈtaːlja]), officially the Italian Republic or the Republic of Italy (Italian: Repubblica italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in south-central Europe. To the north, it borders France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia along the Alps. To the south, it consists of the entirety of the Italian Peninsula, Sicily, Sardinia–the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea–and many other smaller islands. The independent states of San Marino and the Vatican City are enclaves within Italy, while Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland. The territory of Italy covers some 301,338 km2 (116,347 sq mi) and is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate. With 60.6 million inhabitants, it is the fifth most populous country in Europe, and the 23rd most populous in the world.

Rome, the capital of Italy, was for centuries a political and religious centre of Western civilisation as the capital of the Roman Empire and site of the Holy See. After the decline of the Roman Empire, Italy endured numerous invasions by foreign peoples, from Germanic tribes such as the Lombards and Ostrogoths, to the Byzantines and later, the Normans, among others. Centuries later, Italy became the birthplace of Maritime republics and the Renaissance, an immensely fruitful intellectual movement that would prove to be integral in shaping the subsequent course of European thought.

wn.com/Italy





Itamaraty Palace

                            The Itamaraty Palace (Portuguese: Palácio Itamaraty) is the headquarters of the Ministry of External Relations of Brazil. It is located in the national capital of Brasília. The building was designed by architect Oscar Niemeyer and inaugurated on April 21, 1970. It is located to the east of the National Congress building along the Ministries Esplanade, near the Praça dos Três Poderes.
Coordinates: 15°48′04″S 47°52′01″W﻿ / ﻿15.801°S 47.867°W﻿ / -15.801; -47.867

wn.com/Itamaraty_Palace




Itiquira Falls

                            The Itiquira Falls is a waterfall in Brazil. They are located 34 kilometers north of Formosa in the state of Goiás and 115 kilometers from Brasília on a paved road. The falls have a height of 168 meters, making them possibly the highest accessible waterfall in Brazil and the second highest overall. The falls are formed by the drop of the Itiquira River from the higher central plateau north of Formosa into the deep Paranã River valley. The waters are unpolluted and a bottling plant is located on the river above the falls (access from a different road heading north from Formosa towards Planaltina de Goiás).

The area is a municipal park and is protected from development. There are tourist facilities outside the park, near the entrance.
Coordinates: 15°21′58″S 47°27′25″W﻿ / ﻿15.366°S 47.457°W﻿ / -15.366; -47.457

wn.com/Itiquira_Falls





Jaú National Park

                            The Jaú National Park ("Parque Nacional do Jaú" in Portuguese) is located in the Amazonas state in Brazil, between 1º00’—3º00’S and 61º30’—64º00’W.

It is the largest forest reserve in South America, covering an area greater than 5.6 million acres (23,000 km²). Entry into the park is restricted; express permission from the Brazilian government is required to enter the reserve.

The park is known as a good example of tropical rainforest conservation in the Amazon. It houses Jaguars, Amazonian Manatees, Amazon river dolphins, and numerous other species of animals and plants.
Coordinates: 2°10′13″S 62°37′02″W﻿ / ﻿2.17028°S 62.61722°W﻿ / -2.17028; -62.61722


wn.com/Jaú_National_Park





Joinville

                            Joinville (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒõjˈvili], [ʒo.ĩˈvili] or [ʒwĩˈvili]) is a city in Santa Catarina State, in the Southern Region of Brazil. Joinville is Santa Catarina's largest city and the major financial and commerce centre. In 2010, its population has reached approximately 520,000, many of whom are of German descent. Joinville's metropolitan area is home to 1,212,997 residents according to the 2010 census by IBGE

Owing to urban development and relatively good infrastructure, Joinville has become a major center for events and business conferences. The city has one of the highest standards of living in Latin America;

The first inhabitants in the region of Joinville were a Tupi people. Joinville was founded on March 9, 1851, by German, Swiss and Norwegian immigrants.

Even though it is considered a German-Brazilian city, its name is French (Joinville was named after François d'Orléans, prince of Joinville, son of King Louis-Philippe of France, who married Princess Francisca of Brazil, in 1843). The city's former name was Dona Francisca, but was changed to Joinville in 1851.

wn.com/Joinville





João Pessoa

                            João Pessoa (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈɐ̃w peˈsoɐ]), is the capital city of the state of Paraíba, was founded in 1585 and sometimes called the city where the sun rises first, is a Brazilian city and the easternmost city in the Americas at 34º47'38"W, 7º9'28"S. Local residents call its easternmost point Ponta do Seixas. It is also considered "the second greenest city in the world". The city has more than 7 square kilometres (2.7 sq mi) of forested land, second only to Paris, France. It gained this distinction in 1992, after a survey of urban centres in various countries carried out by the United Nations (source: Embassy of Brazil in the UK). The city is characterized by the juxtaposition of tropical beaches, modern architecture and historic buildings from colonial periods.

João Pessoa is the capital of Paraíba, a state in the northeast region of Brazil and home to some 19th and 20th century Brazilian poets and writers such as Augusto dos Anjos, José Américo de Almeida, José Lins do Rego and Pedro Américo. It took its current name in 1930, in homage to state president (governor) João Pessoa Cavalcanti de Albuquerque, who was assassinated on 26 July of that year. It is the state's largest city, with a population of circa 720,000 (about one sixth of the state's population). Its metropolitan area comprises eight other satellite cities (Bayeux, Cabedelo, Conde, Lucena, and Santa Rita) and about 384,000 people, totalling more than one million inhabitants.

wn.com/João_Pessoa





Juiz de Fora

                            Juiz de Fora (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʒwiz dʒi ˈfɔɾɐ], External Judge), also known as J.F., is a city in the southeastern Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, located close to the state border with Rio de Janeiro. According to 2006 estimates the current population is about 509,125 inhabitants. The geographical area of the municipality is 1,437 km².

The city's location was determinant for its economic and demographic development, for it is placed between the three most important financial and economic metropolises of southeast Brazil (and also the three largest urban sprawls of the country): Rio de Janeiro (189 km), Belo Horizonte (260 km) and São Paulo (486 km). Major highways connect Juiz de Fora with these three metropolitan areas, the most important -and crucial for the city's recent growth- being the BR 040, which connects Brasília, Rio de Janeiro, and Belo Horizonte. Running throughout the city, the Paraibuna river is a major tributary of the Paraíba do Sul river, in which basin lies the core of Brazilian heavy and high-technology industries.

wn.com/Juiz_de_Fora





Khartoum

                            Khartoum (Arabic: الخرطوم‎ al Ḫarṭūm) is the capital and second largest city of Sudan and of Khartoum State. It is located at the confluence of the White Nile flowing north from Lake Victoria and the Blue Nile flowing west from Ethiopia. The location where the two Niles meet is known as "al-Mogran", meaning the Confluence. The main Nile continues to flow north towards Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea.

Divided by the Niles, Khartoum is a tripartite metropolis with an estimated overall population of over five million people consisting of Khartoum proper[clarification needed], and linked by bridges to Khartoum North called (al-Khartūm Bahrī) and Omdurman (Umm Durmān) to the west.

The origin of the word is uncertain. One tradition is that khartoum derives from Arabic kartūm الخرطوم meaning 'end of an elephant’s trunk', probably referring to the narrow strip of land extending between the Blue and White Niles. Captain J. A. Grant, who reached Khartoum in 1863 with Captain Speke’s expedition, thought that the derivation was most probably from the Arabic qurtum, safflower (Carthamus tinctorius), which was cultivated extensively in Egypt for its oil, used in burning.[citation needed]

wn.com/Khartoum





La Paz

                            Nuestra Señora de La Paz (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈnwes.tɾa seˈɲoɾa ðe la pas]; English: Our Lady of Peace; Aymara: Chuquiago Marka or Chuqiyapu), simply known as La Paz, is the seat of government of Bolivia, as well as the departmental capital of the La Paz Department, and the second largest city in the country (in population) after Santa Cruz de la Sierra. It is located in the western part of the country in the department of the same name at an elevation of roughly 3,650 m (11,975 ft) (the city is built on steep hills) above sea level, making it the world's highest "de facto" capital city, or administrative capital.

While the official capital of Bolivia is Sucre and it is the seat of Justice, La Paz has more government departments, hence the "de facto" qualifier. The city sits in a "bowl" surrounded by the high mountains of the altiplano.

As it grows, the city of La Paz climbs the hills, resulting in varying elevations from 3,000 to 4,100 m (9,800 to 13,500 ft). Overlooking the city is towering triple-peaked Illimani, which is always snow-covered and can be seen from several spots of the city, including from the neighbor city of El Alto. As of the 2001 census, the city had a population of 877,363.La Paz Metropolitan area, formed by the cities of La Paz, El Alto and Viacha, make the most populous urban area of Bolivia, with a population of 2.3 million inhabitants and surpassing the metropolitan area of Santa Cruz de la Sierra.

wn.com/La_Paz





Lima

                            Lima is the capital and the largest city of Peru. It is located in the valleys of the Chillón, Rímac and Lurín rivers, in the central part of the country, on a desert coast overlooking the Pacific Ocean. Together with the seaport of Callao, it forms a contiguous urban area known as the Lima Metropolitan Area. With a population approaching 9 million, Lima is the fifth largest city in Latin America, behind Mexico City, São Paulo, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. Lima is home to one of the largest financial hubs in Latin America. It has been defined as a beta world city by GaWC international ranking.

Lima was founded by Spanish conquistador Francisco Pizarro on January 18, 1535, as la Ciudad de los Reyes, or "the City of Kings". It became the capital and most important city in the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru. Following the Peruvian War of Independence, it became the capital of the Republic of Peru. Today, around one-third of the Peruvian population lives in the metropolitan area.

Lima is home to one of the oldest higher learning institutions in the New World. The National University of San Marcos, founded on May 12, 1551 during Spanish colonial regime, is the oldest continuously functioning university in the Americas.

wn.com/Lima





Londrina

                            Londrina (Portuguese pronunciation: [lõˈdɾĩnɐ], Londoner) is a city located in the northern region of the state of Paraná, Brazil, and is 369 km away from the capital, Curitiba. Londrina was originally founded by British settlers. The city exerts great influence on Paraná and Brazil's south region. Londrina has approximately 500,000 inhabitants, being the second largest city in Paraná and the third largest city in the Southern Region of Brazil.

The city has a population of 506,645 (IBGE Census 2010) and 1,087,815 in its metropolitan area. It is a regional centre and is made up of commerce, services, agro-industries, and universities, including the State University of Londrina, or UEL.

Londrina was named after the British entrepreneurs who launched railroad stations in the region to ease the transportation of coffee grains from northern Paraná and southern São Paulo states to the port of Santos. The Londrina name pays homage to the English capital London (Londres in Portuguese), since an English cotton company made the original investment to settle in this area. The city's population consists of descendants of those settlers, Brazilians from other cities or states, Portuguese, English, Japanese, Italian, German, Polish, African, Spanish, Native, Arabian and Bulgarian Brazilians.

wn.com/Londrina





Macapá

                            Macapá is a Brazilian city, the capital of Amapá state. The city is located in the North Region, and is the only state capital that has no highway connections with other capitals. Also of interest is the fact that the north and south sections of the city are divided by the equator.

It is the fifth wealthiest city in northern Brazil, the municipality stands alone, 2.85% of the entire Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the region, and with a population of 499,166 in its metropolitan area, Macapá is the third largest urban area in the North. Its area is 6407 km ² representing 4.4863% of the area of the state, 0.1663% and 0.0754% of the Region of the Brazilian territory that total 32.7 km ² are in the urban perimeter. The city alone accounts for 60% of the population of state of Amapá and 3.50% of the population of the entire northern region of Brazil. According to surveys conducted by IBGE in 2010, the city has a population of 397,913, of which 97.92% live in urban areas and 2.08% live in rural districts. With an area of 6563 km ², the population density of Macapá is approximately 60.62 inhabitants per km ². Macapá stands out, among the majority of Brazilian cities, by rapid economic growth seen in its population. The name Macapá is of Tupi origin and is a variation of "Macpaba", which means place of many bacabas, a palm tree native to the region, the bacabeira (scientific name 'Oenocarpus bacaba Mart.'). Before being named Macapá, the first name for the city was Nueva Andalucia Adelantado, officially granted by Charles V of Spain in 1544, in a concession to Francisco de Orellana, a Spanish navigator who was in the region.

wn.com/Macapá





Maceió

                            Maceió (Portuguese pronunciation: [masejˈjɔ]) is the capital and the largest city of the coastal state Alagoas, Brazil. The name "maceió" is of Indian origin, and designates the naturally spontaneous courses of water which flow out of the soil. Most maceiós flow to the sea, but some get trapped and form lakes ("lagoas", in Portuguese).

There are plenty of maceiós and lakes in this part of Brazil; because of this, the city was named Maceió, and the State, Alagoas. The new Zumbi dos Palmares International Airport connects Maceió with many Brazilian cities and also operates some international flights. The city is home to the Federal University of Alagoas.

The city began in an old sugar mill and plantation complex around the 19th century. Its development started with the arrival of ships taking wood from Jaraguá bay.

With the installation of the sugar mills, Maceió started to export sugar, then tobacco, coconut, leather, and some spices. Prosperity made it possible for the settlement to become a village on December 5, 1815. Thanks to its continued growth, Maceió became the capital of the Alagoas Province on December 9, 1839.

wn.com/Maceió





Malaysia

                            Malaysia (i/məˈleɪʒə/ mə-LAY-zhə or i/məˈleɪsiə/ mə-LAY-see-ə) is a federal constitutional monarchy in Southeast Asia. It consists of thirteen states and three federal territories and has a total landmass of 329,847 square kilometres (127,350 sq mi) separated by the South China Sea into two similarly sized regions, Peninsular Malaysia and Malaysian Borneo. Land borders are shared with Thailand, Indonesia, and Brunei, and maritime borders exist with Singapore, Vietnam, and the Philippines. The capital city is Kuala Lumpur, while Putrajaya is the seat of the federal government. In 2010 the population exceeded 27.5 million, with over 20 million living on the Peninsula.

Malaysia has its origins in the Malay Kingdoms present in the area which, from the 18th century, became subject to the British Empire. The first British territories were known as the Straits Settlements, whose establishment was followed by the Malay kingdoms becoming British protectorates. The territories on Peninsular Malaysia were first unified as the Malayan Union in 1946. Malaya was restructured as the Federation of Malaya in 1948, and achieved independence on 31 August 1957. Malaya united with Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore on 16 September 1963, with si being added to give the new country the name Malaysia. However, less than two years later in 1965, Singapore was expelled from the federation. Since independence, Malaysia has had one of the best economic records in Asia, with GDP growing an average 6.5% for almost 50 years. The economy has traditionally been fuelled by its natural resources, but is expanding in the sectors of science, tourism, commerce and medical tourism.

wn.com/Malaysia





Manaus

Coordinates: 03°06′00″S 60°01′00″W﻿ / ﻿3.1°S 60.0166667°W﻿ / -3.1; -60.0166667

Manaus (Portuguese pronunciation: [maˈnaws]) is a city in Brazil, the capital of the state of Amazonas. It is situated at the confluence of the Negro and Solimões rivers. It is the most populous city of Amazonas, according to the statistics of Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, and is a popular ecotourist destination. Manaus belongs to mesoregion Center Amazonense and microregion Manaus. It is located in northern Brazil, 1,936 kilometers (1,203 mi) from the federal capital, Brasília.

The city was founded in 1669 as the Fort of São José do Rio Negro. It was elevated to a town in 1832 with the name of "Manaus", which means "mother of the gods" in tribute to the indigenous nation of Manaós, and legally transformed into a city on October 24 of 1848 with the name of Cidade da Barra do Rio Negro, Portuguese for "The City of the Margins of Black River". Only on September 4 of 1856 did it revert to its current name.

wn.com/Manaus





Maranhão

                            Maranhão (locally: [maɾɐˈɲɐ̃w]) is a northeastern state of Brazil. To the north lies the Atlantic Ocean. Maranhão is neighbored by the (clockwise from east) states of Piauí, Tocantins and Pará. The people of Maranhão have a distinctive accent inside the common Northeastern Brazilian dialect. Maranhão is described in books such as The Land of the Palm Trees, by Gonçalves Dias, and Casas de Pensão by Aluísio Azevedo.

The dunes of Lençóis are an important area of environmental preservation. Also of interest is the state capital of São Luís, designated a Unesco World Heritage Site. Another important conservation area is the Parnaíba River delta, between the states of Maranhão and Piauí, with its lagoons, desert dunes and deserted beaches or islands, such as the Caju island, which shelters rare birds.

The northern portion of the state is a heavily forested plain traversed by numerous rivers, occupied by the eastern extension of the tropical moist forests of Amazonia. The Tocantins-Araguaia-Maranhão moist forests occupy the northwestern portion of the state, extending from the Pindaré River west into neighboring Pará state. The north-central and northeastern portion of the state, extending eastward into northern Piauí, is home to the Maranhão Babaçu forests, a degraded tropical moist forest ecoregion dominated by the Babaçu palm. Much of the forest has been cleared for cattle grazing and agriculture, and the Babaçu palm produces edible oil which is extracted commercially.

wn.com/Maranhão





Massachusetts

                            Massachusetts (i/ˌmæsəˈtʃuːsɨts/), officially the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, is a U.S. state in the New England region of the northeastern United States of America. It is bordered by Rhode Island and Connecticut to the south, New York to the west, and Vermont and New Hampshire to the north; at its east lies the Atlantic Ocean. Massachusetts is the 7th least extensive, but the 14th most populous and the 3rd most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state features two separate metropolitan areas – the eastern Boston metropolitan area and the western Springfield metropolitan area. Approximately two thirds of the state's population lives in Greater Boston, most of which is either urban or suburban. Western Massachusetts features one urban area – the Knowledge Corridor along the Connecticut River – and a mix of college towns and rural areas. Massachusetts is the most populous of the six New England states and has the US's sixth highest GDP per capita.

wn.com/Massachusetts





Mato Grosso

                            Mato Grosso (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈmatu ˈɡɾosu] – lit. "Thick Bushes") is one of the states of Brazil, the third largest in area, located in the western part of the country.

Neighboring states are (from west clockwise) Rondônia, Amazonas, Pará, Tocantins, Goiás and Mato Grosso do Sul. It also borders Bolivia to the southwest. A state with a flat landscape, alternating great chapadas and plain areas, Mato Grosso presents three different ecosystems: Cerrado, Pantanal and the Amazon Rainforest. The vegetation of the open pasture covers 40% of the state, and the Chapada dos Guimarães National Park, with its caves, grottos, tracks and waterfalls, is one of its great tourist attractions. In the north is the Amazonian forest, with a biodiversity covering half of the state. The Xingu National Park and the Araguaia River are in Mato Grosso. Further south, the Pantanal, the world's largest wetland, is the habitat for almost a thousand species of animals, with many aquatic birds.

Located in the Mato Grosso is the Chapada dos Guimarães, a unique and beautiful environment made from sandstone mountains and their subsequent erosion. The terrain of the Mato Grosso is varied and includes cliffs, canyons, and beautiful waterfalls.

wn.com/Mato_Grosso





Mato Grosso do Sul

                            Mato Grosso do Sul (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈmatu ˈɡɾosu du ˈsuw]) is one of the states of Brazil.

Neighboring Brazilian states are (from north clockwise) Mato Grosso, Goiás, Minas Gerais, São Paulo and Paraná. It also borders the countries of Paraguay and Bolivia to the west. The economy of the state is largely based on agriculture and cattle-raising. Bisected in the south by the Tropic of Capricorn, Mato Grosso do Sul generally has a warm and humid climate, and is crossed by numerous affluents of the Parana River.

The state is also famous for its natural beauty and is a major destination for domestic and international tourism. The Pantanal lowlands cover 12 municipalities and presents an enormous variety of flora and fauna, with forests, natural sand banks, savannahs, open pasture, fields and bushes. The city Bonito, in the mountain of Bodoquena, has prehistoric caverns, natural rivers, waterfalls, swimming pools and the Blue Lake cavern.

The name "Mato Grosso do Sul" literally means "Thick Forest of the South" in Portuguese, a name inherited from its northern neighbour state of Mato Grosso, of which it was part until the 1970s. It is not uncommon for people to mistakenly refer to Mato Grosso do Sul as simply "Mato Grosso". Other names that were proposed, at the time of the split and afterwards, include "Pantanal" (a reference to its best known geographical feature) and "Maracaju" (a reference to the Maracaju mountain range that crosses the state from north to south).

wn.com/Mato_Grosso_do_Sul





Mauá

Coordinates: 23°40′04″S 46°27′39″W﻿ / ﻿23.66778°S 46.46083°W﻿ / -23.66778; -46.46083

Mauá (IPA: [ma'wa]) is a municipality in the state of São Paulo, in Brazil. Is part of the metropolitan region of São Paulo. The population as of 2006 is 413,943 inhabitants (11th largest city in population of the state), the density is 6,645.4/km² and the area is 62.6 km². The density is even greater, since one third of the city is industrial area and 10% is rural or forest. This place name comes from the Tupi language and means, the one that is high. As it's a municipality, it can be translated to high city.

Mauá has the 23rd largest GDP of São Paulo state.

Is the birthplace of Brazilian mother tableware industry.

Although there are various types of economic activity in the city (Logistics, Metallurgy, Chemical and Electrical Materials, and Petrochemical), Maua is still remembered as the "Capital of China and Pottery", because this activity has been very important for the development of the municipality. There are two industrial centers (Capuava and Sertãozinho) and a large petrochemical complex located where is the refinery of Petrobras, the RECAP. These poles transformed Mauá into one of the largest industrial parks in the country. Major road interventions are being implemented (the Beltway and the prolongation of the Avenue Jacu-Pêssego/Nova Trabalhadores), which, due to easier access to the city should influence the growth of industrial activity which today suffers from the bottleneck of the road network and its chronic lack of maintenance.

wn.com/Mauá





Miami

                            Miami ( /maɪˈæmi/ or /maɪˈæmə/) is a city located on the Atlantic coast in southeastern Florida and the county seat of Miami-Dade County, the most populous county in Florida and the eighth-most populous county in the United States with a population of 2,500,625. The 42nd largest city proper in the United States, with a population of 408,568, it is the principal, central, and most populous city of the South Florida metropolitan area, and the most populous metropolis in the Southeastern United States. According to the US Census Bureau, Miami's metro area is the seventh most populous and fifth-largest urban area in the United States, with a population of around 5.5 million.

Miami is a major center and a leader in finance, commerce, culture, media, entertainment, the arts, and international trade. In 2010, Miami was classified as a Alpha- World City in the World Cities Study Group’s inventory. In 2010, Miami ranked seventh in the United States in terms of finance, commerce, culture, entertainment, fashion, education, and other sectors. It ranked thirty-third among global cities. In 2008, Forbes magazine ranked Miami "America's Cleanest City", for its year-round good air quality, vast green spaces, clean drinking water, clean streets and city-wide recycling programs. According to a 2009 UBS study of 73 world cities, Miami was ranked as the richest city in the United States, and the world's fifth-richest city in terms of purchasing power. Miami is nicknamed the "Capital of Latin America", is the 2nd largest U.S. city (after El Paso) with a Spanish-speaking majority, and the largest city with a Cuban-American plurality.

wn.com/Miami





Minas Gerais

                            Minas Gerais (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈminɐz ʒeˈɾajs]) is one of the 26 states of Brazil, ranks as the second most populous, the third by Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the fourth largest by area in the country. The state's capital and largest city, Belo Horizonte, is a major urban and finance center in Latin America, and stands as the third largest urban aglomeration in Brazil, after the cities of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Minas Gerais is the Brazilian state with the largest number of Presidents of Brazil, the current one, Dilma Rousseff, born in Belo Horizonte, being one of them. The main producer of coffee and milk in the country, Minas Gerais is known for its heritage of architecture and colonial art in historical cities such as Ouro Preto, Diamantina, Tiradentes and Mariana. In the south, the tourist points are the hydro mineral spas, such as Caxambu, São Lourenço, Poços de Caldas, São Thomé das Letras, Monte Verde and the national parks of Caparaó and Canastra. The landscape of the State is marked by mountains, valleys, and large areas of fertile lands. In the Serra do Cipó, Sete Lagoas, Cordisburgo and Lagoa Santa, the caves and waterfalls are the attractions. Some of Brazil's most famous caverns are located there.

wn.com/Minas_Gerais





Montevideo

                            Montevideo (Spanish pronunciation: [mo̞n̪t̪e̞β̞iˈð̞e̞.o̞]) is the largest city, the capital, and the chief port of Uruguay. The settlement was established in 1726 by Bruno Mauricio de Zabala, as a strategic move amidst a Spanish-Portuguese dispute over the platine region, and as a counter to the Portuguese colony at Colonia del Sacramento. According to the census of 2004, Montevideo has a population of 1,325,968 (about half of Uruguay's population). It has an area of 530 square kilometres (200 sq mi) and extends 20 kilometres (12 mi) from west to east. The southernmost cosmopolitan capital city in the Americas and third most southern in the world, it is situated in the southern coast of the country, on the northeastern bank of the Río de la Plata (Spanish: "Silver River") — which is often referred to in English-speaking countries as the River Plate. The city was under brief British rule in 1807 and was involved in the first major naval battle in the Second World War: the Battle of the River Plate. It is also the place where the Montevideo convention was signed, in 1933, by nineteen nations of the Americas. The city hosted all of the matches during the first FIFA World Cup in 1930. Montevideo has a rich architectural and cultural heritage, the latter including tango and candombe. According to Mercer Human Resource Consulting, in 2007 Montevideo provided the highest quality of life in Latin America.

wn.com/Montevideo





Monumental Axis

                            The Monumental Axis ("Eixo Monumental" in Portuguese) is a central avenue in Brasília's city design.

The avenue begins on the National Congress of Brazil building and is considered part of the DF-002 road. Its first section is known as "Ministries Esplanade" ("Esplanada dos Ministérios"), as it is surrounded by ministries buildings. Many important government buildings, monuments and memorials are located on the Monumental Axis.

A common urban legend persists that the Monumental Axis is the widest road in the world, where "[100 to 160] cars can drive side by side". This is untrue, as the road consists of two avenues with six lanes on either side; a total of twelve lanes. However, it was in the Guinness Book of Records as having the widest median (central reservation) of a divided highway (dual carriageway) in the world.
Coordinates: 15°47′13″S 47°54′13″W﻿ / ﻿15.78694°S 47.90361°W﻿ / -15.78694; -47.90361

wn.com/Monumental_Axis





Netherlands

                            The Netherlands (i/ˈnɛðərləndz/; Dutch: Nederland [ˈneːdə(r)lɑnt] or [ˈneɪ̯də(r)lɑnt] ( listen); West Frisian: Nederlân; Papiamento: Hulanda) is a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, located mainly in North-West Europe and with some islands in the Caribbean. Mainland Netherlands borders the North Sea to the north and west, Belgium to the south, and Germany to the east, and shares maritime borders with Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom. It is a parliamentary democracy organised as a unitary state. The country capital is Amsterdam and the seat of government is The Hague. The Netherlands in its entirety is often referred to as Holland, although North and South Holland are actually only two of its twelve provinces (a case of pars pro toto; see terminology of "the Netherlands").

wn.com/Netherlands





New Delhi

                            New Delhi i/ˈnjuː dɛli/ is the capital city of India. As the national capital, New Delhi is the seat of executive, legislative, and judiciary branches of the Government of India. It also serves as the centre of the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi. New Delhi is situated within the metropolis of Delhi and is one of the nine districts of Delhi Union Territory.

The definition of New Delhi is unclear and the differentiation between Delhi and New Delhi is blurry. Even administratively, the demarcation between Delhi and New Delhi is not clear. Government of India and Government of Delhi have not clearly defined the area and boundaries of New Delhi. The boundaries of areas of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and New Delhi district of Delhi do not completely overlap. In 1920s, when British constructed New Delhi, there were only two Delhis' – the old walled city called Old Delhi and the new city designed by Edwin Lutyens to serve as capital of British India, which was called 'New Delhi'. The rest of Delhi was rural. But after independence as more and more areas around New Delhi urbanized they also became a part of New Delhi as they were also a part of Delhi which was 'new'. Now, almost all of National Capital Territory of Delhi, with exceptions of the old city called Old Delhi, Civil Lines area, Trans-Yamuna region, some rural areas and some underdeveloped parts of Delhi (e.g. Ashok Vihar, Timarpur, Nangloi, Sultanpuri, Mangolpuri, Badarpur etc.), is designated as 'New Delhi' in postal addresses. Especially, almost all the places in South, South-west, Central and West districts of Delhi are designated as New Delhi. Most of the time, the terms Delhi and New Delhi are used interchangeably.

wn.com/New_Delhi





New York City

                            New York is the most populous city in the United States and the center of the New York Metropolitan Area, one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. The city is referred to as New York City or The City of New York to distinguish it from the State of New York, of which it is a part. As a global power city, New York exerts a significant impact upon commerce, finance, media, art, fashion, research, technology, education, and entertainment. The home of the United Nations Headquarters, New York is an important center for international diplomacy and has been described as the cultural capital of the world.

Located on one of the world's largest natural harbors, New York City consists of five boroughs, each of which comprises a state county. The five boroughs—The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and Staten Island—were consolidated into a single city in 1898. With a Census-estimated 2011 population of 8,244,910 distributed over a land area of just 305 square miles (790 km2), New York is the most densely populated major city in the United States. As many as 800 languages are spoken in New York, making it the most linguistically diverse city in the world. The New York City Metropolitan Area's population is the United States' largest, with 18.9 million people distributed over 6,720 square miles (17,400 km2), and is also part of the most populous combined statistical area in the United States, containing 22.1 million people as of the 2010 Census.

wn.com/New_York_City





Nigeria

                            Nigeria i/naɪˈdʒɪəriə/, officially the Federal Republic of Nigeria, is a federal constitutional republic comprising 36 states and its Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The country is located in West Africa and shares land borders with the Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast in the south lies on the Gulf of Guinea on the Atlantic Ocean. The three largest and most influential ethnic groups in Nigeria are the Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba.

In terms of religion Nigeria is roughly split half and half between Muslims in the North and Christians in the South; a very small minority practice traditional religion. Since 2002 there have been a spate of clashes, particularly in the North of the country, between government forces and the Islamists Boko Haram, militant jihadists who seek to establish sharia law.

The people of Nigeria have an extensive history. Archaeological evidence shows that human habitation of the area dates back to at least 9000 BCE. The area around the Benue and Cross River is thought to be the original homeland of the Bantu migrants who spread across most of central and southern Africa in waves between the 1st millennium BC and the 2nd millennium.

wn.com/Nigeria





Niterói

                            Niterói (Portuguese pronunciation: [niteˈɾɔj]) is a city and municipality in the state of Rio de Janeiro, in southeast region of Brazil. It has an estimated population of 487,327 inhabitants (2010) and an area of 129.375 km (80.39 mi)², being the sixth most populous city in the state and the highest Human Development Index Rio de Janeiro's city, and one of largest in Brazil. Integrates the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area. The city has the nicknames of Niquiti, Nicki City and the Smile City (Cidade Sorriso).

Studies by the Getulio Vargas Foundation in June 2011 classified Niterói as the richest city of Brazil, with 55.7% of the population included in class A. Considering the classes A and B, Niterói also appears in the first place, with 85.9% of the population entered in these classes. The word "Niterói" comes from the Tupi language and means "water that hides".

This city was founded on November 22, 1573 by the Tupi Amerindian chief Araribóia (who later was converted to Roman Catholicism and given the Christian name of Martim Afonso, after the Portuguese explorer Martim Afonso de Sousa). It makes Niteroi the only Brazilian city to have been founded by a non-Christian, non-assimilated Brazilian Amerindian..

wn.com/Niterói





Nova Iguaçu

Coordinates: 22°45′32″S 43°27′03″W﻿ / ﻿22.75889°S 43.45083°W﻿ / -22.75889; -43.45083 Nova Iguaçu (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈnɔvɐ iɡwaˈsu], New Iguaçu) is a city in Rio de Janeiro state in Brazil. It is part of the Greater Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area. It was the state's second largest city in population until Mesquita was split off, and now it is the fourth largest behind São Gonçalo, Duque de Caxias and the state capital, Rio de Janeiro. It lies northwest of Rio de Janeiro, in the centre of the northern part of its metropolitan area, Baixada Fluminense. The current mayor is Sheila Gama (PDT). The city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nova Iguaçu.

Its estimated population is around 800,000 people. Nova Iguaçu, as a suburb of Rio de Janeiro, is under the influence of the capital; many workers and students commute daily to Rio, or weekly or monthly so as to find more options in culture, entertainment, goods, health care, etc. In Brazil, it is a city of averagely lower middle income. There are a few tourist attractions in the municipality.

wn.com/Nova_Iguaçu





Olinda

                            Olinda (Portuguese pronunciation: [oˈlĩdɐ]) is a historic city in the Brazilian state of Pernambuco, located on the country's northeastern Atlantic Ocean coast, just north of Recife and south of Paulista. It has a population of 397,268 people  and is one of the best-preserved colonial cities in Brazil.

Olinda features a number of major touristic attractions, such as a historic downtown area (World Heritage Site), churches, and the Carnival of Olinda, a popular street party, very similar to traditional Portuguese carnivals, with the addition of African influenced dances. Unlike in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador, in Olinda, admission to Carnival is free. All the festivities are celebrated on the streets, and there are no bleachers or roping. There are hundreds of small musical groups (sometimes featuring a single performer) in many genres.

Several indigenous tribes occupied the coast of Northeastern Brazil for several thousand years, and the hills of the present day municipality of Olinda had settlements of Caetés and Tupinambá tribes, which were frequently at war. French mercenaries are thought to be the first Europeans to get to the region, but the Portuguese exploited intertribal rivalries and managed to build a stronghold on the former Caeté village in the higher hill. Recent studies by the Universidade Federal de Pernambuco have uncovered new evidence of the pre-colonial population of the area. The settlement of Olinda was founded in 1535 by Duarte Coelho Pereira; it was elevated to a town on March 12, 1537. It was made the seat of the Territorial Prelature of Pernambuco in 1614, becoming the Diocese of Olinda in 1676.

wn.com/Olinda





Osasco

                            Osasco (Portuguese pronunciation: [oˈzasku]) is a municipality and city in São Paulo State, Brazil, is located in the Greater São Paulo and ranking 5th in population among São Paulo municipalities. The current mayor is Emidio Pereira de Souza (PT). The population in 2008 is 713,066, the density is 10,970/km² and the total area is 65 km². It is among the world more dense cities, similar in density to Tokyo and New York City. It's considered the major urban centre of the Western portion of the Greater São Paulo. It used to be a district of São Paulo City until February 19, 1962, when Osasco became a municipality of its own. In 1989 the city became the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Osasco.

The region that is now Osasco was inhabited by indigenous Tupi-Guaraní people.

Bandeirantes lived in the region that is now Osasco, then called "vila de Quitaúna". The famous "bandeirante" Antonio Raposo Tavares lived there.

Osasco was founded, in 19th century, by the Italian immigrant Antonio Agù (currently the name of one of the main streets in Osasco). He came from the commune Osasco in the province of Turin.To Help of the Baron Dimitri Sensaud de Lavaud. Osasco is said to be the place of the first heavier-than-air flight in Latin America. Immigrants from Italy, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Armenia (Trade), Lebanon (Trade), Israel (Trade) and Japan (Rural) came to Osasco in the period.

wn.com/Osasco





Ouro Preto

                            Ouro Preto (from Portuguese, Black Gold) is a city in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, a former colonial mining town located in the Serra do Espinhaço mountains and designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO because of its outstanding Baroque architecture.

Population: Data from the 2010 Census (IBGE)

The city is linked by good roads to:

Bordering municipalities are:

Ouro Preto has a humid subtropical climate (Cwa, according to the Köppen climate classification), with warm and humid summers and mild, dry winters.

Founded at the end of the 17th century, Ouro Preto (meaning Black Gold) was originally called Vila Rica, or "rich village", the focal point of the gold rush and Brazil's golden age in the 18th century under Portuguese rule.

The city contains well-preserved Portuguese colonial architecture, with few signs of modern urban life. Modern construction must adhere to historical standards maintained by the city. 18th- and 19th-century churches decorated with gold and the sculptured works of Aleijadinho make Ouro Preto a prime tourist destination.

wn.com/Ouro_Preto





Pakistan

                            Pakistan (i/ˈpækɨstæn/ or i/pɑːkiˈstɑːn/; Urdu: پاکستان) (Urdu pronunciation: [paːkɪˈst̪aːn] ( listen)), officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Urdu: اسلامی جمہوریۂ پاکستان), is a sovereign country in South Asia. It sits at the crossroads of the strategically important regions of South Asia, Central Asia and the Middle East. It has a 1,046-kilometre (650 mi) coastline along the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman in the south and is bordered by India to the east, Afghanistan to the west and north, Iran to the southwest and China in the far northeast. It is separated from Tajikistan by Afghanistan's narrow Wakhan Corridor in the north, and it shares a marine border with Oman.

The territory of modern Pakistan was the site of several ancient cultures, including the Neolithic Mehrgarh and the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilisation, and has undergone invasions or settlements by Hindu, Persian, Indo-Greek, Islamic, Turco-Mongol, Afghan and Sikh cultures. Thus the area has been ruled by numerous empires and dynasties, including the Indian Mauryan Empire, the Persian Achaemenid Empire, the Arab Umayyad Caliphate, the Mongol Empire, the Mughal Empire, the Durrani Empire, the Sikh Empire and the British Empire. As a result of the Pakistan Movement led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and India's struggle for independence, Pakistan was created in 1947 as an independent nation for Muslims from the regions in the east and west of India where there was a Muslim majority. Initially a dominion, Pakistan adopted a new constitution in 1956, becoming an Islamic republic. A civil war in 1971 resulted in the secession of East Pakistan as the new country of Bangladesh.

wn.com/Pakistan





Palácio da Alvorada

                            The Palácio da Alvorada (Portuguese pronunciation: [paˈlasju dɐ awvoˈɾadɐ]) is the official residence of the President of Brazil. It is located in the national capital of Brasília, on a peninsula at the margins of Paranoá Lake. The building was designed by Oscar Niemeyer and built between 1957 and 1958 in the modernist style. It has been the residence of every Brazilian president since Juscelino Kubitschek. The building is listed as a National Historic Heritage Site.

The building was initially referred to as the "Presidential Palace". The name "Palácio da Alvorada" ("Palace of Dawn") comes from a quote by Juscelino Kubitschek:

The Palácio da Alvorada was the first government structure built in the new federal capital. Construction began on April 3, 1957 and was completed on June 30, 1958. Niemeyer's project was based on the principles of simplicity and modernity.

In 2004, the First Lady Marisa Letícia directed the most extensive and historical restoration of the palace in its history. The project took two years to complete at a cost of $18.4 million dollars. Research was conducted to restore the rooms and décor to their original styles. Furniture and decoration objects were also restored. The electric and central air conditioning systems were replaced, and floor and ceiling work was done. Contrary to popular belief, the restoration was not paid by the government, but was part of an ongoing project of restoration of heritage sites under the direction of the National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage with funds donated by private corporations (for tax-deduction).

wn.com/Palácio_da_Alvorada





Palácio do Planalto

                            The Palácio do Planalto (Portuguese pronunciation: [paˈlasju du plaˈnawtu]) is the official workplace of the President of Brazil. It is located in the national capital of Brasília. The building was designed by architect Oscar Niemeyer and inaugurated on April 21, 1960. It has been the workplace of every Brazilian president since Juscelino Kubitschek. It is located at the Praça dos Três Poderes, to the east of the National Congress and across from the Supreme Federal Court.

It is one of the official palaces of the Presidency, along with the Palácio da Alvorada. Besides the President, a few high advisers also have offices in the Planalto, including the Vice President and the Chief of Staff; the other ministries are laid along the Ministries Esplanade. As the seat of government, the term Planalto is often used as a metonym for the executive branch of the government.

The presidential palace was a major feature of Lucio Costa's plan for the newly established federal capital, Brasília. Oscar Niemeyer was chosen as the architect of the Palácio do Planalto and the building's construction, led by Construtora Rabello S.A., began on July 10, 1958. The Executive Office was temporarily headquartered at the Catetinho, on the outskirts of Brasília, during construction. The palace was officially inaugurated on April 21, 1960, by President Juscelino Kubitschek. It was one of the first buildings inaugurated in the new capital city, along with the National Congress and Supreme Federal Court. The inauguration ceremony was attended by several heads of state and attracted thousands of spectators, as it symbolized the transfer of the capital city from Rio de Janeiro to the center of the country.

wn.com/Palácio_do_Planalto





Panama City

                            Panama City (Spanish: Ciudad de Panamá) is the capital and largest city of the Republic of Panama. It has a population of 880,691, with a total metro population of 1,272,672, and it is located at the Pacific entrance of the Panama Canal, in the province of Panama. The city is the political and administrative center of the country, and a hub for international banking and commerce. It is considered a Beta World City.

With an average GDP per capita of $11,700, Panama has been among the top five places for retirement in the world, according to International Living magazine.[citation needed] Panama City has a dense skyline of mostly highrise buildings, and it is surrounded by a large belt of tropical rainforest. Panama's Tocumen International Airport, the largest and busiest airport in Central America, offers daily flights to major international destinations.

Panama City was chosen to be the American Capital of Culture for 2003 (jointly, with Curitiba, Brazil).[citation needed]

Panama was founded on August 15, 1519 by Spanish conquistador Pedro Arias Dávila. The city was the starting point of expeditions that conquered the Inca Empire in Peru. It was a stopover point of one of the most important trade routes in the history of the American continent leading to the fairs of Nombre de Dios and Portobelo, where most of the gold and silver that Spain took from the Americas passed through. The city was destroyed by a devastating fire, when the pirate Henry Morgan sacked it on January 28, 1671. It was rebuilt and formally established on January 21, 1673 in a peninsula located 8 km from the original settlement. The place where the previously devastated city was located is still in ruins, and has become a tourist attraction known as "Panama Viejo".

wn.com/Panama_City





Pantanal

                            The Pantanal is a tropical wetland. It is one of the world's largest wetlands of any kind. Most of it lies within the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul, but it extends into Mato Grosso and portions of Bolivia and Paraguay, sprawling over an area estimated at between 140,000 square kilometres (54,000 sq mi) and 195,000 square kilometres (75,000 sq mi). Various subregional ecosystems exist, each with distinct hydrological, geological and ecological characteristics; up to 12 of them have been defined (RADAMBRASIL 1982).

About 80% of the Pantanal floodplains are submerged during the rainy seasons, nurturing an astonishing biologically diverse collection of aquatic plants and helping support a dense array of animal species.

The name "Pantanal" comes from the Portuguese word pântano, meaning wetland, bog, swamp or marsh. By comparison, the Brazilian highlands are locally referred to as the planalto, plateau or, literally, high plain.

The Pantanal is a huge, gently-sloped basin that receives runoff from the upland areas (the Planalto highlands) and slowly releases the water through the Paraguay River and tributaries. The formation is a result of the large, concave pre-Andean depression of the earth's crust, related to the Andean orogeny of the Tertiary. It constitutes an enormous internal river delta, in which several rivers flowing from the surrounding plateau merge, depositing their sediments and erosion residues, which have been filling, throughout the years, the large depression area of the Pantanal. This area is also one of the distinct physiographic provinces of the larger Parana-Paraguay Plain area.[citation needed]

wn.com/Pantanal





Paraguay

                            Paraguay (i/ˈpɛərəɡwaɪ/, PAIR-ə-gwy), officially the Republic of Paraguay (Spanish: República del Paraguay [reˈpuβlika ðel paɾaˈɣwai], Guaraní: Tetã Paraguái [teˈtã paɾaˈɣwaj]), is a landlocked country in South America. It is bordered by Argentina to the south and southwest, Brazil to the east and northeast, and Bolivia to the northwest. Paraguay lies on both banks of the Paraguay River, which runs through the center of the country from north to south. Due to its central location in South America, it is sometimes referred to as Corazón de América, or the Heart of America.

The Guaraní have been living in Paraguay since before the arrival of Europeans in the 16th century, when Paraguay became part of the Spanish colonial empire. Following independence from Spain in 1811, Paraguay was ruled by a series of dictators who followed isolationist and protectionist policies. This development was truncated by the disastrous Paraguayan War (1864–1870) in which the country lost 60% to 70% of its population and large amounts of territory. During a large part of the 20th century, Paraguay was ruled by Alfredo Stroessner, who led one of South America's longest lived military dictatorships. In 1989 Stroessner was toppled and free elections were celebrated in 1993. In 1994 Paraguay joined Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay to found Mercosur.

wn.com/Paraguay





Paramaribo

                            Paramaribo (nickname: Par′bo) is the capital and largest city of Suriname, located on banks of the Suriname River in the Paramaribo District. Paramaribo has a population of roughly 250,000 people, more than half of Suriname's population. The historic inner city of Paramaribo has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2002.

The area, a trading post started by the Dutch, was taken by the English in 1630, and in 1650 the city became the capital of the new English colony. The area changed hands often between the English and Dutch but it was in Dutch hands again in 1667 and under Dutch rule from 1815 until the independence of Suriname in 1975.

On January 1821, a fire in the city centre destroyed over 400 houses and other buildings.

A second fire in September 1832 destroyed another 46 houses on the western part of the Waterkant.

In 1943, a military plane crashed on its way to North Africa near the city, killing two FBI Agents and other 33 people that were on board. The cause of the aircraft accident was never determined and nearly no remains of the 35 people aboard were found.

wn.com/Paramaribo





Paraíba

                            Paraíba (Tupi: pa'ra a'íba: "bad to navigation"; Brazilian Portuguese pronunciation: ([paɾaˈiba]) is a state of Brazil. It is located in the Brazilian Northeast, and is bordered by Rio Grande do Norte to the north, Ceará to the west, Pernambuco to the south and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. Paraíba is the third most densely populated state of the Northeast; João Pessoa, the sea-bordered state capital, and Campina Grande, in the interior, rank among the fifteen-largest municipalities in the Northeast of Brazil.

Paraíba is most populated along the Atlantic coast, which extends as far as Ponta do Seixas, the easternmost point of the Americas. The state is a touristic and industrial hotspot; it is known for its cultural heritage, amenable climate and geographical features, ranging from the seaside beaches to the Borborema Plateau. It is named after the Paraíba river.

Some of the most notable Brazilian writers and poets are from Paraíba like Augusto dos Anjos, José Américo de Almeida, José Lins do Rego and Pedro Américo, the last being also known for his historical paintings.

wn.com/Paraíba





Pará

                            Pará (Portuguese pronunciation: [paˈɾa]) is a state in the north of Brazil. It borders the Brazilian states of (clockwise from north) Amapá, Maranhão, Tocantins, Mato Grosso, Amazonas and Roraima. To the northwest it also borders Guyana and Suriname, and to the northeast it borders the Atlantic Ocean. The capital and largest city is Belém, the 11th most populous city in the country.

Pará is the most populous state of the northern region with a population of over 7.5 million. It is the second largest state of Brazil in area, with 1,247,689.515 km², second only to Amazonas (it was the third until Mato Grosso do Sul broke away from Mato Grosso in 1977). Its most famous icons are the Amazon River and the Amazon Rainforest. Pará produces rubber (extracted from natural rubber tree groves), tropical hardwoods such as mahogany, and minerals such as iron ore and bauxite.

Every October, Belém receives tens of thousands of tourists for the year's most important religious celebration, the procession of the Círio de Nazaré. Another important attraction of the capital is the marajó-style ceramics, based on pottery from the extinct Marajó indigenous culture, whose designs have gained considerable international fame.

wn.com/Pará





Pernambuco

                            Pernambuco (Portuguese pronunciation: [pɛʁnɐ̃ˈbuku]) is a state of Brazil, located in the Northeast region of the country. To the north are the states of Paraíba and Ceará, to the west is Piauí, to the south are Alagoas and Bahia, and to the east is the Atlantic Ocean. There are about 187 kilometers (116 mi) of beaches, some of the most beautiful in the Region, as Porto de Galinhas, Carneiros and Calhetas. In 1982 the city of Olinda, the second oldest Brazilian city, was declared a Historical and Cultural Patrimony of Humanity by the UNESCO. Recife, the Capital of State and Olinda have one of the most traditional and best carnaval of Brasil. Both have Portuguese architecture, with centuries-old casarões and churches, and kilometers of beaches and much culture. The state of Pernambuco also includes the archipelago Fernando de Noronha. The proximity of the Equator guarantees an entire year of sun, with average temperatures of 26 °C (79 °F).

Pernambuco comprises a comparatively narrow coastal zone, a high inland plateau, and an intermediate zone formed by the terraces and slopes between the two.

wn.com/Pernambuco





Peru

                            Peru i/pəˈruː/ (Spanish: Perú; Quechua: Perú;Aymara: Piruw), officially the Republic of Peru (Spanish: República del Perú, pronounced: [reˈpuβlika ðel peˈɾu] ( listen)), is a country in western South America. It is bordered on the north by Ecuador and Colombia, on the east by Brazil, on the southeast by Bolivia, on the south by Chile, and on the west by the Pacific Ocean.

Peruvian territory was home to ancient cultures, spanning from the Norte Chico civilization, one of the oldest in the world, to the Inca Empire, the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century and established a Viceroyalty, which included most of its South American colonies. After achieving independence in 1821, Peru has undergone periods of political unrest and fiscal crisis as well as periods of stability and economic upswing.

Peru is a representative democratic republic divided into 25 regions. Its geography varies from the arid plains of the Pacific coast to the peaks of the Andes Mountains and the tropical forests of the Amazon Basin. It is a developing country with a high Human Development Index score and a poverty level around 31%. Its main economic activities include agriculture, fishing, mining, and manufacturing of products such as textiles.

wn.com/Peru





Piauí

                            Piauí (Portuguese pronunciation: [pjaˈwi] or [pi.awˈi]) is one of the states of Brazil, located in the northeastern part of the country.

Piauí has the shortest coastline of any of the non-landlocked Brazilian states at 66 km (41 mi), and the capital, Teresina, is the only state capital in the north east to be located inland. The reason for this is, unlike the rest of the area, Piauí was first colonised inland and slowly expanded towards the ocean, rather than the other way around. In the Southeast of the State, the National Park of Serra da Capivara is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The park has more than 400 archaeological sites and the largest concentration of rock paintings in the world, in a landscape dominated by canyons and caatinga.

The state has many highly important archaeological sites, including Serra de Capivara National Park and Sete Cidades National Park, which are rich in remains of prehistoric Paleo-Indian and sedentary-based Indigenous Brazilian complex cultures.

The first settlers in Piauí were sertanistas, from São Paulo, like Domingos Jorge Velho, or from Portugal, like Domingos Afonso Mafrense. Mafrense founded what is today Oeiras, whilst the first herds of cattle were taken there by Velho.

wn.com/Piauí





Pirenópolis

                            Pirenópolis is a town located in the Brazilian state of Goiás. It is well known for its waterfalls and colonial architecture, and a popular festival involving mounted horses called Festa do Divino Espírito Santo which takes place 45 days after Easter.

The history of Pirenópolis begins in 1727 when it was founded with the name of Minas de Nossa Senhora do Rosário de Meia Ponte, Meia Ponte (half a bridge) because half of the bridge over the Almas River was swept away in a flood. The first colonizers were Portuguese who came for the gold easily found in the Rio das Almas. From 1750 to 1800 there was a golden age when four churches were built and Pirenópolis competed with Vila Boa (present day Cidade de Goiás) as the richest town in the province. After 1800 a downturn over gold mining was set and the part of the population emigrated. With the change of commercial routes to Anápolis, the city became economically isolated. The first newspaper in the province, the Matutina Meiapontense, was published in Meia Ponte in 1830 by Joaquim Alves de Oliveira. In 1890 the city changed its name from Meia Ponte to Pirenópolis, the city of the Pireneus, the mountains located nearby. In 1960 with the construction of Brasília there was an intensive exploitation of the famous Pedra de Pirenópolis (quartzite-micáceo). In the 1980s the hippies arrived with their alternative communities and production of handicrafts. Pirenópolis was born again with a huge influx of tourists, especially from Brasília. Churches were restored and all the electrical wiring was put underground.

wn.com/Pirenópolis





Porto Alegre

                            Porto Alegre (local Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈpoɾtʊ aˈlɛɡɾi] ( listen);Merry Harbour) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul. The city population is 1,509,939 inhabitants (2010), the tenth most populous city in the country and the centre of Brazil's fourth largest metropolitan area, with 4,405,760 inhabitants (2010). The city is the southernmost capital city of a Brazilian state. Porto Alegre is one of the top cultural, political and economic centers of Brazil. Two Mercosul countries, Argentina and Uruguay, border on the State of Rio Grande do Sul.

Porto Alegre was founded in 1772 by immigrants from the Azores, Portugal. In the late 19th century the city received many immigrants from other parts of the world, particularly Germany, Italy, and Poland. The vast majority of the population is of European descent.

The city lies on the eastern bank of the Rio Guaiba (Guaiba Lake), where five rivers converge to form the Lagoa dos Patos (Lagoon of the Ducks), a giant freshwater lagoon navigable by even the largest of ships. This five-river junction has become an important alluvial port as well as a chief industrial and commercial center of Brazil.

wn.com/Porto_Alegre





Porto Velho

                            Porto Velho (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈpoʁtu ˈvɛʎu], Old Port) is the capital of the Brazilian state of Rondônia, in the upper Amazon River basin. The population is estimated to be 435,732 people (IBGE/2010). Located on the border of Rondônia and the state of Amazonas, the town is an important trading center for cassiterite, the mining of which represents the most important economic activity in the region, as well as a transportation and communication center. It is located on the eastern shore of the Madeira River, one of the main tributaries of the Amazon River. It is also Rondônia's largest city.

The municipality occupies most of the border between Amazonas and Rondônia, and is simultaneously the westernmost and northernmost city in the state.

Officially founded on October 2, 1914, Porto Velho was founded by pioneers around 1907, during the construction of the Madeira-Mamoré railroad. After the railroad was completed, the local population was about one thousand inhabitants; its buildings were chiefly the railway's installations and the wooden houses of the Caribbean (mainly Barbadian) workers - hence the name of the town's largest district by then, "Barbados Town", nowadays called the "Alto do Bode".

wn.com/Porto_Velho





Portugal

                            Portugal i/ˈpɔrtʃʉɡəl/ (Portuguese: Portugal, IPA: [puɾtuˈɣaɫ]), officially the Portuguese Republic (Portuguese: República Portuguesa) is a country situated in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula . Portugal is the westernmost country of mainland Europe, and is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the West and South and by Spain to the North and East. The Atlantic archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira are part of Portugal. The country is named after its second largest city, Porto, whose Latin name was Portus Cale.

The land within the borders of the current Portuguese Republic has been continuously settled since prehistoric times: occupied by Celts like the Gallaeci and the Lusitanians, integrated into the Roman Republic and later settled by Germanic peoples such as the Suebi, Swabians, Vandals and the Visigoths. In the 8th century most of the Iberian Peninsula was conquered by Moorish invaders professing Islam, which were later expelled by the Knights Templar under the Order of Christ. During the Christian Reconquista, Portugal established itself as an independent kingdom from León in 1139, claiming to be the oldest European nation state.

wn.com/Portugal





Putrajaya

                            Putrajaya is a planned city, located 25km south of Kuala Lumpur, that serves as the federal administrative centre of Malaysia. The seat of government was shifted in 1999 from Kuala Lumpur to Putrajaya, due to the overcrowding and congestion in the Kuala Lumpur areas. Nevertheless, Kuala Lumpur remains Malaysia's national capital, being the seat of the King and Parliament, as well as the country's commercial and financial centre. Putrajaya was the brainchild of former Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohammad. In 2001, Putrajaya became Malaysia's third Federal Territory after Kuala Lumpur and Labuan.

Named after the first Malaysian Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra, the city is situated within the Multimedia Super Corridor, beside the also newly developed Cyberjaya. In Malay/Sanskrit, the words "putra" or "putera" means "prince", and "jaya" means "success" or "victory". The development of Putrajaya started in early 1990s, and today major landmarks are completed and the population is expected to grow bigger.

wn.com/Putrajaya





Qatar

                            Qatar (i/ˈkɑːtɑr/ or i/kəˈtɑr/;Arabic: قطر‎ [ˈqɑtˤɑr]; local vernacular pronunciation: [ɡɪtˤɑr]), also known as the country or State of Qatar or locally Dawlat Qaṭar, is a sovereign Arab state, located in Western Asia, occupying the small Qatar Peninsula on the northeasterly coast of the much larger Arabian Peninsula. Its sole land border is with Saudi Arabia to the south, with the rest of its territory surrounded by the Persian Gulf. A strait of the Persian Gulf separates Qatar from the nearby island state of Bahrain.

Qatar has been ruled as an absolute monarchy by Al Thani family since the mid-19th century. Formerly a British protectorate noted mainly for pearling, it became independent in 1971, and has become one of the region's wealthiest states due to its enormous oil and natural gas revenues. In 1995, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani became Emir when he seized power from his father, Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, in a peaceful coup d'état. The most important positions in Qatar are held by the members of the Al Thani family, or close confidants of the al-Thani family. Beginning in 1992, Qatar has built intimate military ties with the United States, and is now the location of U.S. Central Command’s Forward Headquarters and the Combined Air Operations Center.

wn.com/Qatar





Quito

                            San Francisco de Quito, most often called Quito (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈkito]), is the capital city of Ecuador in northwestern South America. It is located in north-central Ecuador in the Guayllabamba river basin, on the eastern slopes of Pichincha, an active stratovolcano in the Andes mountains. With a population of 2,197,698 according to the last census (2001), and, as estimated by the municipality, approximately 2,504,991 in 2005, Quito is the second most populous city in Ecuador, after Guayaquil. It is also the capital of the Pichincha province and the seat of Metropolitan District of Quito. The canton recorded a population of 1,842,201 residents in the 2001 national census. In 2008, the city was designated as the headquarters of the Union of South American Nations.

The elevation of the city's central square (Plaza de la Independencia or Plaza Grande) is 2,800 metres (9,200 ft), making Quito the second-highest administrative capital city in the world (after La Paz, Bolivia), and the highest legal capital (ahead of Sucre, also in Bolivia, and Bogotá, Colombia).

wn.com/Quito





Recife

                            Recife (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁeˈsifi] ( listen), Reef) is the fifth-largestmetropolitan area in Brazil with 4,136,506 inhabitants, the largest metropolitan area of the North/Northeast Regions, the 5th-largest metropolitan influence area in Brazil, and the capital and largest city of the state of Pernambuco. The population of the city proper was 1,536,934 in 2010.

Recife is located where the Beberibe River meets the Capibaribe River to flow into the Atlantic Ocean. It is a major port on the Atlantic Ocean. Its name is an allusion to the coral reefs that are present by the city's shores. The many rivers, small islands and over 50 bridges found in Recife city center characterize its geography and gives it the moniker of the "Brazilian Venice."

The Metropolitan Region of Recife is the main industrial zone of the State of Pernambuco; most relevant products are those derived from cane (sugar and ethanol), electronics, food, and others; thanks to the fiscal incentives of government, many industrial enterprises were started in the 1970s and 1980s. Recife has a tradition of being the most important commercial center of the North/Northeastern region of Brazil with more than 52,500 business enterprises in Recife itself plus 32,500 in the Metro Area which totals more than 85,000.

wn.com/Recife





Rede Record

                            Rede Record de Televisão (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʁedʒi ʁeˈkɔʁ]) is a Brazilian television network, founded in 1953 by Paulo Machado de Carvalho, also founder of Rádio Record. Currently it is owned by businessman Edir Macedo, founder and bishop of the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God. Since 2007 it is the second most popular television network in Brazil after being in the last place of television networks for many years from the 1980s. With 58 years of transmission, it is also the oldest TV network in the country.

TV Record started its transmissions on September 27, 1953. It was founded by Paulo Machado de Carvalho in São Paulo, as a competitor for then-dominant Rede Tupi from Diários Associados, thus breaking the three-year old monopoly the station had in the city. It originally broadcast shows, sports, journalism, comedies and plays. In the 1950s, TV Record became recognized by their sports broadcasts. In 1959, it started airing shows featuring international celebrities such as Charles Aznavour, Nat King Cole, Ella Fitzgerald, and Marlene Dietrich.

wn.com/Rede_Record





Ribeirão Preto

                            Ribeirão Preto (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁibejˈɾɐ̃w ˈpɾetu], Black Brook) is a municipality and city in the Northeastern region of the state of São Paulo in Brazil. It is nicknamed Brazilian California, because of a combination of an economy based on agrobusiness plus high technology, wealth and sunny weather all year long. With 605,114 inhabitants, Ribeirão Preto is the ninth largest municipality in the state. With a total area of 652.2 km² (251.8 sq mi), its coordinates are 21° 10’ 42" South latitude and 47° 48’ 24" West longitude; and it is situated 313 km (194 mi) from the city of São Paulo and 706 km (439 mi) from Brasília, the federal capital. Mean altitude is 546.8 meters high (1,794 ft).

The population of Ribeirão Preto includes, amongst other groups, descendents of Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Japanese immigrants who were attracted to the region because of the coffee agriculture, right after the Abolition of Slavery in 1888, when immigrants were granted lands, after being indentured workers. Descendants of African slaves also constituted a big parcel of the population. Italians arrived in huge numbers, followed by Germans, Spaniards, Eastern Europeans, and Portuguese.

wn.com/Ribeirão_Preto





Rio Branco

                            Rio Branco (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʁiu ˈbɾɐ̃ku], White River) is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Acre. Located in the valley of the Acre River in northern Brazil, it is the most populous county in the state, with 305,954 inhabitants – almost half the state population, according to a 2009 estimate.

Rio Branco was one of the first settlements to appear on the banks of the Acre River. In 1913 it became a county. In 1920 it became the capital of the territory of Acre, and in 1962, the state capital. It is the administrative center for the economic and cultural region.

Rio Branco is located at 9° 58' 29" south and 67° 48' 36" west, at an altitude of 153 metres (502 ft) above sea level. The city is bisected by the Acre River, which divides it into the First and Second Districts. The river is crossed by six bridges, the newest bridge being the Catwalk Joaquim Macedo.

Rio Branco is located in the mesoregion of Vale do Jurua and the microregion of Rio Branco. It is bordered on the north by the municipalities of Bujari and Porto Acre; to the south by the municipalities of Xapuri, Capixaba, and Plácido de Castro; to the east by the municipality of Senador Guiomard; and to the west by the municipality of Sena Madureira.

wn.com/Rio_Branco





Rio de Janeiro

                            Rio de Janeiro ( /ˈriːoʊ deɪ ʒəˈnɛəroʊ/ or /ˈriːoʊ deɪ dʒəˈnɛəroʊ/; Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈʁi.u dʒi ʒaˈnejɾu],River of January), commonly referred to simply as Rio, is the capital city of the State of Rio de Janeiro, the second largest city of Brazil, and the third largest metropolitan area and agglomeration in South America, boasting approximately 6.3 million people within the city proper, making it the 6th largest in the Americas, and 26th in the world.

The city was the capital of Brazil for nearly two centuries, from 1763 to 1815 during the Portuguese colonial era, 1815 to 1821 as the capital of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves, and 1822 to 1960 as an independent nation. Rio is nicknamed the Cidade Maravilhosa or "Marvelous City."

Rio de Janeiro represents the second largest GDP in the country (and 30th largest in the world in 2008), estimated at about R$ 343 billion (IBGE/2008) (nearly US$ 201 billion), and is the headquarters of two major Brazilian companies – Petrobras and Vale, and major oil companies and telephony in Brazil, besides the largest conglomerate of media and communications companies in Latin America, the Globo Organizations. The home of many universities and institutes, it is the second largest center of research and development in Brazil, accounting for 17% of national scientific production – according to 2005 data.

wn.com/Rio_de_Janeiro





Rio Grande do Norte

                            Rio Grande do Norte (lit. "Great Northern River", in reference to the mouth of the Potengi River, Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁi.u ˈɡɾɐ̃dɨ du ˈnɔʁtɨ]) is one of the states of Brazil, located in the northeastern region of the country, occupying the northeasternmost tip of the South American continent. Because of its geographic position, Rio Grande do Norte has a strategic importance. The capital and largest city is Natal. It is the land of the folklorist Luís da Câmara Cascudo and, according to NASA, it has the purest air in the Americas. Its 410 km (254 mi) of sand, much sun, coconut palms and lagoons are responsible for the fame of beaches. Rocas Atoll, the only such feature in the Atlantic Ocean, is part of the state. The main economic activity is tourism, followed by the extraction of petroleum (the second largest producer in the country), agriculture, fruit growing and extraction of minerals, including considerable production of seasalt, among other economic activities. The state is famous for having many popular attractions such as the Maior cajueiro do mundo (world's largest cashew tree), the dunes and the dromedaries of Genipabu, the famous beaches of Ponta Negra, Maracajaú and Pipa's paradise, the Carnatal the largest off-season carnival in Brazil, the Forte dos Reis Magos is a medieval fortress, the hills and mountains of Martins, the Dunas Park the second largest urban park in the country, and several other attractions. The state is also closest to the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha.

wn.com/Rio_Grande_do_Norte





Rio Grande do Sul

                            Rio Grande do Sul (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁiw ˈɡɾɐ̃dʒi du suw] ( listen); lit. "Great Southern River") is the southernmost state in Brazil, and the state with the fifth highest Human Development Index (HDI) in the country. In this state is located the southernmost city in the country, Chuí, on the border with Uruguay. In the region of Bento Gonçalves and Caxias do Sul, the largest wine producing center in Brazil, the attraction is Italian gastronomy. Besides the European influence, the gaúchos, or inhabitants of Rio Grande do Sul, strongly cultivate the traditions of the Pampas — region of the border with Uruguay and Argentina — such as drinking mate (known as chimarrão drunk in special gourd cups), eating the typical barbecue, known as churrasco, and the traditional clothes are the bombachas (baggy trousers), boots and large hats. Although the majority of the population dresses non-traditionally, there is[citation needed][says who?] a widespread value for tradition and culture, which renders the image of "cultural zealots" sometimes attributed[by whom?] to the gaúchos.

wn.com/Rio_Grande_do_Sul





Rome

                            Rome (/ˈroʊm/; Italian: Roma pronounced [ˈroːma] ( listen); Latin: Rōma) is a city and special comune ("Roma Capitale") in Italy. Rome is the capital of Italy and the capital of Lazio (Latin: Latium). With 2.8 million residents in 1,285.3 km2 (496.3 sq mi), it is also the country's largest and most populated comune and fourth-most populous city in the European Union by population within city limits. Between 3.2 and 3.7 million people live in the Rome metropolitan area. The city is located in the central-western portion of the Italian Peninsula, on the Tiber River within the Lazio region of Italy.
Rome's history spans two and a half thousand years. It was the capital city of the Roman Kingdom, the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire, which was the dominant power in Western Europe and the lands bordering the Mediterranean for over seven hundred years from the 1st century BC until the 7th century AD and the city is regarded as one of the birthplaces of western civilization. Since the 1st century AD Rome has been the seat of the Papacy and, after the end of Byzantine domination, in the 8th century it became the capital of the Papal States, which lasted until 1870. In 1871 Rome became the capital of the Kingdom of Italy, and in 1946 that of the Italian Republic.

wn.com/Rome





Rondônia

                            Rondônia (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁõˈdõniɐ]) is a state in Brazil, located in the north-western part of the country. To the west is a short border with the state of Acre, to the north is the state of Amazonas, in the east is Mato Grosso, and in the south is Bolivia. Its capital is Porto Velho. The state was named after Candido Rondon. A boat ride on the Rio Madeira where one can appreciate the forest of 100-year old trees and such fauna as exotic birds is one of the best attractions of the state. Two-thirds of its area is covered by the Amazon Rainforest. Other attractions are the Chapada dos Parecis and the Serra do Pacaás, a national park, and the capital, Porto Velho, which is simple and with few buildings.

The state is covered mostly with Amazon Rainforest, but about three-fifths of the state has been deforested since intensive settlement and logging began in the 1970s, speeding up deforestation even into current times. A majority of its citizens now live in urban areas. It is a main exporter of wood, as well as a significant producer of both coffee and cocoa. It is also an important region for animal husbandry, specifically cattle.

wn.com/Rondônia





Roraima

                            Roraima (Tupi: Green Plateau, Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁoˈɾajmɐ]) is the northernmost and least populated state of Brazil, located in the Amazon region. It borders the states of Amazonas and Pará, as well as the nations of Venezuela and Guyana. The population is approximately 450,000 (2010) and the capital is Boa Vista. Roraima is the Brazilian state with the fewest municipalities, 15 in total.

The climate of Roraima is tropical with an annual mean temperature of 26°C (78.8°F). The state's southern part is located in the Amazon rainforest, while the north has open grassland fields, and there is a small strip of savanna to the east. The state is rich in mineral deposits - especially gold, diamonds, cassiterite, bauxite, marble and copper. Many of these deposits are located in indigenous reserves, and illegal mining has resulted in frequent conflicts with the native population, especially the Yanomami and the Macuxi and allied groups.

The Monte Roraima National Park is located around one of the highest mountains of both Venezuela (outside of the Andes) and Brazil, and the highest in Guyana, a 2,875 m (9,432 ft) high tepui known as Monte Roraima. Only a small fraction of the mountain is in Brazilian territory, however, and the highest point of the Brazilian part is at 2,734 metres (8,970 ft).

wn.com/Roraima




Serejão

                            The Elmo Serejo Farias Stadium, popularly known as 'Serejão' or, more recently, 'Boca do Jacaré', is a Brazilian football stadium located in the administrative region of Taguatinga, in Distrito Federal.

The stadium holds 35,000 people. It was built in 1978. The stadium is owned by the Taguatinga Regional Administration and by the Distrito Federal Government and is the home stadium of Taguatinga Esporte Clube.

Its formal name honors Elmo Serejo Farias, who was Taguatinga's administrator and Distrito Federal's governor during the stadium construction.

The nickname Estádio Boca do Jacaré means Alligator's Mouth Stadium, and is a reference to Brasiliense Futebol Clube's nickname.

Serejão means Big Serejo.

The inaugural match was played on January 23, 1978, when Taguatinga beat Vila Nova 1-0. The first goal of the stadium was scored by Taguatinga's Dinate.

The stadium's attendance record currently stands at 26,205 people, set on October 5, 2005 when Flamengo beat Brasiliense 3-2.

In 2001, the stadium was reformed, and its maximum capacity was expanded from 22,000 people to 32,000 people.

wn.com/Serejão





Sergipe

                            Sergipe (Portuguese pronunciation: [sɛʁˈʒipi]) (officially the State of Sergipe), is the smallest state of the Brazilian Federation, located on the northeastern Atlantic coast of the country. It borders on two other states, Bahia to the south and west and Alagoas to the north, and to the east is the Atlantic Ocean. Aracaju is the capital and the largest city of the state.

As with most of the states in northeastern Brazil, inland Sergipe is almost entirely savanna (caatinga), and its coastline is characterized by mangroves, swamps and sandy beaches. A small strip of tropical rainforest runs down the coast.

The São Francisco River forms its northern boundary, and the drainage of the northern part of the state is northward and eastward to that river. The southern half of the state slopes eastward and is drained directly into the Atlantic through a number of small rivers, the largest of which are the Irapiranga (whose source in the state of Bahia is called Vasa Barris at its mouth), the Real and the Cotinguiba. These streams are navigable for short distances, but are obstructed by sandbars at their mouths, and that of Cotinguiba is especially dangerous. The surface of the state resembles, in part, that of Bahia, with a zone of forested lands near the coast and beyond this forested zone lies a higher zone of rough open country, called agreste. There is a sandy belt along the coast, and the western frontier is slightly mountainous. The land in between is very fertile, especially in the forested region where the rainfall is abundant. Further inland, the year is divided into wet and dry seasons with occasional prolonged droughts. These are pastoral areas, and the lower fertile lands are cultivated. There are no good ports on the coast because of the sandbars at the mouths of the rivers.

wn.com/Sergipe





Serra do Mar

                            Serra do Mar (Portuguese: Sea's ridge or Sea ridge, [ˈsɛʁɐ du ˈmaʁ]) is a 1,500 km long system of mountain ranges and escarpments in Southeastern Brazil, which runs in parallel to the Atlantic Ocean coast from the state of Espírito Santo to southern Santa Catarina, although some include Serra Geral in the Serra do Mar, in which case this range extends to northeastern Rio Grande do Sul. The main escarpment forms the boundary between the sea-level littoral and the inland plateau (planalto), which has a mean altitude of 500 to 1,300 metres (1,600 to 4,300 ft).

The mountain ranges are discontinuous in several places and receive individual names such as Serra de Bocaina, Serra de Paranapiacaba, Serra Negra, Serra do Indaiá, etc. It also extends to some large islands near the coastline, such as Ilhabela and Ilha Anchieta. With an altitude of 2,255 metres (7,398 ft), Pico da Caledônia in Nova Friburgo and Cachoeiras de Macacu in Rio de Janeiro is among the higherst points in Serra do Mar.

Geologically, the range belongs to the massive crystalline rock platform that forms Eastern South America and tectonically is very stable. Most of the elevations of Serra do Mar were formed about 60 million years ago.

wn.com/Serra_do_Mar





Sorocaba

                            Sorocaba (Portuguese pronunciation: [soɾoˈkabɐ]) is a city in the state of São Paulo, Brazil. Sorocaba is the fourth largest city in the state of São Paulo. Outside the Greater São Paulo region, it ranks behind only Campinas, Sao Jose dos Campos and Ribeirão Preto. With an estimated population of 584,313 inhabitants, it is a regional capital of the Sorocaba microregion with 14 municipalities, totaling over 1.5 million inhabitants. It has an area of 456.0 km ², of which 349.2 km ² is urban and 106.8 km ² rural area.

Proportional to population, the municipality is the least violent in the interior due to the great performance of the Military Police, both Civil and Municipal, mainly between 2000 and 2002, who fought violence, child labor and drug trafficking.

Over the past twelve years the city has been undergoing extensive urbanization projects, improving streets and avenues, as well as infrastructure for the traffic which the city receive every day.

The city has 60 miles of exclusive bike paths that run along many of the city's main avenues. Plans for the future hope to make Sorocaba the largest cycling network in Latin America. The city is implementing a public bike system similar to the European cities of Barcelona and Paris. Sorocaba is currently the second largest cycling loop in Brazil, after Rio de Janeiro.

wn.com/Sorocaba





Sucre

                            Sucre, also known historically as Charcas, La Plata and Chuquisaca (population 247,300 in 2006) is the constitutional capital of Bolivia , the capital of the department of Chuquisacaand the 4th most populated city in Bolivia. Located in the south-central part of the country, Sucre lies at an elevation of 2750m (9,000 ft). This relatively high altitude gives the city a cool temperate climate year-round.

On November 30, 1538, Sucre was founded under the name Ciudad de la Plata de la Nueva Toledo by Pedro Anzures, Marqués de Campo Redondo. In 1559, the Spanish King Philip II established the Audiencia de Charcas in La Plata with authority over an area which covers what is now Paraguay, southeastern Peru, Northern Chile and Argentina, and much of Bolivia. The Audiencia de Charcas was a subdivision of the Viceroyalty of Peru until 1776, when it was transferred to the newly created Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. In 1601, the Recoleta Monastery was founded by the Franciscans and in 1609, an archbishopric was founded in the city. In 1624, St Francis Xavier University of Chuquisaca was founded.

wn.com/Sucre





Sudan

                            Sudan (i/suːˈdæn/ or /suːˈdɑːn/;Arabic: السودان‎, as-Sūdān), officially the Republic of the Sudan (Arabic: جمهورية السودان‎, Jumhūrīyat as-Sūdān), sometimes called North Sudan, is an Arab state in North Africa (sometimes also considered to be part of the Middle East). It is bordered by Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east, South Sudan to the south, the Central African Republic to the southwest, Chad to the west, and Libya to the northwest. The population of Sudan is a combination of indigenous inhabitants of Nile Valley, and descendants of migrants from the Arabian Peninsula. Due to the process of Arabisation common throughout the rest of the Arab World, today Arab culture predominates in Sudan. The majority of the population of Sudan adheres to Islam. The Nile divides the country between east and west sides.

The people of Sudan have a long history extending from antiquity which is intertwined with the history of Egypt. Sudan suffered seventeen years of civil war during the First Sudanese Civil War (1955–1972) followed by ethnic, religious and economic conflicts between the Muslim Arab northern Sudanese and the mostly animist and Christian Nilotes of Southern Sudan. This led to the Second Sudanese Civil War in 1983. Because of continuing political and military struggles, Sudan was seized in a bloodless coup d'état by colonel Omar al-Bashir in 1989, who thereafter proclaimed himself President of Sudan. The civil war ended with the signing of a Comprehensive Peace Agreement which granted autonomy to what was then the southern region of the country. Following a referendum held in January 2011, South Sudan seceded on 9 July 2011 with the consent of Sudan's President al-Bashir.

wn.com/Sudan





Suriname

                            Suriname, officially the Republic of Suriname (Dutch: Republiek Suriname, Dutch pronunciation: [ˌrepyˈblik ˌsyriˈnaːmə]), is a country in northern South America. It borders French Guiana to the east, Guyana to the west, Brazil to the south, and the Atlantic Ocean to the north. Suriname was first colonized by the British, and captured by the Dutch in 1667, who governed it as the colony of Suriname until 1954. The country of Suriname achieved independence from the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in which Suriname, the Netherlands Antilles, and the Netherlands itself cooperated on a basis of equality since 1954, on 25 November 1975.

At just under 165,000 km2 (64,000 sq mi) Suriname is the smallest sovereign state in South America (French Guiana comprises less territory, but is French territory). It has an estimated population of approximately 560,000, most of whom live on the country's north coast, where the capital Paramaribo is located.

The name Suriname may derive from a Taino (Arawak-speaking) group called "Surinen" who first inhabited the region prior to European arrival.

wn.com/Suriname





São José dos Campos

                            São José dos Campos (Portuguese pronunciation: [sɐ̃w̃ ʒuˈzɛ dus ˈkɐ̃pus], meaning Saint Joseph of the Fields) is a municipality and a major city in the state of São Paulo, Brazil and one of the most important industrial and research centers in Latin America. It is located in the Paraíba Valley, between the two most active production and consumption regions in the country, São Paulo (80 km (50 mi) from the city) and Rio de Janeiro (320 km (200 mi)). According to a 1999 UN study, São José dos Campos was rated one of the top 25 Brazilian cities for quality of life. With its high per capita income, long life expectancy and high level of infrastructure, São José dos Campos is a safe and secure city that offers a wide variety of stores and services. A native of São José dos Campos is called a joseense (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒozɛˈẽsi]).

The municipality is comprised by three districts: São José dos Campos — the city itself, (also the seat), Eugênio de Melo and São Francisco Xavier. The last one is known for its natural sites and ecotourism.

wn.com/São_José_dos_Campos





São João de Meriti

                            São João de Meriti (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈsɐ̃w ʒuɐ̃w ˈdʒi meˈɾitʃi]) is a brazilian city in Rio de Janeiro state. Its historical name is São João do Rio Meriti. Its population was 468.309 inhabitants in 2008. Its located in the region of Baixada Fluminense, having 34,996 km².

The city is known as "Americas' Anthill", because its population density is one of the highest in the continent.

The place we know today as São João de Meriti, cut by the rivers Sarapuí, Meriti and Pavuna, was known before as Freguesia de Meriti. In the 17th and 18th centuries, Meriti had many farms and chapels, being an important producer of corn, cassava, beans and sugar.

In 1833, the São João de Meriti village incorporated the Maxabomba village, now City of Nova Iguaçú. In 1947, São João de Meriti was elevated to the status of municipality.

It is considered a commuter town.

It has some commercial centers such as its downtown, Vilar dos Teles (ex-capital of jeans), Coelho da Rocha, São Mateus and Shopping Grande Rio mall.

wn.com/São_João_de_Meriti





São Paulo

                            São Paulo (/ˌsaʊ ˈpaʊloʊ/; Portuguese pronunciation: [sɐ̃w ˈpawlu] ( listen); Saint Paul;), popularly known as Sampa, is the largest city in Brazil, the largest city in the southern hemisphere and Americas, and the world's seventh largest city by population. The metropolis is anchor to the São Paulo metropolitan area, ranked as the second most populous metropolitan area in the Americas and among the five largest metropolitan areas on the planet. São Paulo is the capital of the state of São Paulo, which is the most populous Brazilian state, and exerts strong regional influence in commerce and finance as well as arts and entertainment. São Paulo maintains strong international influence and is considered an Alpha- World City. The name of the city honors Saint Paul.

The metropolis has significant cultural, economic and political influence both nationally and internationally. It houses several important monuments, parks and museums such as the Latin American Memorial, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, São Paulo Museum of Art and the Ibirapuera Park. The Paulista Avenue is the most important financial center of São Paulo. The city holds many high profile events, like the São Paulo Art Biennial, the Brazil Grand Prix Formula 1 Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo Fashion Week, ATP Brasil Open, and the São Paulo Indy 300.

wn.com/São_Paulo





Teresina

                            Teresina is the capital and most populous municipality in the Brazilian state of Piauí. It is located in North-central Piauí 366 km from the coast.It is therefore, the only capital in the Northeast that is not located on the shores of the Atlantic Ocean. With 814 439 inhabitants, it is the 19th largest city in Brazil, and the 15th largest state capital in the country. Together with Timon, in the nearby state of Maranhão the conurbation has a population of about 953,172 inhabitants, and the entire metropolitan region of Teresina has over 1,135,920 inhabitants. The only natural barrier that separates Teresina from Timon is the Parnaíba river, one of the largest in the Northeast. Teresina is the second capital with the best quality of life in the North-Northeast according to FIRJAN. According to IPEA it is the third safest capital of Brazil (second only to Natal / RN, and Palmas / TO) . Teresina is also the third city with the most lightning strikes in the world. For this reason, the region receives the curious name of "Chapada do Corisco".

wn.com/Teresina





The ParkShopping

                            The ParkShopping is one of the most important shopping centers in Brasília, Brazil. It was opened on November 8, 1983 and is located between the Plano Piloto (Pilot Plan) and Guará, near the Brasília International Airport. Having 93% of Class A and B. It has 348 stores, including 10 anchor stores (C & A, Fnac, Lojas Americanas, Lojas Riachuelo, Lojas Renner, Zara, Hot Zone, one bowling complex Park Bowling and one movie theater complex ParkPlex of Severiano Ribeiro Group and Paris Filmes Group), and seven mega-stores (Ponto Frio, Saraiva, Centauro, Outback Steakhouse, Siberian, Fnac and The Fast Shop).
Coordinates: 15°49′59″S 47°57′19″W﻿ / ﻿15.83306°S 47.95528°W﻿ / -15.83306; -47.95528

wn.com/The_ParkShopping





Uberlândia

                            Uberlândia is the main town in the Triangle (Triângulo Mineiro) region, west of the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. With a population of 604,013 inhabitants, according to 2010 estimates, the city is the second largest in the state second only to Belo Horizonte (2,375,244). The city's name means Fertile Earth.

Uberlândia is located in the western part of the state of Minas Gerais, in the region called Triângulo Mineiro, one of the richest agricultural regions of Brazil, between the Paranaíba and Grande rivers. It is connected to major cities by the following federal highways: BR-050, BR-365, BR-455, BR-452, and BR-497. Uberlândia is about 580 km away from São Paulo, connected by a modern and safe double trace highway (BR-050). The capital of the state of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, is 560 km away and Brasília, the capital of the country, lies just 440 km to the north. There are railways connecting Uberlândia via the north-south Centro-Atlântica line.

Uberlândia is a statistical micro-region including the following municipalities: Araguari, Araporã, Canápolis, Cascalho Rico, Centralina, Indianópolis, Monte Alegre de Minas, Prata, Tupaciguara, and Uberlândia. In 2007 the population of these cities' agglomeration was 818,395 inhabitants in a total area of 18,864.20 km². The population density (2000) was 43.38 inhab/km².

wn.com/Uberlândia





United States

                            The United States of America (commonly abbreviated to the United States, the U.S., the USA, America, and the States) is a federal constitutional republic comprising fifty states and a federal district. The country is situated mostly in central North America, where its forty-eight contiguous states and Washington, D.C., the capital district, lie between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, bordered by Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. The state of Alaska is in the northwest of the continent, with Canada to the east and Russia to the west, across the Bering Strait. The state of Hawaii is an archipelago in the mid-Pacific. The country also possesses several territories in the Pacific and Caribbean.

At 3.79 million square miles (9.83 million km2) and with over 312 million people, the United States is the third or fourth largest country by total area, and the third largest by both land area and population. It is one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries. The U.S. economy is the world's largest national economy, with an estimated 2011 GDP of $15.1 trillion (22% of nominal global GDP and over 19% of global GDP at purchasing-power parity). Per capita income is the world's sixth-highest.

wn.com/United_States





Uruguay

                            Uruguay i/ˈjʊərəɡwaɪ/, officially the Oriental Republic of Uruguay, sometimes the Eastern Republic of Uruguay; (Spanish: República Oriental del Uruguay pronounced: [re̞ˈpuβ̞lika o̞ɾje̞n̪ˈt̪al̪ d̪e̞l uɾuˈɰwai̯]) is a country in the southeastern part of South America. It is home to 3.3 million people, of whom 1.8 million live in the capital Montevideo and its metropolitan area. An estimated 88% of the population are of European ancestry.

Except for the recent union of Timoteo Domínguez Island and Argentina's Martín García Island, Uruguay's only land border is with Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, to the north. To the west lies the Uruguay River and the estuary of the Río de la Plata to the southwest. To the southeast lies the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean. With an area of approximately 176,000 square kilometres (68,000 sq mi), Uruguay is the second-smallest nation in South America by area, after Suriname.
Colonia del Sacramento, one of the oldest European settlements in the country, was founded by the Portuguese in 1680. Montevideo was founded by the Spanish in the early 18th century as a military stronghold. Uruguay won its independence in 1811–28 following a three-way struggle between the claims of Spain, Argentina and Brazil. It is a constitutional democracy, with a president who is both the head of state and the head of government.

wn.com/Uruguay





Venezuela

                            Venezuela (i/ˌvɛnɨˈzweɪlə/ VEN-ə-ZWAY-lə), officially called the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (Spanish: República Bolivariana de Venezuela [repuˈβlika βoliβaˈɾjana ðe βeneˈswela]), is a tropical country on the northern coast of South America. It borders Colombia to the west, Guyana to the east, and Brazil to the south. Its northern coastline of roughly 2,800 kilometres (1,700 mi) includes numerous islands in the Caribbean Sea, and in the north east borders the northern Atlantic Ocean. Caribbean islands such as Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada, Curaçao, Bonaire, Aruba and the Leeward Antilles lie near the Venezuelan coast. Venezuela's territory covers around 916,445 square kilometres (353,841 sq mi) with an estimated population of 29,105,632. Venezuela is considered a state with extremely high biodiversity, with habitats ranging from the Andes mountains in the west to the Amazon Basin rainforest in the south, via extensive llanos plains and Caribbean coast in the center and the Orinoco River Delta in the east.

wn.com/Venezuela





Vila Velha

Coordinates: 20°20′11″S 40°17′37″W﻿ / ﻿20.33639°S 40.29361°W﻿ / -20.33639; -40.29361

Vila Velha (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈvilɐ ˈvɛʎɐ], Old Village) is a coastal town in Espírito Santo, Brazil. It lies across from Vitória, the state capital. Its population was 396,323 (2005) and its area is 208.82 km².

Vila Velha forms part of the Greater Vitória metropolitan area. To the north is Vitória, to the west Cariacica and Viana, to the south Guarapari, and to the east the Atlantic Ocean.

Notable corporations in Vila Velha include Garoto, one of Brazil's largest chocolate manufacturers.

Vila Velha has been through several years of intense real estate development and several luxury buildings are now a common sight in all of its main beaches. Some critics argue that this practice can be considered excess urbanization of a previously low-profile area, despite the economic benefits.

The Bridge Mr Darcy Castelo de Mendonça, known as Third Bridge (Portuguese: Terceira Ponte), is the second tallest bridge in Brazil, connecting and reducing the distance between the cities of Vila Velha and Vitória.

wn.com/Vila_Velha













Alfredo Volpi

                            Alfredo Volpi (April 14, 1896 - May 28, 1988), was a famous painter of the artistic and cultural Brazilian modernist movement. He was born in Lucca, Italy but, less than two years later, he was brought by his parents to São Paulo, Brazil, where he lived for most part of his life. He was one of the most important artists of the so called Grupo Santa Helena.

Volpi was a self-taught painter, producing his first naturalist painting at the age of twelve. Although his first paintings could resemble, in some way, those of expressionist artists, (an early influence was the Brazilian landscape painter De Fiori). he soon focused into a most peculiar style, using geometric abstract forms and switching from oil paint to tempera. He started painting façades of houses in a highly stylized and colorful manner (these paintings were later named the "historical façades" by art critics) and this recurrent theme became pervasive all through the 1950s, after a brief "concretist" period (even though the artist himself never acknowledged being part of the concretist movement as such). The 1960s witnessed the development of his trademark "banderinhas" (small flags) for which Volpi became famous and which originated from Brazilian folklore (small flags are a regular fixture of the popular "festa juninha", held every year during the month of June): the artist would use the small-flag pattern to show an increasing sense of color combination and balanced composition which would eventually place him among the major Brazilian artists of his time.

wn.com/Alfredo_Volpi





Anthony the Great

                            Anthony the Great or Antony the Great (ca. 251–356), also known as Saint Anthony, Anthony of Egypt, Anthony the Abbot, Anthony of the Desert, Anthony the Anchorite, Anthony of Thebes, Abba Antonius (Ἀββᾶς Ἀντώνιος), and Father of All Monks, was a Christian saint from Egypt, a prominent leader among the Desert Fathers. He is celebrated in many churches on his feast days: 30 January in the Old-Calendar Eastern Orthodox Church and the Coptic Orthodox Church; 17 January in the New-Calendar Eastern Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church and the Coptic Catholic Church.

The biography of Anthony's life by Athanasius of Alexandria helped to spread the concept of monasticism, particularly in Western Europe through Latin translations. He is often erroneously considered the first monk, but as his biography and other sources make clear, there were many ascetics before him. Anthony was, however, the first known ascetic going into the wilderness (about A.D. 270–271), a geographical move that seems to have contributed to his renown. Accounts of Anthony enduring supernatural temptation during his sojourn in the Libyan Desert inspired the often-repeated subject of the temptation of St. Anthony in Western art and literature.

wn.com/Anthony_the_Great





Arab Brazilian

                            An Arab Brazilian is a Brazilian citizen born in an Arabic country, or a Brazilian-born person of Arab descent, who is aware of such ancestry and remains connected, in some degree, to Arabic culture.

Immigration of Arabs to Brazil started in the late 19th century, most of them coming from Lebanon, later from elsewhere in Ottoman Syria - Palestine and Iraq. When they were first processed in the ports of Brazil, they were classified as Turks because what is modern day Lebanon and Syria was a territory of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. The causes for Arabs to leave their homeland were an accelerated increase in population in Lebanon and the persecution by the Ottoman Turks. Arab immigration to Brazil grew in the 20th century, and was concentrated in the state of São Paulo, but also extended to Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Goiás, Rio de Janeiro and other parts of Brazil.

Most Arab immigrants in Brazil were Christians, the Muslims being a small minority in comparison to them. Intermarriage between Brazilians of Arab descent and other Brazilians, regardless of ethnic ancestry or religious affiliation, is very high; most Brazilians of Arab descent only have one parent of Arab origin. As a result of this, the new generations of Brazilians of Arab descent show marked language shift away from Arabic. Only a few speak any Arabic, and such knowledge is often limited to a few basic words. Instead the majority, especially those of younger generations, speak Portuguese as a first language.

wn.com/Arab_Brazilian





Argentine Brazilian

                            Argentine Brazilian (Portuguese: Argentino-brasileiro, Spanish: Argentino-brasileño, Rioplatense Spanish: Argentino-brasilero) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Argentine ancestry, or an Argentine-born person residing in Brazil.

After gaining its independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Argentina adopted an open immigration policy and encouraged immigrants to embrace the country as their own. For a short period at the end of the 1880s, the government went so far as to subsidize immigrant boat passages. It is estimated that the country received over seven million immigrants, predominantly from Spain and Italy, between 1870 and 1930.
Argentina proved attractive to many foreigners confronted with harsh economic conditions in Europe, they were drawn by the appeal of the New World and an underpopulated country rich in natural resources and employment prospects ranging from agriculture to factory work.

Argentina is witnessing an enormous increase in emigration, with Spain, Italy, the United States, Brazil, and Israel making up the main destinations, according to the country's National Migration Directorate. Analysts place the lion's share of the blame for increased emigration on the country's faltering economy.

wn.com/Argentine_Brazilian





Armenian Brazilian

                            An Armenian Brazilian (Portuguese: Armeno-brasileiro, Armênio-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Armenian ancestry, or an Armenian immigrant in Brazil.[citation needed]

Armenian immigrants in Brazil gathered mostly in and around the city of São Paulo, where there are churches, cultural centers, and even a subway station named Armenia. The Armenian community maintains a strong presence in the city, albeit not in the country as a whole. Some people of Armenian descent have become famous in arts and politics, such as Senator Pedro Pedrossian, actress Aracy Balabanian and actor and politician Stepan Nercessian.

Armenians in Latin America arranged a demonstration in Brazil, in the city of São Paulo at the Armenian Genocide monument on April 24, 1965 of 50th Anniversary of putting into force the Law of Relocation, and a play titled "The Adventures of Armenians 1915" was written and played by Armenians of Brazil at a theatre of São Paulo.

wn.com/Armenian_Brazilian





Asian Brazilian

                            An Asian Brazilian is a Brazilian citizen of full or partial Asian ancestry, who remains culturally connected to Asia, or an Asian-born person permanently residing in Brazil. Brazil received many immigrants from Asia, both from Middle East and East Asia. The first Asian immigrants to arrive in Brazil were a small number of Chinese people (3,000) during the colonial period as coolie slaves. However, significant immigration from Asia to Brazil started in the late 19th century, when immigration from Lebanon and Syria became important. In Brazil, most of definitions of an Asian Brazilian usually do not refer to the community of West Asian origins such as Arabs, Turks and Armenians.

Most Asian Brazilians have roots in East Asia, most of them Japanese (Middle Easterners, most of them non-Muslim Levantine Arabs, easily integrated among the White Brazilian population, and as such there is even the perception that all Arabs are White people by the Brazilian society). The first Japanese immigrants arrived in Brazil in 1908. Until the 1950s, more than 250 thousand Japanese immigrated to Brazil. Currently, the Japanese-Brazilian population is estimated at 3.0 million people. It is, by far, the largest ethnic Japanese population outside Japan. Other East Asian groups are also significant in Brazil. The Korean Brazilian population is estimated to be 50,000, and the Chinese Brazilian population around 160,000. Over 70% of Asian Brazilians are concentrated in the state of São Paulo. There are significant populations in Paraná, Pará, Mato Grosso do Sul and other parts of Brazil.

wn.com/Asian_Brazilian





Athos Bulcão

                            Athos Bulcão (July 2, 1918 – July 31, 2008) was a Brazilian painter and sculptor. He was born in Rio de Janeiro.

By the 1940s, he assisted Candido Portinari with the "São Francisco de Assis" painting at the Pampulha Church, in Belo Horizonte. Further, he moved to Paris, where he lived until 1949. Back to Brazil, he became one of the collaborators of the construction of Brasília, taking part in several of Oscar Niemeyer's projects. By 1958, he finally moved to the new capital of Brazil, where he lived until his death.

Athos Bulcão died in Brasília on July 31, 2008 due to complications from Parkinson's disease.


wn.com/Athos_Bulcão





Belgian Brazilian

                            Belgian Brazilian (Portuguese: Bélgico-brasileiro, Belga brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Belgian ancestry, or a Belgian-born person immigrant in Brazil.

wn.com/Belgian_Brazilian





Bolivians in Brazil

                            Bolivians in Brazil are individuals of full, partial, or predominantly Bolivian ancestry, or a Bolivian-born person residing in Brazil. The governments of Bolivia and Brazil have begun to develop an agreement to regularize the situation of several thousand undocumented Bolivian immigrants in Brazil.  According to estimates by the Ministry's of Latin American immigrants and the National Association of Immigrants from Brazil more than 200,000 Bolivians are working illegally in São Paulo.

wn.com/Bolivians_in_Brazil





Brazilian people

                            Brazilians (brasileiros in Portuguese) are all people born in Brazil. A Brazilian can be also a person born abroad to a Brazilian parent or a foreigner living in Brazil who applied for Brazilian citizenship.

According to the Constitution of Brazil, a Brazilian citizen is:

According to the Constitution, all people who hold Brazilian citizenship are equal, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender or religion.

A foreigner can apply for Brazilian citizenship after living for 4 (four) uninterrupted years in Brazil and being able to speak Portuguese. A native person from an official Portuguese language country (Portugal, Angola, Mozambique, Cape Verde, São Tomé and Príncipe, Guinea Bissau and East Timor) can request the Brazilian nationality after only 1 uninterrupted year living in Brazil. A foreign born person who holds Brazilian citizenship has exactly the same rights and duties of the Brazilian citizen by birth, but cannot occupy some special public positions such as the Presidency of the Republic, Vice-presidency of the Republic, Minister (Secretary) of Defense, Presidency (Speaker) of the Senate, Presidency (Speaker) of the House of Representatives, Officer of the Armed Forces and Diplomat.

wn.com/Brazilian_people





Bruno Giorgi

                            Bruno Giorgi (13 August 1905, Mococa – 1993, Rio de Janeiro) was an Italian Brazilian sculptor whose works are displayed at several national sites. Although born in Brazil he spent much of his youth in Europe as his family returned to Italy when he was six and he did not return to Brazil until 1939.


wn.com/Bruno_Giorgi





Caribbean Brazilian

                            Caribbean Brazilian (Portuguese: Caraíba-brasileiro, Caribenho brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Caribbean ancestry, or a Caribbean-born person residing in Brazil. Many Caribbean Brazilians are of Barbadian descent.

During the rubber boom in the Brazilian Amazon, between 1880 and 1912, the construction of a railroad linking the Madeira River in Brazil to the Mamore River in Bolivia was undertaken to solve the problem of rubber transportation in that region. The railway would help to get the Bolivian rubber out of the jungle, past the rapids on the Madeira and then reach the navigable part of the river in Porto Velho, in the state of Rondônia. For the construction of the Madeira-Mamoré railroad, many African-Caribbean workers, especially from Barbados, were taken to that part of the Brazilian Amazon. The enterprise was first a British project but later was controlled by the American Percival Farquhar who had a Brazilian business empire.

This adventure in the Amazon brought about the death of about six thousand workers, caused by attacks from Indigenous Amerindian tribes, malaria and many other diseases.

wn.com/Caribbean_Brazilian





Chilean Brazilian

                            Chilean Brazilian (Portuguese: Chileno-brasileiro, Spanish: Chileno-brasileño) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Chilean ancestry.

Emigration of Chileans has decreased during the last decade: It is estimated that 857,781 Chileans live abroad, 50.1% of those being in Argentina (the highest number), 13.3% in the Brazil and 8.8% in United States.

wn.com/Chilean_Brazilian





Chinese Brazilian

                            Chinese Brazilians (Portuguese: Sino-brasileiro or Chinês brasileiro; Chinese: 巴西华人 or 巴西华裔) are people of Chinese ancestry who were born in or have immigrated to Brazil. The Chinese Brazilian population was estimated to be approximately 151,649.
São Paulo has the largest Chinese Brazilian population, in particular on the district of Liberdade. Besides being an area famous for its strong Japanese presence, a significant number of Taiwanese immigrants have settled in Liberdade, and many Chinese immigrants have come to Liberdade following the Communist revolution in 1949. Many Cantonese from Hong Kong and Portuguese-speaking Macau, including some Macanese of mixed Chinese and Portuguese descent, have also settled in Brazil. These Macau immigrants can usually speak and understand Portuguese (its Creole, Macanese or Patuá, is also spoken), allowing them to adjust more easily to life in Brazil. Today, Chinese Brazilians are usually bilingual with Portuguese and Chinese.

wn.com/Chinese_Brazilian





Czech Brazilian

                            Czech Brazilians refer to Brazilians of Czech descent who were born in or who trace their ancestry to the territory of the historic Czech lands or succession states, now known as the Czech Republic, and are residents and/or citizens of Brazil.

Although Czech Jesuits such as Valentin Stansel had been working in Brazil since the 18th century, the first Czech immigrants arrived in 1823. Among these early immigrants was Jan Nepomuk Kubíček, a Catholic carpenter from Třeboň and one of the great-grandfathers of Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira, the 24th President of Brazil (from 1956 to 1961).

In the 20th century there were three large waves of Czechs who moved to Brazil: in the 1930s, after the Communist takeover (1948) and after the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the Warsaw Pact troops (1968). Most of those immigrants settled down in Southern Brazil.

Though Czechs correspond to a small proportion of all immigrants who landed in Brazil, the Czech immigration is significant if counted in absolute numbers. An evidence of such representativeness is that a search in the 2007 phone book of São Paulo reveals that all the 10 commonest Czech male surnames can be found among the inhabitants of the mentioned Brazilian city.

wn.com/Czech_Brazilian





Dutch Brazilian

                            A Dutch Brazilian (Dutch: Nederlandse Brazilianen, Portuguese: Neerlando-brasileiro or Holando-brasileiro) is a Brazilian of full or partial Dutch ancestry. Dutch Brazilians are mainly descendants of immigrants from the Netherlands[citation needed], but there are few who are descendants of Flemish or Afrikaner immigrants[citation needed].

The Dutch were among the first Europeans settling in Brazil during the 17th century. They controlled the northern coast of Brazil from 1630 to 1654. A significant number of Dutch immigrants arrived in that period. The state of Pernambuco was once a colony of the Dutch Republic from 1630 to 1661. There are a considerable number of people who are descendants of the Dutch colonists in Pernambuco, because at that time Alagoas was part of Pernambuco.

During the 19th and 20th century, Dutch immigrants from the Netherlands immigrated to the Brazil's Center-South, founded a few cities and prospered. The majority of Dutch Brazilians reside in Espírito Santo, Paraná,Rio Grande do Sul and São Paulo. There are also small groups of Dutch Brazilians in Goiás, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro.

wn.com/Dutch_Brazilian





English Brazilian

                            English Brazilian (Portuguese: Anglo-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly English ancestry, or an English-born person residing in Brazil.


wn.com/English_Brazilian





Finnish Brazilian

                            Finnish Brazilian (Portuguese: Fino-brasileiro or Portuguese: Finlandês-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Finnish ancestry, or a Finnish-born person residing in Brazil.

About 170 km (105 mi) from Rio de Janeiro, the area where Penedo is located belongs to the Itatiaia National Park. It is a beautiful mountainous area, covered with the Atlantic Forest, with pleasant temperature and surroundings. The small town was colonized by immigrants from Finland and the architecture, gastronomy and local customs such as saunas, are still present in Penedo.

Penedo is the first Finnish colony in Brazil.

In 1906, the first Finnish immigrants seem to have been sailors who went ashore especially in the port of Rio de Janeiro. From the close of the 19th century onwards, we also hear about Finnish engineers and technicians who worked in constructing railways in Brazil. In 1908, a small Finnish colony was founded, comprising about 20 families. Then in 1909–1910, a group of Finns from northern Sweden and northern Finland emigrated to the southern part of Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul). In the inter-war years, somewhere around one thousand Finns immigrated to Latin America, mainly to Brazil and Argentina. Especially from the year 1924, Colonia Finlandesa in Argentina received new emigrants from eastern Finland. In Brazil, a utopian social experiment, Penedo, was started in 1929.

wn.com/Finnish_Brazilian





French Brazilian

                            A French Brazilian (French: Franco-Brésilien, Portuguese: Franco-brasileiro or Galo-brasileiro) is a Brazilian citizen of full, partial, or predominantly French ancestry, or a French-born person residing in Brazil. Between 1850 and 1965 around 100,000 French people immigrated to Brazil. The country received the second largest number of French immigrants to South America after Argentina (239,000). It is estimated that there are from 500,000 to 1 million Brazilians of French descent today.

The Brazilian Imperial Family originates of House of Orléans, the French Royal Family.

From 1819 to 1940, 40,383 Frenchmen immigrated to Brazil. Most of them settled in the country between 1884 and 1925 (8,008 from 1819 to 1883, 25,727 from 1884 to 1925, 6,648 from 1926 to 1940). Another source estimates that around 100,000 French people immigrated to Brazil between 1850 and 1965. The French community in Brazil numbered 592 in 1888 and 5,000 in 1915. It was estimated that 14,000 Frenchmen were living in Brazil in 1912, 9% of the 149,400 Frenchmen living in Latin America, the second largest community after Argentina (100,000).

wn.com/French_Brazilian





German Brazilian

                            A German Brazilian (German: Deutschbrasilianer, Portuguese: teuto-brasileiro or germano-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of ethnic German ancestry or origin. Although there are German Brazilians in many parts of Brazil, they live mostly in the states of the country with the highest percents of white people, such as Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná, Santa Catarina, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo. German dialects together are the second most spoken first language in Brazil. A few Brazilian municipalities have Brazilian Hunsrückisch and Germanic Pomeranian as co-official with Portuguese. They are located in Southern Brazil and Espírito Santo.

The 19th century was marked by an intense emigration of Europeans to different parts of the world, which led to a process of Europeanisation of these areas. Between 1816 and 1850, 5 million people left Europe; between 1850 and 1880 another 22 million people emigrated. Between 1846 and 1932, 60 million Europeans emigrated. Many Germans left the German states after the failed revolutions of 1848. Between 1878 and 1892, another 7 million Germans left Germany; after the 1870s Germany was one of the countries from which the largest numbers of people emigrated, the vast majority to the United States. From 1820 to 1840, Germans represented 21.4% of all European immigrants entering the USA; 32.2% in the following two decades; and at the end of the century they were the largest immigrant group (21.9%) in the US.

wn.com/German_Brazilian





Greek Brazilian

                            A Greek Brazilian (Portuguese: Greco-brasileiro or Heleno-brasileiro) is a Brazilian citizen of full, partial or predominantly Greek ancestry; or a Greek-born person residing in Brazil.

The Greeks started immigrating in the end of the 19th and throughout the early and middle 20th century, in an attempt to find a better, more prosperous life, as well as for ideological reasons.

The Greek community in Brazil numbers more than 25,000 people. They are located throughout the country, with 20,000 Greeks living in São Paulo alone.

wn.com/Greek_Brazilian





Gustav Lindenthal

                            Gustav Lindenthal (May 21, 1850 – July 31, 1935) was a civil engineer who designed the Hell Gate Bridge in New York City, among other bridges. Lindenthal's work was greatly affected by his pursuit for perfection and his love of art. His structures not only serve the purpose they were designed for, but are aesthetically pleasing to the public eye. Having received little formal education and no degree in civil engineering, Lindenthal based his work on his prior experience and techniques used by other engineers of the time.

Lindenthal was born in Brünn, Austro-Hungarian Empire, now Brno, Czech Republic in 1850. Lindenthal began to receive practical training in 1866 when he was employed as a mason and carpenter. At the age of 18, Lindenthal left his family to set out to make a life of his own in Vienna, Austria.

When he arrived in Vienna he became an assistant in the engineering department for the Empress Elisabeth Railway of Austria. Two years later he joined the Union Construction Company, where he gained experience in building incline planes and railroads. Then a year later he decided to join the Swiss National Railroad, where he was hired on as a division engineer in charge of location and construction. While living in Vienna, he attended some public engineering lectures at a local university. However, he never did actually attend the university or receive a degree. Lindenthal in fact taught himself mathematics, engineering theory, metallurgy, hydraulics, estimating, management, and everything else that a successful bridge engineer needed to know. Nevertheless, the lack of his formal education hindered him from further advancement in Europe, so he decided to immigrate to the United States in 1874.

wn.com/Gustav_Lindenthal





Haitian Brazilian

                            An Haitian Brazilian (Portuguese: Haitiano-brasileiro, Creole: Ayisyen-brezilyen) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Haitian ancestry, or an Haitian-born person residing in Brazil.

Since the January 12, 2010 earthquake that killed around 250,000 people in Haiti, hundreds of Haitians have been migrating to Brazil via Peru and Ecuador. According to the Pastoral do Migrante, a Catholic entity that helps Haitians seeking refugee status in Brazil, there are more than 2,000 Haitians in the Amazonas State region of Brazil, with only around 400 having managed to acquire resident visas from the government. Most work in construction and in factories, earning little more than the minimum wage of $300 monthly, leaving them little or no money to send home to family in Haiti.








wn.com/Haitian_Brazilian




Howard Chaykin

                            Howard Victor Chaykin (born October 7, 1950) is an American comic book writer and artist famous for his innovative storytelling and sometimes controversial material. Chaykin’s main influences are the mid-20th Century book illustrators Robert Fawcett, Al Parker, and others, along with a love for jazz, which is often reflected in his work.

Howard Chaykin began his career in comics as an assistant to such artists as Gil Kane and Neal Adams before going solo. His first major work was for DC Comics drawing a comics adaptation of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser in Sword of Sorcery. Although the title was well received, it lasted only five issues before cancellation. Chaykin also drew the character Ironwolf in the science fiction anthology title Weird Worlds for DC. Moving to Marvel Comics, he began work as co-artist with Neal Adams on the first Killraven story, seen in Amazing Adventures #18 in 1973.

After this, Chaykin was given various adventure strips to draw for Marvel, including his own creation, Dominic Fortune (inspired by his Scorpion character, originally drawn for Atlas Comics), now in the pages of Marvel Premiere. In 1978, he also wrote and drew his Cody Starbuck creation for the anthology title Star Reach, one of the first independent titles of the 1970s. These strips saw him explore more adult themes as best he could within the restrictions often imposed on him by editors and the Comics Code Authority. The same year, he produced for Schanes & Schanes a six-plate portfolio showcasing his character.

wn.com/Howard_Chaykin





Hungarian Brazilian

                            Hungarian Brazilian (Portuguese: húngaro-brasileiro or magiar-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Hungarian ancestry, or a Hungarian-born person residing in Brazil.

Although ethnic Hungarians live in all the countries of South America, active community life and organizations exist only in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Venezuela, and Uruguay. Even though official census data are not available, according to greatly varying local estimates, 850,000 to 1,000,000 Brazilians are of Hungarian descent. In the case of Argentina and Brazil, the discrepancy between estimates may originate from the fact that the Hungarian diasporas in those two countries can look back to one-and-half century of history, and the fact that the ethnic identity of the non-first generation population of Hungarian origin is already vague in many cases. In terms of organization and social cohesion, the strongest Hungarian communities are those in Brazil and Argentina.

According to the data received from the local Hungarian communities, the number of grandparents and parents who immigrated from Hungary to Brazil is between 33,000 and 65,000. Their descendants already born in the country and who still record their Hungarian origin may number some 145,000 to 310,000.

wn.com/Hungarian_Brazilian





Icelandic Brazilian

                            Icelandic-Brazilian, is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Icelandic ancestry, or a Icelandic-born person residing in Brazil. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, thousands of Icelanders emigrated to Brazil.

wn.com/Icelandic_Brazilian





Irish Brazilian

                            An Irish Brazilian (Portuguese: Irlando-brasileiro or Hiberno-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Irish ancestry, or an Irish-born person residing in Brazil. Many of Irish immigrants in Brazil had to change their last names into an easier kind of writing based in existing Portuguese names, replacing the "O'" (originally "grandson"). 

wn.com/Irish_Brazilian





Italian Brazilian

                            An Italian Brazilian (Italian: Italobrasiliano, Portuguese: Ítalo-brasileiro) is a person born in Brazil of Italian ancestry.

The Italian government claims there are 25 million Brazilians of Italian descent, which would be the largest population of Italian background outside of Italy itself. There are no actual surveys, or even verifiable calculations supporting such claims. According to demographer Miguel Ángel García. 15 to 18 million people in Brazil have Italian ancestry. Actual field surveys seem to support García's analysis, pointing to a figure around 10.4% of the Brazilian population, or about 19.8 million people. All those figures relate to Brazilians of any Italian descent, not necessarily linked to Italian culture in any significant way. According to García, the number of Brazilians with actual links to Italian identity and culture would be around 3.5 to 4.5 million people. Scholar Luigi Favero, in a book on Italian emigration between 1876 and 1976, pinpointed that Italians were present in Brasil since the Renaissance: Genoese sailors and merchants were between the first to settle in colonial Brazil since the first half of the 16th century, and so - because of the many descendants of Italians emigrated there from Columbus times until 1860 - the number of Brazilians with Italian roots should be increased to 35 millions.

wn.com/Italian_Brazilian





Japanese Brazilian

                            A Japanese Brazilian (日系ブラジル人, nikkei burajiru-jin?, nipo-brasileiro, pronounced in Portuguese: [ˌnʲipobɾaziˈlejɾu]) is a Brazilian citizen, national or natural of Japanese descent, or a Japanese immigrant living in Brazil.

The first Japanese immigrants arrived in Brazil in 1908. Brazil is home to the largest Japanese population outside of Japan. According to the IBGE, as of 2000 there were between 1.4 and 1.5 million people of Japanese descent in Brazil.

The largest concentrations of Japanese people in Brazil are mostly found in the states of São Paulo and Paraná.

Between the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, coffee was the main export product of Brazil. At first, Brazilian farmers used African slave labour in the coffee plantations, but in 1850, the slave traffic was abolished in Brazil. To solve the labour shortage, the Brazilian elite decided to attract European immigrants to work in the coffee plantations. The government and farmers offered to pay European immigrants's passage. The plan encouraged millions of Europeans, most of them Italians, to migrate to Brazil. However, once in Brazil, the immigrants received very low salaries and worked in poor conditions, similar to the conditions faced by the black slaves: long working hours and frequent ill-treatment by their bosses. Because of this, in 1902, Italy enacted Decree Prinetti, prohibiting subsidized immigration to Brazil.

wn.com/Japanese_Brazilian





John Bosco

                            John Bosco (Italian: Giovanni Melchiorre Bosco; 16 August 1815 – 31 January 1888), known as Don Bosco, was an Italian Roman Catholic priest, educator and writer of the 19th century, who put into practice the convictions of his religion, dedicating his life to the betterment and education of street children, juvenile delinquents, and other disadvantaged youth and employing teaching methods based on love rather than punishment, a method known as the Salesian Preventive System. A follower of the spirituality and philosophy of Francis de Sales, Bosco dedicated his works to him when he founded the Salesians of Don Bosco. Together with Maria Domenica Mazzarello, he founded the Institute of the Daughters of Mary Help of Christians, a religious congregation of nuns dedicated to the care and education of poor girls. In 1876 Bosco founded a movement of laity, the Association of Salesian Cooperators, with the same educational mission to the poor. In 1875 he published the Salesian Bulletin. The Bulletin has remained in continuous publication, and is currently published in 50 different editions and 30 languages.

wn.com/John_Bosco





Juscelino Kubitschek

                            Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuseˈlinu kubiˈtʃɛki dʒi oliˈvejrɐ]; September 12, 1902 – August 22, 1976), known also by his initials JK, was a prominent Brazilian politician of gypsy Czech origin who was President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961. He was born in Diamantina, Minas Gerais, and died in 1976. His term was marked by economic prosperity and political stability, being most known by the construction of a new capital, Brasília.

A leader who favored long-term planning and who set high goals for Brazil's future, Kubitschek is viewed inside the country as the father of modern Brazil. He stands among the politicians whose legacy is held most favorably.

Kubitschek was born into a very poor family in the countryside of Brazilian state Minas Gerais. His father, João César de Oliveira (1872–1905), who died when Juscelino was two years old, was a traveling salesman. He was raised by his mother, a schoolteacher named Júlia Kubitschek (1873–1973), of Czech (by grandfather) and Roma(gypsy) descent.[dead link]

wn.com/Juscelino_Kubitschek





Kaká

                            Ricardo Izecson dos Santos Leite (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁiˈkaɾdu iˈzɛksõw duˈsɐ̃tus ˈlejtʃi]; born 22 April 1982), commonly known as Kaká (Portuguese: [kaˈka] ( listen)), is a Brazilian football attacking midfielder who currently plays for Spanish La Liga club Real Madrid and the Brazilian national team. Kaká started his footballing career at the age of eight, when he began playing for a local club. At the time, he also played tennis, and it was not until he moved on to São Paulo FC and signed his first professional contract with the club at the age of 15 that he chose to focus on football.

In 2003 he joined Milan for a fee of €8.5 million. While at Milan, Kaká won the Ballon d'Or and FIFA World Player of the Year awards in 2007. After his success with Milan, Kaká joined Real Madrid for a transfer fee of €65 million, second only to that of Zinedine Zidane, €75 million. Later Real Madrid transferred Cristiano Ronaldo for a fee of €96 million, setting a new transfer fee record, making Kaka's fee the third highest ever. In addition to his contributions on the pitch, Kaká is known for his humanitarian work. In 2004, by the time of his appointment, he became the youngest ambassador of the UN World Food Programme. Kaka is the first sportsperson to amass 10 million followers in twitter.

wn.com/Kaká





Korean Brazilian

                            Korean Brazilian (Portuguese: Coreano-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Korean ancestry, or a Korean-born person residing in Brazil. The Korean population in Brazil, the largest in Latin America, is about 50,000.

Korean immigration to South America began on a small scale in the mid-1950s but was only formalized in 1962, when, to encourage emigration to control population, reduce unemployment, and garner foreign exchange via immigrant remittances, the South Korean government passed its Overseas Emigration Law. In December 1962 the South Korean Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs, to which the emigration section was attached, sent 92 people (members of seventeen families) to Brazil. Although the South Korean government's desire to direct emigrants to the Southern Hemisphere was based on the size of the Brazilian economy, many Koreans were hindered by the Brazilian government's demand that all visas, including those for tourists, be preapproved.

wn.com/Korean_Brazilian





Lebanese Brazilian

                            A Lebanese Brazilian (Portuguese: Líbano-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Lebanese ancestry, or a Lebanese-born person immigrant in Brazil.

The population of Brazil identifying with either full or partial Lebanese descent is estimated at between 7 to 10 million people. This number of immigrants is larger than the population in Lebanon. Immigration of the Lebanese (and Syrians) to Brazil started in the late 19th century, most of them coming from Lebanon and later from Syria. The immigration to Brazil grew further in the 20th century, and was concentrated in the state of São Paulo, but also extended to Minas Gerais, Goiás, Rio de Janeiro and other parts of Brazil.

Between 1884-1933 130,000 Lebanese people immigrated to Brazil. 65% of them were Catholics (Maronite Catholics and Greek Melkite Catholics), 20% were Greek Orthodox and 15% were Muslims (Shia, Sunni and Druze). During the Lebanese Civil War 32,000 Lebanese people immigrated to Brazil.

Lebanese culture has influenced many aspects of Brazil's culture. In big towns of Brazil it is easy to find restaurants of Lebanese food, and dishes, such as sfihas, hummus, kibbeh, tahina, tabbouleh and halwa are very well known among Brazilians.

wn.com/Lebanese_Brazilian




Lucio Costa

                            Lucio Costa (27 February 1902 - 13 June 1998) was a Brazilian architect and urban planner.

Costa was born in Toulon, France. Educated at the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne, England and at the Collège National in Montreux, Switzerland, until 1916, he graduated as an architect in 1924 from the National School of Fine Arts (Escola Nacional de Belas Artes) in Rio de Janeiro. After some early works in the eclectic manner, he adopted Modernism in 1929. In 1930 Costa established a partnership with Russian-born Brazilian architect Gregori Warchavchik, and also became the Director of the National School of Fine Arts where he had studied. Even though he found students eager to be taught in the "new style," his ruthless administration won him the opposition of the faculty and student body, and Costa eventually had to resign after a year in office. He joined the newly-created SPHAN (Servico do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico Nacional - National Service of Historic and Artistic Heritage) in 1937 under Rodrigo Melo Franco de Andrade. He remained at the National Heritage Service until retirement, acceding to the top post of director, where he was followed by his granddaughter Maria Elisa Costa. During his tenure as regional and then national director, he became involved in numerous controversial decisions (see Controversies).

wn.com/Lucio_Costa





Luxembourg Brazilian

                            Luxembourg Brazilian is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Luxembourgian ancestry, or a Luxembourg-born person immigrant in Brazil. There are an estimated 50.000 Brazilians of partial Luxembourgian descent.

Luxembourgish immigration to Brazil occurred mainly around 1828, when nearly 1.000 Luxembourgers settled there.

wn.com/Luxembourg_Brazilian




Marcelo Bonfá

                            Marcelo Augusto Bonfá (born January 30, 1965), also known simply as Bonfá, is a Brazilian musician. Famous for being the drummer of the famous rock band Legião Urbana, after its disestablishment he started to follow solo career, releasing three albums as of yet.

Bonfá was born in the city of Itapira, in the State of São Paulo, on January 30, 1965. His father was a employee of the Banco do Brasil, and in 1977, Bonfá's family moved to Brasília.

Bonfá played for the bands Blitz 64 and Dado e o Reino Animal (where he would meet future Legião Urbana member Dado Villa-Lobos) before forming Legião Urbana alongside Renato Russo in 1982. He stayed with Legião until its disestablishment in 1997.

In 2000, Bonfá released his first solo album, named O Barco Além do Sol (The Boat Beyond the Sun). It would be followed by 2004's Bonfá + Videotracks and 2007's Mobile.

In 1988, Bonfá had a son with actress Isabela Garcia, named João Pedro Bonfá, also a musician.

wn.com/Marcelo_Bonfá





Nigerian Brazilian

                            A Nigerian Brazilian (Portuguese: Nigeriano-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Nigerian ancestry, or a Nigerian-born person residing in Brazil. Over 2,000 Nigerians living illegally in Brazil without proper documentation before February 9, 2009, are to be benefited from amnesty offer announced by the Brazilian Government. The Nigerian Ambassador to Brazil, Mr Kayode Garrick, made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Brasília. Garrick, said that over 2,000 Nigerian potential beneficiaries of the Brazilian Amnesty proclamation were among the 5,000 Nigerians currently living in the country. In September 2008, the Nigerian government opened the Casa da Nigéria or "Nigerian Culture House" in the historic Pelourinho neighborhood of Salvador, Bahia, with the support of the governments of Bahia and Brazil.

A case of xenophobic/racist prejudice of an universitarian teacher against a Nigerian student in the Federal Univeristy of Maranhão shocked the country in mid-2011. Thousands of students subsequently signed a petition for expulsion of the teacher.

wn.com/Nigerian_Brazilian





Oscar Niemeyer

                            Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho (born December 15, 1907) is a Brazilian architect specializing in international modern architecture. In the 1940s, '50s and '60s "he established himself as one of Modernism's greatest luminaries," while he “reshaped Brazil’s identity in the popular imagination and mesmerized architects around the globe."  During the 1950s while Brasilia was starting to develop, Oscar Niemeyer made incredible amounts of contributions to the country by designing many important buildings in Brasilia. He is a pioneer in exploring the formal possibilities of reinforced concrete solely for their aesthetic impact. He is currently 104 years old and still working.

Niemeyer is most famous for his use of abstract forms and curves that specifically characterize every one of his works; he didn’t stick to traditional straight lines, for he is not attracted to straight angles or lines but rather he is captured by ”free-flowing, sensual curves… [like that] on the body of the beloved woman.” He was able to design and build curved architecture through his revolutionary useage of concrete. His designs are daring: mixing innovation and courage, plastic freedom and invention. His buildings are often characterized by being spacious and exposed, mixing volumes and empty space to create unconventional patterns and often propped up by piloti. His work with concrete is described as elegant and harmonious. Oscar Niemeyer was able to connect the baroque style with modern architecture leading to a new form of architecture, which had never been built in Brazil before.

wn.com/Oscar_Niemeyer





Paraguayan Brazilian

                            Paraguayan Brazilian (Spanish: Paraguayo-brasileño, Portuguese: Paraguaio-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Paraguayan ancestry, or a Paraguayan-born person residing in Brazil.

wn.com/Paraguayan_Brazilian





Pedro I of Brazil

Dom Pedro I (English: Peter I, 12 October 1798 – 24 September 1834), nicknamed "the Liberator", was the founder and first ruler of the Empire of Brazil. As King Dom Pedro IV, he reigned briefly over Portugal, where he became known as "the Soldier King". Born in Lisbon, he was the fourth child of King Dom João VI (John VI) of Portugal and Queen Carlota Joaquina and thus a member of the House of Braganza. When their country was invaded by French troops in 1808, Pedro I and his family fled to Portugal's largest and wealthiest colony, Brazil. Neglected by his parents, he grew up without restraints.

Pedro was born at 08:00 on 12 October 1798 in the Queluz Royal Palace near Lisbon, Portugal. He was named after St. Peter of Alcantara, and his full name was Pedro de Alcântara Francisco António João Carlos Xavier de Paula Miguel Rafael Joaquim José Gonzaga Pascoal Cipriano Serafim. He was referred to using the honorific "Dom" (Lord) from birth.

Through his father, Prince Dom João (later King Dom João VI), Pedro was a member of the House of Braganza (Portuguese: Bragança) and a grandson of King Dom Pedro III and Queen Dona (Lady) Maria I of Portugal, who were uncle and niece as well as husband and wife. His mother, Doña Carlota Joaquina, was the daughter of King Don Carlos IV of Spain. The marriage of Pedro's parents was an unhappy one. Carlota Joaquina was an ambitious woman, who always sought to advance Spain's interests, even to the detriment of Portugal's. Reputedly unfaithful to her husband, she went as far as to plot his overthrow, in league with dissatisfied Portuguese nobles.

wn.com/Pedro_I_of_Brazil





Peruvian Brazilian

                            Peruvian Brazilian (Spanish: Peruano-brasileño, Portuguese: Peruano-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Peruvian ancestry.


wn.com/Peruvian_Brazilian





Polish Brazilian

                            A Polish Brazilian is a Brazilian person of full or partial Polish ancestry, who is aware of such ancestry and remains connected, in some degree, to Polish culture, or a Polish-born person permanently residing in Brazil. The number of Polish descendants in Brazil is estimated at 1.8 million. Also, a Polish Brazilian can be a child of a Brazilian mother and Polish father (and vice versa).
Polish immigrants began arriving in Brazil in the late 19th century, but their numbers really increased in the 1920s. The Brazilian State of Paraná is a dominantly Polish area in Brazil.[citation needed] The Polish immigrants brought native folk music and dance music to Brazil such as mazurka (in Polish mazurek) and polonaise.[citation needed] In addition to the musical elements of the Polish culture, immigrants also brought customs, manners, and styles of clothing.[citation needed] Polish culture has also had an impact on aspects of the cuisine and architecture of Brazil.[citation needed]
Poles live in Guarapuava, Curitiba, Campo Largo, Contenda, Araucária, Lapa Săo Mateus do Sul, and Irati.[citation needed] With the immigrants there was an increase in employment on planted lands with the use of new tools, like the plow, the grille, and the sickle.[citation needed] There was the introduction of new types of jobs and professions, like blacksmith, carpenter, joiner and tailor.[citation needed] The immigrants work helped a lot on the economic growth in Paraná and renovated Paraná's social structure.

wn.com/Polish_Brazilian





Portuguese Brazilian

                            Portuguese Brazilians (or Luso-brasileiros) are Brazilian citizens whose ancestry originates wholly or partly in Portugal[citation needed]. Most of the Portuguese who arrived throughout the centuries to Brazil sought economic opportunities. Although present since the onset of colonization, Portuguese people began migrating to Brazil in larger numbers and without state support, in the 18th century.

Some of the earliest colonists for whom we have written records are João Ramalho and Diogo Álvares Correia. At the time the Portuguese Crown was focused on securing its highly lucrative Portuguese Empire in Asia, and so did little to protect the newly discovered lands in the Americas from foreign interlopers. As a result, many pirates, mainly French, began dealing in pau brasil with the Amerindians. This situation worried Portugal, which in the 1530s started to encourage the colonization of Brazil, principally for defensive reasons. The towns of Cananéia (1531), São Vicente (1532), Porto Seguro (1534) and Iguape (1538) date from that period.

wn.com/Portuguese_Brazilian





Renato Russo

                            Renato Russo (born Renato Manfredini, Jr., March 27, 1960 – October 11, 1996) was a Brazilian singer and songwriter. His first band was a punk rock band called "Aborto Elétrico" (Electric Abortion). The band then broke up and split in two different ones: "Capital Inicial" and "Legião Urbana". He was the formal founder and leader of the Legião Urbana.

Renato Manfredini Jr. was born in Rio de Janeiro. He started his studies at an early age, at Colégio Olavo Billac. During this period he wrote an excellent essay named "Old house, in ruins". His father was an executive at Banco do Brasil, and the family moved to Forest Hills, Queens, New York in 1967, when he was assigned a job position in the city. Renato and his family returned later to Rio de Janeiro and moved in with his uncle Sávio. As an 18-years-old, he admitted to his mother to being bisexual. And in 1988 he made it public by writing the song "Meninos e Meninas" ("Boys n' Girls") with the chorus stating, in English, "I like St. Paulo, I like St. João, I like St. Francisco and St. Sebastião, and I like boys and girls."

wn.com/Renato_Russo





Roberto Burle Marx

                            Roberto Burle Marx (August 4, 1909, São Paulo – June 4, 1994, Rio de Janeiro) was a Brazilian landscape architect (as well as a painter, print maker, ecologist, naturalist, artist and musician) whose designs of parks and gardens made him world famous. He is accredited with having introduced modernist landscape architecture to Brazil. He was known as a modern nature artist and a public urban space designer.

Roberto Burle Marx was the fourth son of Cecilia Burle, an upper class Brazilian woman whose family came from Pernambuco and France and Wilhelm Marx, a Jewish German, born in Stuttgart and raised in Trier, also the birthplace of Karl Marx, a cousin of his grandfather's. Burle Marx's first landscaping inspirations came while studying painting in Germany, where he often visited the Botanical Garden in Berlin and first learned about Brazil's native flora. Upon returning to Brazil in 1930, he began collecting plants in and around his home. He went to school at the National School of Fine Arts in Rio in 1930 where he focused on visual arts under Leo Putz and Candido Portinari. While in school he associated with several of Brazil’s future leaders in architecture and botanists who continued to be of significant influence in his personal and professional life. One of these was his professor, Brazilian Modernism’s Lucio Costa, the architect and planner who lived down the street from Burle. In 1932, Burle Marx designed his first landscape for a private residence by the architects Lucio Costa and Gregori Warchavchik. This project, the Schwartz house was the beginning of a collaboration with Costa which was enriched later by Oscar Niemeyer who designed the Brazilian Pavilion at the New York World’s Fair in 1939. Niemeyer also designed the Pampulha complex in 1942 for which Marx designed gardens.

wn.com/Roberto_Burle_Marx





Russians in Brazil

                            Russian Brazilian (Portuguese: Russo-brasileiro, Russian: Русский бразилец Russkiy brazilets) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Russian ancestry, or a Russian-born person residing in Brazil. The term can also refer to somomeone with a Brazilian mother and Russian father, or vice versa.

wn.com/Russians_in_Brazil





Saint Peter

                            Saint Peter or Simon Peter was an early Christian leader and one of the twelve apostles of Jesus who is featured prominently in the New Testament Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles and who is venerated as a saint. The son of John or of Jonah, he was from the village of Bethsaida in the province of Galilee or Gaulanitis. His brother Andrew was also an apostle. Peter is venerated in multiple churches and is regarded as the first Pope by the Catholic Church. After working to establish the church of Antioch, presiding for seven years as the leader of the city's Christian community, he preached to scattered communities of believers, Jews, Hebrew Christians and the gentiles, in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia Minor and Bithynia.[citation needed] He then went to Rome, where in the second year of Claudius, it is claimed, he overthrew Simon Magus and held the Sacerdotal Chair for 25 years.[citation needed] He is said to have been put to death at the hand of Emperor Nero.

Peter wrote two General epistles. The Gospel of Mark is also ascribed to him (as Mark was his disciple and interpreter). On the other hand, several books bearing his name—the Acts of Peter, Gospel of Peter, Preaching of Peter, Revelation of Peter, and Judgement of Peter—are rejected by the Catholic Church as Apocryphal.

wn.com/Saint_Peter





Scottish Brazilian

                            Scottish Brazilian (Portuguese: Escoto-brasileiro) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Scottish ancestry, or a Scottish-born person residing in Brazil.

wn.com/Scottish_Brazilian





Simone de Beauvoir

                            Simone-Ernestine-Lucie-Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir, often shortened to Simone de Beauvoir (French pronunciation: [simɔn də boˈvwaʁ]; 9 January 1908 – 14 April 1986), was a French existentialist philosopher, public intellectual, political activist, feminist theorist and social theorist. She did not consider herself a philosopher but her significant contributions to existentialism and feminist existentialism have solidified her legacy as a philosopher and feminist. She wrote novels, essays, biographies, an autobiography in several volumes, and monographs on philosophy, politics, and social issues. She is now best known for her metaphysical novels, including She Came to Stay and The Mandarins, and for her 1949 treatise The Second Sex, a detailed analysis of women's oppression and a foundational tract of contemporary feminism.

Simone de Beauvoir was born in Paris, the eldest daughter of Georges Bertrand de Beauvoir, a legal secretary who once aspired to be an actor, and Françoise (born) Brasseur, a wealthy banker’s daughter and devout Catholic. Her younger sister, Hélène, was born two years later. The family struggled to maintain their bourgeois status after losing much of their fortune shortly after World War I, and Françoise insisted that the two daughters be sent to a prestigious convent school. Beauvoir herself was deeply religious as a child—at one point intending to become a nun—until a crisis of faith at age 14. She remained an atheist for the rest of her life.

wn.com/Simone_de_Beauvoir





Swiss Brazilian

                            Swiss Brazilian (Portuguese: Helveto-brasileiro, Brasileiro suíço) is a Brazilian citizen of full or partial Swiss ancestry, who remains culturally connected to Switzerland, or a Swiss-born person permanently residing in Brazil.

In 1818, King John VI of Portugal, then resident in Rio de Janeiro, authorized the entry into Brazil of Swiss immigrants from the state (canton) of Fribourg (Switzerland). The parish was given the name of "São João Batista de Nova Friburgo" (Saint John the Baptist of New Fribourg) and was founded in 1820.

The history of Swiss immigration to Brazil began with the foundation of the colony of Nova Friburgo in 1819. Nova Friburgo was the first colonial company contracted by the Portuguese government. The immigrant colonists wrote letters for publication in Swiss newspapers of the period, and these documents reveal the migrants' perceptions, information and expectations.

On July 4, 1819 depart from Estavayer-le-Lac, Lake Neuchatel, 1088 Swiss, included 830 of the Canton of Fribourg, presents Jean-Claude Marchon, his wife Marie Prostasie Chavannaz Marchon, his brother Antoine Marchon and fiancee Marieanne Elizabeth Clerc, to Basle, the meeting point of the Swiss Transmigration for Brasil. And then 2006 Swiss, by the Rhein River, go to Holland and after a lot of peripetia they depart from 's-Gravendeel, near Dordrecht, in the Daphne, for the crossing of the Atlantic Ocean, on September 11.

wn.com/Swiss_Brazilian





Uruguayan Brazilian

                            Uruguayan Brazilian (Portuguese: Uruguaio-brasileiro, Spanish: Uruguayo-brasileño, Rioplatense Spanish: Uruguayo-brasilero) is a Brazilian person of full, partial, or predominantly Uruguayan ancestry, or a Uruguayan-born person residing in Brazil.

During the 1970s and 1980s, an estimated 600,000 Uruguayans emigrated, mainly to Spain, Italy, Argentina and Brazil. Other Uruguayans went to various countries in Europe, to the United States, Canada, and Australia.

Before the 1960s, the economy of Uruguay provided its citizens with middle-class affluence, and emigration was limited. With a comfortable standard of living, adequate employment opportunities, a favorable social welfare and health insurance system, and democratic freedoms, the need to leave was not pressing. On the whole, even the poorest of the Uruguayans enjoyed certain benefits that kept them satisfied enough to stay in their own country. For those who left the cultural and recreational opportunities of the cities, where 85 percent of all Uruguayans lived, the proposition of going to neighboring countries such as Argentina, with its familiar language and proximity to the home country, was more appealing than moving to Southern Brazil. Those who pursued business or educational opportunities in the Brazil and elsewhere, often returned home, never forsaking their Uruguayan citizenship.

wn.com/Uruguayan_Brazilian





Victor Brecheret

                            Victor Brecheret (February 22, 1894 – December 17, 1955) was an Italian-Brazilian sculptor. He lived most of his life in São Paulo, except for his studies in Paris in his early twenties. Brecheret's work combines techniques of European modernist sculpture with references to his native country through the physical characteristics of his human forms and visual motifs drawn from Brazilian folk art. Many of his subjects are figures from the Bible or classical mythology.

Brecheret was one of the first Brazilian modernists to achieve success. In 1921 his sculpture Eve was acquired by the São Paulo city hall. In 1922 his work was exhibited in the foyer of the Municipal Theatre during the Week of Modern Art (Semana de Arte Moderna). His O Grupo was acquired by the French government in 1934 for the Musée du Jeu de Paume; it was later moved to the public library at La Roche-sur-Yon, where it remains on display. His best-known work, the massive Monumento às Bandeiras at the Parque Ibirapuera in São Paulo, was proposed (in the form of a plaster miniature) in 1920, begun in 1936, and completed on January 25, 1953.

wn.com/Victor_Brecheret






























Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Brasilia Segment from The Shock of the New

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:08
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


Robert Hughes' history of Modern Art from Cubism to Pop and the Avant-Garde The popular art history sequel to the BBC's Civilization series, picks up at the threshold of the 20th century. It is written and presented by Robert Hughes, art critic and senior writer for Time. Hughes draws on a wealth of documentary materials from the archives of the BBC, including rare footage and interviews with noted artists. The range of major figures includes Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, le Corbusier, Maz Ernst, Francis Bacon and Jackson Pollock. Episode 4: Trouble in Utopia German visionary architects such as Scharoun, Finsterlin, Luckhardt, Taut planned their Wagnerian dreams with glass palaces in the Alps, as did Italians such as Sant' Elia and Chiattone. Then, Bauhaus and the functionalist faith-Mies van der Rohe, Walter Gropius, le Corbusier, and the worldwide spread of the glass-box international style, with their concomitant social programs and delusions. The great myth of the architect as social legislator culminated in the town plans of le Corbusier, the speculations of Buckminster Fuller and came to an end in the strange wasteland of Brasilia.
http://wn.com/Brasilia_Segment_from_The_Shock_of_the_New




				
					Robert Hughes' history of Modern Art from Cubism to Pop and the Avant-Garde The popular art history sequel to the BBC's Civilization series, picks up at the threshold of the 20th century. It is written and presented by Robert Hughes, art critic and senior writer for Time. Hughes draws on a wealth of documentary materials from the archives of the BBC, including rare footage and interviews with noted artists. The range of major figures includes Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, le Corbusier, Maz Ernst, Francis Bacon and Jackson Pollock. Episode 4: Trouble in Utopia German visionary architects such as Scharoun, Finsterlin, Luckhardt, Taut planned their Wagnerian dreams with glass palaces in the Alps, as did Italians such as Sant' Elia and Chiattone. Then, Bauhaus and the functionalist faith-Mies van der Rohe, Walter Gropius, le Corbusier, and the worldwide spread of the glass-box international style, with their concomitant social programs and delusions. The great myth of the architect as social legislator culminated in the town plans of le Corbusier, the speculations of Buckminster Fuller and came to an end in the strange wasteland of Brasilia.

published: 11 Apr 2010
views: 22963

author:
Ethan Callender















Brasilia - utopia or concrete carbuncle?

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:43
Updated: 10 Jan 2013


"Brasilia" "utopia" "Oscar Niemeyer" "Guanabara bay" "Rio" "Rio olympics" "Rio olympics 2016" "olympics 2016" "Isabel Swann" "Martine Grael" "brazil" "Brazil" "Olympic Games 2016" "2016 Summer Olympic Brazil's capital Brasilia is getting a makeover ahead of the World Cup in 2014. Rajan Datar takes a helicopter ride above the city which took just three years to build in the 1960s and has the distinctive signature of architect Oscar Niemeyer throughout. The city was built to unite the undeveloped north with the rest of the country. Opinion remains divided about the city to this day - is it a monument to technocracy or a ghastly concrete carbuncle? Get in touch with Fast Track via email or Facebook. And follow us on Pinterest. Watch Fast Track on the BBC World News channel on Saturdays at 04:30, 13:30 and 19:30 GMT or Sundays at 06:30 GMT.
http://wn.com/Brasilia_utopia_or_concrete_carbuncle?




				
					"Brasilia" "utopia" "Oscar Niemeyer" "Guanabara bay" "Rio" "Rio olympics" "Rio olympics 2016" "olympics 2016" "Isabel Swann" "Martine Grael" "brazil" "Brazil" "Olympic Games 2016" "2016 Summer Olympic Brazil's capital Brasilia is getting a makeover ahead of the World Cup in 2014. Rajan Datar takes a helicopter ride above the city which took just three years to build in the 1960s and has the distinctive signature of architect Oscar Niemeyer throughout. The city was built to unite the undeveloped north with the rest of the country. Opinion remains divided about the city to this day - is it a monument to technocracy or a ghastly concrete carbuncle? Get in touch with Fast Track via email or Facebook. And follow us on Pinterest. Watch Fast Track on the BBC World News channel on Saturdays at 04:30, 13:30 and 19:30 GMT or Sundays at 06:30 GMT.

published: 29 Sep 2012
views: 9476

author:
GirlofGoodtimes















BRASILIA

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:53
Updated: 19 May 2012


Brasilia is Brazil's capital city and was constructed in the nineteen fifties in futuristic style, a veritable playground for both planners and architects and also a considerable challenge for both builders and civil engineers. The general idea had been to transform what could have been fifty years of building work into just five, but they actually achieved it in just four! Brasilia was recognised as a symbol of outstanding design and in 1987 it was designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. The Congresso Nacional is the city's most famous building complex, Oscar Niemeyer's personal masterpiece, with a dome and bowl linked by two towers and corridors with photo galleries and countless government offices that form a mighty centre of administrative power. The Palacio Da Alvorada was one of the first structures to be built in the city and is located in a fine position on an artificial lake. The president's one hundred and ten metre long private residence can only be viewed from the outside under the watchful eye of the military. The pedestrianised monument, Panteao Da Patria Tancredo Neves, is adorned by a fine white dove. A memorial to democracy in esoterically inspired Bauhaus architecture.
http://wn.com/BRASILIA




				
					Brasilia is Brazil's capital city and was constructed in the nineteen fifties in futuristic style, a veritable playground for both planners and architects and also a considerable challenge for both builders and civil engineers. The general idea had been to transform what could have been fifty years of building work into just five, but they actually achieved it in just four! Brasilia was recognised as a symbol of outstanding design and in 1987 it was designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. The Congresso Nacional is the city's most famous building complex, Oscar Niemeyer's personal masterpiece, with a dome and bowl linked by two towers and corridors with photo galleries and countless government offices that form a mighty centre of administrative power. The Palacio Da Alvorada was one of the first structures to be built in the city and is located in a fine position on an artificial lake. The president's one hundred and ten metre long private residence can only be viewed from the outside under the watchful eye of the military. The pedestrianised monument, Panteao Da Patria Tancredo Neves, is adorned by a fine white dove. A memorial to democracy in esoterically inspired Bauhaus architecture.

published: 08 Apr 2011
views: 507

author:
TravelVideoStore















UNESCO warns Brasilia under threat

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:15
Updated: 26 Jan 2013


The Brazilian capital was founded in 1956 -- built from nothing -- to become a modern architectural delight. But what once gave the city its futuristic feel is now becoming a thing of the past. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Brasilia.
http://wn.com/UNESCO_warns_Brasilia_under_threat




				
					The Brazilian capital was founded in 1956 -- built from nothing -- to become a modern architectural delight. But what once gave the city its futuristic feel is now becoming a thing of the past. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Brasilia.

published: 19 Aug 2012
views: 2891

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Brasilia, the capital of Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:17
Updated: 13 Jan 2013


Brasilia was built to be Brazil's new capital city. The idea was to transfer the federal capital of Brazil from the coast to midwestern / interior of the country. Brazil had had two capital cities before that: Rio de Janeiro and Salvador da Bahia. By transferring the capital city to the interior, the government intended to help to populate that area of the county. People from all over the country were hired to build the city, but especially those from the Northeast region of Brazil. Brasilia is known, internationally, for having applied the principles established in the Athens Charter of 1933. President Juscelino Kubitschek ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling an article of the country's constitution stating that the capital should be moved from Rio de Janeiro to a place close to the center of the country. Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend of Lúcio, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960 when it was officially inaugurated. From 1763 to 1960, Rio de Janeiro was the capital of Brazil. At this time, resources tended to be centred in Brazil's southeast region near Rio de Janeiro. Brasília's geographical central location made for a more regionally neutral federal capital. The idea of placing Brazil's capital in the interior dates back to the first republican constitution of 1891, which ...
http://wn.com/Brasilia,_the_capital_of_Brazil




				
					Brasilia was built to be Brazil's new capital city. The idea was to transfer the federal capital of Brazil from the coast to midwestern / interior of the country. Brazil had had two capital cities before that: Rio de Janeiro and Salvador da Bahia. By transferring the capital city to the interior, the government intended to help to populate that area of the county. People from all over the country were hired to build the city, but especially those from the Northeast region of Brazil. Brasilia is known, internationally, for having applied the principles established in the Athens Charter of 1933. President Juscelino Kubitschek ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling an article of the country's constitution stating that the capital should be moved from Rio de Janeiro to a place close to the center of the country. Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend of Lúcio, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960 when it was officially inaugurated. From 1763 to 1960, Rio de Janeiro was the capital of Brazil. At this time, resources tended to be centred in Brazil's southeast region near Rio de Janeiro. Brasília's geographical central location made for a more regionally neutral federal capital. The idea of placing Brazil's capital in the interior dates back to the first republican constitution of 1891, which ...

published: 13 Oct 2007
views: 59677

author:
FelipeMinhokinha3















Brasília

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:51
Updated: 28 Jan 2013


Video sobre a construções de Brasília
http://wn.com/Brasília




				
					Video sobre a construções de Brasília

published: 10 Jul 2006
views: 107400

author:
Daniel José Pegorer de Bem















Brasilia - 1/3 Monument der Moderne wird 50 (Architekt Oscar Niemeyer)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:54
Updated: 20 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Brasilia_1_3_Monument_der_Moderne_wird_50_Architekt_Oscar_Niemeyer






published: 23 Apr 2009
views: 13388

author:
Observadora78















Brasilia - Capital of Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:49
Updated: 16 Jan 2013


Brasília is the capital of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city and its District are located in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2557000 (3599000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil, ahead of Belo Horizonte and Fortaleza — However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Brasília hosts 91 foreign embassies.
http://wn.com/Brasilia_Capital_of_Brazil




				
					Brasília is the capital of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city and its District are located in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2557000 (3599000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil, ahead of Belo Horizonte and Fortaleza — However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Brasília hosts 91 foreign embassies.

published: 30 Aug 2010
views: 14241

author:
Alessandro Braga















And then it became a city...Brasilia

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:01
Updated: 10 Jan 2013


By Cao Guimarães, Brasilia is part of And then it became a city, a video series curated by David van der Leer for the 2011 Shenzhen & Hong Kong Bi-City Biennale of Urbanism\Architecture. It will premier on December 8, 2011 for the vernissage of the Biennale. The development of new towns forms a common thread running through many societies around the world. As a testament to the number of new town developments built since the 1950s, the multi-platform exhibition project and then it became a city, analyses, and documents everyday life in six planned cities under the age of sixty from Chandigarh (India, 1953), Brasilia (Brazil, 1960), Gaborone (Botswana, 1964), and Las Vegas (US, 1960s), to Almere (Netherlands, 1976), and Shenzhen (China, 1979). And then it became a city includes newly commissioned works by Astrid Bussink (The Netherlands), Wang Gongxin (China), Sam Green (USA), Cao Guimarães (Brazil), Miki Redelinghuys (South Africa), and Surabhi Sharma (India); and workshops by Mary Ann O'Donnell, and Huang Jingjie (ATU). And then it became a city is organized in tandem with 6 Under 60, curated by Rochelle Steiner
http://wn.com/And_then_it_became_a_cityBrasilia




				
					By Cao Guimarães, Brasilia is part of And then it became a city, a video series curated by David van der Leer for the 2011 Shenzhen & Hong Kong Bi-City Biennale of Urbanism\Architecture. It will premier on December 8, 2011 for the vernissage of the Biennale. The development of new towns forms a common thread running through many societies around the world. As a testament to the number of new town developments built since the 1950s, the multi-platform exhibition project and then it became a city, analyses, and documents everyday life in six planned cities under the age of sixty from Chandigarh (India, 1953), Brasilia (Brazil, 1960), Gaborone (Botswana, 1964), and Las Vegas (US, 1960s), to Almere (Netherlands, 1976), and Shenzhen (China, 1979). And then it became a city includes newly commissioned works by Astrid Bussink (The Netherlands), Wang Gongxin (China), Sam Green (USA), Cao Guimarães (Brazil), Miki Redelinghuys (South Africa), and Surabhi Sharma (India); and workshops by Mary Ann O'Donnell, and Huang Jingjie (ATU). And then it became a city is organized in tandem with 6 Under 60, curated by Rochelle Steiner

published: 12 Dec 2011
views: 1998

author:
szhkbiennale















Brasilia - Oscar Niemeyer

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:41
Updated: 23 Jan 2013


my architecture 114 precedent 2.
http://wn.com/Brasilia_Oscar_Niemeyer




				
					my architecture 114 precedent 2.

published: 01 Nov 2010
views: 5823

author:
subroofer1128















Anahi (RBD) canta Salvame en Brasilia.WMV

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:14
Updated: 31 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Anahi_RBD_canta_Salvame_en_BrasiliaWMV






published: 02 Aug 2010
views: 182549

author:
Dunka89















BRASÍLIA VISTA DO CÉU

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:29
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


Brasília de um ponto de vista diferente. Dedicado a todos que amam essa cidade!
http://wn.com/BRASÍLIA_VISTA_DO_CÉU




				
					Brasília de um ponto de vista diferente. Dedicado a todos que amam essa cidade!

published: 22 Apr 2011
views: 93924

author:
Jair Tannus Neto















Brasilia: Una ciudad creada por el hombre

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:05
Updated: 24 Jan 2013


Este video fue para una presentacion rapida de diseño, muestra como la ciudad surgio de la nada por mano del hombre. Musica: Cafe Lounge: Iced Brazilian Tea - Bossa Rouge
http://wn.com/Brasilia_Una_ciudad_creada_por_el_hombre




				
					Este video fue para una presentacion rapida de diseño, muestra como la ciudad surgio de la nada por mano del hombre. Musica: Cafe Lounge: Iced Brazilian Tea - Bossa Rouge

published: 12 May 2008
views: 37126

author:
Rosalia Restituyo















Embraer Brasilia 120 Turboprop (KPSP~KLAS)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 13:25
Updated: 03 Dec 2012


Watch the engine startup, taxi, takeoff, flight, landing and entrance into the KLAS airport on the United Airlines Express Flight #5744 from Palm Springs International Airport to McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas.
http://wn.com/Embraer_Brasilia_120_Turboprop_KPSP~KLAS




				
					Watch the engine startup, taxi, takeoff, flight, landing and entrance into the KLAS airport on the United Airlines Express Flight #5744 from Palm Springs International Airport to McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas.

published: 03 May 2012
views: 2456

author:
Tim Alcoser















Brasília - Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:31
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


they are pictures of the federal district, the capital of the brasil... BRASÍLIA! a bealtiful city.
http://wn.com/Brasília_Brazil




				
					they are pictures of the federal district, the capital of the brasil... BRASÍLIA! a bealtiful city.

published: 30 Nov 2007
views: 60339

author:
ciities















BRIGA NO TRANSITO bRASÍLIA

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:44
Updated: 01 Feb 2013



http://wn.com/BRIGA_NO_TRANSITO_bRASÍLIA






published: 23 Mar 2012
views: 1271444

author:
GalvaoLeo















Trailer Oficial ROCK BRASÍLIA - Era de Ouro

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:18
Updated: 27 Jan 2013


Novo trailer do documentário 'Rock Brasília - Era de Ouro'. Com imagens de arquivo, gravadas por Vladimir Carvalho desde o fim dos anos 1970, o documentário encerra uma trilogia sobre a construção cultural e ideológica da capital federal. Traz as bandas de Brasília - Legião Urbana, Capital Inicial, Plebe Rude - que fizeram a trajetória clássica do herói: vencer empecilhos. Eles fazem parte da primeira geração de filhos de políticos, diplomatas e outros intelectuais que começou a surgir nos anos 1980. Filme ROCK BRASÍLIA Uma produção Ligocki-Z Entretenimento e Vertovisão Co-produção: Canal Brasil Produção: Marcus Ligocki Direção: Vladimir Carvalho Distribuição: Downtown Filmes OUTUBRO 2011 - NOS CINEMAS
http://wn.com/Trailer_Oficial_ROCK_BRASÍLIA_Era_de_Ouro




				
					Novo trailer do documentário 'Rock Brasília - Era de Ouro'. Com imagens de arquivo, gravadas por Vladimir Carvalho desde o fim dos anos 1970, o documentário encerra uma trilogia sobre a construção cultural e ideológica da capital federal. Traz as bandas de Brasília - Legião Urbana, Capital Inicial, Plebe Rude - que fizeram a trajetória clássica do herói: vencer empecilhos. Eles fazem parte da primeira geração de filhos de políticos, diplomatas e outros intelectuais que começou a surgir nos anos 1980. Filme ROCK BRASÍLIA Uma produção Ligocki-Z Entretenimento e Vertovisão Co-produção: Canal Brasil Produção: Marcus Ligocki Direção: Vladimir Carvalho Distribuição: Downtown Filmes OUTUBRO 2011 - NOS CINEMAS

published: 17 Aug 2011
views: 174691

author:
rockbrasiliadoc















Top 5 Tricks-Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour Brasilia

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:53
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Watch as we count down the top 5 tricks from the second stop of the 2011 Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour in Brasilia (Brazil). For more X-Fighters info check out: www.redbull.com www.redbull.com
http://wn.com/Top_5_Tricks-Red_Bull_X-Fighters_World_Tour_Brasilia




				
					Watch as we count down the top 5 tricks from the second stop of the 2011 Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour in Brasilia (Brazil). For more X-Fighters info check out: www.redbull.com www.redbull.com

published: 22 Jun 2011
views: 451321

author:
redbull















Bad Salad live @ Brasilia - Crowded Sky

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:28
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


It's a shame I was a little too close to the guitar amplifiers and the voice and keyboards were coming out on the other side of the stage, so you can barely hear them... The show was awesome. The album "Uncivilized" is up on iTunes and CDBaby.com... Sorry for the silly joke, truth is they started playing out of nowhere and I wasn't ready to record so I had to come up with something =D
http://wn.com/Bad_Salad_live_@_Brasilia_Crowded_Sky




				
					It's a shame I was a little too close to the guitar amplifiers and the voice and keyboards were coming out on the other side of the stage, so you can barely hear them... The show was awesome. The album "Uncivilized" is up on iTunes and CDBaby.com... Sorry for the silly joke, truth is they started playing out of nowhere and I wasn't ready to record so I had to come up with something =D

published: 11 Aug 2012
views: 676

author:
drchronos















Pagode em Brasília - Bruna Viola

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:29
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Bruna Viola ( viola), Aviller Schinaiider (violão de nylon) e Paulo Correia (cajón) interpretam composição de Tião Carreiro e Pardinho. Voa Viola - Brasília, 17/12/2010 na Sala Villa-Lobos.
http://wn.com/Pagode_em_Brasília_Bruna_Viola




				
					Bruna Viola ( viola), Aviller Schinaiider (violão de nylon) e Paulo Correia (cajón) interpretam composição de Tião Carreiro e Pardinho. Voa Viola - Brasília, 17/12/2010 na Sala Villa-Lobos.

published: 30 Dec 2010
views: 347367

author:
voaviola















Ragga Jam® Brazilian Team - Workshop in Brasília

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:48
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Ragga Jam® Brazilian Team Workshop in Brasília - Brazil February, 2011 Carolina Mercado, Karla Mendes and Lucas Migliorini
http://wn.com/Ragga_Jam®_Brazilian_Team_Workshop_in_Brasília




				
					Ragga Jam® Brazilian Team Workshop in Brasília - Brazil February, 2011 Carolina Mercado, Karla Mendes and Lucas Migliorini

published: 23 Mar 2011
views: 128028

author:
Ragga Jam















Monica Iozzi é agredida por deputado em Brasília

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:42
Updated: 30 Jan 2013


A repórter Monica Iozzi eo cinegrafista do CQC foram agredidos pelo deputado federal Nelson Trad no Congresso Nacional, em Brasília.
http://wn.com/Monica_Iozzi_é_agredida_por_deputado_em_Brasília




				
					A repórter Monica Iozzi eo cinegrafista do CQC foram agredidos pelo deputado federal Nelson Trad no Congresso Nacional, em Brasília.

published: 15 Jun 2010
views: 288989

author:
band















(DVD) RBD LIVE IN BRASILIA COMPLETO

Order: Reorder
Duration: 90:23
Updated: 31 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/DVD_RBD_LIVE_IN_BRASILIA_COMPLETO






published: 21 Oct 2011
views: 544051

author:
rbdlive1





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































6:08



Brasilia Segment from The Shock of the New
Robert Hughes' history of Modern Art from Cubism to Pop and the Avant-Garde The popular ar...


published: 11 Apr 2010
author: Ethan Callender


Brasilia Segment from The Shock of the New


				
					Robert Hughes' history of Modern Art from Cubism to Pop and the Avant-Garde The popular art history sequel to the BBC's Civilization series, picks up at the threshold of the 20th century. It is written and presented by Robert Hughes, art critic and senior writer for Time. Hughes draws on a wealth of documentary materials from the archives of the BBC, including rare footage and interviews with noted artists. The range of major figures includes Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, le Corbusier, Maz Ernst, Francis Bacon and Jackson Pollock. Episode 4: Trouble in Utopia German visionary architects such as Scharoun, Finsterlin, Luckhardt, Taut planned their Wagnerian dreams with glass palaces in the Alps, as did Italians such as Sant' Elia and Chiattone. Then, Bauhaus and the functionalist faith-Mies van der Rohe, Walter Gropius, le Corbusier, and the worldwide spread of the glass-box international style, with their concomitant social programs and delusions. The great myth of the architect as social legislator culminated in the town plans of le Corbusier, the speculations of Buckminster Fuller and came to an end in the strange wasteland of Brasilia.

published: 11 Apr 2010
views: 22963

author:
Ethan Callender















2:43



Brasilia - utopia or concrete carbuncle?
"Brasilia" "utopia" "Oscar Niemeyer" "Guanabara bay" "Rio" "Rio olympics" "Rio olympics 20...


published: 29 Sep 2012
author: GirlofGoodtimes


Brasilia - utopia or concrete carbuncle?


				
					"Brasilia" "utopia" "Oscar Niemeyer" "Guanabara bay" "Rio" "Rio olympics" "Rio olympics 2016" "olympics 2016" "Isabel Swann" "Martine Grael" "brazil" "Brazil" "Olympic Games 2016" "2016 Summer Olympic Brazil's capital Brasilia is getting a makeover ahead of the World Cup in 2014. Rajan Datar takes a helicopter ride above the city which took just three years to build in the 1960s and has the distinctive signature of architect Oscar Niemeyer throughout. The city was built to unite the undeveloped north with the rest of the country. Opinion remains divided about the city to this day - is it a monument to technocracy or a ghastly concrete carbuncle? Get in touch with Fast Track via email or Facebook. And follow us on Pinterest. Watch Fast Track on the BBC World News channel on Saturdays at 04:30, 13:30 and 19:30 GMT or Sundays at 06:30 GMT.

published: 29 Sep 2012
views: 9476

author:
GirlofGoodtimes















9:53



BRASILIA
Brasilia is Brazil's capital city and was constructed in the nineteen fifties in futuristi...


published: 08 Apr 2011
author: TravelVideoStore


BRASILIA


				
					Brasilia is Brazil's capital city and was constructed in the nineteen fifties in futuristic style, a veritable playground for both planners and architects and also a considerable challenge for both builders and civil engineers. The general idea had been to transform what could have been fifty years of building work into just five, but they actually achieved it in just four! Brasilia was recognised as a symbol of outstanding design and in 1987 it was designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. The Congresso Nacional is the city's most famous building complex, Oscar Niemeyer's personal masterpiece, with a dome and bowl linked by two towers and corridors with photo galleries and countless government offices that form a mighty centre of administrative power. The Palacio Da Alvorada was one of the first structures to be built in the city and is located in a fine position on an artificial lake. The president's one hundred and ten metre long private residence can only be viewed from the outside under the watchful eye of the military. The pedestrianised monument, Panteao Da Patria Tancredo Neves, is adorned by a fine white dove. A memorial to democracy in esoterically inspired Bauhaus architecture.

published: 08 Apr 2011
views: 507

author:
TravelVideoStore















2:15



UNESCO warns Brasilia under threat
The Brazilian capital was founded in 1956 -- built from nothing -- to become a modern arch...


published: 19 Aug 2012
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


UNESCO warns Brasilia under threat


				
					The Brazilian capital was founded in 1956 -- built from nothing -- to become a modern architectural delight. But what once gave the city its futuristic feel is now becoming a thing of the past. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Brasilia.

published: 19 Aug 2012
views: 2891

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















4:17



Brasilia, the capital of Brazil
Brasilia was built to be Brazil's new capital city. The idea was to transfer the federal c...


published: 13 Oct 2007
author: FelipeMinhokinha3


Brasilia, the capital of Brazil


				
					Brasilia was built to be Brazil's new capital city. The idea was to transfer the federal capital of Brazil from the coast to midwestern / interior of the country. Brazil had had two capital cities before that: Rio de Janeiro and Salvador da Bahia. By transferring the capital city to the interior, the government intended to help to populate that area of the county. People from all over the country were hired to build the city, but especially those from the Northeast region of Brazil. Brasilia is known, internationally, for having applied the principles established in the Athens Charter of 1933. President Juscelino Kubitschek ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling an article of the country's constitution stating that the capital should be moved from Rio de Janeiro to a place close to the center of the country. Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend of Lúcio, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960 when it was officially inaugurated. From 1763 to 1960, Rio de Janeiro was the capital of Brazil. At this time, resources tended to be centred in Brazil's southeast region near Rio de Janeiro. Brasília's geographical central location made for a more regionally neutral federal capital. The idea of placing Brazil's capital in the interior dates back to the first republican constitution of 1891, which ...

published: 13 Oct 2007
views: 59677

author:
FelipeMinhokinha3















3:51



Brasília
Video sobre a construções de Brasília...


published: 10 Jul 2006
author: Daniel José Pegorer de Bem


Brasília


				
					Video sobre a construções de Brasília

published: 10 Jul 2006
views: 107400

author:
Daniel José Pegorer de Bem















9:54



Brasilia - 1/3 Monument der Moderne wird 50 (Architekt Oscar Niemeyer)
...


published: 23 Apr 2009
author: Observadora78


Brasilia - 1/3 Monument der Moderne wird 50 (Architekt Oscar Niemeyer)




published: 23 Apr 2009
views: 13388

author:
Observadora78















3:49



Brasilia - Capital of Brazil
Brasília is the capital of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The c...


published: 30 Aug 2010
author: Alessandro Braga


Brasilia - Capital of Brazil


				
					Brasília is the capital of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city and its District are located in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2557000 (3599000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil, ahead of Belo Horizonte and Fortaleza — However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Brasília hosts 91 foreign embassies.

published: 30 Aug 2010
views: 14241

author:
Alessandro Braga















1:01



And then it became a city...Brasilia
By Cao Guimarães, Brasilia is part of And then it became a city, a video series curated by...


published: 12 Dec 2011
author: szhkbiennale


And then it became a city...Brasilia


				
					By Cao Guimarães, Brasilia is part of And then it became a city, a video series curated by David van der Leer for the 2011 Shenzhen & Hong Kong Bi-City Biennale of Urbanism\Architecture. It will premier on December 8, 2011 for the vernissage of the Biennale. The development of new towns forms a common thread running through many societies around the world. As a testament to the number of new town developments built since the 1950s, the multi-platform exhibition project and then it became a city, analyses, and documents everyday life in six planned cities under the age of sixty from Chandigarh (India, 1953), Brasilia (Brazil, 1960), Gaborone (Botswana, 1964), and Las Vegas (US, 1960s), to Almere (Netherlands, 1976), and Shenzhen (China, 1979). And then it became a city includes newly commissioned works by Astrid Bussink (The Netherlands), Wang Gongxin (China), Sam Green (USA), Cao Guimarães (Brazil), Miki Redelinghuys (South Africa), and Surabhi Sharma (India); and workshops by Mary Ann O'Donnell, and Huang Jingjie (ATU). And then it became a city is organized in tandem with 6 Under 60, curated by Rochelle Steiner

published: 12 Dec 2011
views: 1998

author:
szhkbiennale















2:41



Brasilia - Oscar Niemeyer
my architecture 114 precedent 2....


published: 01 Nov 2010
author: subroofer1128


Brasilia - Oscar Niemeyer


				
					my architecture 114 precedent 2.

published: 01 Nov 2010
views: 5823

author:
subroofer1128















5:14



Anahi (RBD) canta Salvame en Brasilia.WMV
...


published: 02 Aug 2010
author: Dunka89


Anahi (RBD) canta Salvame en Brasilia.WMV




published: 02 Aug 2010
views: 182549

author:
Dunka89















4:29



BRASÍLIA VISTA DO CÉU
Brasília de um ponto de vista diferente. Dedicado a todos que amam essa cidade!...


published: 22 Apr 2011
author: Jair Tannus Neto


BRASÍLIA VISTA DO CÉU


				
					Brasília de um ponto de vista diferente. Dedicado a todos que amam essa cidade!

published: 22 Apr 2011
views: 93924

author:
Jair Tannus Neto















3:05



Brasilia: Una ciudad creada por el hombre
Este video fue para una presentacion rapida de diseño, muestra como la ciudad surgio de la...


published: 12 May 2008
author: Rosalia Restituyo


Brasilia: Una ciudad creada por el hombre


				
					Este video fue para una presentacion rapida de diseño, muestra como la ciudad surgio de la nada por mano del hombre. Musica: Cafe Lounge: Iced Brazilian Tea - Bossa Rouge

published: 12 May 2008
views: 37126

author:
Rosalia Restituyo















13:25



Embraer Brasilia 120 Turboprop (KPSP~KLAS)
Watch the engine startup, taxi, takeoff, flight, landing and entrance into the KLAS airpor...


published: 03 May 2012
author: Tim Alcoser


Embraer Brasilia 120 Turboprop (KPSP~KLAS)


				
					Watch the engine startup, taxi, takeoff, flight, landing and entrance into the KLAS airport on the United Airlines Express Flight #5744 from Palm Springs International Airport to McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas.

published: 03 May 2012
views: 2456

author:
Tim Alcoser










Youtube results:







5:31



Brasília - Brazil
they are pictures of the federal district, the capital of the brasil... BRASÍLIA! a bealti...


published: 30 Nov 2007
author: ciities


Brasília - Brazil


				
					they are pictures of the federal district, the capital of the brasil... BRASÍLIA! a bealtiful city.

published: 30 Nov 2007
views: 60339

author:
ciities















3:44



BRIGA NO TRANSITO bRASÍLIA
...


published: 23 Mar 2012
author: GalvaoLeo


BRIGA NO TRANSITO bRASÍLIA




published: 23 Mar 2012
views: 1271444

author:
GalvaoLeo















2:18



Trailer Oficial ROCK BRASÍLIA - Era de Ouro
Novo trailer do documentário 'Rock Brasília - Era de Ouro'. Com imagens de arquivo, gravad...


published: 17 Aug 2011
author: rockbrasiliadoc


Trailer Oficial ROCK BRASÍLIA - Era de Ouro


				
					Novo trailer do documentário 'Rock Brasília - Era de Ouro'. Com imagens de arquivo, gravadas por Vladimir Carvalho desde o fim dos anos 1970, o documentário encerra uma trilogia sobre a construção cultural e ideológica da capital federal. Traz as bandas de Brasília - Legião Urbana, Capital Inicial, Plebe Rude - que fizeram a trajetória clássica do herói: vencer empecilhos. Eles fazem parte da primeira geração de filhos de políticos, diplomatas e outros intelectuais que começou a surgir nos anos 1980. Filme ROCK BRASÍLIA Uma produção Ligocki-Z Entretenimento e Vertovisão Co-produção: Canal Brasil Produção: Marcus Ligocki Direção: Vladimir Carvalho Distribuição: Downtown Filmes OUTUBRO 2011 - NOS CINEMAS

published: 17 Aug 2011
views: 174691

author:
rockbrasiliadoc















2:53



Top 5 Tricks-Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour Brasilia
Watch as we count down the top 5 tricks from the second stop of the 2011 Red Bull X-Fighte...


published: 22 Jun 2011
author: redbull


Top 5 Tricks-Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour Brasilia


				
					Watch as we count down the top 5 tricks from the second stop of the 2011 Red Bull X-Fighters World Tour in Brasilia (Brazil). For more X-Fighters info check out: www.redbull.com www.redbull.com

published: 22 Jun 2011
views: 451321

author:
redbull











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25. Caleb Moore was attempting a backflip when his snowmobile caught the edge of a landing area, sending him over the handlebars. The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



By Alexander Dziadosz and Oliver Holmes. BEIRUT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - At least 65 people were found shot dead with their hands bound in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Tuesday in a "new massacre" in the near two-year revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, activists said. Opposition campaigners blamed the government but it was impossible to confirm who was responsible ... The U.N ... State media did not mention the incident ... STALEMATE ... ....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime. Clinton on Thursday accused Tehran of sending into Syria "more personnel" to support and advise military security forces in their fight against the armed opposition ... "The Iranians have been actively involved from the very beginning ... ....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



MEXICO CITY — Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 25 people and injured 101 at the headquarters of Mexico’s state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos ... Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... My son.” ... ....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed. The Syrian Army statement says that the IAF jet fighters’ target was a military research centre near the border with Lebanon. Two people have been reported to be dead and five others injured in the attack ... First Published ... ....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














Brazil’s Aneel Approves Jirau Hydro Dam for March 1 Start Up

Bloomberg01 Feb 2013

read more



Feb ... 1, Nelson Hubner, the head of the electricity regulator known as Aneel, said in Brasilia today ... Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at mlima11@bloomberg.net ... ....(size: 1.2Kb)
	    



'Unsafe' Brazil nightclubs closed after Santa Maria fire

BBC News01 Feb 2013

read more



More than 150 nightclubs, restaurants and bars in Brazil have been deemed to be unsafe and closed by authorities ... There are temporary closures in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, the capital, Brasilia, and many smaller cities. Investigators say lives could have been saved if regulations had been properly observed ... In the capital, Brasilia, 16 nightclubs were closed, after authorities found they were missing licence documents ... ....(size: 2.7Kb)
	    



Brasil combatirá los precios abusivos de los hoteles en la Copa de las Confederaciones

U~T San Diego01 Feb 2013

read more



Vieira hizo la advertencia en declaraciones a periodistas tras reunirse este viernes en Brasilia con representantes de los propietarios de hoteles de todo el país, luego de que un estudio oficial revelara que el sector está cobrando precios muy superiores a su promedio para los días en que se disputará la Copa de las Confederaciones....(size: 3.6Kb)
	    



Brazil hotline, soap opera help bust prostitution ring in Spain

Orlando Sentinel01 Feb 2013

read more



BRASILIA (Reuters) - A call home from an anguished daughter in Spain and images from a soap opera about human trafficking for sexual exploitation led a Brazilian mother to realize her daughter was in trouble ......(size: 1.4Kb)
	    



Brazil Posted Record $4 Billion Trade Deficit in January

Bloomberg01 Feb 2013

read more



Brazil posted a record trade deficit in January, as monthly figures surged on the inclusion of oil imports made at the end of last year. The trade deficit was $4 billion last month, compared with a $2.25 billion surplus in December, the Trade Ministry said in a report published today on its website ... 30 ... Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ... ....(size: 2.3Kb)
	    



Brazil Elects Senate Leader Facing Surpreme Court Probe

Bloomberg01 Feb 2013

read more



Brazil’s Senate elected as its leader a government ally who is being investigated by the Supreme Court over fraud allegations, as President Dilma Rousseff seeks to maintain support to pass legislation ... “The risk is that an anti-corruption campaign surrounding Calheiros could contaminate her legislative agenda.” ... Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at jgoodman19@bloomberg.net; Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at rcolitt@bloomberg.net ... ....(size: 4.3Kb)
	    



Investors wonder who's in charge of Brazil's FX policy

Reuters01 Feb 2013

read more



* Investors see tension between Mantega, Tombini over FX. * Central bank seen winning case for stronger real. * Real could gain to 1.95/dlr without cenbank resistance. By Walter Brandimarte ... When the real traded at around 2.10 per dollar on Nov ... He added that a real weaker than 2 per dollar "was here to stay" ... In Brasilia, a finance ministry source said there was no conflict between Mantega's Wednesday speech and the central bank's action....(size: 5.9Kb)
	    



Hillary Clinton takes a rest, how weird is that?

The News & Observer01 Feb 2013

read more



Jacquelyn Martin, Pool - AP Photo. FILE - In this Aug. 7, 2012, file photo, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton laughs as South African jazz singer Judith Sephuma, left, invites her to dance to African music at a gala dinner at Sefako M ... Email Print Order Reprint Share This ... FILE - In this April 17, 2012, file photo, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton waves goodbye before leaving Brasilia, Brazil, en route to Brussels ... ....(size: 31.5Kb)
	    



Brazil honors diplomats that saved Jews from Nazis

The Miami Herald31 Jan 2013

read more



BRASILIA, Brazil -- Two Brazilian ... President Dilma Rousseff attended the ceremony organized by Brazil's Jewish Confederation and Brasilia's Jewish Cultural Association....(size: 0.9Kb)
	    



>Brazil honors diplomats that saved Jews from Nazis

Seattle Post31 Jan 2013

read more



BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) — ... President Dilma Rousseff attended the ceremony organized by Brazil's Jewish Confederation and Brasilia's Jewish Cultural Association....(size: 0.8Kb)
	    



For Brazil's President, Fatal Club Fire Highlights Larger Cause

Jakarta Globe31 Jan 2013

read more



The hundred or so corpses created an overpowering, acrid smell but Rousseff stayed for about half an hour, consoling the families of the survivors one by one before flying to Brasilia ... Instead, on Monday, barely 24 hours after receiving word of the fire, Rousseff pushed mayors at a meeting in Brasilia to more rigorously enforce safety codes at entertainment venues throughout the country....(size: 7.4Kb)
	    



For Brazil's President, Fatal Nightclub Fire Highlights Larger Cause

Jakarta Globe31 Jan 2013

read more



The hundred or so corpses created an overpowering, acrid smell but Rousseff stayed for about half an hour, consoling the families of the survivors one by one before flying to Brasilia ... Instead, on Monday, barely 24 hours after receiving word of the fire, Rousseff pushed mayors at a meeting in Brasilia to more rigorously enforce safety codes at entertainment venues throughout the country....(size: 7.4Kb)
	    



Significant progress made at Brazil 2014 LOC board meeting (FIFA - Fédération Internationale de Football Association)

noodls31 Jan 2013

read more



"We have seen a stadium that is ready (the Castelao), we have seen a venue where there is still work to be done but where a commitment has been made to deliver it on 21 April, which is Brasília, and we have met mayors and state governors in three cities (Brasilia, Fortaleza and Salvador)....(size: 5.1Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

















"Brasilia" redirects here. For other uses, see Brasilia (disambiguation).





This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2011)




Brasília


—  Federal capital  —




From upper left: National Congress of the Federative Republic of Brazil, Juscelino Kubitschek bridge, Monumental Axis, Palácio da Alvorada and Cathedral of Brasília.






Flag

Seal





Nickname(s): Capital Federal, BSB, Capital da Esperança


Motto: "Venturis ventis"  (Latin)
"To the coming winds"




Location of Brasília within the Federal District and in Brazil


Coordinates: 15°47′56″S 47°52′00″W﻿ / ﻿15.79889°S 47.8666667°W﻿ / -15.79889; -47.8666667


Country
 Brazil


Region
Central-West


State
 Federal District


Founded
April 21, 1960


Government


 • Governor
Agnelo Queiroz (Workers' Party)


Area


 • Federal capital
5,802 km2 (2,240.164 sq mi)


Elevation
1,172 m (3,845 ft)


Population (2010)


 • Federal capital
2,562,963 (4th)


 • Density
441.565/km2 (1,144/sq mi)


 • Metro
3,716,996 (6th)


Time zone
BRT (UTC−3)


 • Summer (DST)
BRST (UTC−2)


Postal Code
70000-000


Area code(s)
+55 61


Website
www.brasilia.df.gov.br






UNESCO World Heritage Site



Type:
Cultural


Criteria:
i, iv


Designated:
1987 (11th session)


Reference #:
445


State Party:
Brazil


Region:
Latin America and the Caribbean


Brasília (pronounced [bɾaˈziʎɐ] nationwide, in both colloquial and educated speech) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city is located in the Federal District, and is in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,562,963 (3,716,996 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site UNESCO.
As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.[1]
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner and Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect. On April 22 of 1960, it formally became Brazil's national capital. Viewed from above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.[2][3] The city is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply BSB.[4] Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos (the latter referring to those not born in the city, but migrated there when the city was established).
In local usage, the word "Brasília" usually refers only to the First Administrative Region within the Distrito Federal (Federal District), where the most important government buildings are located. Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil. Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state. There are several "satellite cities," which are also part of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations. It is the third most important airport of Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.




Contents


1 History
2 Geography

2.1 Climate


3 Demographics

3.1 Religion


4 Cityscape

4.1 Monumental civic scale
4.2 World Heritage Site


5 Economy

5.1 Services
5.2 Industries
5.3 Accommodation


6 Education

6.1 Main tertiary educational institutions


7 Culture

7.1 Historic sites and museums

7.1.1 Eixo Monumental
7.1.2 National Congress
7.1.3 Palácio da Alvorada
7.1.4 Palácio do Planalto
7.1.5 Complexo Cultural da República




8 Paranoá Lake

8.1 Juscelino Kubitschek bridge
8.2 Praça dos Três Poderes
8.3 Cathedral of Brasília
8.4 Popular culture


9 Transportation

9.1 International airport
9.2 Metro
9.3 High speed rail
9.4 Buses
9.5 Distances to other Brazilian major cities


10 Famous places nearby
11 Sports

11.1 Football
11.2 Hang gliding
11.3 Motor sport
11.4 Basketball


12 Notable people in Brasília
13 International relations

13.1 Twin towns and sister cities


14 See also
15 References
16 External links




History[link]
Main articles: History of Brasília and History of Brazil




Brasília under construction in 1959.


Juscelino Kubitschek, President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961, ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling an article of the country's first republican constitution dating back to 1891 stating that the capital should be moved from Rio de Janeiro to a place close to the center of the country. The plan was originally conceived in 1827 by José Bonifácio, an advisor to Emperor Pedro I. He presented a plan to the General Assembly of Brazil for a new city called Brasilia, with the idea of moving the capital westward from the heavily populated southeastern corridor. The bill was not enacted because Pedro I dissolved the Assembly.
Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner in 1957, with 5550 people competing. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960, when it was officially inaugurated. From 1763 to 1960, Rio de Janeiro was the capital of Brazil. At this time, resources tended to be centered in Brazil's southeast region near Rio de Janeiro. Brasília's geographically central location fostered a more regionally neutral federal capital. The idea of locating the capital in the center of Brazil was first suggested in 1891, but not defined until 1922.
Until the 1980s, the governor of the Distrito Federal was appointed by the Federal Government, and the laws of Brasília were issued by the Brazilian Federal Senate. With the Constitution of 1988 Brasília gained the right to elect its Governor, and a District Assembly (Câmara Legislativa) was elected to exercise legislative power.
According to legend, Italian saint Don Bosco in 1883 had a dream in which he described a futuristic city that roughly fitted Brasília's location.[5] In Brasília today, there are many references to this educator who founded the Salesian order, and one church in the city bears his name.
Geography[link]




Aerial view of Brasilia


Climate[link]
See also: Climate of Brazil
The national capital's climate is Tropical savanna climate (Aw) according to many of Köppen's classifications. Brasilia's climate closely borders a subtropical highland climate (Cwa/Cwb), showing many of the "eternal spring" features of that climate. The individual seasons are defined according to the degree of humidity of the air: one season is dry, while the other one is comparatively humid. The average temperature is 20.5 °C (68.9 °F).[6] September, at the end of the dry season, has the highest average maximum temperature, 28 °C (82 °F), and July has the lowest average maximum temperature, 26 °C (79 °F). The lowest average minimum temperature is in June and July 11 °C (52 °F). Average temperatures from September through April are a consistent 22 °C (72 °F). Those, however, are monthly averages; temperatures sometimes fall outside of this range. The absolute minimum temperature recorded was 0 °C (32 °F), and the absolute maximum was 37 °C (99 °F).
The dry season lasts from late March or early April to late September or early October, though there is commonly some rain also in late May. Humidity averages about 50% during the dry season, but often falls below 30% around noon.


Climate data for Brasília, Brazil


Month
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Year


Record high °C (°F)
35
(95)
32
(90)
33
(91)
32
(90)
32
(90)
32
(90)
36
(97)
37
(99)
36
(97)
37
(99)
34
(93)
33
(91)
37
(99)


Average high °C (°F)
26.9
(80.4)
26.7
(80.1)
27.1
(80.8)
26.6
(79.9)
25.7
(78.3)
25.2
(77.4)
25.1
(77.2)
27.3
(81.1)
28.3
(82.9)
27.5
(81.5)
26.6
(79.9)
26.2
(79.2)
26.6
(79.9)


Daily mean °C (°F)
21.6
(70.9)
21.8
(71.2)
22.0
(71.6)
21.4
(70.5)
20.2
(68.4)
19.1
(66.4)
19.1
(66.4)
21.2
(70.2)
22.5
(72.5)
22.1
(71.8)
21.7
(71.1)
21.5
(70.7)
21.2
(70.2)


Average low °C (°F)
17.4
(63.3)
17.4
(63.3)
17.5
(63.5)
16.8
(62.2)
15.0
(59.0)
13.3
(55.9)
12.9
(55.2)
14.6
(58.3)
16.0
(60.8)
17.4
(63.3)
17.5
(63.5)
17.5
(63.5)
16.1
(61.0)


Record low °C (°F)
12
(54)
12
(54)
12
(54)
10
(50)
2
(36)
0
(32)
2
(36)
3
(37)
7
(45)
12
(54)
11
(52)
11
(52)
0
(32)


Precipitation mm (inches)
241.4
(9.504)
214.7
(8.453)
188.9
(7.437)
123.8
(4.874)
39.3
(1.547)
8.8
(0.346)
11.8
(0.465)
12.8
(0.504)
51.9
(2.043)
172.1
(6.776)
238.0
(9.37)
248.6
(9.787)
1,552.1
(61.106)


Mean monthly sunshine hours
158.1
156.8
179.8
201.0
235.6
252.0
266.6
263.5
204.0
167.4
144.0
139.5
2,368.3


Source no. 1: Weatherbase (record temperatures only)[7]


Source no. 2: HKO (1961-1990) [8]


Demographics[link]
See also: Demographics of Brazil




Cultural Complex of Brasília.


According to the 2010 IBGE Census, there were 2,469,489 people residing in the city of Brasília.[9] The census revealed the following numbers: 1,239,882 Brown (Multiracial) people (48.2%), 1,084,418 White people (42.2%), 198,072 Black people (7.7%), 41,522 Asian people (1.6%), 6,128 Amerindian people (0.2%).[10]
In 2010, the city of Brasília was the 4th most populous city in Brazil, after São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Salvador.[11]
In 2010, the city had 474,871 opposite-sex couples and 1,241 same-sex couples (see more at LGBT rights in Brazil). The population of Brasília was 52.2% female and 47.8% male.[10]
In the 1960 census there were almost 140,000 residents in the new Federal District. By 1970 this figure had grown to more than 537,000. In 2000 the population of the Federal District was over 2,000,000. Planned for only 500,000 inhabitants, Brasília has seen its population grow much more than expected. Several satellite cities have been created over the years to house the extra inhabitants.[12]
From the beginning, the growth of Brasília was greater than original estimates. According to the original plans, Brasília would be a city for government authorities and staff. However, during the construction period, Brazilians from all over the country migrated to Brasília, seeking public and private jobs.[13]
This makes it the largest city (by population) in the world at the close of the 20th century that did not exist at the beginning of the century (a distinction held by Chicago in the 19th century). Brasília has one of the highest growth rates in Brazil, with its population increasing by 2.82% each year, mostly because of internal migration.
Brasília's inhabitants include a foreign population of mostly embassy workers as well as large numbers of Brazilian migrants. Today, the city has important communities of immigrants and refugees. The Human Development Index in the city is at 0.936 in the year 2000, (developed nation level), and the illiteracy rate is around 4.35%.
Religion[link]




View of the Cathedral of Brasília.


See also: Religion in Brazil


Religion
Percentage
Number


Catholic
66.16%
1,357,125


Protestant
19.50%
400,061


No religion
8.64%
177,266


Spiritist
2.69%
55,132


Muslim
0.03%
667


Jewish
0.03%
624


Source: IBGE 2000.[14]
Cityscape[link]




Brazilian National Flag.


At the northwestern end of the Monumental Axis are federal district and municipal buildings, while at the southeastern end, near the middle shore of Lake Paranoá, stand the executive, judicial, and legislative buildings around the Square of Three Powers, the conceptual heart of the city.
These and other major structures were designed by Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer. In the Square of Three Powers, he created as a focal point the dramatic Congressional Palace, which is composed of five parts: twin administrative towers flanked by a large, white concrete dome (the meeting place of the Senate) and by an equally massive concrete bowl (the Chamber of Deputies), which is joined to the dome by an underlying, flat-roofed building.
A series of low-lying annexes (largely hidden) flank both ends. Also in the square are the glass-faced Planalto Palace housing the presidential offices, and the Palace of the Supreme Court. Farther east, on a triangle of land jutting into the lake, is the Palace of the Dawn (Palácio da Alvorada; the presidential residence). Between the federal and civic buildings on the Monumental Axis is the city's cathedral, considered by many to be Niemeyer's finest achievement (see photographs of the and interior). The parabolically shaped structure is characterized by its 16 gracefully curving supports, which join in a circle 115 feet (35 meters) above the floor of the nave; stretched between the supports are translucent walls of tinted glass. The nave is entered via a subterranean passage rather than conventional doorways. Other notable buildings are Buriti Palace, Itamaraty Palace, the National Theater, and several foreign embassies that creatively embody features of their national architecture. The Brazilian landscape architect Roberto Burle Marx designed landmark modernist gardens for some of the principal buildings.
Both low-cost and luxury housing were built by the government in the central city. The residential zones of the inner city are arranged into superquadras ("superblocks"): groups of apartment buildings along with a prescribed number and type of schools, retail stores, and open spaces. At the northern end of Lake Paranoá, separated from the inner city, is a peninsula with many fashionable homes, and a similar neighbourhood exists on the southern lakeshore. Originally the city planners envisioned extensive public areas along the shores of the artificial lake, but during early development private clubs, hotels, and upscale residences and restaurants gained footholds around the water. Set well apart from the city are suburban satellite cities, including Gama, Ceilândia, Taguatinga, Núcleo Bandeirante, Sobradinho, and Planaltina. These towns, with the exception of Gama and Sobradinho were not planned.
Monumental civic scale[link]
The city has been acclaimed for its use of modernist architecture on a grand scale and for its somewhat utopian city plan. It has been criticized for the same reasons.
After a visit to Brasília, the French writer Simone de Beauvoir complained that all of its superquadras exuded "the same air of elegant monotony," and other observers have equated the city's large open lawns, plazas and fields to wastelands. As the city has matured, some of these have gained adornments, and many have been improved by landscaping, giving some observers a sense of "humanized" spaciousness. Although not fully accomplished, the "Brazilian utopia" has produced a city of relatively high quality of life, in which the citizens live in forested areas with sporting and leisure structure (the superquadras) flanked by small commercial areas, bookstores and cafes; the city is famous for its cuisine and efficiency of transit.
Even these positive features have sparked controversy, expressed in the nickname "ilha da fantasia" ("fantasy island"), indicating the sharp contrast between the city and surrounding regions, marked by poverty and disorganization in the cities of the state of Goiás, around Brasília.
Critics of Brasília's grand scale have characterized it as a modernist platonic fantasy about the future:

Nothing dates faster than people's fantasies about the future. This is what you get when perfectly decent, intelligent, and talented men start thinking in terms of space rather than place; and single rather than multiple meanings. It's what you get when you design for political aspirations rather than real human needs. You get miles of jerry-built platonic nowhere infested with volkswagens. This, one may fervently hope, is the last experiment of its kind. The utopian buck stops here.
— Robert Hughes, The Shock of the New, Episode 4: Trouble in Utopia, (1980)

World Heritage Site[link]
The Brazilian capital is the only city in the world built in the 20th century to be awarded (in 1987) the status of Historical and Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO, an agency of the UN. It also holds the distinction of waiting the shortest amount of time to be designated a World Heritage Site of any UNESCO entry, which occurred just 27 years after its completion in 1960.





Panoramic view of the Praça dos Três Poderes: at the left (south) the judiciary power (Supreme Federal Court – #3), at the center the legislative power (National Congress – #12) and at the right the seat of government (Palácio do Planalto – #16). For a complete relation of the numbered componets, click on the image to see the description.


Economy[link]
See also: Economy of Brazil




Shopping streets of Brasilia.


The major roles of construction and of services (government, communications, banking and finance, food production, entertainment, and legal services) in Brasília's economy reflect the city's status as a governmental rather than an industrial centre. Industries connected with construction, food processing, and furnishings are important, as are those associated with publishing, printing, and computer software. GDP is divided in Public Administration 54.8%, Services 28.7%, Industry 10.2%, Commerce 6.1%, Agribusiness 0.2%.[15]
Besides being the political center, Brasília is an important economic center. The city is the 3rd richest of Brazil, showing a gross domestic product (GDP) from 99.5 billion reais, representing 3.76% of the total Brazilian GDP. The main economic activity of the federal capital results from its administrative function. Its industrial planning is studied carefully by the Government of the Federal District. Being a town registered by UNESCO, the government in Brasilia has opted to encourage the development of non-polluting industries such as software, film, video, and gemology among others, with emphasis on environmental preservation and maintaining ecological balance, preserving the city property.
According to Mercer's city rankings of cost of living for expatriate employees, Brasília ranks 33rd among the most expensive cities in the world in 2011, up from the 70th position in 2010, ranking behind São Paulo (10th) and Rio de Janeiro (12th), and just behind New York City (32nd), the most expensive city in the United States.[16][17]
Services[link]




Central Bank of Brazil.


(91% of local GDP, according to the IBGE):

Government – the public sector is by far the largest employer, accounting for around 40% of the city jobs. Government jobs include all levels, from the federal police to diplomacy, from the transportation bureau to the armed forces;
Communications – the telephony used to be a state monopoly, and Brasilia held the HQ of Telebrás, the central state company; one of the enterprises that resulted from the privatization of the system in the 90's, Brasil Telecom, keeps it HQ in the city; the official Postal Service (Correios) HQ is located in the city as well; as it is the main place of Federal Government news, it is also notable the activities of TV stations, including the main offices of four public networks (TV Brasil/Agência Brasil, TV Câmara, TV Senado and TV Justiça), the regional offices of four major private television networks (Globo, SBT, Rede Bandeirantes and Rede Record) and a main affiliate of RedeTV!;
Banking and finance – headquarters of the Banco do Brasil and the Caixa Econômica Federal, both controlled by the Federal Government, and the Banco de Brasília, controlled by the city local government; it is also the site of the headquarters of the Central Bank, the main government regulatory agency of the financial sector;
Entertainment – the shopping malls Conjunto Nacional, ParkShopping, Pátio Brasil Shopping, Brasília Shopping, Boulevard Shopping, Taguatinga Shopping and Iguatemi Brasília.
Information technology (Politec, Poliedro, CTIS, among others), and legal services.

Industries[link]
In the city include:

Construction (Paulo Octavio, Via Construções, and Irmãos Gravia among others);
Food processing (Perdigão, Sadia);
Furniture Making;
Recycling (Novo Rio, Rexam, Latasa and others);
Pharmaceuticals (União Química);
Graphic industries.

The main agricultural products produced in the city are coffee, guavas, strawberries, orange, lemons, papayas, soy beans and mangoes. It has over 110,000 cows and it exports wood products worldwide.
The Federal District, where Brasília is located, has a GDP of R$ 89,630,109 (about US$ 69,844 billion), according to IBGE. Its share of the total Brazilian GDP is about 3.8%.[18]
The Federal District has the largest GDP per capita income of Brazil R$ 40.996,00[19] (about US$ 27,610 per person, according to the IBGE, 2007 year). Brasília's per capita income is believed to be much higher.
Accommodation[link]
The city's planned design included specific areas for almost everything, including accommodation, Hotels Sectors North and South. New hotel facilities are being developed elsewhere, such as the hotels and tourism Sector North, located on the shores of Lake Paranoá. Brasília has a range of tourist accommodation from inns, pensions and hostels to larger international chain hotels.
Brasília receives visitors from all of Brazil and the world, and offers a range of restaurants serving a variety of Brazilian regional and international food.
Education[link]
See also: Education in Brazil




University of Brasília.


Portuguese language is the official national language, and thus the primary language taught in schools. English and Spanish are also part of the official curriculum. There are three international schools.
There are 2 universities and 3 university centers in the city.
Main tertiary educational institutions[link]

Universidade de Brasília – University of Brasília (UnB) (public);
Universidade Católica de Brasília – Catholic University of Brasília (UCB);
Centro Universitário de Brasília (UniCEUB);
Centro Universitário do Distrito Federal (UniDF);
Instituto de Educação Superior de Brasília (IESB);

Culture[link]
See also: Culture of Brazil




Independence Day parade along the Ministries Esplanade.


As a venue for political events, music performances and movie festivals, Brasília is a cosmopolitan city, with around 119 embassies, a wide range of restaurants and complete infrastructure ready to host any kind of event. Not surprisingly, the city stands out as an important business tourism destination, which is an important part of the local economy, with dozens of hotels spread around the national capital. Traditional parties take place throughout the year. In June, there are large festivals celebrating Catholic saints, such as Saint Anthony, Saint John, the Baptist, and Saint Peter, that are called "festas juninas," or June festival. On September 7, the traditional Independence Day parade is held on the Ministries Esplanade. Throughout the year there are local, national and international events spread through the city. Christmas is widely celebrated, and New Years Eve usually hosts major events.
The city also hosts a varied assortment of art works from artists like Bruno Giorgi, Alfredo Ceschiatti, Athos Bulcão, Marianne Peretti, Alfredo Volpi, Di Cavalcanti, Dyllan Taxman, Victor Brecheret and Burle Marx, whose works have been integrated into the city's architecture, making it a unique landscape. The cuisine in the city is very diverse. Many of the best restaurants in the city can be found in the Asa Sul district.[20]




Ministries Esplanade on the Eixo Monumental.


Historic sites and museums[link]
Eixo Monumental[link]
At the end of the Eixo Monumental lies the Esplanada dos Ministérios ("Ministries Esplanade"), an open area in downtown Brasília. The rectangular lawn is surrounded by two eight-lane avenues where many government buildings, monuments and memorials are located.
National Congress[link]




The National Congress Building.






The Palácio da Alvorada.


Brazil's bicameral National Congress consists of the Senate (the upper house) and the Chamber of Deputies of Brazil (the lower house). Since the 1960s, the National Congress has its seat in Brasília. As with most of the official buildings in the city, it was designed by Oscar Niemeyer in the style of modern Brazilian architecture. The hemisphere to the left is the seat of the Senate and the hemisphere to the right is the seat of the Chamber of Deputies. Between them there are two towers of offices. The Congress also occupies other surrounding buildings, some connected by tunnels.
The building is located in the middle of the Eixo Monumental, the main avenue of the capital. In front of it there is a large lawn and a reflecting pool. The building faces the Praça dos Três Poderes, where the Palácio do Planalto and the Supremo Tribunal Federal are located.
Palácio da Alvorada[link]
The Palácio da Alvorada is the official residence of the President of Brazil. The palace was designed, along with the rest of the city of Brasília, by Oscar Niemeyer and inaugurated in 1958.
One of the first structures built in the republic's new capital city, the "Alvorada" lies on a peninsula at the margins of Lake Paranoá. The principles of simplicity and modernity, that in the past characterized the great works of architecture, motivated Niemeyer. The viewer has an impression of looking at a glass box, softly landed on the ground with the support of thin external columns.
The building has an area of 7,000 m2 and three floors: basement, landing and second floor. The auditorium, kitchen, laundry, medical center, and the administration are at basement level. The rooms used by the presidency for official receptions are on the landing. There are four suites, two apartments and other private rooms on the second floor which is the residential part of the palace.
The building also has a library, a heated Olympic-sized swimming pool, a music room, two dining rooms and various meeting rooms. A chapel and heliport are in adjacent buildings.
Palácio do Planalto[link]




The Palácio do Planalto.


The Palácio do Planalto is the official workplace of the President of Brazil. It is located at the Praça dos Três Poderes in Brasília. As the seat of government, the term "O Planalto" is often used as a metonym for the executive branch of government.
The main working office of the President of the Republic is in the Palácio do Planalto. The President and his family do not live in it, rather in the official residence, the Palácio da Alvorada. Besides the President, senior advisors also have offices in the "Planalto," including the Vice-President of Brazil and the Chief of Staff. The other Ministries are along the Esplanada dos Ministérios.
The architect of the Palácio do Planalto was Oscar Niemeyer, creator of most of the important buildings in Brasília. The idea was to project an image of simplicity and modernity using fine lines and waves to compose the columns and exterior structures.
The Palace is four stories high, and has an area of 36,000 m2. Four other adjacent buildings are also part of the complex.
Complexo Cultural da República[link]
The Complexo Cultural da República (Portuguese for Cultural Complex of the Republic) is formed by the National Library of Brasília and the National Museum of the Republic. It is situated in the Eixo Monumental, next to the Cathedral of Brasília.
The National Library of Brasília (Biblioteca Nacional de Brasília in Portuguese) occupies an area of 14,000 m2, consisting of reading and study rooms, auditorium and a collection of over 300,000 items.
The National Museum of the Republic (Museu Nacional da República in Portuguese) consists of a 14,500 m2 exhibit area, two 780-seat auditoriums, and a laboratory. The space is mainly used to display temporary art exhibits.
Paranoá Lake[link]
Paranoá Lake is a large artificial lake built to increase the amount of water available to the region. It has the second largest marina in Brazil, and hosts wakeboarders and windsurfers.
Juscelino Kubitschek bridge[link]




The Juscelino Kubitschek Bridge.


The Juscelino Kubitschek bridge, also known as the 'President JK Bridge' or the 'JK Bridge', crosses Lake Paranoá in Brasília. It is named after Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira, former president of Brazil. It was designed by architect Alexandre Chan and structural engineer Mário Vila Verde. Chan won the Gustav Lindenthal Medal[21] for this project at the 2003 International Bridge Conference in Pittsburgh due to "...outstanding achievement demonstrating harmony with the environment, aesthetic merit and successful community participation".
It consists of three 60 m (200 ft) tall asymmetrical steel arches that crisscross diagonally. With a length of 1,200 m (0.75 miles), it was completed in 2002 at a cost of US$ 56.8 million. The bridge has a pedestrian walkway and is accessible to bicyclists and skaters.
Praça dos Três Poderes[link]




Supremo Tribunal Federal.


Praça dos Três Poderes (Portuguese for Square of the Three Powers) is a plaza in Brasília. The name is derived from the encounter of the three federal branches around the plaza: the Executive, represented by the Palácio do Planalto (presidential office); the Legislative, represented by the Congresso Nacional (National Congress); and the Judicial branch, represented by the Supremo Tribunal Federal (Supreme Federal Court).
It is a tourist attraction in Brasília, designed by Lúcio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer as a place where the three branches would meet harmoniously.
Cathedral of Brasília[link]
The Cathedral of Brasília in the capital of the Federative Republic of Brazil, is an expression of the architect Oscar Niemeyer. This concrete-framed hyperboloid structure, seems with its glass roof reaching up, open, to the heavens. On 31 May 1970, the Cathedral’s structure was finished, and only the 70 m (229.66 ft) diameter of the circular area were visible. Niemeyer's project of Cathedral of Brasília is based in the hyperboloid of revolution which sections are asymmetric. The hyperboloid structure itself is a result of 16 identical assembled concrete columns. These columns, having hyperbolic section and weighing 90 t, represent two hands moving upwards to heaven. The Cathedral was dedicated on 31 May 1970.
Popular culture[link]




Don Bosco Sanctuary in Brasília.


Brasília has also been the focus of modern day literature. Published in 2008, The World In Grey: Dom Bosco's Prophecy, by author Ryan J. Lucero, tells an apocalyptic story based on the famous prophecy from the late 19th century by the Italian saint Don Bosco.[22]
According to Don Bosco's prophecy:[23]

Between parallels 15 and 20, around a lake which shall be formed; A great civilization will thrive, and that will be the Promised Land.

Brasília lies between the parallels 15° S and 20° S, where an artificial lake (Paranoá Lake) was formed. Don Bosco is Brasília's patron saint.
American Flagg!, the First Comics comic book series created by Howard Chaykin, portrays Brasilia as a cosmopolitan world capital of culture and exotic romance. In the series, it is a top vacation and party destination.
Transportation[link]
International airport[link]




Brasília International Airport (BSB).


Brasília International Airport – President Juscelino Kubitschek serves the metropolitan area with major domestic and international flights. It is the third busiest Brazilian airport based on passengers and aircraft movements.[24] Because of its strategic location it is a civil aviation hub for the rest of the country. This makes for a large number of takeoffs and landings and it is not unusual for flights to be delayed in the holding pattern before landing. Following the airport's master plan, Infraero built a second runway, which was finished in 2006. In 2007, the airport handled 11,119,872 passengers.[24] The main building's third floor, with 12 thousand square meters, has a panoramic deck, a food court, shops, four movie theaters with total capacity of 500 people, and space for exhibitions. There are 136 shop spaces at Brasília Airport.
The airport is located about 11 km (6.8 mi) from the central area of Brasília, outside the metro system. There are many taxis outside the main gate, and some bus lines which connect the airport to the central area of Brasília. The parking lot accommodates 1,200 cars.[25] In addition to domestic and regional services (TAM, GOL, Azul, WebJET, Trip and Avianca). Brasilia is improving its international connections; non-stop flights to Miami, United States with AA started in Nov 2010 and with TAM in Dec 2010. There are already direct flights to Atlanta, United States with Delta; Lima, Peru with LAN and TACA ; and to Lisbon, Portugal with TAP. On March 28, 2011 PLUNA will begin direct service to Montevideo, Uruguay, and connections and on June 18 Copa Airlines will begin direct service to Panama City, Panama increasing and improving connections to the rest of the American continent through the company's Hub of the Americas at Tocumen International Airport.
Metro[link]
Main article: Brasília Metro




Galeria Metro Station.


Metrô de Brasília is Brasília's underground metro system. The subway system has 24 stations on two lines, the Orange and Green lines, distributed along a total network of 42 km (26 mi), covering most of the metropolitan area. Both lines begin at the Central Station and run parallel until the Águas Claras Station. The Brasília metro is not comprehensive, so buses may provide better access to the city center. The metro leaves the Rodoviária (bus station) and goes south, avoiding most of the political and tourist areas. The main purpose of the metro is to serve the largest satellite cities, such as Samambaia, Taguatinga and Ceilândia, as well as Guará and Águas Claras. The satellite cities are more populated than the Plano Piloto itself (the census of 2000 indicated that Ceilândia had 344,039 inhabitants, Taguatinga had 243,575, whereas the Plano Piloto had approximately 400,000 inhabitants), and most residents of the satellite cities depend on public transportation.[26]
High speed rail[link]
A high speed railway is under construction.
Buses[link]
The main bus hub in Brasília is the Central Bus Station, located in the crossing of the Eixo Monumental and the Eixão, about 2 km (1.2 mi) from the Three Powers Plaza. The original plan was to have a bus station as near as possible to every corner of Brasília. Today, the bus station is the hub of urban buses only, some running within Brasília and others connecting Brasília to the satellite cities. In the original city plan, the interstate buses should also stop at the Central Station. Because of the growth of Brasília (and corresponding growth in the bus fleet), today the interstate buses leave from the older interstate station (called Rodoferroviária), located at the western end of the Eixo Monumental. The Central Bus Station also contains a main metro station.
A new bus station was opened in July 2010. It is on Saída Sul (South Exit) near Parkshopping Mall and with its metro station, and it's also a inter-state bus station, used only to leave the Federal District.
Distances to other Brazilian major cities[link]




Brasília's new tram to be built on W3 Avenue.






BR-060 is the main road which links Goiânia and Brasília. The two cities are just 209 km (130 mi) apart.



Goiânia: 209 km (130 mi);
Belo Horizonte: 740 km (460 mi);
Cuiabá: 1,009 km (627 mi);
São Paulo: 1,020 km (630 mi);
Campo Grande: 1,134 km (705 mi);
Rio de Janeiro: 1,160 km (720 mi);
Vitória: 1,237 km (769 mi);
Curitiba: 1,400 km (870 mi);
Salvador: 1,540 km (960 mi);
Palmas: 1,614 km (1,003 mi);
Aracaju: 1,650 km (1,030 mi);
Teresina: 1,662 km (1,033 mi);
Florianópolis: 1,700 km (1,100 mi);
Maceió: 1,899 km (1,180 mi);
São Luís: 1,953 km (1,214 mi);
Porto Alegre: 2,027 km (1,260 mi);
Belém: 2,130 km (1,320 mi);
Recife: 2,133 km (1,325 mi);
João Pessoa: 2,249 km (1,397 mi);
Fortaleza: 2,285 km (1,420 mi);
Macapá: 2,396 km (1,489 mi);
Natal: 2,507 km (1,558 mi);
Porto Velho: 2,589 km (1,609 mi);
Rio Branco: 2,923 km (1,816 mi);
Manaus: 3,490 km (2,170 mi);
Boa Vista: 4,085 km (2,538 mi).

Famous places nearby[link]
Nearby attractions include:

Chapada dos Veadeiros – A National Park with plenty of cerrado wildlife and surrounded by several spectacular waterfalls.
Itiquira Falls – this 168 m-high waterfall is just over 100 km from Brasília, in the municipality of Formosa, Goiás
Caldas Novas – The largest natural hot springs resort in the world. Located about 360 km (220 mi) southeast of the city in the state of Goiás.
Pirenópolis – The city, located 150 km from Brasília, is well known for its waterfalls and colonial architecture, and a popular festival involving mounted horses called Festa do Divino Espírito Santo which takes place 45 days after Easter. Its nightlife is very popular, and a Jazz Festival takes place in May.
Goiás Velho – Ancient capital of the State of Goiás, filled with magnificent and very well-preserved colonial architecture, also known by its popular parties and ceremonies, like the Fogaréu, in which masked men honor Christ's death and resurrection on Easter Sunday.

Sports[link]

File:2014 Stadium Brasília.jpg
Estadio Nacional de Brasilia. Artist's rendering of stadium for 2014 FIFA World Cup.






Nilson Nelson Gymnasium


Football[link]
See also: 2014 FIFA World Cup
Brasília is home to two major football teams:

Brasiliense Futebol Clube from Taguatinga (Commonly called "Jacaré")
Sociedade Esportiva do Gama (Commonly called "Verdão")

Neither of them have been successful in the First Division of the Brazilian Championship. Brasiliense at the moment plays Second Division, while Gama was relegated to the Third Division for 2009.
The main stadiums are the Estádio Mané Garrincha and the Serejão.
Brasília is one of the host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, for which Brazil is the host nation. The rebuilding of Garrincha Stadium is ongoing. The brand-new stadium which is being constructed in its place will be called National Stadium of Brasilia.
Brasília will also host football tournaments during the 2016 Summer Olympics to be held in Rio de Janeiro.
Hang gliding[link]
Brasília is known as a departing point for the practice of unpowered air sports, sports that may be practiced with hang gliding or paragliding wings. Practitioners of such sports reveal that, because of the city's dry weather, the city offers strong thermal winds and great "cloud-streets", which is also the name for a manoeuvre quite appreciated by practitioners. The national capital hosted the 14th Hang Gliding World Championship, one of the categories of free flying, in 2003. And in 2005, from August 21 to 27, it has host the 2nd stage of the Brazilian Hang Gliding Championship.
Motor sport[link]
Brasília is the site of the Autódromo Internacional Nelson Piquet which hosted a non-championship round of the 1974 Formula One Grand Prix season.
Basketball[link]
The city is home to Uniceub BRB, one of Brazil's best basketball clubs. Currently NBB champion (2010 and 2011). The club host some of its games at the 16,000 all-seat Nilson Nelson Gymnasium.
Notable people in Brasília[link]
Kaká, soccer player born in the satellite city of Gama and playing for Real Madrid, having previously played for AC Milan and São Paulo.
Legião Urbana (Portuguese for Urban Legion) were a Brazilian rock band formed in 1982 in Brasília, Distrito Federal. The band primarily consisted of Renato Russo (vocals), Dado Villa-Lobos (guitar) and Marcelo Bonfá (drums).
International relations[link]
Twin towns and sister cities[link]




 Abuja, Nigeria
 Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Beijing, China
 Berlin, Germany
 Bogotá, Colombia
 Boston, Massachusetts, United States
 Buenos Aires, Argentina (since 2002)




 Doha, Qatar
 Khartoum, Sudan
 Lima, Peru
 Lisbon, Portugal
 Montevideo, Uruguay
 Rome, Italy
 Xi'an, China (since 1997)




See also[link]




Brazil  portal




Flag of the Brazilian Federal District
Coat of arms of the Brazilian Federal District
List of World Heritage Sites in the Americas


Planned capital cities


Australia's capital Canberra, also a purpose-built city
India's capital New Delhi
Malaysia's Putrajaya, the federal administrative center of the country, also a purpose-built city
Pakistan's capital Islamabad, also a purpose-built in the 1960s
The United States's capital Washington D.C.

References[link]


^ "Lista do Corpo Diplomático e Organismos Internacionais". Cerimonial, Ministério das Relações Exteriores. http://www2.mre.gov.br/cerimonial. Retrieved August 18, 2011. 
^ "Lucio Costa". Infobrasilia.com.br. http://www.infobrasilia.com.br/lucio.htm. Retrieved May 5, 2009. 
^ "Google Maps". Google. January 1, 1970. http://maps.google.com/?ie=UTF8&om=1&z=12&ll=-15.79787,-47.896271&spn=0.143704,0.233459&t=k. Retrieved May 5, 2009. 
^ "About Brasilia". About Brasilia. http://www.aboutbrasilia.com/. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ History of Don Bosco and Brasília
^ "World Weather Brasilia". http://www.worldweather.org/136/c00290.htm. 
^ "Weatherbase: Historical Weather for Brasília". http://www.weatherbase.com/weather/weather.php3?s=87338&refer=&units=metric. 
^ "Climate Statistics for Brasilia, Brazil (1961-1990)". http://www.hko.gov.hk/wxinfo/climat/world/eng/s_america/brazil/brasilia_e.htm. 
^ 2010 IGBE Census (Portuguese)
^ a b 2010 IGBE Census (Portuguese)
^ [http://noticias.uol.com.br/cotidiano/2010/11/04/maiores-cidades-do-brasil-crescem-menos-do-que-resto-do-pais-aponta-censo.jhtm The largest Brazilian cities - 2010 IBGE Census

This article incorporates information from the Portuguese Wikipedia.]


^ "Population of Brasília". Geocities.com. January 17, 2007. Archived from the original on October 26, 2009. http://www.webcitation.org/query?url=http://www.geocities.com/~augusto_areal/bsb_aug1.htm&date=2009-10-26+00:42:12. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "Immigration to Brasília". Aboutbrasilia.com. http://www.aboutbrasilia.com/facts/history.html. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "Religion in Brasília by IBGE". Sidra.ibge.gov.br. http://www.sidra.ibge.gov.br/bda/tabela/protabl.asp?c=2094&z=cd&o=7&i=P. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "GDP – Division – Federal District". Gdf.df.gov.br. http://www.gdf.df.gov.br/045/04501022.asp. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "Worldwide Cost of Living survey 2011 - Top 50 cities: Cost of living ranking". Mercer. 2011-07-12. http://www.mercer.com/costoflivingpr#City_rankings. Retrieved 2011-07-22. 
^ "SP é a 10ª cidade mais cara do mundo para estrangeiros; RJ é a 12ª" (in Portuguese). UOL Noticias. 2011-07-12. http://economia.uol.com.br/ultimas-noticias/redacao/2011/07/12/sp-e-a-10-cidade-mais-cara-do-mundo-para-estrangeiros-rj-e-a-12.jhtm. Retrieved 2011-07-22. 
^ .Government's webpage
^ IBGE PIB 2007
^ "Culture in Brasília". Travelbite.co.uk. August 9, 2006. http://www.travelbite.co.uk/destinations/city-guide/guides/what-do/what-do-in-brasilia-$447179.htm. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "Bridge Awards". Eswp.com. http://www.eswp.com/bridge/awards.htm. Retrieved May 5, 2009. 
^ "Dom Bosco – Brasília". Infobrasilia.com.br. April 21, 1965. http://www.infobrasilia.com.br/bsb_h1p.htm. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ "Dom Bosco – Brasília". Flickr.com. March 24, 2009. http://www.flickr.com/photos/ginasant/3383018251/. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ a b Airport Statistics for 2007 http://www.infraero.gov.br/upload/arquivos/movi/mov.operac.1207.pdf
^ "Brasilia International Airport – facts". Aboutbrasilia.com. January 4, 2007. http://www.aboutbrasilia.com/travel/airport.html. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
^ Brasília Metro


External links[link]


Find more about Brasília on Wikipedia's sister projects:



Definitions and translations from Wiktionary



Images and media from Commons



Learning resources from Wikiversity



News stories from Wikinews



Quotations from Wikiquote



Source texts from Wikisource



Textbooks from Wikibooks



Brasília travel guide from Wikitravel
Brasília's Official Guide
GigaPan Panoramic Photographs and Info About Brasilia
(Portuguese) Official Brasília site
(Portuguese) Photos 360° of Brasilia – GUIABSB
(Portuguese) About Brasilia

Coordinates: 15°47′56″S 47°52′00″W﻿ / ﻿15.79889°S 47.8666667°W﻿ / -15.79889; -47.8666667





 
Articles related to Brasília
















v
t
e


 Brazil






History



First inhabitants
Colonization
Empire
Old Republic
Vargas Era
Second Republic
Military rule
Contemporary








Geography



Regions
States
Mesoregions
Microregions
Municipalities
Islands
Coastline
Climate
Environment
Extreme points
Protected areas
Capitals








Government



Constitution
Federal government
President
National Congress
Foreign relations
Law
Law enforcement
Military








Politics



Elections
Political parties
Human rights

LGBT rights










Economy



Real
Central Bank
List of companies
Agriculture
Industry
International rankings
Economic history
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Science and technology
Energy








Society



Demographics
People
Languages
Religion
Immigration
Education
Health
Crime
Social issues
Largest cities
Apartheid
Racism








Culture



Art (general)
Carnaval
Cuisine
Cinema
Holidays
Literature
Music
Painting
Sculpture
Sports











 Category
 Portal
 WikiProject













 
Links to related articles














v
t
e


Demographics of Brazil






Economic and social



Apartheid
Attractions
Law
Crime
Education
GDP
Health
Human Development
Human Rights

LGBT Rights


Immigration
Languages
People
Politics
Poverty
Races
Religions
Traditions
Wealth











Ethnic groups





Brazil




Brazilian
Indigenous peoples
Mixed-race

Caboclo
Cafuzo
Mulatto
Pardo
Sarará











Africa




African
Nigerian









Americas






North America




American

Confederados











Caribbean




Barbadian
Haitian









South America




Argentine
Bolivian
Chilean
Paraguayan
Peruvian
Uruguayan












Asia






By Ethnicity




East Asian
White









By Country
or Region






Eastern




Chinese
Japanese
Korean









Southern




East Indian









Western




Armenian
Arab

Lebanese
Palestinian
Syrian

















Europe






By Ethnicity




Jewish
White









By Country
or Region






Northern




English
Finnish
Icelandic
Latvian
Lithuanian
Scandinavian









Western




Belgian
Dutch
French
Irish
Luxembourger
Scottish









Central




Austrian
Czech
German
Hungarian
Polish
Swiss









Southern




Italian
Portuguese
Spaniard









Balkan




Bulgarian
Greek
Croatian
Macedonian









Eastern




Russian
Ukrainian

























v
t
e


Capitals of Brazilian states







Brasília Federal Capital (DF)






Northern



Belém (PA)
Boa Vista (RR)
Macapá (AP)
Manaus (AM)
Palmas (TO)
Porto Velho (RO)
Rio Branco (AC)








Northeast



Aracaju (SE)
Fortaleza (CE)
João Pessoa (PB)
Maceió (AL)
Natal (RN)
Recife (PE)
Salvador (BA)
São Luís (MA)
Teresina (PI)








Center-West



Campo Grande (MS)
Cuiabá (MT)
Goiânia (GO)








Southeast



Belo Horizonte (MG)
Rio de Janeiro (RJ)
São Paulo (SP)
Vitória (ES)








South



Curitiba (PR)
Florianópolis (SC)
Porto Alegre (RS)
















v
t
e


50 largest cities of Brazil by population










   



São Paulo
Rio de Janeiro
Salvador
Brasília
Fortaleza
Belo Horizonte
Manaus
Curitiba
Recife
Porto Alegre






Belém
Guarulhos
Goiânia
Campinas
São Luís
São Gonçalo
Maceió
Duque de Caxias
Nova Iguaçu
São Bernardo do Campo






Natal
Teresina
Campo Grande
Osasco
Santo André
João Pessoa
Jaboatão dos Guararapes
Uberlândia
São José dos Campos
Contagem






Sorocaba
Ribeirão Preto
Cuiabá
Feira de Santana
Juiz de Fora
Aracaju
Londrina
Ananindeua
Joinville
Belford Roxo






Niterói
São João de Meriti
Aparecida de Goiânia
Campos dos Goytacazes
Santos
São José do Rio Preto
Mauá
Caxias do Sul
Betim
Vila Velha




















v
t
e


World Heritage Sites in Brazil






North



Central Amazon Conservation Complex















Northeast



Brazilian Atlantic Islands
Fernando de Noronha and Atol das Rocas Reserves
Discovery Coast Atlantic Forest Reserves1
Historic Centre of São Luís
Historic Centre of Salvador da Bahia
Historic Centre of the Town of Olinda
Serra da Capivara National Park








Central-West



Brasília
Cerrado Protected Areas
Chapada dos Veadeiros and Emas National Park
Historic Centre of the Town of Goiás
Pantanal Conservation Area








Southeast



Atlantic Forest South-East Reserves1
Discovery Coast Atlantic Forest Reserves1
Historic Centre of the Town of Diamantina
Historic Town of Ouro Preto
Sanctuary of Bom Jesus do Congonhas








South



Atlantic Forest South-East Reserves1
Iguaçu National Park
Jesuit Missions of the Guaranis2
Ruins of São Miguel das Missões











1 Shared with other region/s
2 Shared with Argentina
















v
t
e


Capitals of South America










   


Asunción, Paraguay
Bogotá, Colombia
Brasília, Brazil
Buenos Aires, Argentina




Caracas, Venezuela
Cayenne, French Guiana
Georgetown, Guyana
Grytviken, SGSSI




La Paz / Sucre, Bolivia
Lima, Peru
Montevideo, Uruguay
Paramaribo, Suriname




Quito, Ecuador
Santiago, Chile
Stanley, Falkland Islands


























v
t
e


Modern architecture









Art Deco (1925–1939)
Art Nouveau (1890–1905)
Bauhaus (1919–1933)
Blobitecture (1960s–)
Brutalism (1950s–1980s)
Constructivism (1920–1932)
Contemporary (2000–)
Critical regionalism
De Stijl (1917–1931)
Deconstructivism (1980s–)
Expressionism (1910–)
Functionalism (1920s–1970s)
Futurism (1920s–)
Googie (1940s–1960s)
High-tech (1970s–)
International style (1920s–1960s)
Mid-Century modern (1940s–1960s)
Modernisme (1888–1911)
Neomodern (1990s–)
New Objectivity (1922–1933)
Organicism (1920s–)
Postconstructivism (1930s)
Prairie School (1890s–1920s)
Postmodernism (1960s–)
Rationalist-Fascist (1920s–1930s)
Streamline Moderne (1926–1950s)
Stalinist (1930s–1950s)
Structuralism (1959–)











Related articles








lez:Бразилиа

http://wn.com/Brasília
Related pages:
http://de.wn.com/Brasília
http://es.wn.com/Brasilia
http://ru.wn.com/Бразилиа
http://cs.wn.com/Brasília
http://pt.wn.com/Brasília
http://pl.wn.com/Brasília
http://it.wn.com/Brasilia
http://id.wn.com/Brasília
http://nl.wn.com/Brasilia
http://fr.wn.com/Brasilia


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brasília
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
















This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2011)




Oscar Niemeyer



Niemeyer in the 1950s


Born
(1907-12-15) December 15, 1907 (age 104)
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil


Nationality
Brazilian


Awards
1988 Pritzker Prize


Work


Buildings
Edifício Copan
National Congress of Brazil


Projects
United Nations headquarters
City of Brasília


Design
Cathedral of Brasília


Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho (born December 15, 1907) is a Brazilian architect specializing in international modern architecture. In the 1940s, '50s and '60s "he established himself as one of Modernism's greatest luminaries," while he “reshaped Brazil’s identity in the popular imagination and mesmerized architects around the globe." [1] During the 1950s while Brasilia was starting to develop, Oscar Niemeyer made incredible amounts of contributions to the country by designing many important buildings in Brasilia. He is a pioneer in exploring the formal possibilities of reinforced concrete solely for their aesthetic impact. He is currently 104 years old and still working.
Niemeyer is most famous for his use of abstract forms and curves that specifically characterize every one of his works; he didn’t stick to traditional straight lines, for he is not attracted to straight angles or lines but rather he is captured by ”free-flowing, sensual curves… [like that] on the body of the beloved woman.”[2] He was able to design and build curved architecture through his revolutionary useage of concrete. His designs are daring: mixing innovation and courage, plastic freedom and invention. His buildings are often characterized by being spacious and exposed, mixing volumes and empty space to create unconventional patterns and often propped up by piloti. His work with concrete is described as elegant and harmonious. Oscar Niemeyer was able to connect the baroque style with modern architecture leading to a new form of architecture, which had never been built in Brazil before.



“
I am not attracted to straight angles or to the straight line, hard and inflexible, created by man. I am attracted to free-flowing, sensual curves. The curves that I find in the mountains of my country, in the sinuousness of its rivers, in the waves of the ocean, and on the body of the beloved woman. Curves make up the entire Universe, the curved Universe of Einstein.[2]
”



Both lauded and criticized for being a "sculptor of monuments",[3] he has been praised for being a great artist and one of the greatest architects of his generation by his supporters.[4] He claims his architecture was strongly influenced by Le Corbusier, but in an interview conducted by Fritz Uteri, he assures that, “didn’t prevent [his] architecture from going in a different direction”.[5] He is unique; he creates all of his designs in his mind and claims not to need to put his ideas on paper to imagine what he wants to achieve.
Some of his most famous works include the Cathedral in Brasilia, the National Congress of Brazil and the Modern Art Museum in Niteroi. His works include public buildings designed for the city of Brasília, and the United Nations Headquarters in New York City (with others). He has also designed private houses, private buildings, churches and buildings for education. Though Niemeyer hasn’t stopped there, he has also built monuments and designed furniture.




Contents


1 Early life
2 First works
3 The Pampulha project
4 The 1940s and 1950s
5 Exile and projects overseas
6 1980s to 2000
7 2002 to present
8 Criticism
9 See also
10 References
11 External links




Early life[link]





This biographical section of an article needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (November 2011)


Oscar Niemeyer was born in the city of Rio de Janeiro on December 15, 1907.[5] He took his German surname from a German Brazilian grandmother with roots in Hanover, Germany. Niemeyer explained, “my name ought to have been Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida de Niemeyer Soares, or simply Oscar de Almeida Soares, but the foreign surname prevailed and I am known simply as Oscar Niemeyer”.[6] He spent his youth as a typical young Carioca of the time: bohemian and relatively unconcerned with his future. In 1928, at age 21, Niemeyer left school (Santa Antonio Maria Zaccaria Priory school) and married Annita Baldo,[5] daughter of Italian immigrants from Padua. They have one daughter, Ana Maria, five grandchildren who are the photographer Carlos Eduardo "Kadu" Niemeyer, Ana Lúcia and Ana Elisa (from Anna Maria's marriage to Walter da Silva Attademo), Carlos Oscar Niemeyer and Ana Cláudia (from Anna Maria's relationship with Carlos Magalhães Silveira., thirteen great-grandchildren and seven great-great grandchildren.
He pursued his passion at the National School of Fine Arts in Rio de Janeiro (Escola Nacional de Belas Artes) and graduated with a BA in architecture in 1934.[5] After graduating, he started to work in his father's typography house. At the time he had financial difficulties but decided to work without payment in the architecture studio of Lúcio Costa, Gregori Warchavchik and Carlos Leão. Niemeyer was inspired by his dissatisfaction with the architecture he saw in the streets, and believed he could find a career there. In 1937, Niemeyer, “built a military clinic for the “Obra do Berco”, Rio de Janeiro, his first executed work”.[7] However, Niemeyer has claimed that his architecture really began in Pampulha, Minas Gerais, and as he explained in an interview, “Pampulha was the starting point of this freer architecture full of curves which I still love even today. It was in fact, the beginning of Brasilia…”.[5] Pampulha was a revolutionary church for Brazil; it holds true to the usage of curves and free space, which Oscar Niemeyer has become so famous for. In 1936, he met Le Corbusier, who became a strong influence and teacher for Niemeyer, “His work was like a catechism for us. But what a difference to see him work and hear him talk about architecture”.[6] Eventually, Niemeyer “traveled with Lucio Costa to New York in 1939 to work on the Brazilian Pavilion at the World’s Fair”.[5] Then during the 40’s he continued traveling and designed buildings in Rio, Sao Paulo and Belo Horizonte.
In 1945, he joined the Brazilian Communist Party, and in 1992 he would become president of that party. Niemeyer was a boy at the time of the Russian Revolution of 1917, and by the Second World War he became a young idealist. During the military dictatorship of Brazil his office was raided and he was forced into exile in Europe. The Minister of Aeronautics of the time reportedly said that "the place for a communist architect is Moscow." He visited the USSR, met with diverse socialist leaders and became a personal friend of some of them. Fidel Castro once said: "Niemeyer and I are the last Communists of this planet."[cite this quote]
First works[link]





This biographical section of an article needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (November 2011)


In 1936, at 29, Lúcio Costa was appointed by Education Minister Gustavo Capanema as the architect of the new headquarters for the Ministry of Education and Public Health in Rio de Janeiro. In 1939, Niemeyer assumed the leadership of the team of architects (Lúcio Costa, Carlos Leão, Affonso Eduardo Reidy, Jorge Moreira, Ernani Vasconcellos and Niemeyer, with Le Corbusier acting as a consultant) responsible for the Ministry that had assumed the task of shaping the ‘novo homem, Brasileiro e moderno’ (new man, Brazilian and modern).
Following Niemeyer's request, the headquarters were renamed Palácio Gustavo Capanema in 1985. It was the first state-sponsored modernist skyscraper in the world, and of a much larger scale than anything Le Corbusier had built until then. Completed in 1943, when he was 36, the building which housed the regulator and manager of Brazilian culture and cultural heritage developed the elements of what was to become recognized as Brazilian modernism. It employed local materials and techniques, like the azulejos linked to the Portuguese tradition; the revolutionized Corbusian brises-soleil, made adjustable and related to the Moorish shading devices of colonial architecture; bold colors; the tropical gardens of Roberto Burle Marx; the Imperial Palm (Roystonea oleracea), known as the Brazilian order; further allusions to the icons of the Brazilian landscape; and specially commissioned works by Brazilian artists.
In 1939, at 32, Niemeyer with Lúcio Costa designed the Brazilian pavilion at the New York World's Fair (executed in collaboration with Paul Lester Wiener). Impressed by the executed Pavilion, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia awarded Niemeyer the keys to the city of New York. Costa explained that the Brazilian Pavilion adopted a language of ‘grace and elegance’, lightness and spatial fluidity, open plan, curves and free walls, which he termed ‘Ionic’, contrasting it to the contemporaneous stern Modernist architecture, which he termed ‘Doric’. By mid-twentieth century, Brazilian architectural Modernism had been recognized as the first national style in modern architecture by Reyner Banham. The international architectural periodicals of the 1940s and 1950s dedicated hundreds of dithyrambic pages to the ‘chosen land of the most original and most audacious contemporary architecture’, followed by monographs on individual architects like Niemeyer and Affonso Eduardo Reidy.
The Pampulha project[link]




São Francisco de Assis Church, Belo Horizonte City, Minas Gerais, Brazil


In 1940, at 33, Niemeyer met Juscelino Kubitschek, who was at the time the mayor of Belo Horizonte, capital of the state of Minas Gerais. He and Minas Gerais Governor Benedito Valadares wanted to develop a new suburb to the north of the city called Pampulha, and commissioned Niemeyer to design a series of buildings to be known as the "Pampulha complex". Brazil’s first listed modern monument was Niemeyer’s Pampulha Church of São Francisco de Assis (English:  Church of Saint Francis of Assisi). The Pampulha complex included a casino, a dance hall and restaurant, a yacht club, and a golf club distributed around the artificial lake. A weekend retreat for the mayor was also constructed near the lake.
The buildings were completed in 1943, and provoked some controversy. They received international acclaim following the 1943 ‘Brazil Builds’ exhibition, at the New York Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). The conservative Church authorities of Minas Gerais refused to consecrate the church until 1959, in part because of its unorthodox form, in part because of the altar mural painted by Candido Portinari. The mural depicts Saint Francis of Assisi as the savior of the ill, the poor and, most importantly, the sinner.
Pampulha, says Niemeyer, offered him the opportunity to 'challenge the monotony of contemporary architecture, the wave of misinterpreted functionalism that hindered it, and the dogmas of form and function that had emerged, counteracting the plastic freedom that reinforced concrete introduced. I was attracted by the curve – the liberated, sensual curve suggested by the possibilities of new technology yet so often recalled in venerable old baroque churches. […] I deliberately disregarded the right angle and rationalist architecture designed with ruler and square to boldly enter the world of curves and straight lines offered by reinforced concrete. […] This deliberate protest arose from the environment in which I lived, with its white beaches, its huge mountains, its old baroque churches, and the beautiful suntanned women.'[2]
The 1940s and 1950s[link]




Ministries Esplanade with several of Niemeyer's buildings: the National Congress, the Cathedral, the National Museum and the National Library, Brasilia, D.F., 2006






National Congress of Brazil, Brasília






Cathedral of Brasília, hyperboloid structure


In 1947, at 40, his worldwide recognition was confirmed when Niemeyer traveled to the United States to be part of the international team working on the design for the headquarters of the United Nations in New York. Niemeyer's 'scheme 32' was approved by the Board of Design, but he eventually gave in to pressure by Le Corbusier, and together they submitted project 23/32 (developed with Bodiansky and Weissmann), which combined elements from Niemeyer's and Le Corbusier's schemes, but was primarily based on Niemeyer's scheme. Despite Le Corbusier’s insistence to remain involved, the conceptual design for the United Nations Headquarters (scheme 23/32), approved by the Board, was carried forward by the Director of Planning, Wallace Harrison, and Max Abramovitz, then a partnership. In the previous year Niemeyer had received an invitation to teach at Yale University; however, his visa was denied. In 1950 the first book about his work was published in the USA by Stamo Papadaki. In 1953, at 46, Niemeyer was selected for the position of dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Design. His Communist Party membership meant that, for the second time, he was refused a visa to enter the United States.
In Brazil, he designed São Paulo's Ibirapuera Park (for the celebrations of the city's 400th anniversary) 1951, the Copan apartment building (1953–66), and the JK Building in Belo Horizonte (1951). In 1952–53, he built his own house in Rio de Janeiro, the House at Canoas (Casa das Canoas), and, in 1954–60, the Niemeyer luxury apartment building in Belo Horizonte. In 1955, at 48, Niemeyer designed the Museum of Modern Art of Caracas (MAM Caracas). According to him, this project marked a new direction his work was beginning to take, exemplified by his government buildings for Brasilia.
It was at the Canoas House that Juscelino Kubitschek visited Niemeyer one September morning of 1956, soon after he assumed the Brazilian presidency. While driving back to the city, the politician ‘eagerly’ spoke to the architect about his most audacious scheme: ‘I am going to build a new capital for this country and I want you to help me […] Oscar, this time we are going to build the capital of Brazil.’[8]
Niemeyer organized a competition for the lay-out of Brasília, the new capital, and the winner was the project of his old master and great friend, Lúcio Costa. Niemeyer would design the buildings, Lucio the plan of the city.
In the space of a few months, Niemeyer designed a large number of residential, commercial and government buildings. Among them were the residence of the President (Palácio da Alvorada), the House of the deputy, the National Congress of Brazil, the Cathedral of Brasília (a hyperboloid structure), diverse ministries, and residential buildings. Viewed from above, the city can be seen to have elements that repeat themselves in every building, giving it a formal unity.
Behind the construction of Brasília lay a monumental campaign to construct an entire city in the barren center of the country, hundreds of kilometers from any major city. The brainchild of Kubitschek, Niemeyer had as aims included stimulating the national industry, integrating the country's distant areas, populating inhospitable regions, and bringing progress to a region where only cattle ranching had a foothold. Niemeyer and Lúcio Costa used it to test new concepts of city planning: streets without transit, buildings floating off the ground supported by columns and allowing the space underneath to be free and integrated with nature.
The project also had a socialist ideology: in Brasília all the apartments would be owned by the government and rented to its employees. Brasília did not have "nobler" regions, meaning that top ministers and common laborers would share the same building. Of course, many of these concepts were ignored or changed by other presidents with different visions in later years. Brasília was designed, constructed, and inaugurated within four years. After its completion, Niemeyer was nominated head chief of the college of architecture of the University of Brasília. In 1963, he became an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects in the United States; the same year, he received the Lenin Peace Prize from the USSR.
Niemeyer and his contribution to the construction of Brasília are portrayed in the 1964 French movie L'homme de Rio (The Man From Rio), starring Jean-Paul Belmondo.
In 1964, at 57, after being invited by Abba Hushi, the mayor of Haifa, Israel, to plan the campus of the University of Haifa, he came back to a completely different Brazil. In March President João Goulart, who succeeded President Jânio Quadros in 1961, was deposed in a military coup. General Castello Branco assumed command of the country, which would remain a dictatorship until 1985.
Exile and projects overseas[link]




Mondadori headquarters near Milan, Italy


The leftist position of Niemeyer (he was a staunch stalinist[9]) cost him much during the military dictatorship. His office was pillaged, the headquarters of the magazine he coordinated was destroyed, his projects mysteriously began to be refused and clients disappeared. In 1965, two hundred professors, Niemeyer among them, asked for their resignation from the University of Brasília, in protest against the government treatment of universities. In the same year he traveled to France for an exhibition in the Louvre museum.
The following year, Niemeyer moved to Paris. Also in 1966, at 59, he travelled to the city of Tripoli, Lebanon to design the International Permanent Exhibition Centre.[10] Despite completing construction, the start of the civil war in Lebanon prevented it from achieving its full utility.
He opened an office on the Champs-Élysées, and had customers in diverse countries, especially in Algeria where he designed the University of Science and Technology-Houari Boumediene. In Paris he created the headquarters of the French Communist Party, Place du Colonel Fabien, and in Italy that of the Mondadori publishing company. In Funchal on Madeira, a 19th-century hotel was removed to build a casino by Niemeyer. Another prominent design of his was the Penang State Mosque in George Town the state capital of Penang, Malaysia in the 1970s.
While in Paris, Niemeyer began designing furniture which was produced by Mobilier International. He created an easy chair and ottoman composed of bent steel and leather in limited numbers for private clients. Later, in 1978, this chair and other designs including the "Rio" chaise-longue were produced in Brazil by the Japanese company Tendo, then Tendo Brasileira. The easy chairs and ottomans were made of bent wood and were placed in different Communist party headquarters around the world. Much like his architecture, Niemeyer's furniture designs were meant to evoke the beauty of Brazil, with curves mimicking the female form and the hills of Rio de Janeiro.
1980s to 2000[link]




Casino in Funchal, Madeira


In 1988, at 81, Niemeyer was awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize, the most prestigious award in architecture, for the Cathedral of Brasília (1958).
From 1992 to 1996, Niemeyer was the president of the Brazilian Communist Party (PCB). As a lifelong activist, Niemeyer was chosen as a powerful public figure that could be linked to the party at a time when it appeared to be in its death throes after the demise of the USSR. Although not active as a political leader, his image helped the party to survive through its crisis, after the 1992 split and to remain as a political force in the national scene, which eventually led to its reconstruction. He was replaced by Zuleide Faria de Mello in 1996.
He designed at least two more buildings in Brasilia, small ones, the Memorial dos Povos Indigenas[11] ("Memorial for the Indigenous People") and the Catedral Militar, Igreja de N.S. da Paz.[12]
In 1996, at the age of 89, he created the Niterói Contemporary Art Museum in Niterói, a city next to Rio de Janeiro. The building is cantilevered out from sheer rock face, giving a view of the Guanabara Bay and the city of Rio de Janeiro.
2002 to present[link]




Oscar Niemeyer, December 2010






The Niterói Contemporary Art Museum






Oscar Niemeyer Museum (NovoMuseu), Curitiba, Brazil






Brazilian National Museum, Brasilia, D.F.






Municipal Library in city center, Duque de Caxias, RJ, Brasil






Óscar Niemeyer International Cultural Centre Asturias, Spain


The Brazilian dictatorship lasted until 1985. Under João Figueiredo's rule it softened and gradually turned into a democracy. At this time Niemeyer decided to return to his country. During that decade he made the Memorial Juscelino Kubitschek (1980), the Pantheon (Panteão da Pátria e da Liberdade Tancredo Neves Pantheon of the Fatherland and Freedom, 1985) and the Latin America Memorial (1987) (dubbed by The Independent of London to be "...an incoherent and vulgar construction"[13]). The memorial sculpture represents the wounded hand of Jesus, whose wound bleeds in the shape of Central and South America.
In 2002, at 95 the Oscar Niemeyer Museum complex was inaugurated in the city of Curitiba, Paraná. The building is locally known as "Niemeyer's Eye".
In 2003, at 96, Niemeyer was called to design the Serpentine Gallery Summer Pavilion in Hyde Park London, a gallery that each year invites a famous architect who has never previously built in the UK, to design this temporary structure. A publication of Niemeyer's structure called Serpentine Gallery Pavilion 2003 was published by Trolley Books later that year, ISBN 978-1-904563-13-6.
In 2004, Niemeyer, at 97 designed the tombstone for Communist Carlos Marighella in Salvador da Bahia, to commemorate the 35th anniversary of his death. He was widowed after 76 years of marriage to Annita, Annita died at 93 years old. Also his brother Paulo Niemeyer died.
In 2005, at 98, a building entitled "Estação, Ciência, Cultura e Artes" (Science, Culture and Arts Station) was approved for construction at João Pessoa, the easternmost point of the Americas.[14]
In 2006, Niemeyer at the age of 99 wed longtime aide Vera Lucia Cabreira. They married at his apartment in Rio de Janeiro's Ipanema district a month after fracturing his hip in a fall.
2007 saw Niemeyer turn 100 and still involved in diverse projects, mainly sculptures and readjustments of old works of his that, protected by national (and some cases international) historic heritage regulations, can only be modified by him. He is currently designing a statue showing a tiger with its mouth open and a man fighting it raising the Cuban flag against the US blockade of Cuba.On Niemeyer's 100th birthday, Russia's president Vladimir Putin awarded him the Order of Friendship.[15] Grateful for the Prince of Asturias Award of Arts received in 1989, he collaborated on the 25th anniversary of these awards with the donation to Asturias of the design of a cultural centre. The actual Óscar Niemeyer International Cultural Centre (also known in Spain as Centro Niemeyer), is located in Avilés (Asturias) in Northern Spain. These modern buildings were described by himself as “a big square open to all men and women of the world, a big loge between the river and the ancient town". The Niemeyer Center was inaugurated during the spring of 2011.
In December 2008 when he turned 101, Niemeyer was recovering in hospital from December 16 to December 27. While in hospital he was as quoted saying that being hospitalized is 'a very lonely thing; I needed to keep busy, keep in touch with friends, maintain my rhythm of life.'
In December 2009, after he turned 102, Niemeyer was again hospitalized, this time for 4 days, in the same hospital with an intestinal tumor, which was surgically removed. In December 2010 he turned 103 and opened a museum of his work. The Oscar Niemeyer Foundation outside Rio de Janeiro houses drawings and models from the modernist architect's 70-year career. "My friends have come to see me, how nice," Mr Niemeyer told reporters at the inauguration of his foundation in the city of Niteroi, outside Rio de Janeiro.
The Holoteca, a library specialized on consciousness and the paranormal, in the Cognopolis neighborhood of Iguassu Falls is one of his latest projects.
Criticism[link]
Nicolai Ouroussoff, the architecture critic of the New York Times published an article questioning if his recent work is being affected by old age. He considers the "Niterói Contemporary Art Museum" to be of significantly lower quality than his previous works. Most notably, he argues that "the greatest threat to Mr. Niemeyer’s remarkable legacy may not be the developer’s bulldozer or insensitive city planners, but Mr. Niemeyer himself." He considers iconic works at "Esplanada dos Ministérios" to "have been marred by the architect’s own hand".[16]
See also[link]

List of Oscar Niemeyer works

References[link]


^ (http://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2007/12/25/arts/20071226_OSCAR_SLIDESHOW_index.html)
^ a b c Niemeyer, Oscar, 2000, The Curves of Time: The Memoirs of Oscar Niemeyer (London: Phaidon), pp. 62 and 169-70
^ Azure :: Niemeyer's Century
^ Niemeyer, Gullar, F.(in Portuguese)
^ a b c d e f Matthieu Salvaing, Oscar Niemeyer
^ a b Joseph Ma. Botey, Oscar Niemeyer
^ 11. Stamo Papadaki, Oscar Niemeyer
^ Niemeyer, Oscar, 2000a, The Curves of Time: The Memoirs of Oscar Niemeyer (London: Phaidon), p. 70
^ Diário do Nordeste (09/12/07). "Elogios a Stalin e a busca pelo belo". http://diariodonordeste.globo.com/materia.asp?codigo=494208. Retrieved 03/08/2008. 
^ Biography Oscar Niemeyer, architect
^ Memorial dos Povos Indigenas
^ Catedral Militar, Igreja de N.S. da Paz
^ "In search of... Oscar Niemeyer in Brazil". The Independent (London). July 6, 2003. http://www.independent.co.uk/travel/americas/in-search-of-oscar-niemeyer-in-brazil-586075.html. Retrieved May 20, 2010. 
^ [1]
^ President Putin's executive order awarding Niemeyer the Order of Friendship
^ Nicolai Ouroussoff (December 26, 2007). "Even if His Own Work Isn’t Broken, a Brazilian Architect Fixes It". New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/26/arts/design/26niem.html?_r=1&hp=&oref=slogin&pagewanted=all. Retrieved December 26, 2007. 



Emery, Marc (1983). Furniture by Architects. New York: Harry N. Abrams. 
Niemeyer, Oscar (1983). The Curves of Time: The Memoirs of Oscar Niemeyer. London: Phaidon. 
A Vida É Um Sopro "Life Is A Breath Of Air" (2007). Documentary directed by Fabiano Maciel

External links[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Oscar Niemeyer



Official website
List and Locations of Oscar Niemeyer buildings around the world
May 2006 Interview with Niemeyer, age 98, in Metropolis Magazine
Paul Andreas, Ingeborg Flagge, ed. Oscar Niemeyer: A Legend of Modernism. Birkhäuser. http://www.arcspace.com/architects/Niemeyer/legend_modernism/. 
Niemeyer in Brasília history
Tripoli International Fair by Oscar Niemeyer, 360 Panorama by Melkan Bassil
Oscar Niemeyer's Strick House in Santa Monica
Pritzker Prize 1988
Oscar Niemeyer group on Flickr
Mondadori Headquarters
Niemeyer's Brasilia: A Photographic Tribute (2009)
Swerve with verve: Oscar Niemeyer, the architect who eradicated the straight line by Peter Godfrey in The Independent April 18, 2010









v
t
e


Pritzker Architecture Prize laureates









Philip Johnson (1979)
Luis Barragán (1980)
James Stirling (1981)
Kevin Roche (1982)
I. M. Pei (1983)
Richard Meier (1984)
Hans Hollein (1985)
Gottfried Böhm (1986)
Kenzo Tange (1987)
Gordon Bunshaft and Oscar Niemeyer (1988)
Frank Gehry (1989)
Aldo Rossi (1990)
Robert Venturi (1991)
Álvaro Siza Vieira (1992)
Fumihiko Maki (1993)
Christian de Portzamparc (1994)
Tadao Ando (1995)
Rafael Moneo (1996)
Sverre Fehn (1997)
Renzo Piano (1998)
Norman Foster (1999)
Rem Koolhaas (2000)
Herzog & de Meuron (2001)
Glenn Murcutt (2002)
Jørn Utzon (2003)
Zaha Hadid (2004)
Thom Mayne (2005)
Paulo Mendes da Rocha (2006)
Richard Rogers (2007)
Jean Nouvel (2008)
Peter Zumthor (2009)
Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa / SANAA (2010)
Eduardo Souto de Moura (2011)
Wang Shu (2012)










Persondata


Name
Niemeyer, Oscar


Alternative names



Short description
Architect


Date of birth
1907-12-15


Place of birth
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil


Date of death



Place of death



  

http://wn.com/Oscar_Niemeyer
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://cs.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://es.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://ru.wn.com/Нимейер, Оскар
http://nl.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://pt.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://id.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://pl.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://fr.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer
http://de.wn.com/Oscar Niemeyer


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oscar_Niemeyer
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all














Brasília (pronounced [bɾaˈziʎɐ] nationwide, in both colloquial and educated speech) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city is located in the Federal District, and is in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,562,963 (3,716,996 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site UNESCO.
As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.










go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























