Al Jazeera English





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/al jazeera english 
Al Jazeera English 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page















Live TV

Videos
Video Details

Images


Wiki
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

history


















Al Jazeera






Al Jazeera



Al Jazeera


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
People
Places
Video Suggestions

Facebook



WN Shopping


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                
































































Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...









Sorry, your browser does not support IFRAME




Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME





Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









12-hour clock
2010 FIFA World Cup
24 Ghanta
24-hour clock
3 24
5 Kanal (Ukraine)
A24 news channel
Aaj Tak
AAJ TV
ABC News
ABC News 24
ABC News Now
ABP Ananda
ABP Majha
ABP News
ABS-CBN News Channel
Ada TV
Adel Iskandar
Afghanistan
Afshin Rattansi
Ahmed Sheikh
Akamai Technologies
AksyonTV
Al Arabiya
Al Ekhbariya
Al Hurra
Al Jazeera
Al Jazeera Balkans
Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera Kiswahili
Al Jazeera Mubasher
Al Jazeera Sports
Al Jazeera Sports +1
Al Jazeera Sports +2
Al Jazeera Sports +3
Al Jazeera Sports +4
Al Jazeera Sports HD
Al Jazeera Urdu
Al Nile
Al-Ahram Newspaper
Al-Alam News Network
Al-Qaeda
Ali Hassan al-Jaber
Ali Mahdi Muhammad
Aljazeera Publishing
Aljazeera.com
Alternative media
Alvin Snyder
Amsterdam
América 24
Antena 3 (Romania)
Apple Computer
Apple Inc.
Arab diaspora
Arab News Network
Arab Spring
Arab world
Arabian Business
Arabian language
Arabian Peninsula
Arabic calligraphy
Arabic language
Arabsat
Argent (TV channel)
Arnaud de Borchgrave
ARY News
Asianet
Associated Press
Astro Awani
AT&T
ATN News
Australia Network
Baghdad
Bahrain
Balkans
Baltasar Garzón
Band News
Barack Obama
Bayda, Libya
BBC
BBC Arabic
BBC News
BBC Parliament
BBC World
BBC World News
BBC World Service
Benghazi
BeritaSatu TV
Bernama TV
BFM TV
Blip.tv
Bloomberg Television
Bloomberg UTV
Blue Ocean Network
Bosnian language
Burlington, Vermont
Business channels
C-SPAN
Cable television
Cameraman
Camp Delta
Canal 24 Horas
Canal 26
Canal 5 Noticias
Canal i
Canal N
Canal Nou 24
Casey Kauffman
CBC News Network
CCTV News
CCTV-13
CENTCOM
Channel 10 (India)
Channel NewsAsia
Chroma key
Cine 5
Cine5
Class CNBC
ClassTV MSNBC
Clive Stafford-Smith
CNBC
CNBC Africa
CNBC Arabiya
CNBC Asia
CNBC Awaaz
CNBC Europe
CNBC Latin America
CNBC Pakistan
CNBC World
CNBC-e
CNBC-TV18
CNC World
CNC3 Television
CNN
CNN Chile
CNN en Español
CNN International
CNN Türk
CNN-IBN
Colin Powell
Control Room (film)
Croatian language
CSB News
CTi News
DataPipe
Dawn News
DD News
Decapitation
Decree
Deutsche Welle
Dietram Scheufele
Dima Tareq Tahboub
Dish TV
Doha
Donald Rumsfeld
DVB-S
Egypt
Egyptian American
Enemy combatant
English language
Era News
ESPNews
ET Now
ETTV News
Euronews
Eutelsat 10A
Eutelsat 28A
Express 24 7
Fahd of Saudi Arabia
Faisal al-Qassem
Fallujah
Farouk Kaddoumi
FBI
Fox Business Network
Fox News
Fox News Channel
France 24
Free to air
Freedom of speech
Freesat
Freeview (UK)
FTV News
Gaddafi
Galaxy 19
Galaxy 23
Gaza War
GEO News
George W. Bush
Glenn Greenwald
Globo News
Globovisión
GMA News TV
GMT
Google
Google TV
Google Video
Grove Press
Guantánamo Bay
Guardian Media Group
Hafez Al Mirazi
Hamad bin Khalifa
Hamas
Headlines Today
Hebrew language
HispanTV
Hispasat 1C
HLN (TV channel)
Hostage
Hot Bird
Hulu
I-Télé
I.B. Tauris
Ibn Rushd
IBN-7
IBN-Lokmat
Ikea
Index on Censorship
India
Indus News
InfoCom Corporation
Internet television
Iraq
IRINN
Islamic calligraphy
Israeli language
Italy
Iyad Allawi
Jehane Noujaim
Jewish News One
Jon Snow
Jose Maria Aznar
Kabul
Kanal 5 (Ukraine)
Kibibyte
Knesset
Kolkata TV
Ku-band
Kuala Lumpur
L. Brent Bozell III
La Chaîne Info
Le Canal Nouvelles
Lebanon
Libya
Livestation
Mahmoud Abbas
Mahuaa Khobor
Majalli Wahabi
Manorama News
Marc Lynch
MetroTV
Middle East
Milenio TV
Miro (software)
MIT
MNC Business
MNC News
Mohamed Nanabhay
Moscow time
MSNBC
Mustafa Soug
N-tv
N24 (Germany)
N24 (Romania)
Nabeel Rajab
NASDAQ
NavLink
NDTV 24x7
NDTV India
NDTV Profit
Ne Bangla
Netflix
New York Times
News channel
News One
News Time
NewsX
NHK World
Nightline
Nikkei CNBC
Nile TV
Nilesat 102
North Yemen
NTV (Turkey)
Op-ed
Optus C1
Osama bin Laden
OSN News
Pakistan
Phone in
Politics
Polsat News
Portal Middle East
Portal Television
Pravda
Press TV
Prince Claus Awards
PTV News
Qatar
Qatari riyal
Rai News
RBC TV
Realitatea TV
RealVideo
Record News
Republic of Yemen
RIA Novosti
Right of reply
Robert Fisk
Rogers Cable
Roku
RT (TV network)
RTÉ News Now
Rusiya Al-Yaum
Russia
Russia 24
Russia Today TV
Ryan Grim
Salon.com
Sami Al Hajj
Sarah Palin
Sarajevo
Satellite television
Saudi Arabia
SBS-CNBC
Secretary of Defense
September 11 attacks
Serbian language
SES Astra
SET News
Sexually assaulted
SF Bay Guardian
Sheikh
SIC Notícias
Sir David Frost
Six-hour clock
Sky (UK and Ireland)
Sky News
Sky News Arabia
Sky News Australia
Sky News New Zealand
Sky TG24
Smith–Mundt Act
Somalia
South Yemen
Specialty channel
Sports channel
Starbucks
Sudan
Sulaiman Abu Ghaith
Sun News Network
Superstacja
SVT 24
Syria
TA3 (news channel)
Taliban
Tara Newz
Tareq Ayyoub
Tayseer Allouni
TeleSUR
Television channel
Template Al Jazeera
Template Bs, sr icon
The Daily Mirror
The Guardian
The Huffington Post
The New York Times
The Register
The Smoking Gun
The Weather Channel
Thomas L. Friedman
Thor 6
Times Now
Today Programme
Todo Noticias
Toledo, Ohio
Tony Blair
Training Center
TRNC
TTV Finance
Turkey
Turkish language
Turksat 2A
TV 2 News
TV 2 Nyhetskanalen
TV Biznes
TV9 (Kannada)
TV9 (Telugu)
TVBN
TVBS-NEWS
TVI 24
TVN (Chile)
TVN CNBC
TVN24
TVNZ 7
TvOne (Indonesia)
TVP Info
TVRO
Unabomber
Unique Business News
University for Peace
Urdu
Ushahidi
Voice of America
Wadah Khanfar
Waqt News
Washington Post
Web host
Webby Awards
Western culture
Westview Press
WikiLeaks
Wikileaks
Wikipedia Link rot
Wire fraud
WorldNet
WP IPA for Arabic
XHTV
Yasser Arafat
YTN
Zee 24 Taas
Zee News
Zogby International
ČT24














Afghanistan

                            Afghanistan i/æfˈɡænɨstæn/ (Persian/Pashto: افغانستان, Afġānistān), officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked country located in the centre of Asia, forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, and Greater Middle East, it is also considered to be part of a broader West Asia. With a population of about 29 million, it has an area of 647,500 km2 (250,001 sq mi), making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world. It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east, Iran in the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far northeast.

Afghanistan has been an ancient focal point of the Silk Road and human migration. Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation from as far back as 50,000 BC. Urban civilization may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BC. Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East with Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent, the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces. The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, Kushans, Saffarids, Ghaznavids, Ghorids, Timurids, Mughals and many others have risen to form major empires.

wn.com/Afghanistan





Amsterdam

                            Amsterdam (English /ˈæmstərdæm/; Dutch: [ˌɑmstərˈdɑm] ( listen)) is the largest city and the capital of the Netherlands. The city's status as the capital of the nation is governed by the constitution. Amsterdam has a population of 790,654 within city limits, an urban population of 1,209,419 and a metropolitan population of 2,289,762. The city is located in the province of North Holland in the west of the country. It comprises the northern part of the Randstad, one of the larger conurbations in Europe, with a population of approximately 7 million.

Amsterdam's name is derived from Amstelredamme, indicative of the city's origin: a dam in the river Amstel. Settled as a small fishing village in the late 12th century, Amsterdam became one of the most important ports in the world during the Dutch Golden Age, a result of its innovative developments in trade. During that time, the city was the leading center for finance and diamonds. In the 19th and 20th centuries, the city expanded, and many new neighborhoods and suburbs were formed. The 17th-century canals of Amsterdam (in Dutch: 'Grachtengordel'), located in the heart of Amsterdam, were added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in July 2010.

wn.com/Amsterdam





Arabian Peninsula

                            The Arabian Peninsula (Arabic: شبه الجزيرة العربية šibh al-jazīrat al-ʻarabīya or جزيرة العرب Ǧazīrat al 'Arab‎) is a land mass situated north-east of Africa. Also known as Arabia or the Arabian subcontinent, it is the world's largest peninsula and covers 3,237,500 km2 (1,250,000 mi2). The area is an important part of the Asian continent and plays a critical geopolitical role of the Middle East and Arab World due to its vast reserves of oil and natural gas. The peninsula formed as a result of the rifting of the Red Sea between 56-23 million years ago, and is bordered by the Red Sea to the west, the Persian Gulf to the northeast, and the Indian Ocean to the southeast.

The Arabian Peninsula is located in the Asia continent and bounded by (clockwise) the Persian Gulf on the northeast, the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman on the east, the Arabian Sea on the southeast and south, the Gulf of Aden on the south, the Bab-el-Mandeb strait on the southwest, and the Red Sea on the southwest and west. The northern portion of the peninsula merges with the Syrian Desert with no clear border line, although the northern boundary of the Arabian Peninsula is generally considered to be the northern borders of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

wn.com/Arabian_Peninsula





Baghdad

                            Baghdad (Arabic: بغداد‎, Baġdād, IPA: [bæɣˈdæːd]) is the capital of Republic of Iraq, as well as the coterminous Baghdad Province. The population of Baghdad as of 2011 is approximately 7,216,040, making it the largest city in Iraq, the second largest city in the Arab World (after Cairo, Egypt), and the second largest city in Western Asia (after Tehran, Iran).

Located along the Tigris River, the city was founded in the 8th century and became the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate. Within a short time of its inception, Baghdad evolved into a significant cultural, commercial, and intellectual center for the Islamic World. This in addition to housing several key academic institutions (e.g. House of Wisdom) garnered the city a worldwide reputation as the "Center of Learning". Throughout the High Middle Ages, Baghdad was considered to be the largest city in the world with an estimated population of 1,200,000 people. The city was largely destroyed at the hands of the Mongol Empire in 1258, resulting in a decline that would linger through many centuries due to frequent plagues and multiple successive empires. With the recognition of Iraq as an independent state (formerly the British Mandate of Mesopotamia) in 1938, Baghdad gradually regained some of its former prominence as a significant center of Arabic culture.

wn.com/Baghdad





Bahrain

                            Bahrain ( pronunciation) (Arabic: ‏البحرين‎, al-Baḥrayn) (Persian: ‏بحرين‎, Baḥrain), officially the Kingdom of Bahrain (Arabic: مملكة البحرين‎,  Mamlakat al-Baḥrayn), is a small island state near the western shores of the Persian Gulf. It is ruled by the Al Khalifa royal family. The population in 2010 stood at 1,234,571, including 666,172 non-nationals. Formerly an emirate, Bahrain was declared a kingdom in 2002.

Bahrain is an archipelago of 33 islands, the largest being Bahrain Island, at 55 km (34 mi) long by 18 km (11 mi) wide. Saudi Arabia lies to the west and is connected to Bahrain by the King Fahd Causeway. The peninsula of Qatar is to the southeast across the Gulf of Bahrain. The planned Qatar Bahrain Causeway will link Bahrain and Qatar and become the world's longest marine causeway.

Known for its oil and pearls, Bahrain is also home to many large structures, including the Bahrain World Trade Center and the Bahrain Financial Harbour, with a proposal in place to build the 1,022 m (3,353 ft) high Murjan Tower. The Qal'at al-Bahrain (the harbour and capital of the ancient land of Dilmun) was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2005. The Bahrain Formula One Grand Prix takes place at the Bahrain International Circuit.

wn.com/Bahrain





Benghazi

                            Benghazi (/bɛnˈɡɑːzi/; Arabic: بنغازي‎Binġāzī, Libyan Arabic: [bənˈʁɑːzi] ( listen), Italian: Bengasi; Turkish: Bingazi; also: Bengasi,Benghasi,Banghāzī,Binghāzī,Bengazi,Βερενίκη Berenice and Hesperides) is the second largest city in Libya, the main city (or capital) of the Cyrenaica region (or ex-Province), and the former provisional capital of the National Transitional Council. The wider metropolitan area (which includes the southern towns of Gimeenis and Suluq) is also a district of Libya. The port city is located on the Mediterranean Sea.

During the Kingdom era of Libya's history, Benghazi enjoyed a sort of joint-capital status (alongside Tripoli), possibly because the King used to reside in the nearby city of Bayda and the Senussis (royal family) in general were associated with Cyrenaica rather than Tripolitania. Benghazi continues to hold institutions and organizations normally associated with a national capital city. This creates a constant atmosphere of rivalry and sensitivities between Benghazi and Tripoli and by extension between the two regions (Cyrenaica and Tripolitania). The population of the entire district was 500,120 in 1995 (census) and has increased to 670,797 in the 2006 census.

wn.com/Benghazi





CNBC

Coordinates: 40°53′55″N 73°56′21″W﻿ / ﻿40.89861°N 73.93917°W﻿ / 40.89861; -73.93917

CNBC (officially the Consumer News and Business Channel until 1991) is a satellite and cable television business news channel in the U.S., owned and operated by NBCUniversal. The network and its international spinoffs cover business headlines and provide live coverage of financial markets. The combined reach of CNBC and its siblings is 390 million viewers around the world. In 2007, the network was ranked as the 19th most valuable cable channel in the U.S., worth roughly $4 billion. It is headquartered in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey.

The CNBC channel had its beginnings around 1980 as the Satellite Program Network (SPN), showing a low-budget mix of old movies, instructional and entertainment programs. The channel later changed its name to Tempo Television. After initially signing a letter of intent to acquire Tempo,NBC eventually opted for a deal to lease the channel's transponder in June 1988. On this platform, and under the guidance of Tom Rogers, the channel was relaunched on April 17, 1989 as the Consumer News and Business Channel. NBC and Cablevision initially operated CNBC as a 50-50 joint venture, choosing to headquarter the channel in Fort Lee, New Jersey.

wn.com/CNBC





Doha

                            Doha (Arabic: الدوحة‎, ad-Dawḥa or ad-Dōḥa, literally: "the big tree") is the capital city of the state of Qatar. Located on the Persian Gulf, it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar. Doha is Qatar's largest city, with over 60% of the nation's population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.

Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. Doha is home to the Education City, an area devoted to research and education. Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations. The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, which was the largest Asian Games ever held. Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup. Doha will also host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. The World Petroleum Council held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.

wn.com/Doha





Egypt

                            Egypt i/ˈiːdʒɪpt/ (Arabic: مصر, Miṣr, Egyptian Arabic: [mɑsˤɾ] ; Coptic: Ⲭⲏⲙⲓ, Kīmi ; Sahidic Coptic: ⲕⲏⲙⲉ, Kēme), officially the Arab Republic of Egypt, Arabic:  جمهوريّة مصر العربيّة (help·info), is a country mainly in North Africa, with the Sinai Peninsula forming a land bridge in Southwest Asia. Egypt is thus a transcontinental country, and a major power in Africa, the Mediterranean Basin, the Middle East and the Muslim world. Covering an area of about 1,010,000 square kilometers (390,000 sq mi), Egypt is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Gaza Strip and Israel to the northeast, the Red Sea to the east, Sudan to the south and Libya to the west.

Egypt is one of the most populous countries in Africa and the Middle East. The great majority of its over 81 million people live near the banks of the Nile River, in an area of about 40,000 square kilometers (15,000 sq mi), where the only arable land is found. The large areas of the Sahara Desert are sparsely inhabited. About half of Egypt's residents live in urban areas, with most spread across the densely populated centres of greater Cairo, Alexandria and other major cities in the Nile Delta.

wn.com/Egypt




Eutelsat 28A

                            Eutelsat 28A (formerly Eurobird 1) is a Eutelsat operated Eurobird satellite, used primarily for digital television. It is located at 28.5° east in the Clarke Belt, just within the range of most satellite dishes pointed at SES' Astra 1N, 2A, 2B and 2D at 28.2° east. It was launched in March 2001, and after a short period testing at 33°E, joined Eutelsat 2F4 at 28.5°E. Its name changed on 1 March 2012 from Eurobird 1 to Eutelsat 28A.

The satellite has three beams, one fixed, covering almost all of Europe as well as north-western Africa, although carrying only United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland targeted channels, and two steerable - the first, "S1", co-focused with the fixed beam but with a Europe-only footprint, and a second, "S2", aimed to central Europe. This beam features many transponders with low symbol rates, used for satellite news gathering.

Once stationed at 28.5°E, the satellite was promoted as providing satellite coverage for all of Europe, and featured both analogue and digital television and radio services serving Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries. Many of the services it carried had previously been on Kopernikus 2 which had operated at 28.5°E since 1990. These stations slowly started to leave, mostly due to viewers/listeners in those target audiences moving to more traditional orbital positions - 19.2°E for Austria, and the relatively new 23.5°E for the Czech and Slovak Republics. Additional demand for bandwidth at 28°E, to carry HDTV signals, is likely to lead to S2 having its frequency plan re-arranged so as to allow Sky Digibox receivers to see its transponders.

wn.com/Eutelsat_28A





Fallujah

                            Fallujah (Arabic: الفلوجة‎, ʾal-Falūǧah, IPA: [ʔalfaˈluːdʒah]; Aramaic: Pumbeidtha‎ - פומבדיתא) is a city in the Iraqi province of Al Anbar, located roughly 69 kilometers (43 mi) west of Baghdad on the Euphrates. Fallujah dates from Babylonian times and was host to important Jewish academies for many centuries.

The city grew from a small town in 1947 to a population of 326,471 inhabitants in 2010. Within Iraq, it is known as the "city of mosques" for the more than 200 mosques found in the city and surrounding villages.

The region has been inhabited for many millennia. There is evidence that the area surrounding Fallujah was inhabited in Babylonian times. The current name of the city is thought to come from its Syriac name, Pallgutha, which is derived from the word division or "canal regulator" since it was the location where the water of the Euphrates River divided into a canal. Classical authors cited the name as "Pallacottas". The name in Aramaic is Pumbedita."

The region of Fallujah was a part of the Sassanid Persian province of Anbar. The word anbar is Persian and means "warehouse". Known as Firuz Shapur or Perisapora during the Sassanian Era, it was one the main commercial center of the Lakhmid Kingdom. One mile north of Fallujah lie extensive ruins which are identified with the town of Anbar. Anbar was located at the confluence of the Euphrates River with the King's Canal, today the Saqlawiyah Canal, known in Early Islamic times as the Nahr 'Isa and in ancient times as Nahr Malka. Subsequent shifts in the Euphrates River channel have caused it to follow the course of the ancient Pallacottas canal. The town at this site in Jewish sources was known as Nehardea and was the primary center of Babylonian Jewry until its destruction by the Palmyran ruler Odenathus in 259. The Medieval Jewish traveller Benjamin of Tudela in 1164 visited "el-Anbar which is Pumbeditha in Nehardea" and said it had 3000 Jews living there.

wn.com/Fallujah




Hispasat 1C

                            Hispasat 1C is a Spanish communications satellite which is operated by Hispasat. It was constructed by Alcatel Space and is based on the Spacebus-3000B2 satellite bus. Launch occurred on 3 February 2000, at 23:30. The launch was contracted by ILS, and used an Atlas IIAS carrier rocket flying from SLC-36B at Cape Canaveral.

It has a mass of 3,113 kilograms (6,860 lb), and an expected service life of 15 years.

Following its launch and on-orbit testing, it was placed in geostationary orbit at 30° West, from where it provides communications services to Europe and the Americas. It is expected to remain in service until at least 2015.


wn.com/Hispasat_1C




Hot Bird

                            Hot Bird is the name of a popular family of satellites operated by Eutelsat, located at 13°E over the Equator (orbital position) and with a transmitting footprint over Europe, North Africa and the Middle East.

Only digital radio and television channels are transmitted by the Hot Bird constellation, both free-to-air and encrypted. In addition there are a few interactive and IP services. The satellites currently operate at 13° East and are numbered 6, 8 and 9.

Hot Bird 1 was launched by Ariane 44LP in 28 March 1995. The 13° East slot predates the launch, with Eutelsat 1F1 having been located there as early as 1983, and Eutelsat 2F1 having also served time at the location. It has reached end-of-life.

Hot Bird 3 was launched by Ariane 44LP in 02 sep 1997 and intended to be moved to 10°E to become Eurobird 10. During the drift from 13°E to 10°E, the satellite suffered loss of power from one solar array. It was nevertheless successfully moved to 10°E, but could only operate at a reduced capacity. Since then, it is operating at 4°E under the name Eurobird 4. At last it moved to 75°E and its and renamed to ABS_1B. It has reached end-of-life.

wn.com/Hot_Bird





India

                            India (i/ˈɪndiə/), officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya), is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by geographical area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people, and the most populous democracy in the world. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the south-west, and the Bay of Bengal on the south-east, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west;China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north-east; and Burma and Bangladesh to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is in the vicinity of Sri Lanka and the Maldives; in addition, India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Thailand and Indonesia.

Home to the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation and a region of historic trade routes and vast empires, the Indian subcontinent was identified with its commercial and cultural wealth for much of its long history. Four of the world's major religions—Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism—originated here, whereas Zoroastrianism, Christianity, and Islam arrived in the 1st millennium CE and also helped shape the region's diverse culture. Gradually annexed by and brought under the administration of the British East India Company from the early 18th century and administered directly by the United Kingdom from the mid-19th century, India became an independent nation in 1947 after a struggle for independence that was marked by non-violent resistance led by Mahatma Gandhi.

wn.com/India





Iraq

                            Iraq (/ɪˈræk/ or i/ɪˈrɑːk/; Arabic: العراق‎ al-‘Irāq); officially the Republic of Iraq (Arabic:  جمهورية العراق (help·info) Jumhūriyyat al-‘Irāq), is a country in Western Asia spanning most of the northwestern end of the Zagros mountain range, the eastern part of the Syrian Desert and the northern part of the Arabian Desert.

Iraq borders Syria to the northwest, Turkey to the north, Iran to the east, Jordan to the southwest and Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to the south. Iraq has a narrow section of coastline measuring 58 km (36 mi) on the northern Persian Gulf. The capital city, Baghdad is in the center-east of the country.

Two major rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates, run through the center of Iraq, flowing from northwest to southeast. These provide Iraq with agriculturally capable land and contrast with the steppe and desert landscape that covers most of Western Asia.

Historically, Iraq was the center of the Abbasid Arabic Islamic Empire. Iraq has been known to the west by the Greek toponym 'Mesopotamia' (Land between the rivers) and has been home to continuous successive civilizations since the 6th millennium BC. The region between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers is often referred to as the cradle of civilization and the birthplace of writing, law and the wheel. At different periods in its history, Iraq was the center of the indigenous Akkadian, Sumerian, Assyrian, Babylonian, and Abbasid empires. It was also part of the Achaemenid, Hellenistic, Parthian, Sassanid, Roman, Rashidun, Umayyad, Mongol, Safavid, Afsharid, and Ottoman empires, and under British control as a League of Nations mandate.

wn.com/Iraq





Italy

                            Italy i/ˈɪtəli/ (Italian: Italia [iˈtaːlja]), officially the Italian Republic or the Republic of Italy (Italian: Repubblica italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in south-central Europe. To the north, it borders France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia along the Alps. To the south, it consists of the entirety of the Italian Peninsula, Sicily, Sardinia–the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea–and many other smaller islands. The independent states of San Marino and the Vatican City are enclaves within Italy, while Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland. The territory of Italy covers some 301,338 km2 (116,347 sq mi) and is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate. With 60.6 million inhabitants, it is the fifth most populous country in Europe, and the 23rd most populous in the world.

Rome, the capital of Italy, was for centuries a political and religious centre of Western civilisation as the capital of the Roman Empire and site of the Holy See. After the decline of the Roman Empire, Italy endured numerous invasions by foreign peoples, from Germanic tribes such as the Lombards and Ostrogoths, to the Byzantines and later, the Normans, among others. Centuries later, Italy became the birthplace of Maritime republics and the Renaissance, an immensely fruitful intellectual movement that would prove to be integral in shaping the subsequent course of European thought.

wn.com/Italy





Kabul

                            Kabul ( /ˈkɑːbəl/, /ˈkɑːbuːl/; Pashto: کابل Kābəl, IPA: [kɑˈbəl]; Persian: کابل Kābol‎, IPA: [kɒːˈbol]), also spelled Cabool, Caubul or Cabul, mostly in historical contexts, is the capital and largest city of Afghanistan. Kabul is the 5th fastest growing city in the world [2] and the world's 64th largest city [3]. It is also the capital of Kabul Province, located in the eastern section of Afghanistan. According to latest estimates, the population of the Kabul metropolitan area is over 4 million.

The city serves as the nation's cultural and learning centre, situated 1,791 metres (5,876 ft) above sea level in a narrow valley, wedged between the Hindu Kush mountains along the Kabul River. It is linked with Kandahar, Herat and Mazar-e Sharif via the circular Highway 1 that stretches across Afghanistan. It is also the start of the main road to Jalalabad and further to Peshawar, Pakistan. The Kabul International Airport is located about 16 kilometres (9.9 mi) from the center of the city, next to the Wazir Akbar Khan neighborhood. Bagram Airfield is about 40 kilometres (25 mi) northeast of Kabul.

wn.com/Kabul





Knesset

                            The Knesset (Hebrew: הַכְּנֶסֶת‎ [haˈkneset] ( listen); lit. the gathering or assembly; Arabic: الكنيست‎) is the unicameral legislature of Israel, located in Givat Ram, Jerusalem.

The legislative branch of the Israeli government, the Knesset passes all laws, elects the President and Prime Minister (although the latter is ceremonially appointed by the President), approves the cabinet, and supervises the work of the government. In addition, it also recommends a candidate for the State Comptroller to the President, who appoints someone to the post. It also has the power to waive the immunity of its members, remove the President and the State Comptroller from office, remove a Prime Minister convicted of an offense involving moral turpitude, and to dissolve itself and call new elections. The Prime Minister may dissolve the Knesset. However, until an election is completed, the Knesset maintains authority in its current composition.

Knesset members annually convene for plenary assemblies, or plenums, for two annual sittings of at least eight months' duration. The two sittings together form a session. The Knesset may be convened at any other time if thirty or more members demand this in writing or if the government requests. As well as approving or rejecting proposed legislation, the plenum also elects the Speaker and one or more Deputy Speakers.

wn.com/Knesset





Kuala Lumpur

                            Kuala Lumpur is the federal capital and most populous city in Malaysia. The city covers an area of 243 km2 (94 sq mi) and has an estimated population of 1.6 million as of 2012.Greater Kuala Lumpur, also known as the Klang Valley, is an urban agglomeration of 7.2 million. It is among the fastest growing metropolitan regions in the country, in terms of population and economy.

Kuala Lumpur is the seat of the Parliament of Malaysia. The city was once home to the executive and judicial branches of the federal government, but they were moved to Putrajaya in early 1999. Some sections of the judiciary still remains in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur. The official residence of the Malaysian King, the Istana Negara, is also situated in Kuala Lumpur. Rated as an alpha world city, Kuala Lumpur is the cultural, financial and economic centre of Malaysia due to its position as the capital as well as being a key city. Kuala Lumpur was ranked 48th among global cities by Foreign Policy's 2010 Global Cities Index and was ranked 67th among global cities for economic and social innovation by the 2thinknow Innovation Cities Index in 2010.

wn.com/Kuala_Lumpur





Lebanon

                            Lebanon (i/ˈlɛbənɒn/ or /ˈlɛbənən/; Arabic: لبنان‎ Libnān or Lubnān, Lebanese Arabic: [lɪbˈneːn]), officially the Lebanese Republic (Arabic: الجمهورية اللبنانية‎ al-Jumhūrīyah al-Libnānīyah, Lebanese Arabic: [elˈʒʊmhuːɾɪjje l.ˈlɪbneːnɪjje]), is a country in the East Mediterranean. It is bordered by Syria to the north and east, and Israel to the south. Lebanon's location at the crossroads of the Mediterranean Basin and the Arabian hinterland has dictated its rich history, and shaped a cultural identity of religious and ethnic diversity.

The earliest evidence of civilization in Lebanon dates back more than 7,000 years—predating recorded history. Lebanon was the home of the Phoenicians, a maritime culture that flourished for nearly 2,500 years (3000–539 BC). Following the collapse of the Ottoman Empire after World War I, the five provinces that comprise modern Lebanon were mandated to France. The French expanded the borders of Mount Lebanon, which was mostly populated by Maronite Catholics and Druze, to include more Muslims. Lebanon gained independence in 1943, and established a unique political system, known as confessionalism, a power-sharing mechanism based on religious communities – Bechara El Khoury who became independent Lebanon's first President and Riad El-Solh, who became Lebanon's first prime minister, are considered the founders of the modern Republic of Lebanon and are national heroes for having led the country's independence. French troops withdrew from Lebanon in 1946.

wn.com/Lebanon





Libya

                            Libya (Arabic: ‏ليبيا‎ Lībyā), Berber: ⵍⵉⴱⵢⴰ) is a country in the Maghreb region of North Africa bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south, and Algeria and Tunisia to the west.

With an area of almost 1.8 million square kilometres (700,000 sq mi), Libya is the third largest country in Africa by area, and the 17th largest in the world. The largest city, Tripoli, is home to 1.7 million of Libya's 6.4 million people. The three traditional parts of the country are Tripolitania, Fezzan and Cyrenaica.

In 2009 Libya had the highest HDI in Africa and the fourth highest GDP (PPP) per capita in Africa, behind Seychelles, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. Libya has the 10th-largest proven oil reserves of any country in the world and the 17th-highest petroleum production.

As a result of the Libyan civil war, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, which had at that time been in existence for 34 years, collapsed and Libya entered a period of governance by a transitional administration called the National Transitional Council. The NTC has stated its intention to oversee the first phase of a transition to constitutional democracy, after which it claims it will dissolve in favor of a representative legislature.

wn.com/Libya




Nilesat 102

                            Nilesat 102 is an Egyptian owned geosynchronous communications satellite that was launched by an Ariane 44LP rocket from Kourou, French Guiana on August 17, 2000 at 23:16 UTC by the European Space Agency. It was manufactured by the European company Matra Marconi Space (Astrium), and started official broadcasting in 12 September 2000 with an Expected Life Time of 15 years. At launch the spacecraft weighed 1,827 kg (fully fuelled).

Nilesat 102 is operated by The Egyptian satellite Co. Nilesat that was established in 1996 with the purpose of operating Egyptian satellites and their associated ground control station and uplinking facilities.

It is parked at the geostationary orbital position of 7° West together with its sister Satellite Nilesat 101 and carries 12 Ku band 100 W high power wide beam transponders of 33 MHz bandwidth to provide digital communications and terrestrial Direct to Home ((DTH)) TV, radio broadcasting, multimedia and data services for countries in the Arab World and South Europe. The two satellites carry approximately 280 TV channels covering all the Middle East countries; from Iran in the east to the Atlantic Ocean in the west, and from south Europe in the north to the centre of Africa in the south.

wn.com/Nilesat_102





North Yemen

                            North Yemen is a term used to designate the Yemen Arab Republic (1962–1990), its predecessor, the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen (1918–1962), and their predecessors that exercised sovereignty over the territory that is now the north-western part of the state of Yemen in southern Arabia.

Neither state ever self-designated as "North Yemen" and the term only came into general use when the Federation of South Arabia gained independence as the People's Republic of Yemen in 1967 making such a distinction necessary. Prior to 1967, both states were known in short form simply as "Yemen." In 1970, South Yemen changed its name to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen thus eliminating any directional reference in either of the Yemens' official names but the existence of two Yemens preserved the North Yemen and South Yemen designations in popular parlance. Alternate forms were "Yemen (Sanaa)" for North Yemen and "Yemen (Aden)" for South Yemen after their respective capital cities.

The merger of the two Yemens in 1990 ended the term's association with an independent state but "North Yemen" continues to be used to refer to the area of the former Yemen Arab Republic and its history and, anachronistically, to pre-1967 polities and events (e.g., the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen or the North Yemen Civil War).

wn.com/North_Yemen





Pakistan

                            Pakistan (i/ˈpækɨstæn/ or i/pɑːkiˈstɑːn/; Urdu: پاکستان) (Urdu pronunciation: [paːkɪˈst̪aːn] ( listen)), officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Urdu: اسلامی جمہوریۂ پاکستان), is a sovereign country in South Asia. It sits at the crossroads of the strategically important regions of South Asia, Central Asia and the Middle East. It has a 1,046-kilometre (650 mi) coastline along the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman in the south and is bordered by India to the east, Afghanistan to the west and north, Iran to the southwest and China in the far northeast. It is separated from Tajikistan by Afghanistan's narrow Wakhan Corridor in the north, and it shares a marine border with Oman.

The territory of modern Pakistan was the site of several ancient cultures, including the Neolithic Mehrgarh and the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilisation, and has undergone invasions or settlements by Hindu, Persian, Indo-Greek, Islamic, Turco-Mongol, Afghan and Sikh cultures. Thus the area has been ruled by numerous empires and dynasties, including the Indian Mauryan Empire, the Persian Achaemenid Empire, the Arab Umayyad Caliphate, the Mongol Empire, the Mughal Empire, the Durrani Empire, the Sikh Empire and the British Empire. As a result of the Pakistan Movement led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and India's struggle for independence, Pakistan was created in 1947 as an independent nation for Muslims from the regions in the east and west of India where there was a Muslim majority. Initially a dominion, Pakistan adopted a new constitution in 1956, becoming an Islamic republic. A civil war in 1971 resulted in the secession of East Pakistan as the new country of Bangladesh.

wn.com/Pakistan





Qatar

                            Qatar (i/ˈkɑːtɑr/ or i/kəˈtɑr/;Arabic: قطر‎ [ˈqɑtˤɑr]; local vernacular pronunciation: [ɡɪtˤɑr]), also known as the country or State of Qatar or locally Dawlat Qaṭar, is a sovereign Arab state, located in Western Asia, occupying the small Qatar Peninsula on the northeasterly coast of the much larger Arabian Peninsula. Its sole land border is with Saudi Arabia to the south, with the rest of its territory surrounded by the Persian Gulf. A strait of the Persian Gulf separates Qatar from the nearby island state of Bahrain.

Qatar has been ruled as an absolute monarchy by Al Thani family since the mid-19th century. Formerly a British protectorate noted mainly for pearling, it became independent in 1971, and has become one of the region's wealthiest states due to its enormous oil and natural gas revenues. In 1995, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani became Emir when he seized power from his father, Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, in a peaceful coup d'état. The most important positions in Qatar are held by the members of the Al Thani family, or close confidants of the al-Thani family. Beginning in 1992, Qatar has built intimate military ties with the United States, and is now the location of U.S. Central Command’s Forward Headquarters and the Combined Air Operations Center.

wn.com/Qatar




Record News

                            Record News is the first 24-hour free-to-air terrestrial news channel in Brazil. It is owned by Rede Record.

In 1953, Rede Record de Televisão started as the second Brazilian TV channel (the first was the extinct Rede Tupi). As the network completes 54 years, a new channel has been started by it. This is the first Brazilian news channel free-to-air. The on air button was pushed at 20:15 (Brasília time) by president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Edir Macedo, the owner of the network.

Two days before the launch of Record News, the Vice-President of Organizações Globo, Evandro Guimarães, went to Brasilia to meet government officials, including the Communications Minister, Hélio Costa, accusing Rede Record of owning two television networks, Rede Record and Record News, inside the city of São Paulo. In Brazilian Law, it is illegal to own more than one television station in a city.

When Guimarāes trip to Brasilia was revealed in a blog owned by the newspaper Folha de S. Paulo, Rede Record attacked Rede Globo in an editorial in its national news broadcast, Jornal da Record, accusing Rede Globo of trying to rescue its monopoly on the media and news, and also claiming that Rede Globo was afraid of Record News because Rede Globo, which owns its own news channel Globo News only a payable cable channel, would lose advertisement revenue from Globo News to Record News. Rede Record also said that Record News was located outside the city of São Paulo, so Record News was broadcasting legitimately. Rede Record also mentioned Rede Globo's past dealings which could be considered illegal and a crime in Brazilian law, and Rede Globo's relationship with Brazil's Military Dictatorship. Rede Globo also claimed it was representing another television rival, Rede Bandeirantes, but Rede Record responded that Rede Bandeirantes owns two channels in Sāo Paulo.

wn.com/Record_News





RIA Novosti

                            Russian International News Agency (RIA Novosti) (in Russian: Российское агентство международных новостей «РИА Новости») is of the largest Russian news agencies. It is state-owned with its HQ in Moscow and about 80 bureaus abroad.

The agency publishes news and analysis of social-political, economic, scientific and financial subjects on the Internet and via e-mail in the main European languages, as well as in Persian, Japanese, Chinese and Arabic. It has a correspondent network in the Russian Federation, CIS and over 40 non-CIS countries. Its clients include the presidential administration, Russian government, Federation Council, State Duma, leading ministries and government departments, administrations of Russian regions, representatives of Russian and foreign business communities, diplomatic missions, and public organizations.

The current editor-in-chief and general director of the agency is Svetlana Mironyuk.

RIA Novosti’s history dates back to June 24, 1941, when by a resolution of the USSR Council of People’s Commissars and the Communist Party Central Committee, “On the Establishment and Tasks of the Soviet Information Bureau”, the Soviet Information Bureau (Sovinformburo) was set up under the USSR Council of People’s Commissars and the Central Committee. Its main task was to oversee work to cover international, military events and the events of the country’s domestic life in periodicals and on the radio (from October 14, 1941, to March 3, 1942, was based in Kuibyshev – modern-day Samara).

wn.com/RIA_Novosti





Russia

                            Russia i/ˈrʌʃə/ or /ˈrʊʃə/ (Russian: Россия, tr. Rossiya; IPA: [rɐˈsʲijə] ( listen)), also officially known as the Russian Federation (Russian: Российская Федерация, tr. Rossiyskaya Federatsiya; IPA: [rɐˈsʲijskəjə fʲɪdʲɪˈratsɨjə] ( listen)), is a country in northern Eurasia. It is a federal semi-presidential republic, comprising 83 federal subjects. From northwest to southeast, Russia shares borders with Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland (both via Kaliningrad Oblast), Belarus, Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, China, Mongolia, and North Korea. It also has maritime borders with Japan by the Sea of Okhotsk, and the US state of Alaska by the Bering Strait. At 17,075,400 square kilometres (6,592,800 sq mi), Russia is the largest country in the world, covering more than one eighth of the Earth's inhabited land area. Russia is also the eighth most populous nation with 143 million people. It extends across the whole of northern Asia and 40% of Europe, spanning nine time zones and incorporating a wide range of environments and landforms. Russia has the world's largest reserves of mineral and energy resources and is the largest producer of oil and natural gas globally. Russia has the world's largest forest reserves and its lakes contain approximately one-quarter of the world's fresh water.

wn.com/Russia





Sarajevo

                            Sarajevo (Cyrillic: Сарајево) (pronounced [sǎrajɛʋɔ]) is the capital and largest city of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an estimated population of over 311,161 people within its administrative limits. It is also the capital of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity, as well as the center of the Sarajevo Canton, which has a population of 438,757. Nestled within the greater Sarajevo valley of Bosnia, it is surrounded by the Dinaric Alps and situated along the Miljacka River in the heart of Southeastern Europe and the Balkans.

Sarajevo is the leading social and cultural center of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its region-wide influence in politics, education, entertainment, media, fashion, science, and the arts contribute to its status as Bosnia and Herzegovina's major economic center.

The city is historically famous for its traditional cultural and religious diversity, with adherents of Islam, Orthodoxy, Catholicism and Judaism coexisting there for centuries. Due to this long and rich history of religious and cultural variety, Sarajevo is often called the "Jerusalem of Europe" or "Jerusalem of the Balkans". It was, until recently in the 20th century, the only major European city to have a mosque, cathedral, Orthodox church and synagogue within the same neighborhood.

wn.com/Sarajevo





Saudi Arabia

                            Saudi Arabia (i/ˌsaʊdi əˈreɪbi.ə/ or i/ˌsɔːdiː əˈreɪbi.ə/; Arabic: السعودية‎ as-Su‘ūdīyah[citation needed] or incorrectly as-Sa‘ūdīyah, officially known as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Arabic: المملكة العربية السعودية‎ al-Mamlakah al-‘Arabīyah as-Su‘ūdīyah  Arabic pronunciation (help·info)), is the largest state in Western Asia by land area, constituting the bulk of the Arabian Peninsula, and the second-largest in the Arab world, after Algeria. It is bordered by Jordan, and Iraq on the north and northeast, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates on the east, Oman on the southeast, and Yemen on the south. The Red Sea lies to its west, and the Persian Gulf lies to the east. Saudi Arabia has an area of approximately 2,250,000 km2 (870,000 sq mi), and it has an estimated population of 27 million, of which 9 million are registered foreign expatriates and an estimated 2 million are illegal immigrants. Saudi nationals comprise an estimated 16 million people.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was founded by Abdul-Aziz bin Saud (known for most of his career as Ibn Saud) in 1932, although the conquests which eventually led to the creation of the Kingdom began in 1902 when he captured Riyadh, the ancestral home of his family, the House of Saud, referred to in Arabic as the Al Saud. The Saudi Arabian government, which has been an absolute monarchy since its inception, refers to its system of government as being Islamic, though this is contested by many due to its strong basis in Salafism, a minority school of thought in Islam. The kingdom is sometimes called "The Land of the Two Holy Mosques" in reference to Al-Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca), and Al-Masjid al-Nabawi (in Medina), the two holiest places in Islam.

wn.com/Saudi_Arabia





September 11 attacks

                            The September 11 attacks (also referred to as September 11, September 11th or 9/11) were a series of four suicide attacks that were committed in the United States on September 11, 2001, coordinated to strike the areas of New York City and Washington, D.C. On that Tuesday morning, 19 terrorists from the Islamist militant group al-Qaeda hijacked four passenger jets. The hijackers intentionally piloted two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center complex in New York City; both towers collapsed within two hours. The hijackers also intentionally crashed American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, and intended to pilot the fourth hijacked jet, United Airlines Flight 93, into a target in Washington, D.C.; however, the plane crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania after its passengers attempted to take control of the jet from the hijackers. Nearly 3,000 people died in the attacks including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes, none of whom survived.

wn.com/September_11_attacks




SES Astra

                            SES Astra SA was a corporate subsidiary of SES, based in Betzdorf, in eastern Luxembourg, that maintained and operated the Astra series of geostationary communication satellites between 2001 and 2011.

Formed in 1985 as Société Européenne des Satellites (SES), it was Europe's first private satellite operator. When SES acquired GE Americom in 2001 and was renamed SES Global (reverting to SES in 2006), the portion of the company responsible for the Astra satellites became a subsidiary named SES Astra. In September 2011, SES Astra and sister subsidiary SES World Skies were merged back into SES S.A. for the company to operate with a single management system, and subsidiaries of SES Astra, such as HD Plus and ASTRA Broadband Services became direct subsidiaries of SES. The brand name, Astra, representing the satellite family and the broadcasting system continues to be used and, although the corporate website (www.ses-astra.com) was closed when SES Astra was consolidated into the parent, the consumer site (www.OnAstra.com) remains in operation.

wn.com/SES_Astra





Sky News

                            Sky News is a 24-hour British and international satellite television news broadcaster with an emphasis on UK and international news stories.

The service places emphasis on rolling news, including the latest breaking news. Sky News also hosts localised versions of the channel in Australia and in New Zealand, as well as their previously operated version in Ireland. Sky News is also offered in an international version without the British adverts under the name Sky News International available in Europe and Asia.

Based at a news centre in London, Sky News started broadcasting on 5 February 1989 as part of the then four-channel Sky Television service. Sky News provides an hourly news radio service to multiple radio networks in the UK and Ireland. The channel currently has seven UK bases each with their own correspondents, and the channel can also call upon a wide range of resources and global bureaux provided by its parent company News Corporation such as reporters from Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network (its sister news and business channels).

wn.com/Sky_News





Somalia

                            Somalia ( /soʊˈmɑːliə/ soh-MAH-lee-ə; Somali: Soomaaliya; Arabic: الصومال‎ aṣ-Ṣūmāl), officially the Somali Republic (Somali: Jamhuuriyadda Soomaaliya, Arabic: جمهورية الصومال‎ Jumhūriyyat aṣ-Ṣūmāl) and formerly known as the Somali Democratic Republic under Socialist rule, is a country located in the Horn of Africa. Since the outbreak of the Somali Civil War in 1991 there has been no central government control over most of the country's territory. The internationally recognized Transitional Federal Government controls only a small part of the country. Somalia has been characterized as a failed state and is one of the poorest and most violent states in the world.

Somalia lies in the easternmost part of Africa. It is bordered by Djibouti to the northwest, Kenya to the southwest, the Gulf of Aden with Yemen to the north, the Indian Ocean to the east, and Ethiopia to the west. It has the longest coastline on the continent, and its terrain consists mainly of plateaus, plains and highlands. Hot conditions prevail year-round, along with periodic monsoon winds and irregular rainfall.

wn.com/Somalia





South Yemen

                            The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen — also referred to as South Yemen, Democratic Yemen or Yemen (Aden) — was a single-party socialist state in the present-day southern and eastern Provinces of Yemen. It united with the Yemen Arab Republic, commonly known as North Yemen, on May 22, 1990, to form the current Republic of Yemen.

In 1838, Sultan Muhsin bin Fadl of the nearby state of Lahej ceded 194 km² (75 sq. miles) including Aden to the British. On 19 January 1839, the British East India Company landed Royal Marines at Aden to occupy the territory and stop attacks by pirates against British shipping to India. It then became an important trading hub between British India and the Red Sea, and following the opening of the Suez canal in 1869, it became a coaling station for ships en route to India. Aden was ruled as part of British India until 1937, when the city of Aden became the Colony of Aden. The Aden hinterland and Hadhramaut to the east formed the remainder of what would become South Yemen and was not administered directly by Aden but were tied to Britain by treaties of protection with local rulers of traditional polities that, together, became known as the Aden Protectorate. Economic development was largely centred in Aden, and while the city flourished, the states of the Aden Protectorate stagnated.

wn.com/South_Yemen





Sudan

                            Sudan (i/suːˈdæn/ or /suːˈdɑːn/;Arabic: السودان‎, as-Sūdān), officially the Republic of the Sudan (Arabic: جمهورية السودان‎, Jumhūrīyat as-Sūdān), sometimes called North Sudan, is an Arab state in North Africa (sometimes also considered to be part of the Middle East). It is bordered by Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east, South Sudan to the south, the Central African Republic to the southwest, Chad to the west, and Libya to the northwest. The population of Sudan is a combination of indigenous inhabitants of Nile Valley, and descendants of migrants from the Arabian Peninsula. Due to the process of Arabisation common throughout the rest of the Arab World, today Arab culture predominates in Sudan. The majority of the population of Sudan adheres to Islam. The Nile divides the country between east and west sides.

The people of Sudan have a long history extending from antiquity which is intertwined with the history of Egypt. Sudan suffered seventeen years of civil war during the First Sudanese Civil War (1955–1972) followed by ethnic, religious and economic conflicts between the Muslim Arab northern Sudanese and the mostly animist and Christian Nilotes of Southern Sudan. This led to the Second Sudanese Civil War in 1983. Because of continuing political and military struggles, Sudan was seized in a bloodless coup d'état by colonel Omar al-Bashir in 1989, who thereafter proclaimed himself President of Sudan. The civil war ended with the signing of a Comprehensive Peace Agreement which granted autonomy to what was then the southern region of the country. Following a referendum held in January 2011, South Sudan seceded on 9 July 2011 with the consent of Sudan's President al-Bashir.

wn.com/Sudan





Syria

                            Syria (/ˈsɪriə/ ( listen) SIRR-ee-ə; Arabic: سورية‎ Sūriyya or سوريا Sūryā; Syriac: ܣܘܪܝܐ; Kurdish: Sûrî), officially the Syrian Arab Republic (Arabic: الجمهورية العربية السورية‎ al-Jumhūriyyah al-‘Arabīyah as-Sūriyyah  Arabic pronunciation (help·info)), is a country in Western Asia, bordering Lebanon and the Mediterranean Sea to the West, Turkey to the north, Iraq to the east, Jordan to the south, and Israel to the southwest.

In English, the name Syria was formerly synonymous with the Levant, known in Arabic as Sham, while the modern state encompasses the sites of several ancient kingdoms and empires, including the Eblan civilization of the third millennium BC. In the Islamic era, its capital city, Damascus, the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, was the seat of the Umayyad Caliphate, and a provincial capital of the Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt.

The population of Syria is 74% Sunni, 12% Alawi, 10% Christian, and 3% Druze. Combined, 87% of the Syrian population is Muslim, while the other 10% is Christian, which includes mainly Arab Christians but also Assyrians and Armenians. Major ethnic minorities in Syria include Kurds (9%), Assyrians, Armenians, Turkmens and Circassians. The majority of the population is Arab (90%).

wn.com/Syria





Turkey

                            Turkey (Turkish: Türkiye), known officially as the Republic of Turkey ( Türkiye Cumhuriyeti (help·info)), is a Eurasian country located in Western Asia (mostly in the Anatolian peninsula) and in East Thrace in Southeastern Europe. Turkey is bordered by eight countries: Bulgaria to the northwest; Greece to the west; Georgia to the northeast; Armenia, Azerbaijan (the exclave of Nakhchivan) and Iran to the east; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast. The Mediterranean Sea and Cyprus are to the south; the Aegean Sea is to the west; and the Black Sea is to the north. The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles (which together form the Turkish Straits) demarcate the boundary between East Thrace and Anatolia; they also separate Europe and Asia.

Turkey is one of the six independent Turkic states. The vast majority of the population are Muslims. The country's official language is Turkish, whereas Kurdish and Zazaki languages are spoken by Kurds and Zazas, who constitute 18% of the population.

wn.com/Turkey





University for Peace

                            The University for Peace (UPEACE) was established in Costa Rica in 1980 "to provide humanity with an international institution of higher education for peace and with the aim of promoting among all human beings the spirit of understanding, tolerance and peaceful coexistence."

At present, the UPEACE Costa Rica campus has 192 students from 55 countries, making it one of the most diverse universities in the world for its size.

The university was established as a treaty under its own Charter, and approved by the United Nations General Assembly. It is an observer to the United Nations General Assembly. UPEACE is not part of the UN family and as such is not subject to UN regulations and is directed by its own Council of renowned personalities with expertise in peace and security matters. This has allowed the university to move rapidly and to innovate, focusing its new, rigorous academic programme on the fundamental causes of conflict through a multidisciplinary, multicultural-oriented approach. The Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon is the honorary president of the university.

wn.com/University_for_Peace













Adel Iskandar

                            Adel Iskandar (aka Adel Iskandar Farag) (born 15 March 1977) is a British-born Middle East media scholar, postcolonial theorist, analyst, and academic. He is the author and co-author of several works on Arab media, most prominently an analysis of the Arab satellite station Al Jazeera. His latest work is an edited collection of essays entitled Edward Said: A Legacy of Emancipation and Representation on the late Palestinian-American intellectual and literary critic. 

Born to an Egyptian family of physicians in Edinburgh, Scotland, he grew up in Kuwait, escaping the Iraqi invasion and the 1991 Persian Gulf War. At the age of 16, he moved to Canada where he earned his degree in Social Anthropology and Biology from Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He later earned a masters in Communications from Purdue University Calumet in Hammond, Indiana.

He proposes the concept of "contextual objectivity" as a critique of media's coverage of war.[citation needed] He writes a regular column for Egyptian independent newspaper Almasry Alyoum, and works at the Center for Contemporary Arab Studies at Georgetown University.

wn.com/Adel_Iskandar




Ahmed Sheikh

                            Ahmed Sheikh (born 1949) is a Palestinian journalist and the current editor-in-chief of the Qatar-based television channel Al Jazeera.

Ahmed Sheikh was born in Nablus on the West Bank. He left his homeland in 1968 to study in Jordan.


wn.com/Ahmed_Sheikh




Ali Mahdi Muhammad

                            Ali Mahdi Mohamed (Somali: Cali Mahdi Moxamed, Arabic: علي مهدي محمد‎) (born 1938) was president of Somalia from January 1991 to November 1991. He rose to power when Mohamed Farrah Aidid forced then president Mohamed Siad Barre out of office. Mohamed, however, was not able in that time to exert control over the country. Following this, the nation fell into anarchy, with only local warlords and separatist groups wielding real power.

Muhammad was a leading member of the Abgaal clan members within the USC. Early in the Somali Civil War, he and the Manifesto group worked together to oust Siad Barre. The United Somali Congress selected Ali Mahdi to be an Interim president for a period of two months which was to end at Feb 28, 1991 at which time all the different militias and tribal leaders were to convene for a conference in which they would select a new leader. This did not work as General Aidid who was member of USC refused the outcome of the USC conference and called for armed war against the new government lead by Ali Mahdi with the support of his immediate tribe the Habargidir.

wn.com/Ali_Mahdi_Muhammad




Arnaud de Borchgrave

                            Arnaud de Borchgrave (born 1926) is an American journalist who specializes in international politics. Following a long career with the magazine Newsweek, he held key editorial and executive positions with media organizations associated with the Unification Church, including The Washington Times and United Press International.

Born in Belgium to Audrey Dorothy Louise Townshend, daughter of Major General Sir Charles Vere Ferrers Townshend, and Belgian count Baudouin de Borchgrave d’Altena, head of Belgium's military intelligence for the government-in-exile during World War II, Arnaud de Borchgrave was educated in Belgium, Britain and the United States. He served in the British Royal Navy from 1942 to 1946, from the age of 15, after running away from home and using falsified papers on his age to enlist in the service. He gave up his title of nobility in 1951.

In 1947, he was appointed Brussels bureau manager for United Press, and three years later he became Newsweek's bureau chief in Paris and then its chief correspondent. In 1953 he became a senior editor for the magazine. Osborn Elliot—former Editor-in-Chief of Newsweek—once said:

wn.com/Arnaud_de_Borchgrave





Baltasar Garzón

                            Baltasar Garzón Real (Spanish pronunciation: [baltaˈsar ɣarˈθon]; born 26 October 1955) is a former Spanish jurist who served on Spain's central criminal court, the Audiencia Nacional. He was the examining magistrate of the Juzgado Central de Instrucción No. 5, which investigates the most important criminal cases in Spain, including terrorism, organised crime, and money laundering.

In 1993–94 he was elected a deputy and briefly held a ministerial role in the Felipe González's socialist government. Following his return to the Audiencia Nacional, he led a series of investigations that helped convict a government minister as the head of the Grupos Antiterroristas de Liberación (GAL), a state terrorist group.

Garzón came to international attention on 10 October 1998 when he issued an international warrant for the arrest of former Chilean President, General Augusto Pinochet, for the alleged deaths and torture of Spanish citizens.

Garzón was accused of various irregularities by Manos Limpias and finally indicted on three different counts relating to a fraud trial, investigating Francoist crimes and taking bribes. He was suspended from judicial activity on 14 May 2010, pending trial. He was given permission to work as a consultant at the International Criminal Court in The Hague for 7 months from May 2010. On 9 February 2012 The Supreme Court of Spain convicted him of illegally wiretapping conversations between suspects on remand for massive fraud and their lawyers who were believed to be moving their money beyond the reach of the court. The trial judge described this act as appropriate to a dictatorship and sentenced him to eleven years disqualification from judicial activity.

wn.com/Baltasar_Garzón





Barack Obama



Barack Hussein Obama II (i/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/; born August 4, 1961) is the 44th and current President of the United States. He is the first African American to hold the office. In January 2005, Obama was sworn in as a U.S. Senator in the state of Illinois. He would hold this office until November 2008, when he resigned following his victory in the 2008 presidential election.

Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was the president of the Harvard Law Review. He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law degree. He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004.

Following an unsuccessful bid against the Democratic incumbent for a seat in the United States House of Representatives in 2000, Obama ran for the United States Senate in 2004. Several events brought him to national attention during the campaign, including his victory in the March 2004 Illinois Democratic primary for the Senate election and his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. He won election to the U.S. Senate in Illinois in November 2004. His presidential campaign began in February 2007, and after a close campaign in the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won his party's nomination. In the 2008 presidential election, he defeated Republican nominee John McCain, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. In April 2011, he announced that he would be running for re-election in 2012.

wn.com/Barack_Obama




Casey Kauffman

                            Casey Kauffman is an American journalist who works for Al Jazeera English, the first English-language news channel headquartered in the Middle East.

In October 2008, Kauffman’s report about a rally in St. Clairesville, Ohio by supporters of Sarah Palin, Republican Party's vice-presidential candidate in the 2008 United States presidential election, created a controversy. In the rally, Palin’s supporters made racist comments about Barack Obama, Democratic Party’s presidential candidate, including the fear that Barack Obama is an anti-white Muslim terrorist. The story garnered massive attention. It had gone viral on the web and had been the source of a few editorials.
Colbert I. King, a columnist at the Washington Post, criticized the report and wrote a piece titled “A Rage No One Should Be Stoking”. In the article he said that “it is no accident that the English-language operation of Al-Jazeera, the Arab-language news network, tried to capture and broadcast to the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere a glimpse of America’s more sinister side... Was this fodder served up by Al-Jazeera to feed anti-American sentiment overseas? To be sure. But the camera didn’t lie. Did Al-Jazeera, however, record the whole truth?” 

wn.com/Casey_Kauffman





Chroma key

                            Chroma key compositing, or chroma keying, is a special effects / post-production technique for compositing (layering) two images or video streams together, used heavily in many fields to remove a background from the subject of a photo or video - particularly the newscasting, motion picture and videogame industries. A color range in the top layer is made transparent, revealing another image behind. The chroma keying technique is commonly used in video production and post-production. This technique is also referred to as color keying, colour-separation overlay (CSO; primarily by the BBC), or by various terms for specific color-related variants such as green screen, and blue screen - chroma keying can be done with backgrounds of any color that are uniform and distinct, but green and blue backgrounds are more commonly used because they differ most distinctly in hue from most human skin colors and no part of the subject being filmed or photographed may duplicate a color used in the background. It is commonly used for weather forecast broadcasts, wherein the news presenter appears to be standing in front of a large map during live television newscasts, though in actuality it is a large blue or green background. When using a blue screen, different weather maps are added on the parts of the image where the color is blue. If the news presenter wears blue clothes, his clothes will also be replaced with the background video. A complementary system is used for green screens. Chroma keying is also used in the entertainment industry for special effects in movies and videogames. The advanced state of the technology and much commercially available computer software, such as Pinnacle Studio, Adobe Premiere, and dozens of other computer programs, makes it possible and relatively easy for the average home computer user to create videos using the "chromakey" function and easily affordable greenscreen or bluescreen kits.

wn.com/Chroma_key





Colin Powell

                            Colin Luther Powell ( /ˈkoʊlɨn/; born April 5, 1937) is an American statesman and a retired four-star general in the United States Army. He was the 65th United States Secretary of State, serving under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2005. He was the first African American to serve in that position. During his military career, Powell also served as National Security Advisor (1987–1989), as Commander of the U.S. Army Forces Command (1989) and as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (1989–1993), holding the latter position during the Gulf War. He was the first, and so far the only, African American to serve on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Colin Luther Powell was born on April 5, 1937 in Harlem, a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Manhattan, to Jamaican immigrant parents Maud Arial (née McKoy) and Luther Theophilus Powell. He also has Scottish ancestry. Powell was raised in the South Bronx and attended Morris High School, a former public school in the Bronx, from which he graduated in 1954. While at school, he worked at a local baby furniture store where he picked up Yiddish from the shopkeepers and some of the customers. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in geology from the City College of New York in 1958 and was a self-admitted C average student. He was later able to earn a Master of Business Administration degree from the George Washington University in 1971, after his second tour in Vietnam.

wn.com/Colin_Powell




Dietram Scheufele

                            Dietram A. Scheufele is a communication scholar and holds the the John E. Ross Chair in Science Communication in the Department of Life Sciences Communication at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He also has affiliated appointments in the Robert and Jean Holtz Center for Science and Technology Studies, the Communication Technologies Research Cluster, and the UW Center for European Studies. Prior to joining UW, Scheufele was a tenured faculty member and Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Communication at Cornell University.

He has published extensively in the areas of public opinion and political communication, including work on framing theory, participatory democracy and the spiral of silence. His more recent work deals with science communication and public attitudes toward emerging technologies, especially in the area of nanotechnology.[1] Scheufele's most-cited article, Framing as a theory of media effects, was published in 1999 in Journal of Communication and -- with over 700 citations[2] -- is one of the most frequently cited articles in Journal of Communication since it was written.

wn.com/Dietram_Scheufele





Donald Rumsfeld

                            Donald Henry Rumsfeld (born July 9, 1932) is an American politician and businessman. Rumsfeld served as the 13th Secretary of Defense from 1975 to 1977 under President Gerald Ford, and as the 21st Secretary of Defense from 2001 to 2006 under President George W. Bush. He is both the youngest and the oldest person to have served as Secretary of Defense. Additionally, Rumsfeld was a four-term U.S. Congressman from Illinois (1962–1969), Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity (1969–1970), Counsellor to the President (1969–1973), the United States Permanent Representative to NATO (1973–1974), and White House Chief of Staff (1974–1975).

Born in Illinois, Rumsfeld attended Princeton University, graduating in 1954 with a degree in political science. After serving in the Navy for three years, he mounted a campaign for Congress in Illinois' 13th Congressional District, winning in 1962 at the age of 30. Reelected four times, he was a leading co-sponsor of the Freedom of Information Act. Rumsfeld was reluctantly appointed by President Richard Nixon to head the Office of Economic Opportunity in 1969; appointed Counselor by Nixon and entitled to Cabinet-level status, he would also head up the Economic Stabilization Program before being appointed Ambassador to NATO. Called back to Washington in August 1974, Rumsfeld was appointed Chief of Staff by President Ford, recruiting a young one-time staffer of his, Dick Cheney, to succeed him when Ford nominated Rumsfeld Secretary of Defense in 1975.

wn.com/Donald_Rumsfeld





Egyptian American

                            Egyptian Americans are Americans of Egyptian ancestry, first-generation Egyptian immigrants, or descendants of Egyptians who immigrated to the United States as well as having American citizenship. In 2007 U.S. census, the number of people with Egyptian ancestry was estimated at 195,000, although some estimates range from several 800,000 to 2 million. The large majority of Egyptians in the U.S. are Coptic Orthodox Christians.

wn.com/Egyptian_American





Fahd of Saudi Arabia

                            Fahd bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, (Arabic: فهد بن عبد العزيز آل سعود‎ Fahd ibn ‘Abd al-‘Azīz Āl Su‘ūd) (16 March 1920 – 1 August 2005) was King of Saudi Arabia from 1982 to 2005.

King Fahd is the eighth son of Ibn Saud  and is the fifth king of Saudi Arabia. Fahd ascended to the throne on the death of his half-brother, King Khalid, on 13 June 1982. He was a member of Sudairi Seven. In fact, he was the eldest of Sudairi Brothers.

Fahd was appointed Crown Prince when Khalid succeeded their half-brother King Faisal, who was assassinated in 1975. Fahd was viewed as the de facto prime minister during King Khalid's reign in part due to the latter's ill health.

Fahd suffered a debilitating stroke on 29 November 1995, after which he was unable to continue performing his full official duties. His half-brother, Abdullah, then-Crown Prince, served as de facto regent of the kingdom and succeeded Fahd as monarch upon his death on 1 August 2005.

King Fahd is credited for having introduced the Basic Law of Saudi Arabia in 1992.

wn.com/Fahd_of_Saudi_Arabia




Farouk Kaddoumi

                            Farouk al-Kaddoumi (alternative transliteration, Faruq al-Qaddumi) (Arabic: فاروق القدومي‎), also known as Abu al-Lutf, born in 1931. Secretary-general of Fatah's central committee and PLO's political department in Tunisia.

Farouk Kaddoumi was born in the town of Jinsafut near Nablus and later his family moved to Jaffa in present-day Israel. During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War they fled to Nablus in the West Bank. For three years in the early 1950s he worked in Saudi Arabia for the Arab-American Petroleum Company (ARAMCO). In 1954 he moved to Egypt and while studying economy and political science at the Cairo University, he joined the Baath party.

In 1960 he joined Fatah in the United Arab Emirates. In 1965-66 he worked for the ministry of health of Kuwait but in 1966 was expelled from the country for anti-governmental activities connected with the PLO. By 1969 he became one of key figures in the PLO and after 1973 he headed its political department in Damascus, Syria.

In 1976, Arafat and Kaddoumi met with Meir Vilner and Tawfik Toubi, heads of Rakah (New Communist List), which had developed after the 1965 split in the Israeli Communist Party, and from which Hadash eventually developed. This meeting led to a close cooperation.

wn.com/Farouk_Kaddoumi





Glenn Greenwald

                            Glenn Greenwald (born March 6, 1967) is an American lawyer, columnist, blogger, and author. Greenwald worked as a constitutional and civil rights litigator before becoming a contributor (columnist and blogger) to Salon.com, where he focuses on political and legal topics. He has also contributed to other newspapers and political news magazines, including The New York Times,The Los Angeles Times,The Guardian,The American Conservative,The National Interest, and In These Times.

Greenwald has written four books, three of which have been New York Times bestsellers: How Would a Patriot Act? (2006); A Tragic Legacy (2007), and With Liberty and Justice for Some: How the Law Is Used to Destroy Equality and Protect the Powerful, released in October 2011. He also wrote Great American Hypocrites (2008).

In March 2009, he was selected, along with Amy Goodman of Democracy Now!, as the recipient of the first annual Izzy Award by the Park Center for Independent Media, an award named after independent journalist I.F. "Izzy" Stone and devoted to rewarding excellence in independent journalism. The selection panel cited Greenwald's "pathbreaking journalistic courage and persistence in confronting conventional wisdom, official deception and controversial issues."

wn.com/Glenn_Greenwald




Jehane Noujaim

                            Jehane Noujaim (Egyptian Arabic: چيهان نچيم, IPA: [ʒeˈhæːn nʊˈʒeːm]) is an Egyptian American documentary film director best known for her films Control Room, Startup.com and Pangea Day.

Jehane Noujaim is a filmmaker, born in Washington DC and raised in Kuwait and Cairo. She moved to Boston in 1990, where she attended Milton Academy, matriculated to Harvard University in 1992 and graduated magna cum laude in Visual Arts and Philosophy. The same year, before her graduation, Noujaim was awarded the Gardiner fellowship under which she directed Mokattam, an Arabic film about a garbage collecting village near Cairo in Egypt. She joined the MTV News and Documentary division as a segment producer for the documentary series, UNfiltered. Noujaim left her job at MTV to produce and direct Startup.com in association with Pennebaker Hegedus Films. The feature length, highly acclaimed documentary has won numerous distinguished awards including the DGA and IDA Awards for best documentary. She has since worked in both the Middle East and the United States as a [cinematographer] on various documentaries including Born Rich (Jamie Johnson), Only the Strong Survive (Chris Hegedus, D.A. Pennebaker), and Down from the Mountain (D.A. Pennebaker, Chris Hegedus, Nick Doob). In 2004, she directed the feature length, highly acclaimed film Control Room, a documentary about US Central Command and its relations with Al Jazeera and other news organizations that covered the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In 2007, she co-directed (with Sherief El Katsha) the film Shayfeen.com which was broadcast as part of the WhyDemocracy project. In 2008, she launched Pangea Day (www.pangeaday.org) in collaboration with the TED Conferences.

wn.com/Jehane_Noujaim





Jon Snow

                            Jon Snow (born 28 September 1947) is an English journalist and presenter, currently employed by ITN. He is best known for presenting Channel 4 News.

He was Chancellor of Oxford Brookes University from 2001 to 2008.

Snow was born in Ardingly, Sussex. He is the son of schoolmaster and Bishop of Whitby, George D'Oyly Snow, grandson of First World War general Thomas D'Oyly Snow (about whom he writes in his Foreword to Ronald Skirth's war memoir The Reluctant Tommy), and cousin of retired BBC television news presenter Peter Snow.

Snow was educated at independent school, Ardingly College, where his father was headmaster. He later attended the independent St Edward's School in Oxford. At age 18 he was for a year a VSO volunteer teaching in northern Uganda.

After mixed success in his first attempt to pass his A level qualifications he moved to the Yorkshire Coast College, Scarborough, where he later obtained the necessary qualifications to gain a place studying law at the University of Liverpool. However, he did not complete the degree, being rusticated for his part in a student protest. However he was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters at Liverpool University in 2011.

wn.com/Jon_Snow





Mahmoud Abbas

                            Mahmoud Abbas (Arabic: مَحْمُود عَبَّاس‎, Maḥmūd ʿAbbās; born 26 March 1935), also known by the kunya Abu Mazen (Arabic: أَبُو مَازِن‎, Åbú Mázɩn), has been the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) since 11 November 2004 and became President of the Palestinian National Authority on 15 January 2005 on the Fatah (فتح Fataḥ) ticket.

Elected to serve until 9 January 2009, he unilaterally extended his term for another year and continues in office even after that second deadline expired. As a result of this, Fatah's main rival, the political party Hamas announced that it would not recognise the extension or view Abbas as rightful president. Abbas was chosen as the President of the State of Palestine by the Palestine Liberation Organization's Central Council on 23 November 2008, a job he had held unofficially since 8 May 2005. Abbas served as the first Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority from March to October 2003 when he resigned citing lack of support from Israel and the United States as well as "internal incitement" against his government. Before being named prime minister, Abbas led the PLO's Negotiations Affairs Department.

wn.com/Mahmoud_Abbas





Majalli Wahabi

                            Majalli Wahabi (Hebrew: מגלי והבה‎, Arabic: مجلي وهبه‎, also spelt Majalli Wahbee, born 12 February 1954) is an Israeli Druze politician who currently serves as a member of the Knesset for Kadima. He briefly assumed the position of President due to President Moshe Katzav's leave of absence and Acting President Dalia Itzik's trip abroad in February 2007, making him the first non-Jew to act as Israel's head of state.

Wahabi was born on 12 February 1954 in the Druze village of Beit Jann. He earned a B.A. in the History of Islam from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and an M.A. in the History of the New Middle East from the University of Haifa.

He served in the Israel Defense Forces. Initially assigned as an instructor at the intelligence school, he joined a Druze infantry battalion and became an officer. He served in the 1982 Lebanon War, and subsequently as a deputy brigade commander in the Golan Heights Division and as a senior Northern Command officer. He rose to the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel.

wn.com/Majalli_Wahabi




Marc Lynch

                            Marc Lynch is an Associate Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at The George Washington University, where he is also director of both the Institute for Middle East Studies and the Middle East Studies Program. Lynch is also a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Lynch is the author of State Interest and Public Spheres: the International Politics of Jordan's Identity, a study of Jordanian society and politics. He is also author of Revolution in the Arab World: Tunisia, Egypt, And the Unmaking of an Era: Foreign Policy, 2011 (eBook). Lynch is also on the editorial board of PS Political Science & Politics. Marc Lynch also writes a blog for Foreign Policy. His most recent book, about the so-called Arab Spring, is The Arab Uprising: The Unfinished Revolutions of the New Middle East. He received his PhD from Cornell University.


wn.com/Marc_Lynch





Nabeel Rajab

                            Nabeel Ahmed Abdulrasool Rajab (Arabic: نبيل أحمد عبدالرسول رجب‎) is a Bahraini human rights defender and President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights (BCHR), a nonprofit non-governmental organisation which works to promote human rights in Bahrain. He is also a member of the Advisory Committee of Human Rights Watch's Middle East Division, Deputy Secretary General for the International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH), Chairman of CARAM Asia and president of Gulf Center for Human Rights. As a result of his human rights activities he has been threatened and harassed by the Bahraini authorities.

Nabeel, currently a father of two, started his human rights activity during the 1990s uprising and since then he became a founding member of many human rights organisations, not only in Bahrain, but also in the Gulf. Nabeel drew attention to the conditions which migrant workers face in GCC countries, attained positions at several international human rights organisations and received international human rights prizes. He has been active in promoting the culture of human rights through the online media, especially Facebook and Twitter where he has 140,803 followers (as of May 2012).

wn.com/Nabeel_Rajab





Osama bin Laden

                            Osama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden ( /oʊˈsɑːmə bɪn moʊˈhɑːmɨd bɪn əˈwɑːd bɪn ˈlɑːdən/; Arabic: أسامة بن محمد بن عوض بن لادن‎, ʾUsāmah bin Muḥammad bin ʿAwaḍ bin Lādin; March 10, 1957 – May 2, 2011), was the founder of Al-Qaeda, the jihadist organization responsible for the September 11 attacks on the United States and numerous other mass-casualty attacks against civilian and military targets. He was a member of the wealthy Saudi bin Laden family, and an ethnic Yemeni Kindite.

Bin Laden was on the American Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) lists of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives and Most Wanted Terrorists for his involvement in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings. From 2001 to 2011, bin Laden was a major target of the War on Terror, with a US$25 million bounty by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. On May 2, 2011, bin Laden was shot and killed inside a private residential compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, by U.S. Navy SEALs and CIA operatives in a covert operation ordered by United States President Barack Obama.

wn.com/Osama_bin_Laden





Robert Fisk

                            Robert Fisk (born 12 July 1946) is an English writer and journalist from Maidstone, Kent. As Middle East correspondent of The Independent, he has primarily been based in Beirut for more than 30 years. He has published a number of books and has reported on the United States's war in Afghanistan and its 2003 invasion of Iraq. Fisk holds more British and International Journalism awards than any other foreign correspondent.
The New York Times once described Robert Fisk as "probably the most famous foreign correspondent in Britain." He reported the Northern Ireland troubles in the 1970s, the Portuguese Revolution in 1974, the Lebanese Civil War, the Iranian revolution in 1979, the Soviet war in Afghanistan, the Iran–Iraq War, the Gulf War and the invasion of Iraq in 2003. A vernacular Arabic speaker, he is one of few Western journalists to have interviewed Osama bin Laden, and did so three times between 1994 and 1997. His awards include being voted International Journalist of the Year seven times.

wn.com/Robert_Fisk





Ryan Grim

                            Ryan Grim is an author and senior congressional correspondent for The Huffington Post. His writings have appeared in several publications, including Rolling Stone, The Washington Post, Politico, and C-SPAN Booktv. He is the author of "This Is Your Country on Drugs".

He has written a history of drug use and culture in the United States. From opium dens in New York in the 19th century to drug experimentation in the 1960s, and the current debates about the legalization of marijuana. Grim has presented his research on why certain drugs are popular at certain times in history and his thoughts on the government's war on drugs.


wn.com/Ryan_Grim





Sami Al Hajj

                            Sami Mohy El Din Muhammed Al Hajj (Arabic: سامي محي الدين محمد الحاج‎), aka Sami Al-Haj (Khartoum, Sudan, February 15, 1969) is a Sudanese journalist for the Al Jazeera network. In 2001, while on his way to do camera work for the network in Afghanistan, he was arrested by the Pakistani army and held in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camp in Cuba for over six years. He was released without charge on May 1, 2008. He intends to launch legal action against George W. Bush.

Al Hajj's case was portrayed in a documentary titled Prisoner 345 by Al Jazeera producer Ahmad Ibrahim.

Al Hajj was arrested in Pakistan on December 15, 2001. He was on his way to work in Afghanistan as a cameraman for Al Jazeera and had a legitimate visa. He was held as an "enemy combatant" at the Guantanamo Bay detainment camp, with Guantanamo Internment Serial Number 345, and was the only journalist to be held in Guantanamo.

British human rights lawyer Clive Stafford Smith represented Al Hajj, and was able to visit him in 2005. According to Stafford Smith, Al Hajj had "endured horrendous abuse - sexual abuse and religious persecution" and that he had been beaten, leaving a "huge scar" on his face. Stafford Smith also said that Al Hajj had witnessed "the Quran being flushed down the toilet by US soldiers in Afghanistan" and "expletives being written on the Muslim holy book".

wn.com/Sami_Al_Hajj





Sarah Palin

                            Sarah Louise Palin i/ˈpeɪlɨn/ (née Heath; born February 11, 1964) is an American politician, commentator and author. As the Republican Party nominee for Vice President in the 2008 presidential election, she was the first Alaskan on the national ticket of a major party and first Republican woman nominated for the vice presidency. Her book Going Rogue has sold more than two million copies. Since January 2010, she has provided political commentary for Fox News, and hosted a television show, Sarah Palin's Alaska. Five million viewers tuned in for the first episode, a record for The Learning Channel.

She was elected to Wasilla City Council in 1992 and became mayor of Wasilla in 1996. In 2003, after an unsuccessful run for lieutenant governor, she was appointed Chairman of the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, responsible for overseeing the state's oil and gas fields for safety and efficiency. The youngest person and first woman to be elected Governor of Alaska, Palin held the office from December 2006 until her resignation in July 2009. She has since endorsed and campaigned for the Tea Party movement, as well as several candidates in the 2010 midterm elections. From the time of her Vice Presidential nomination in 2008, Palin was considered a potential candidate for the 2012 presidential election until she announced in October 2011 that she would not run.

wn.com/Sarah_Palin




Sulaiman Abu Ghaith

                            Sulaiman Abu Ghaith (Arabic: سليمان بوغيث‎) (born December 14, 1965) is a Kuwaiti Islamist regarded as one of Al-Qaida's official spokesmen.

Abu Ghaith first gained attention during the 1990–1991 Iraqi invasion and occupation of Kuwait. His sermons denouncing the occupation and Iraqi President Saddam Hussein gained him some degree of popularity amongst the Kuwaiti people. Following the defeat of Iraq, he turned his attention towards the Kuwaiti government and royal family, denouncing the 1962 constitution and demanding the institution of Sharia law. The Kuwaiti government subsequently removed him from the mosque and banned him from giving sermons, and he became a high school teacher of religion.

In June 2000 he left Kuwait for Afghanistan, where he met Osama bin Laden and joined his Al-Qaeda organization. His affinity for public speaking and comparative youth put him at the head of Al-Qaeda's attempt to widen its appeal from ultra-conservative and mostly elderly clerics to the general population and especially the youth of majority-Muslim countries; in this capacity, he quickly became the organization's spokesman.

wn.com/Sulaiman_Abu_Ghaith




Tareq Ayyoub

                            Tareq Ayyoub (Arabic: طارق أيوب‎, also spelled Tarek Ayoub, Tarik Ayub, born 1968) was an Arab television reporter of Palestinian nationality, employed by Al Jazeera, and previously by Fox News. On April 8, 2003, Ayyoub was killed when two missiles, fired from by an American ground-attack aircraft, struck the Baghdad headquarters of the Al Jazeera Satellite Channel during the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. The Al Jazeera station was clearly marked as a media centre, and the US military had been informed of its location in February.

Born in Kuwait in 1968, Ayyoub received his Masters in English from Calicut University. Beginning in 1998, he covered the domestic and international politics of Jordan for the English-language Jordan Times.

On the morning of April 8, 2003, Ayyoub, along with his second cameraman, an Iraqi named Zuheir, was covering a pitched battle between the American and Iraqi troops from the roof of Al-Jazeera's Baghdad office. At approximately 7:45 a.m., an American A-10 Warthog ground-attack aircraft turned toward Al-Jazeera's office and began to descend upon it. Maher Abdullah, the station's Baghdad correspondent, witnessed the A-10's attack run and gave the following description, "The plane was flying so low that those of us downstairs thought it would land – that's how close it was. We actually heard the rocket being launched. It was a direct hit – the missile actually exploded against our electrical generator and. Tareq died almost at once. Zuheir was injured."

wn.com/Tareq_Ayyoub





Tayseer Allouni

                            Tayseer Allouni (تيسير علوني) (also: Taysir, Tayseer) (also: Alluni, Aluni, Alony) is a journalist from the Al Jazeera news channel. He was born in Deir ez-Zor in Syria in 1955 then in 1983 he moved to Spain where he studied Economics, and has lived there ever since, adopting Spanish citizenship in 1988. He interviewed Osama Bin Laden following the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, and was controversially convicted on terrorism-related charges in Spain in 2005.

Alluni was born in Deir ez-Zor, Syria in 1955 and went on to obtain a bachelor's degree in economics from a Syrian university. He traveled to Spain in 1985 to continue his studies but due to economic hardships he worked as a trader instead. He married in 1987 and is a father of five children.

After becoming a Spanish citizen in 1988 he held a number of jobs in Spain, including teaching Arabic and working in the municipality taxation office of the city of Ceuta. In 1996, he joined the Arabic service of the Spanish news agency EFE as a translator. During his work there, he started freelancing for Al Jazeera. During this same year he also began working with the Institute of Peace and Dispute Studies in Granada. In 1999, he joined Al Jazeera as their correspondent in Afghanistan and headed the Kabul office for a period of two years before 11 September 2001. During the US war against the Taliban and al-Qaida, he was the only foreign journalist to remain in Kabul and broadcast to the world images of the unfolding events.

wn.com/Tayseer_Allouni





Tony Blair

                            Anthony Charles Lynton Blair (born 6 May 1953) is a British Labour Party politician who served as the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 2 May 1997 to 27 June 2007. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Sedgefield from 1983 to 2007 and Leader of the Labour Party from 1994 to 2007. He resigned from all of these positions in June 2007.

Blair was elected Leader of the Labour Party in the leadership election of July 1994, following the sudden death of his predecessor, John Smith. Under his leadership, the party used the phrases "New Labour" and "New Socialism" to define its policy, and moved away from its support of state socialism since the 1960s and created a new version of the ethical socialism that was last pursued by Clement Attlee. Critics of Blair claim that "New Labour" did not adhere to socialism as claimed, and that it effectively advocated capitalism. Blair subsequently led Labour to a landslide victory in the 1997 general election. At 43 years old, he became the youngest Prime Minister since Lord Liverpool in 1812. In the first years of the New Labour government, Blair's government implemented a number of 1997 manifesto pledges, introducing the minimum wage, Human Rights Act and Freedom of Information Act, and carrying out devolution, establishing the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, and the Northern Ireland Assembly.

wn.com/Tony_Blair





Wadah Khanfar

                            Wadah Khanfar (وضاح خنفر) is the President of the Sharq Forum, an independent think tank dedicated to developing long-term strategies for political development, social justice and economic prosperity of the people of the Middle East. He previously served as the Director General of the Al Jazeera Network. He has been ranked by Foreign Policy Magazine in 2011 as the first in The FP Top 100 Global Thinkers, and in Fast Company as the first in the 100 Most Creative People in Business (2011)  and as one of the most ‘Powerful People in the World’ by Forbes Magazine (2009). During his tenure Al Jazeera went from a single channel to a media network with multiple properties including the Al Jazeera Arabic channel, Al Jazeera English, Al Jazeera Documentary, Al Jazeera Sport, Al Jazeera’s news websites, the Al Jazeera Media Training and Development Center, the Al Jazeera Center for Studies, Al Jazeera Mubasher (Live), and Al Jazeera Mobile.

On 20 Sep 2011, he stepped down as the head of Al Jazeera Network.

wn.com/Wadah_Khanfar





Yasser Arafat

                            Mohammed Yasser Abdel Rahman Abdel Raouf Arafat al-Qudwa al-Husseini (Arabic: محمد ياسر عبد الرحمن عبد الرؤوف عرفات القدوة الحسيني‎‎; 24 August 1929 – 11 November 2004), popularly known as Yasser Arafat (Arabic: ياسر عرفات‎) or by his kunya Abu Ammar (Arabic: أبو عمار‎, 'Abū `Ammār), was a Palestinian leader and a Laureate of the Nobel Prize. He was Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), President of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), and leader of the Fatah political party, which he founded in 1959. Arafat spent much of his life fighting against Israel in the name of Palestinian self-determination. Originally opposed to Israel's existence, he modified his position in 1988 when he accepted UN Security Council Resolution 242. Arafat and his movement operated from several Arab countries. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Fatah faced off with Jordan in a brief civil war. Forced out of Jordan and into Lebanon, Arafat and Fatah were major targets of Israel's 1978 and 1982 invasions of that country.

wn.com/Yasser_Arafat



























Al Jazeera English

Macromedia Flash 10 required


Now:  viewers. Total viewed: .




Al Jazeera English


Select strream quality:
high
medium
low














Share this channel:

Facebook
Twitter
Buzz
MySpace
Email



Language: english
Location: Qatar



All ChannelsMy Favorite Channels

Al Jazeera ArabicAdd to favoritesRemove
Al Jazeera EnglishAdd to favoritesRemove
BBC ArabicAdd to favoritesRemove
BBCAdd to favoritesRemove
BBC PersianAdd to favoritesRemove
BBC RADIOAdd to favoritesRemove
Bloomberg TVAdd to favoritesRemove
CNBCAdd to favoritesRemove
CNN Int.Add to favoritesRemove
C.P.NAdd to favoritesRemove
C-SPANAdd to favoritesRemove
Deutsche WelleAdd to favoritesRemove
EuroNewsAdd to favoritesRemove
E-Sky TVAdd to favoritesRemove
France 24Add to favoritesRemove
Geo WorldAdd to favoritesRemove
ITN ***Add to favoritesRemove
NASA TVAdd to favoritesRemove
NDTVAdd to favoritesRemove
Press TVAdd to favoritesRemove
RTAdd to favoritesRemove
Sky SportsAdd to favoritesRemove
The Real NewsAdd to favoritesRemove
The TRUTH Ch.Add to favoritesRemove
TVWAdd to favoritesRemove
TWiT TVAdd to favoritesRemove
tDLAdd to favoritesRemove
UN WebcastAdd to favoritesRemove











Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












The Stream - All the single ladies

Order: Reorder
Duration: 37:50
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


We examine a woman's right not to choose marriage and kids and the challenges it can bring. stream.aljazeera.com
http://wn.com/The_Stream_All_the_single_ladies




				
					We examine a woman's right not to choose marriage and kids and the challenges it can bring. stream.aljazeera.com

published: 23 Jan 2013
views: 15301

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Al Jazeera World - Kill Him Silently: Part 1

Order: Reorder
Duration: 47:31
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Al Jazeera World unveils the story behind Israeli secret service Mossad's bungled assassination attempt on Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and the role the failed covert operation played in the rise of the Palestinian movement's rise to power.
http://wn.com/Al_Jazeera_World_Kill_Him_Silently_Part_1




				
					Al Jazeera World unveils the story behind Israeli secret service Mossad's bungled assassination attempt on Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and the role the failed covert operation played in the rise of the Palestinian movement's rise to power.

published: 23 Jan 2013
views: 13556

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Libya's foreign workers in Tunisian limbo

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:08
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


A few hundred people are all that's left of the exodus from the war in Libya - first, they left their own countries in search of work in Libya, then they left Libya for their own safety. Now, refused refugee status in Tunisia or abroad, they live a life in Limbo. They are neither willing, nor able, to go home; for each, it is either too dangerous, costly or worse than their current situation. Al Jazeera's Will Jordan explains.
http://wn.com/Libya's_foreign_workers_in_Tunisian_limbo




				
					A few hundred people are all that's left of the exodus from the war in Libya - first, they left their own countries in search of work in Libya, then they left Libya for their own safety. Now, refused refugee status in Tunisia or abroad, they live a life in Limbo. They are neither willing, nor able, to go home; for each, it is either too dangerous, costly or worse than their current situation. Al Jazeera's Will Jordan explains.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1240

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Mali's ethnic diversity fuels fears

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:11
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Although 90 percent Muslim, Mali is a racially diverse country consisting of ethnic Manday, Songhai, Tuareg, Fulani and descendants of Arabs. The Bambara are ethnically black African and make up nearly half the population, dominating the army ranks. Ten percent of Malians are Tuareg, living mainly in the north. A Tuareg rebellion last year led to a military coup, sparking the latest conflict. Thousands of Tuareg refugees have escaped into neighbouring countries and fear the Bambara will take revenge on them. Al Jazeera's Mohammed Adow reports on the Tuaregs in camps in Mauritania.
http://wn.com/Mali's_ethnic_diversity_fuels_fears




				
					Although 90 percent Muslim, Mali is a racially diverse country consisting of ethnic Manday, Songhai, Tuareg, Fulani and descendants of Arabs. The Bambara are ethnically black African and make up nearly half the population, dominating the army ranks. Ten percent of Malians are Tuareg, living mainly in the north. A Tuareg rebellion last year led to a military coup, sparking the latest conflict. Thousands of Tuareg refugees have escaped into neighbouring countries and fear the Bambara will take revenge on them. Al Jazeera's Mohammed Adow reports on the Tuaregs in camps in Mauritania.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 2028

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Viewfinder - Glances

Order: Reorder
Duration: 25:01
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Can the power of star-gazing be an effective counter to the threat of marginalisation in parts of Latin America? A pair of young amateur astronomers use the power of star-gazing to re-awaken a Mexican community's cultural past. Filmmaker: Alfonso Gastiaburo
http://wn.com/Viewfinder_Glances




				
					Can the power of star-gazing be an effective counter to the threat of marginalisation in parts of Latin America? A pair of young amateur astronomers use the power of star-gazing to re-awaken a Mexican community's cultural past. Filmmaker: Alfonso Gastiaburo

published: 21 Jan 2013
views: 3229

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Thousands of crocodiles in S Africa escape

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:23
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


A massive operation to round up thousands of escaped crocodiles is under way in South Africa. Up to 15.000 of the animals got out of a reptile farm during a flood this week. Al Jazeera's Gerald Tan reports.
http://wn.com/Thousands_of_crocodiles_in_S_Africa_escape




				
					A massive operation to round up thousands of escaped crocodiles is under way in South Africa. Up to 15.000 of the animals got out of a reptile farm during a flood this week. Al Jazeera's Gerald Tan reports.

published: 26 Jan 2013
views: 7163

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Three held over Brazil deadly nightclub fire

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:57
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Brazilian police are holing at least three people in connection with one of the country's worst nightclub fires. One is an owners of the venue, and the others are band members. More than 230 people were killed in the tragedy in Santa Maria. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo report from Santa Maria.
http://wn.com/Three_held_over_Brazil_deadly_nightclub_fire




				
					Brazilian police are holing at least three people in connection with one of the country's worst nightclub fires. One is an owners of the venue, and the others are band members. More than 230 people were killed in the tragedy in Santa Maria. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo report from Santa Maria.

published: 28 Jan 2013
views: 6179

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















UK to propose tax on soft sugary drinks

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:23
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


They promise to refresh, energise and give you an unbeatable feeling, but health campaigners say they make you obese. So the UK is planning to tax sugary drinks in the name of public health. Al Jazeera's Rory Challands explains.
http://wn.com/UK_to_propose_tax_on_soft_sugary_drinks




				
					They promise to refresh, energise and give you an unbeatable feeling, but health campaigners say they make you obese. So the UK is planning to tax sugary drinks in the name of public health. Al Jazeera's Rory Challands explains.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1014

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















South Korea hopes to match North in space race

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:11
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Seoul's third and final attempt to launch a Naro space rocket comes a month after Pyongyang successfully launched a rocket. Previous attempts in 2009 and 2010 failed to launch. Last-minute technical problems forced two recent efforts in October and November to be aborted. Al Jazeera's Harry Fawcett reports from Seoul.
http://wn.com/South_Korea_hopes_to_match_North_in_space_race




				
					Seoul's third and final attempt to launch a Naro space rocket comes a month after Pyongyang successfully launched a rocket. Previous attempts in 2009 and 2010 failed to launch. Last-minute technical problems forced two recent efforts in October and November to be aborted. Al Jazeera's Harry Fawcett reports from Seoul.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 3227

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Brazil nightclub fire seen as a 'call to action'

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:19
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Friends and family gathered in front of the Santa Maria mayor's office demanding justice for the victims of a nightclub fire that killed over 230 people on Sunday. They say a police investigation is not enough, and local politicians should also be held responsible. Residents of Santa Maria now find themselves at the centre of a national discussion on how to prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Santa Maria.
http://wn.com/Brazil_nightclub_fire_seen_as_a_'call_to_action'




				
					Friends and family gathered in front of the Santa Maria mayor's office demanding justice for the victims of a nightclub fire that killed over 230 people on Sunday. They say a police investigation is not enough, and local politicians should also be held responsible. Residents of Santa Maria now find themselves at the centre of a national discussion on how to prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Santa Maria.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1588

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Football clubs look to youth

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:14
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Facing greater scrutiny over their expenditurues, European football clubs are now looking to develop younger players rather than trade in older, more expensive footballers as a cost-saving method. Al Jazeera's Andy Richardson reports from Doha.
http://wn.com/Football_clubs_look_to_youth




				
					Facing greater scrutiny over their expenditurues, European football clubs are now looking to develop younger players rather than trade in older, more expensive footballers as a cost-saving method. Al Jazeera's Andy Richardson reports from Doha.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 837

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:27
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland is embedded with the troops. She reports from Timbuktu.
http://wn.com/French_and_Malian_forces_have_retaken_Timbuktu




				
					French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland is embedded with the troops. She reports from Timbuktu.

published: 28 Jan 2013
views: 2777

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Belgium steel workers protest Mittal shutdown

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:42
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Police used water cannons against steel workers protesting outside the government office in Namur, Belgium. Workers are angry over plans to shut down a steel mill in nearby Liege, which means the loss of 1300 jobs. The decision by the world's biggest steel maker, Arcelor Mittal, has provoked outrage, but the company blames a drop in demand for steel across Europe. Al Jazeera's Simon McGregor-Wood reports from Namur.
http://wn.com/Belgium_steel_workers_protest_Mittal_shutdown




				
					Police used water cannons against steel workers protesting outside the government office in Namur, Belgium. Workers are angry over plans to shut down a steel mill in nearby Liege, which means the loss of 1300 jobs. The decision by the world's biggest steel maker, Arcelor Mittal, has provoked outrage, but the company blames a drop in demand for steel across Europe. Al Jazeera's Simon McGregor-Wood reports from Namur.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 930

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Birth control shots forced on Ethiopian women

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:02
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Ethiopian Jews in Israel are expressing outrage over revelations that the Israeli government gave some of them long-term birth control injections. This week the Israeli government admitted it had used the drug on some Ethiopian women. Many of the women say they now feel the state has been controlling their fertility. Al Jazeera's Nicole Johnston reports from Jerusalem.
http://wn.com/Birth_control_shots_forced_on_Ethiopian_women




				
					Ethiopian Jews in Israel are expressing outrage over revelations that the Israeli government gave some of them long-term birth control injections. This week the Israeli government admitted it had used the drug on some Ethiopian women. Many of the women say they now feel the state has been controlling their fertility. Al Jazeera's Nicole Johnston reports from Jerusalem.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 4038

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Obama's Pentagon pick to face US senate

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:53
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam war veteran and former US senator from the state of Nebraska, has been nominated as President Barack Obama's next defence secretary. On Thursday, he is going to be questioned at a senate confirmation hearing. But Hagel has already faced a lot of questions, mostly from his fellow Republicans, over his fitness for the job. Al Jazeera's Rosiland Jordan reports from Washington, DC.
http://wn.com/Obama's_Pentagon_pick_to_face_US_senate




				
					Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam war veteran and former US senator from the state of Nebraska, has been nominated as President Barack Obama's next defence secretary. On Thursday, he is going to be questioned at a senate confirmation hearing. But Hagel has already faced a lot of questions, mostly from his fellow Republicans, over his fitness for the job. Al Jazeera's Rosiland Jordan reports from Washington, DC.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 2098

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Cambodia prepares to mourn late king

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:57
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Cambodians are preparing to honour their former king, Norodom Sihanouk. Revered by millions, the man known as "Father King" died in October just weeks before his 90th birthday. Al Jazeera's Stephanie Scawen reports from Phnom Penh.
http://wn.com/Cambodia_prepares_to_mourn_late_king




				
					Cambodians are preparing to honour their former king, Norodom Sihanouk. Revered by millions, the man known as "Father King" died in October just weeks before his 90th birthday. Al Jazeera's Stephanie Scawen reports from Phnom Penh.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 1951

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















UN calls for aid in continuing Syrian refugee crisis

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:18
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Representatives from more than 60 countries will meet in Kuwait for a conference on the humanitarian crisis in Syria. The United Nations estimates that more than 700000 refugees have fled to neighbouring nations. Another two million have been displaced by the 22-month-long conflict or are in need of food and medicine. The UN is seeking $1.5bn from donors to help address the growing needs of the refugees. Al Jazeera's Rula Amin reports from the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon.
http://wn.com/UN_calls_for_aid_in_continuing_Syrian_refugee_crisis




				
					Representatives from more than 60 countries will meet in Kuwait for a conference on the humanitarian crisis in Syria. The United Nations estimates that more than 700000 refugees have fled to neighbouring nations. Another two million have been displaced by the 22-month-long conflict or are in need of food and medicine. The UN is seeking $1.5bn from donors to help address the growing needs of the refugees. Al Jazeera's Rula Amin reports from the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1373

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Blackberry unveils new mobile phones

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:34
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


The maker of Blackberry mobile phones is hoping a new name and new products will revive its fortunes. Research in Motion has rebranded and is now called Blackberry. The company launched a new range of smartphones to try to catch up with its competitors. Al Jazeera's Daniel Lak reports from Toronto, Canada.
http://wn.com/Blackberry_unveils_new_mobile_phones




				
					The maker of Blackberry mobile phones is hoping a new name and new products will revive its fortunes. Research in Motion has rebranded and is now called Blackberry. The company launched a new range of smartphones to try to catch up with its competitors. Al Jazeera's Daniel Lak reports from Toronto, Canada.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 2787

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Concerns over revenge attacks in Mali

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:32
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


As French and Malian forces have retaken parts of northern Mali, there are concerns about revenge attacks. In Gao, suspected fighters have been rounded up in house to house searches. And Al Jazeera has seen evidence in Timbuktu of supected rebel supporters being targeted. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland reports.
http://wn.com/Concerns_over_revenge_attacks_in_Mali




				
					As French and Malian forces have retaken parts of northern Mali, there are concerns about revenge attacks. In Gao, suspected fighters have been rounded up in house to house searches. And Al Jazeera has seen evidence in Timbuktu of supected rebel supporters being targeted. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland reports.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 4275

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Kosovo orders ban on headscarves in schools

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:53
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Kosovo is one of Europe's majority Muslim countries, but now an administrative order has been issued banning the wearing of headscarves in schools. When one student refused to remove her headscarf, she was expelled. Al Jazeera's Paul Brennan reports.
http://wn.com/Kosovo_orders_ban_on_headscarves_in_schools




				
					Kosovo is one of Europe's majority Muslim countries, but now an administrative order has been issued banning the wearing of headscarves in schools. When one student refused to remove her headscarf, she was expelled. Al Jazeera's Paul Brennan reports.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 3150

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Malian women recount abuse under al-Qaeda linked group

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:39
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


More details are emerging of what life was like under the group Ansar Dine in Timbuktu. Malian women recount the abuse they suffered under al-Qaeda linked militants. On Monday, French troops took Timbuktu, forcing the militants to flee into the surrounding desert. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland reports from Timbuktu.
http://wn.com/Malian_women_recount_abuse_under_al-Qaeda_linked_group




				
					More details are emerging of what life was like under the group Ansar Dine in Timbuktu. Malian women recount the abuse they suffered under al-Qaeda linked militants. On Monday, French troops took Timbuktu, forcing the militants to flee into the surrounding desert. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland reports from Timbuktu.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 5118

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















US soldier 'hopeful' after double arm transplant

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:38
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


A US soldier has spoken of his renewed hope for the future, after having a rare double arm transplant. Al Jazeera's Rosiland Jordan reports on how the groundbreaking surgery is giving the young man a second chance at seizing life.
http://wn.com/US_soldier_'hopeful'_after_double_arm_transplant




				
					A US soldier has spoken of his renewed hope for the future, after having a rare double arm transplant. Al Jazeera's Rosiland Jordan reports on how the groundbreaking surgery is giving the young man a second chance at seizing life.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 7817

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















Mixed verdict for Nigerians in Shell case

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:15
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


was a long-awaited verdict and a mixed result for most Nigerians: Shell was found responsible for pollution in only one of the five individual cases. A court in The Netherlands ruled on Wednesday that the oil company could have done more to protect its pipeline in the village of Ikot Ada Udo, in Akwa Ibom state, from sabotage and it must pay compensation for the damages. In the other four areas, the pollution was found to be caused by sabotage, with the court specifically saying Shell could not be held liable for it. The ruling was a partial victory for the plaintiff and a measure of relief for Shell. Al Jazeera's Simon McGregor-Wood reports from the Hague.
http://wn.com/Mixed_verdict_for_Nigerians_in_Shell_case




				
					was a long-awaited verdict and a mixed result for most Nigerians: Shell was found responsible for pollution in only one of the five individual cases. A court in The Netherlands ruled on Wednesday that the oil company could have done more to protect its pipeline in the village of Ikot Ada Udo, in Akwa Ibom state, from sabotage and it must pay compensation for the damages. In the other four areas, the pollution was found to be caused by sabotage, with the court specifically saying Shell could not be held liable for it. The ruling was a partial victory for the plaintiff and a measure of relief for Shell. Al Jazeera's Simon McGregor-Wood reports from the Hague.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1855

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































37:50



The Stream - All the single ladies
We examine a woman's right not to choose marriage and kids and the challenges it can bring...


published: 23 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


The Stream - All the single ladies


				
					We examine a woman's right not to choose marriage and kids and the challenges it can bring. stream.aljazeera.com

published: 23 Jan 2013
views: 15301

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















47:31



Al Jazeera World - Kill Him Silently: Part 1
Al Jazeera World unveils the story behind Israeli secret service Mossad's bungled assassin...


published: 23 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Al Jazeera World - Kill Him Silently: Part 1


				
					Al Jazeera World unveils the story behind Israeli secret service Mossad's bungled assassination attempt on Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and the role the failed covert operation played in the rise of the Palestinian movement's rise to power.

published: 23 Jan 2013
views: 13556

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:08



Libya's foreign workers in Tunisian limbo
A few hundred people are all that's left of the exodus from the war in Libya - first, they...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Libya's foreign workers in Tunisian limbo


				
					A few hundred people are all that's left of the exodus from the war in Libya - first, they left their own countries in search of work in Libya, then they left Libya for their own safety. Now, refused refugee status in Tunisia or abroad, they live a life in Limbo. They are neither willing, nor able, to go home; for each, it is either too dangerous, costly or worse than their current situation. Al Jazeera's Will Jordan explains.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1240

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:11



Mali's ethnic diversity fuels fears
Although 90 percent Muslim, Mali is a racially diverse country consisting of ethnic Manday...


published: 31 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Mali's ethnic diversity fuels fears


				
					Although 90 percent Muslim, Mali is a racially diverse country consisting of ethnic Manday, Songhai, Tuareg, Fulani and descendants of Arabs. The Bambara are ethnically black African and make up nearly half the population, dominating the army ranks. Ten percent of Malians are Tuareg, living mainly in the north. A Tuareg rebellion last year led to a military coup, sparking the latest conflict. Thousands of Tuareg refugees have escaped into neighbouring countries and fear the Bambara will take revenge on them. Al Jazeera's Mohammed Adow reports on the Tuaregs in camps in Mauritania.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 2028

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















25:01



Viewfinder - Glances
Can the power of star-gazing be an effective counter to the threat of marginalisation in p...


published: 21 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Viewfinder - Glances


				
					Can the power of star-gazing be an effective counter to the threat of marginalisation in parts of Latin America? A pair of young amateur astronomers use the power of star-gazing to re-awaken a Mexican community's cultural past. Filmmaker: Alfonso Gastiaburo

published: 21 Jan 2013
views: 3229

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















1:23



Thousands of crocodiles in S Africa escape
A massive operation to round up thousands of escaped crocodiles is under way in South Afri...


published: 26 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Thousands of crocodiles in S Africa escape


				
					A massive operation to round up thousands of escaped crocodiles is under way in South Africa. Up to 15.000 of the animals got out of a reptile farm during a flood this week. Al Jazeera's Gerald Tan reports.

published: 26 Jan 2013
views: 7163

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















1:57



Three held over Brazil deadly nightclub fire
Brazilian police are holing at least three people in connection with one of the country's ...


published: 28 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Three held over Brazil deadly nightclub fire


				
					Brazilian police are holing at least three people in connection with one of the country's worst nightclub fires. One is an owners of the venue, and the others are band members. More than 230 people were killed in the tragedy in Santa Maria. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo report from Santa Maria.

published: 28 Jan 2013
views: 6179

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:23



UK to propose tax on soft sugary drinks
They promise to refresh, energise and give you an unbeatable feeling, but health campaigne...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


UK to propose tax on soft sugary drinks


				
					They promise to refresh, energise and give you an unbeatable feeling, but health campaigners say they make you obese. So the UK is planning to tax sugary drinks in the name of public health. Al Jazeera's Rory Challands explains.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1014

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:11



South Korea hopes to match North in space race
Seoul's third and final attempt to launch a Naro space rocket comes a month after Pyongyan...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


South Korea hopes to match North in space race


				
					Seoul's third and final attempt to launch a Naro space rocket comes a month after Pyongyang successfully launched a rocket. Previous attempts in 2009 and 2010 failed to launch. Last-minute technical problems forced two recent efforts in October and November to be aborted. Al Jazeera's Harry Fawcett reports from Seoul.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 3227

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:19



Brazil nightclub fire seen as a 'call to action'
Friends and family gathered in front of the Santa Maria mayor's office demanding justice f...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Brazil nightclub fire seen as a 'call to action'


				
					Friends and family gathered in front of the Santa Maria mayor's office demanding justice for the victims of a nightclub fire that killed over 230 people on Sunday. They say a police investigation is not enough, and local politicians should also be held responsible. Residents of Santa Maria now find themselves at the centre of a national discussion on how to prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again. Al Jazeera's Gabriel Elizondo reports from Santa Maria.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1588

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:14



Football clubs look to youth
Facing greater scrutiny over their expenditurues, European football clubs are now looking ...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Football clubs look to youth


				
					Facing greater scrutiny over their expenditurues, European football clubs are now looking to develop younger players rather than trade in older, more expensive footballers as a cost-saving method. Al Jazeera's Andy Richardson reports from Doha.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 837

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















4:27



French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu
French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland is embedded wit...


published: 28 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu


				
					French and Malian forces have retaken Timbuktu. Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland is embedded with the troops. She reports from Timbuktu.

published: 28 Jan 2013
views: 2777

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















1:42



Belgium steel workers protest Mittal shutdown
Police used water cannons against steel workers protesting outside the government office i...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Belgium steel workers protest Mittal shutdown


				
					Police used water cannons against steel workers protesting outside the government office in Namur, Belgium. Workers are angry over plans to shut down a steel mill in nearby Liege, which means the loss of 1300 jobs. The decision by the world's biggest steel maker, Arcelor Mittal, has provoked outrage, but the company blames a drop in demand for steel across Europe. Al Jazeera's Simon McGregor-Wood reports from Namur.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 930

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:02



Birth control shots forced on Ethiopian women
Ethiopian Jews in Israel are expressing outrage over revelations that the Israeli governme...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Birth control shots forced on Ethiopian women


				
					Ethiopian Jews in Israel are expressing outrage over revelations that the Israeli government gave some of them long-term birth control injections. This week the Israeli government admitted it had used the drug on some Ethiopian women. Many of the women say they now feel the state has been controlling their fertility. Al Jazeera's Nicole Johnston reports from Jerusalem.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 4038

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish










Vimeo results: 







1:49



My Freedom Or Death - Condition ONE Beta
Condition ONE is a mobile media technology company developing the tools and platform to co...


published: 26 Mar 2011
author: Danfung Dennis


My Freedom Or Death - Condition ONE Beta


                    Condition ONE is a mobile media technology company developing the tools and platform to combine filmmaking, photojournalism and mobile devices to pioneer powerful immersive experiences.

facebook.com/ConditionOne1
twitter.com/danfung

---
The Libyan desert near Ras Lanouf
March, 2011

Demonstrations have given way to bloody conflict. Battle lines sway back and forth as the Benghazi-centered ragtag rebels combat Tripoli's mercenaries and loyalists. Pro-Gaddafi forces mount their first coordinated offensive, exposing the rebels as woefully untrained and unorganized. Defiance turns to anguish when casualties mount. Slivers of hope rest on defecting army generals and foreign intervention.

Photojournalist Patrick Chauvel brings us this immersive video from the rebels' front lines. "It's a very sad story," he says. "These guys are students, they're hairdressers, they're bakers, bankers, philosophers, teachers. They are no military."

Chauvel is concerned for his safety. Gaddafi loyalists target the media and could cut off any escape. Four New York Times journalists are missing at the time and an Al Jazeera cameraman dies in the days that follow. Patrick says fighting in the flat, open desert divides the rebels into two camps: lucky and unlucky. Shelling hits at random, missing by hundreds of meters one moment and striking a direct hit the next. Chauvel fears the misses are the warning shots. He plans to escape before the battle becomes a massacre.

-Powered by Condition ONE

Mode: R&D Beta 1.2
                










2:00



What is  the Ushahidi Platform?
• Imagine a way for people all over the world to tell the story of what was happening to t...


published: 26 Nov 2009
author: Ushahidi


What is  the Ushahidi Platform?


                    • Imagine a way for people all over the world to tell the story of what was happening to them — or around them — during a disaster or emergency

• It would need to be easy to use. Something that almost anybody can do. And it would need to be deployable worldwide.

• And thatʼs why weʼve created Ushahidi ("testimony" in Swahili) Platform.

• Born form the post-election violence in Kenya in 2008, the platform kept Kenyans current on vital information and provided invaluable assistance to those providing relief.

• Since then the Ushahidi Platform has grown into a large open-source project impacting a number of communities around the world.

• It was deployed in the DR Congo to monitor unrest.

• Al Jazeera used it to track violence in Gaza.

• It was used to help monitor the 2009 Indian Elections.

• And to help gather reports globally about the recent Swine Flu outbreak.

• Anybody can contribute information. Whether itʼs a simple text message from a SMS-capable phone, a photo or video from a smartphone, or a report submitted online,
Ushahidi can gather information from any device with a digital data connection.

• After a report is submitted itʼs posted in near real-time to an interactive map that can be viewed on a computer or smartphone.

• But the most powerful feature the platform offers, is the ability to take the core application and deploy it yourself to suit your communityʼs needs. Since the Ushahidi Platform is open-source, anyone can improve the service in anyway they see ﬁt.

• Our growing community of developers are constantly at work improving Ushahidi to bring it to as many people as possible — including working to bring native applications
to todayʼs most popular mobile devices.

• With the Ushahidi Platform, itʼs easier than ever to get critical and timely information to those that need it most, on a platform that almost everybody can use.
                










3:31



The Sword Maker & The Swordsman
The ancient art of sword making is a dying profession. Kuo Chang Shi is the last remaining...


published: 10 Jan 2010
author: Matthew Allard


The Sword Maker & The Swordsman


                    The ancient art of sword making is a dying profession. Kuo Chang Shi is the last remaining professional sword maker in Taiwan. He made the famous Green Destiny sword for the Oscar wining Movie Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon.

Shot on a Canon 7D with a Canon 50mm f1.2 and a Canon 16-35mm f2.8

A different version of this story ran on Aljazeera
http://www.youtube.com/user/AlJazeeraEnglish#p/search/1/vmxxOHIQU0s
                










28:31



The Referee | Rättskiparen [2010]
IMDb: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1687263/

International Title: THE REFEREE
Original Titl...


published: 18 Jul 2010
author: Freedom From Choice AB


The Referee | Rättskiparen [2010]


                    IMDb: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1687263/

International Title: THE REFEREE
Original Title: RÄTTSKIPAREN
Documentary Short [28'30]
Swedish w/ English Subtitles

- What does it take to be a world class football referee? -

Top football referee Martin Hansson had a successful journey towards his vision in life, the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. Then one dark night in Paris on November 18th, 2009, all hell broke loose...

"A very engaging dark chapter."
Le Figaro (FR)

"This is a gem of a documentary."
The Guardian (UK)

"This film is spectacularly intricate."
USA Today (US)

"A nail-biter with a stylish dramaturgy."
Svenska Dagbldet (SE)

"An excellent, entertaining and exciting movie."
Dagens Nyheter (SE)

"Hansson's story has meaning beyond football."
Financial Times (UK)

"A perceptive documentary ... a masterful portrait."
The New York Times (US)

Awards ...
° 2010 International Sport Film Festival in Palermo, Italy.
~ Best Football Film Award ~
° 2011 Istanbul International Sport Film Festival in Turkey.
~ Best Film Award ~
° 2011 L'Aquila International Film Festival in Italy.
~ Best Documentary Award ~
° 2012 Liberec International Sport Film Festival in Czech Republic.
~ Best Film Award ~
° 2012 Liberec International Sport Film Festival in Czech Republic.
~ Best Sport Personality Film Award ~
° 2011 Philadelphia Documentary & Fiction Film Festival in USA.
~ Best Documentary Film Award ~
° 2011 Philadelphia Documentary & Fiction Film Festival in USA.
~ Best Integral Realization Award ~
° 2011 All Sports Los Angeles Film Festival in USA.
~ Best International Short Documentary Film Award ~
° 2011 The Accolade Awards in San Diego, USA.
~ Award of Merit ~
° 2011 Festival du Cinema de Paris in France.
~ Meilleur Realisation Integrale Award ~
° 2011 San Francisco Short Film Festival in USA.
~ Best Editing Award ~
° 2010 Chicago Short Film Festival in USA.
~ Best Editing Award ~
° 2011 Festival du Film de Strasbourg in France.
~ Mention Speciale Award ~

Nominations ...
° 2011 TRT International Documentary Awards in Istanbul, Turkey.
~ Best International Documentary Award ~
° 2011 Bermuda International Film Festival in Hamilton.
~ Best Documentary Award ~
° 2011 Zanzibar International Film Festival in Tanzania.
~ Best Documentary Award ~
° 2011 Festroia International Film Festival in Setubal, Portugal.
~ Man And His Environment Audience Award ~
° 2010 International Sport Film Festival in Palermo, Italy.
~ Best Editing Award ~
° 2010 Costa Rica International Film Festival in Montezuma.
~ Best Documentary Short Award ~
° 2011 Jaipur International Film Festival in India.
~ Best Documentary Award ~
° 2010 EdinDocs Documentary Film Festival in Edinburgh, Scotland.
~ Best Documentary Short Award ~
° 2011 Cinefoot International Football Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
~ Best Football Film Award ~
° 2011 Chicago Irish Film Festival in USA.
~ Best Documentary Award ~
° 2011 Sport For Peace International Sport Film & TV Festival in Matera, Italy.
~ Best Television Production Award ~
° 2011 International Festival of Sport Films in Moscow, Russia.
~ Best Foreign Film Award ~
° 2011 I've Seen Films International Film Festival in Milan, Italy.
~ Best Short Film Award ~
° 2011 International Film Festival Ireland in Tipperary.
~ Best European Documentary Short Award ~

Official Selection ...
° 2011 Warzaw Film Festival in Poland.
° 2011 Ankara International Film Festival in Turkey.
° 2011 Sport Movies & TV Milano International Ficts Fest in Italy.
° 2011 Al Jazeera International Documentary Film Festival in Doha, Qatar.
° 2011 Kicking & Screening Soccer Film Festival in New York City, USA.
° 2010 Canadian Sport Film Festival in Toronto.
° 2012 The Israeli International Sports Film Festival in Haifa.
° 2011 Nordic Lights Film Festival in Seattle in USA.
° 2011 11mm International Football Film Festival in Berlin, Germany.
° 2011 Mediteran Film Festival in Siroki Brijeg, Bosnia & Herzegowina.
° 2011 Iowa City International Documentary Film Festival in USA.
° 2011 Amsterdam Football Film Festival in The Netherlands.
° 2010 DocUtah International Documentary Film Festival in St. George, USA.
° 2011 International Short Film Night in Oslo in Norway.
° 2011 Chagrin Documentary Film Festival in Chagrin Falls, USA.
° 2011 Ljubljana International Short Film Festival in Slovenia.
° 2011 Reel Shorts Film Festival in Grande Prairie, Canada.
° 2011 Short Cuts International Film Festival in Helsinki, Finland.
° 2011 Festival de Cine de Granada in Spain.
° 2012 Move Film Festival in Umeå, Sweden.
° 2011 Short Film Festival of Los Angeles, USA.
° 2011 International Festival of Sports Movies in Saransk, Russia.
° 2011 Napoli Short Film Festival in Italy.

Selection Committee Favourite ...
° 2011 Sapporo Short Film Festival in Japan.
                






Youtube results:







1:53



Obama's Pentagon pick to face US senate
Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam war veteran and former US senator from the state of Nebraska, has b...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Obama's Pentagon pick to face US senate


				
					Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam war veteran and former US senator from the state of Nebraska, has been nominated as President Barack Obama's next defence secretary. On Thursday, he is going to be questioned at a senate confirmation hearing. But Hagel has already faced a lot of questions, mostly from his fellow Republicans, over his fitness for the job. Al Jazeera's Rosiland Jordan reports from Washington, DC.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 2098

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















1:57



Cambodia prepares to mourn late king
Cambodians are preparing to honour their former king, Norodom Sihanouk. Revered by million...


published: 31 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Cambodia prepares to mourn late king


				
					Cambodians are preparing to honour their former king, Norodom Sihanouk. Revered by millions, the man known as "Father King" died in October just weeks before his 90th birthday. Al Jazeera's Stephanie Scawen reports from Phnom Penh.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 1951

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:18



UN calls for aid in continuing Syrian refugee crisis
Representatives from more than 60 countries will meet in Kuwait for a conference on the hu...


published: 30 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


UN calls for aid in continuing Syrian refugee crisis


				
					Representatives from more than 60 countries will meet in Kuwait for a conference on the humanitarian crisis in Syria. The United Nations estimates that more than 700000 refugees have fled to neighbouring nations. Another two million have been displaced by the 22-month-long conflict or are in need of food and medicine. The UN is seeking $1.5bn from donors to help address the growing needs of the refugees. Al Jazeera's Rula Amin reports from the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon.

published: 30 Jan 2013
views: 1373

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish















2:34



Blackberry unveils new mobile phones
The maker of Blackberry mobile phones is hoping a new name and new products will revive it...


published: 31 Jan 2013
author: AlJazeeraEnglish


Blackberry unveils new mobile phones


				
					The maker of Blackberry mobile phones is hoping a new name and new products will revive its fortunes. Research in Motion has rebranded and is now called Blackberry. The company launched a new range of smartphones to try to catch up with its competitors. Al Jazeera's Daniel Lak reports from Toronto, Canada.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 2787

author:
AlJazeeraEnglish











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25. Caleb Moore was attempting a backflip when his snowmobile caught the edge of a landing area, sending him over the handlebars. The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



BEIRUT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - At least 65 people were found shot dead with their hands bound in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Tuesday in a "new massacre" in the near two-year revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, activists said ... Opposition activists posted a video of a man filming at least 51 muddied male bodies alongside what they said was the Queiq River in Aleppo's rebel-held Bustan al-Qasr neighbourhood....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime ... Featured on Al Jazeera ... Al Jazeera anchor decries 'smear campaign' ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



MEXICO CITY — Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 25 people and injured 101 at the headquarters of Mexico’s state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos ... Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... My son.” ... ....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed. The Syrian Army statement says that the IAF jet fighters’ target was a military research centre near the border with Lebanon. Two people have been reported to be dead and five others injured in the attack ... First Published ... ....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














McDonalds eyes slice of Italys food market

Al Jazeera02 Feb 2013

read more



Italy's unemployment rate is close to the eurozone average at just over 11 per cent&nbsp;and the economy has been in recession since the middle of 2011 ... Al Jazeera's Charlie Angela reports from Rome. 80 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera. 'Idle No More' and colonial Canada ... Goodbye Indonesia ... Viewed ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 15.2Kb)
	    



Police Video of Shootings at South Africa’s Marikana Mine Raises Questions

The New York Times02 Feb 2013

read more



Al ArabiyaAl Jazeera (English)ANSA (English)Arab NewsAsharq Al-AwsatAsian AgeBBC NewsBBC World ... Al Jazeera VideoAP VideoBBC News on YouTubeBBC News VideoBBC One Minute World NewsChannel 4 News VideoCine InstituteCitizenTubeEuronews/nocommentGuardian VideoITN VideoMagmaNYT.com VideoPathe Newsreel ArchiveReuters VideoSky NewsTelegraph TV....(size: 8.9Kb)
	    



Activists to demand a congressional investigation of Al Gore and Al Jazeera

The Washington Times01 Feb 2013

read more



A call for a congressional investigation of Al Gore's recent business dealings with Al Jazeera looms ... Gore recently sold Current TV, the news channel he founded in 2006, to Al Jazeera, an Arabic language network based in Qatar ... "Al Jazeera should be exposed as a homeland security threat that already has American blood on its hands....(size: 2.1Kb)
	    



Al Gore Dogged by Questions About Al Jazeera Deal on Book Tour

IMDb01 Feb 2013

read more



... Social Change, but all even normally sympathetic hosts want to talk about is the sale of his Current cable network to Al Jazeera....(size: 0.7Kb)
	    



Terror propaganda network violates multiple federal laws with Obama’s permission

The Examiner01 Feb 2013

read more



Father of slain journalist Daniel Pearl says, “Al Jazeera is the main propaganda machine of the Muslim Brotherhood.” 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed… was protected by the government of Qatar, which funds Al Jazeera ... The State Department has identified Al Jazeera as a property of the Qatar government, adding that “[Qatar] exercised editorial ......(size: 13.8Kb)
	    



Kosovo rules to ban headscarves in schools

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Kosovo is one of Europe's majority Muslim countries, but now an administrative order has been issued banning the&nbsp;wearing of headscarves in schools ... Al Jazeera's Paul Brennan reports. 38 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera ... What's Hot ... Al Jazeera anchor decries 'smear campaign' ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 14.9Kb)
	    



Iraq Sunnis rally against Shia-led government

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Al Jazeera's Jane Arraf, reporting from Fallujah, said many had walked for hours to attend Friday's protest and had turned the highway into a mosque for the weekly prayers ... Al Jazeera and agencies ... Featured on Al Jazeera ... Al Jazeera anchor decries 'smear campaign' ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World....(size: 17.6Kb)
	    



Obama calls for research into violent games

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Researchers have yet to prove a link between gaming and real world violence, but Al Jazeera finds there are strong ties between the industry and guns. Al Jazeera’s Kristen Saloomey reports from Springfield in Illinois. 91 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera ... Goodbye Indonesia ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 15.3Kb)
	    



Nigerian fish farmer hails win against Shell

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



A Nigerian farmer is celebrating a landmark victory against oil giant Shell. A court in the Netherlands found Europe's largest oil company responsible for failing to prevent pollution&nbsp;on his land. Al Jazeera's Yvonne Ndege reports from the Niger Delta. 39 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share ... Featured on Al Jazeera ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 14.8Kb)
	    



Al Gore's sale to Big Oil not a blow to climate crusade

The Los Angeles Times01 Feb 2013

read more



Former Vice President Al Gore is used to taking pot shots from the right, and he's getting peppered with them lately following his decision to sell his unpopular Current TV network to Al Jazeera, the Middle Eastern news channel still vilified by many conservatives as the voice of the Taliban ... Al Jazeera is partly owned by the royal family of Qatar, a strong U.S....(size: 34.2Kb)
	    



Top US diplomat Clinton to step down

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



For the past four years she has been the most powerful woman in the US government&nbsp;- but now Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is retiring ... Al Jazeera's Rosalind Jordan reports from Washington DC. 66 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera. 'Idle No More' and colonial Canada ... Viewed ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World....(size: 14.9Kb)
	    



Hillary Clinton marks last day in office

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton has delivered her final public address as US secretary of state. &nbsp; ... Al Jazeera's Alan Fisher reports from Washington, DC. 43 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera. Female militarism. Band of sisters? ... Goodbye Indonesia ... Kill Him Silently ... Stolen identities ... What's Hot ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 15.1Kb)
	    



Whale vomit could spell fortune for Briton

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Ambergris, the more savoury term for whale vomit, has been used in perfumes for centuries and appears in the classic American novel Moby Dick ... Al Jazeera's Gerald Tan explains. 47 Source.. Al Jazeera. Share. Send Feedback. Featured on Al Jazeera. Female militarism. Band of sisters? ... Goodbye Indonesia ... What's Hot ... Jobs At Al Jazeera ... Frost Over The World 101 East One on One Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World ... ....(size: 15.1Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

















This article is about the TV network and channel.  For the English-language channel, see Al Jazeera English.  For the unrelated magazine, see Aljazeera Publishing and aljazeera.com.  For other uses, see Jazira.

al Jazeera

90px


Type
Satellite television network


Country
Qatar


First air date
1 November 1996


Availability
Worldwide


Headquarters
Doha, Qatar


Owner
Sheikh Hamad bin Thamer Al Thani
(Qatar Media Corporation)[citation needed]


Key people
Sheikh Hamad bin Thamer Al Thani, Chairman
Sheikh Ahmad bin Jassim al-Thani,[1] Director-General
Mustafa Souag,[2] Arabic Channel's Director of the News (Editor-in-chief)


Established
1 November 1996


Launch date
1 November 1996


Official website
aljazeera.net




Aljazeera Satellite Channel


90px


Launched
1 November 1996


Owned by
Al Jazeera


Country
Qatar


Broadcast area
Qatar


Headquarters
Doha, Qatar


Availability


Terrestrial


Digital
misc.


Internet television


aljazeera.net
Free






Middle East  portal



Television  portal



al Jazeera (Arabic: الجزيرة‎ al-ǧazīrah IPA: [æl dʒæˈziːrɐ], literally "The Island", abbreviating "The [Arabian] Peninsula") (also Aljazeera or JSC [Jazeera Satellite Channel]) is an independent[3][4] broadcaster owned by the state of Qatar through the Qatar Media Corporation and headquartered in Doha, Qatar. Initially launched as an Arabic news and current affairs satellite TV channel, Al Jazeera has since expanded into a network with several outlets, including the Internet and specialty TV channels in multiple languages. Al Jazeera is accessible in several world regions.
The original Al Jazeera channel's willingness to broadcast dissenting views, for example on call-in shows, created controversies in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf. The station gained worldwide attention following the September 11, 2001 attacks, when it was the only channel to cover the war in Afghanistan live from its office there.[5]
In the 2000s, the network was praised by the Index on Censorship for circumventing censorship and contributing to the free exchange of information in the Arab world, and by the Webby Awards, who nominated it as one of the five best news web sites, along with BBC News, National Geographic and The Smoking Gun. It was also voted by brandchannel.com readers as the fifth most influential global brand behind Apple, Google, Ikea and Starbucks. In 2011 Salon.com noted Al Jazeera's coverage of the 2011 Egyptian protests as superior to that of the American news media, while U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton also opined that that network's news coverage was more informative, and less opinion-driven than American journalism.




Contents


1 Etymology
2 History

2.1 Launch
2.2 Around the clock
2.3 Post-9/11
2.4 2003 Iraq War
2.5 Al Jazeera English


3 Organization

3.1 Staff


4 Reach

4.1 Expansion outside the Middle East
4.2 Al Jazeera Turkey and Balkans
4.3 Availability
4.4 On the Web

4.4.1 Web host changes
4.4.2 Internet TV Appliances
4.4.3 Creative Commons
4.4.4 Citizen journalism


4.5 Plans


5 Attacks on and censorship of Al Jazeera

5.1 Algeria
5.2 Israel
5.3 Palestinian Territories
5.4 United States

5.4.1 Death of Tareq Ayyoub
5.4.2 Al Jazeera bombing memo


5.5 Egypt
5.6 Libya
5.7 China
5.8 Website attacks


6 Editorial independence
7 Criticism and controversy

7.1 Bahrain
7.2 Egypt
7.3 Iraq
7.4 Kuwait
7.5 Somalia
7.6 Spain
7.7 United Kingdom
7.8 United States

7.8.1 Detention of Sami Al Hajj


7.9 Satellite disruption


8 Documentaries
9 Awards and accolades

9.1 Recognition by Secretary Clinton


10 Competitors
11 Network
12 References
13 Further reading
14 External links




Etymology[link]
In Arabic, al-ǧazīrah literally means "the island". However, it refers here[citation needed] to the "(Arabian) peninsula" which is شبه الجزيرة العربية šibh al-ğazīrah al-ʿarabiyyah, Arabian Peninsula, abbreviated الجزيرة العربية al-ğazīrah al-ʿarabiyyah, literally means Shadow of island" or " like/similar to island"
History[link]
Launch[link]
Al Jazeera Satellite Channel was launched on 1 November 1996 following the closure of the BBC's Arabic language television station, a joint venture with Orbit Communications Company, owned by Saudi King Fahd's cousin, Khalid bin Faisal Al Saud. It had fallen apart after a year and a half when the Saudi government attempted to kill a documentary on executions under sharia law.[6]
The Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa, provided a loan of QAR 500 million ($137 million) to sustain Al Jazeera through its first five years, as Hugh Miles detailed in his book Al Jazeera The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel That Is Challenging the West. Shares were held by private investors as well as the Qatar government.
Prior to Al Jazeera, even before he deposed his father the previous year, the Emir had been contemplating a satellite channel. A free press complemented his vision of the emirate as a center of commercial development and progress.
Sheikh Hamad bin Thamir Al Thani, previously Qatar's Deputy Minister of Information, was chairman of the enterprise, although Al Jazeera maintained editorial independence. It was hoped the channel would break even in five years through sales of advertising, news feeds and programs, as well as equipment rental. Much of the staff came from the 250 journalists displaced by the closure of BBC Arabic.
Al Jazeera's first day on the air was 1 November 1996. It offered 6-hours of programming per day; this would increase to 12-hours by the end of 1997. It was broadcast to the immediate neighborhood as a terrestrial signal, on cable, as well as through satellites (which was also free to users in the Arab world). Ironically Qatar, like many other Arab countries, barred private individuals from having satellite dishes until 2001.
At the time of Al Jazeera's launch, Arabsat was the only satellite broadcasting to the Middle East, and for the first year could only offer Al Jazeera a weak Ku-band transponder that needed a large satellite dish for reception. A more powerful C-band transponder became available after its user, Canal France International, accidentally beamed 30 minutes of pornography into ultraconservative Saudi Arabia.[citation needed]
Al Jazeera was not the first such broadcaster in the Middle East; a number had appeared since the Arabsat satellite, a Saudi Arabia-based venture of 21 Arab governments, took orbit in 1985. The unfolding of Operation Desert Storm on CNN International underscored the power of live television in current events. While other local broadcasters in the region would assiduously avoid material embarrassing to their home governments (Qatar had its own official TV station as well), Al Jazeera was pitched as an impartial news source and platform for discussing issues relating to the Arab world.
In presenting "The opinion and the other opinion" to which the Arabic script in the network's logo refers, it did not take long for Al Jazeera to shock local viewers by presenting the Israeli speaking Hebrew on Arab TV for the first time. Lively and far-ranging talk shows, particularly a popular, confrontational one called The Opposite Direction, were a constant source of controversy regarding issues of morality and religion. This prompted a torrent of criticism from the conservative voices among the region's press. It also led to official complaints and censures from neighboring governments. Some jammed Al Jazeera's terrestrial broadcast or booted its correspondents. In 1999, the Algerian government reportedly cut power to several major cities to censor one broadcast. There were also commercial repercussions; Saudi Arabia reportedly pressured advertisers to avoid the channel, to great effect. Al Jazeera was also becoming a favorite sounding board for militant groups such as Hamas and Chechen separatists.
Al Jazeera was the only international news network to have correspondents in Iraq during the Operation Desert Fox bombing campaign in 1998. In a precursor of a pattern to follow, its exclusive video clips were highly prized by Western media.
Around the clock[link]
1 January 1999 was Al Jazeera's first day of 24-hour broadcasting. Employment had more than tripled in one year to 500 employees, and the agency had bureaus at a dozen sites as far as EU and Russia. Its annual budget was estimated at about $25 million at the time.
However controversial, Al Jazeera was rapidly becoming one of the most influential news agencies in the region. Eager for news beyond the official versions of events, Arabs became dedicated viewers. A 2000 estimate pegged nightly viewership at 35 million, ranking Al Jazeera first in the Arab world, over the Saudi Arabia-sponsored Middle East Broadcasting Centre (MBC) and London's Arab News Network (ANN). There were about 70 satellite or terrestrial channels being broadcast to the Middle East, most of them in Arabic. Al Jazeera launched a free Arabic language web site in January 2001. In addition, the TV feed was soon available in United Kingdom for the first time via British Sky Broadcasting.
Post-9/11[link]
Al Jazeera came to the attention of many in the West during the hunt for Osama bin Laden after the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. The station aired videos it received from Osama bin Laden and the Taliban, deeming new footage of the world's most wanted fugitives to be newsworthy. Some criticized the network, however, for giving a voice to terrorists. Al Jazeera's Washington, D.C. bureau chief compared the situation to that of the Unabomber's messages in The New York Times. The network said it had been given the tapes merely because it had a large Arab audience.
The rest of the world's television networks were eager to acquire the same footage. CNN International had exclusive rights for six hours before other networks could broadcast it (a provision that was broken by the others on at least one controversial occasion). Prime Minister Tony Blair soon appeared on an Al Jazeera talk show to state Britain's case for pursuing the Taliban into Afghanistan.
Al Jazeera's prominence was heightened during the war in Afghanistan since it had opened a bureau in Kabul before 9/11. This gave it better video than the others scrambling to cover the invasion, clips that sold for as much as $250,000. The Kabul office was destroyed, however, by United States bombs in 2001. Looking to stay ahead of the future conflicts Al Jazeera then opened bureaus in other trouble spots.
The network remained dependent on government support in 2002, having a budget of $40 million and ad revenues of about $8 million. It also took in fees for sharing its news feed with other networks. It was estimated to have up to roughly 45 million viewers around the world. Al Jazeera soon had to contend with a new rival, Al Arabiya, an offshoot of the Middle East Broadcasting Center, set up in nearby Dubai with generous Saudi backing.
2003 Iraq War[link]
Before and during the United States-led invasion of Iraq, where Al Jazeera had a presence since 1997, the network's facilities and footage were again highly sought by international networks. The channel and its web site also were seeing unprecedented attention from viewers looking for alternatives to Embedded reporting and military press conferences.
Al Jazeera moved its sports coverage to a new, separate channel in 1 November 2003, allowing for more news and public affairs programming on the other one. An English language web site had launched earlier in the year. The channel had about 1,300 to 1,400 employees, its newsroom editor told The New York Times. There were 23 bureaus around the world and 70 foreign correspondents, with 450 journalists in all.
On 1 April 2003, a United States plane fired on Al Jazeera's Baghdad bureau, killing reporter Tareq Ayyoub. The attack was called a mistake, but may have been deliberate, since Qatar had supplied the US with a precise map of the location of the bureau in order to spare it from attack.[7]
Afshin Rattansi became the channel's first English-language broadcast journalist after he left the BBC Today Programme, after the death of UK Government Scientist, David Kelly.
Al Jazeera English[link]
Main article: Al Jazeera English




Al Jazeera English newsroom


Al Jazeera launched an English language channel, originally called Al Jazeera International, in 2006. Among its staff were journalists hired from ABC's Nightline and other top news outfits. Josh Rushing, a former media handler for CENTCOM during the Iraq war, agreed to provide commentary; Sir David Frost was also on board. In an interesting technical feat, the broadcast of the new operation was handed off between bases in Doha, London, Washington, D.C., and Kuala Lumpur on a daily cycle.
The new English language venture faced considerable regulatory and commercial hurdles in the North America market for its perceived sympathy with extremist causes. At the same time, others felt Al Jazeera's competitive advantage lay in programming in the Arabic language. There were hundreds of millions of potential viewers among the non-Arabic language speaking Muslims in Europe and Asia, however, and many others who might be interested in seeing news from the Middle East read by local voices. If the venture panned out, it would extend the influence of Al Jazeera, and tiny Qatar, beyond even what had been achieved in the station's first decade. In an interesting twist of fate, the BBC World Service was preparing to launch its own Arabic language station in 2007.
Organization[link]
The original Al Jazeera channel was started in 1 November 1996 by an emiri decree with a loan of 500 million Qatari riyals (US$137 million) from the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa.[8][9] By its funding through loans or grants rather than direct government subsidies, the channel claims to maintain independent editorial policy.[10][11] The channel began broadcasting in late 1996, with many staff joining from the BBC World Service's Saudi-co-owned Arabic language TV station, which had shut down in 1 April 1996 after two years of operation because of censorship demands by the Saudi Arabian government.[12]
Following the initial grant from the Emir of Qatar, Al Jazeera had aimed to become self-sufficient through advertising by 2001, but when this failed to occur, the Emir agreed to several consecutive loans[9] on a year-by-year basis (US$30 million in 2004,[13] according to Arnaud de Borchgrave). Other major sources of income include advertising, cable subscription fees, broadcasting deals with other companies, and sale of footage.[14] In 2000, advertising accounted for 40% of the station's revenue.[15]
The Al Jazeera logo is a decorative representation of the network's name written using Arabic calligraphy. It was selected by the station's founder, Emir of Qatar Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa, as the winning entry in a design competition.[16]
Staff[link]




Wadah Khanfar, Former Director General of the Al Jazeera Network


The Chairman of Al Jazeera is Sheikh Hamad bin Thamer Al Thani, a distant cousin of Qatari Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani.
Al Jazeera restructured its operations to form a Network that contains all their different channels. Wadah Khanfar, then the managing director of the Arabic Channel, was appointed as the Director General of the Al Jazeera Network. He also acted as the Managing Director of the Arabic channel. Khanfar resigned on 20 September 2011 proclaiming that he had achieved his original goals, and that 8 years was enough time for any leader of an organization, in an interview aired on Aljazeera English.
The Editor-in-Chief of the Arabic website is Mustafa Soug who replaced Ahmed Sheikh. It has more than 100 editorial staff. The managing director of Al Jazeera English is Al Anstey. The Editor-in-Chief of the English-language site is Mohamed Nanabhay who has run the site since 2009. Previous editors have included Beat Witschi and Russell Merryman.
Prominent on-air personalities include Faisal al-Qassem, host of the talk show The Opposite Direction, Ahmed Mansour, host of the show Unlimited (bi-la hudud) and Sami Haddad.
Reach[link]




Assia Abdullah, Al Jazeera Sports Channel, Qatar


Many governments in the Middle East deploy state-run media or government censorship to impact local media coverage and public opinion, leading to international objections regarding press freedom and biased media coverage.[17] Some scholars and commentators use the notion of contextual objectivity,[18] which highlights the tension between objectivity and audience appeal, to describe the station's controversial yet popular news approach.[19]
Increasingly, Al Jazeera's exclusive interviews and other footage are being rebroadcast in American, British, and other western media outlets such as CNN and the BBC. In January 2003, the BBC announced that it had signed an agreement with Al Jazeera for sharing facilities and information, including news footage.[20]
Al Jazeera's availability (via satellite) throughout the Middle East changed the television landscape of the region. Prior to the arrival of Al Jazeera, many Middle Eastern citizens were unable to watch TV channels other than state-controlled national TV stations. Al Jazeera introduced a level of freedom of speech on TV that was previously unheard of in many of these countries. Al Jazeera presented controversial views regarding the governments of many Gulf Arab states, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar; it also presented controversial views about Syria's relationship with Lebanon, and the Egyptian judiciary. Critics accused Al Jazeera of sensationalism in order to increase its audience share. Al Jazeera's broadcasts have sometimes resulted in drastic action: for example, when, on 27 January 1999, critics of the Algerian government appeared on the channel's live program El-Itidjah el-Mouakass ("The Opposite Direction"), the Algerian government cut the electricity supply to large parts of the capital Algiers (and allegedly also to large parts of the country), to prevent the program from being seen.[17][18][21]
At that time, Al Jazeera was not yet generally known in the Western world, but where it was known, opinion was often favourable[22] and Al Jazeera claimed to be the only politically independent television station in the Middle East. However, it was not until late 2001 that Al Jazeera achieved worldwide recognition, when it broadcast video statements by al-Qaeda leaders.[23]
Some observers have argued that Al Jazeera has formidable authority as an opinion-maker. Noah Bonsey and Jeb Koogler, for example, writing in the Columbia Journalism Review, argue that the way in which the station covers any future Israeli-Palestinian peace deal could well determine whether or not that deal is actually accepted by the Palestinian public.[24]

The channel’s tremendous popularity has also, for better or worse, made it a shaper of public opinion. Its coverage often determines what becomes a story and what does not, as well as how Arab viewers think about issues. Whether in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, or Syria, the stories highlighted and the criticisms aired by guests on Al Jazeera’s news programs have often significantly affected the course of events in the region.


In Palestine, the station’s influence is particularly strong. Recent polling indicates that in the West Bank and Gaza, Al Jazeera is the primary news source for an astounding 53.4 percent of Palestinian viewers. The second and third most watched channels, Palestine TV and Al Arabiya, poll a distant 12.8 percent and 10 percent, respectively. The result of Al Jazeera’s market dominance is that it has itself become a mover and shaker in Palestinian politics, helping to craft public perceptions and influence the debate. This has obvious implications for the peace process: how Al Jazeera covers the deliberations and the outcome of any negotiated agreement with Israel will fundamentally shape how it is viewed—and, more importantly, whether it is accepted—by the Palestinian public.

Al Jazeera's broad availability in the Arab world "operat[ing] with less constraint than almost any other Arab outlet, and remain[ing] the most popular channel in the region", has been perceived as playing a part in the 2010–2011 Middle East and North Africa protests, including the Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions. The New York Times stated in January 2011: "The protests rocking the Arab world this week have one thread uniting them: Al Jazeera, [...] whose aggressive coverage has helped propel insurgent emotions from one capital to the next". The newspaper quoted Marc Lynch, a professor of Middle East Studies at George Washington University: "They did not cause these events, but it’s almost impossible to imagine all this happening without Al Jazeera".[25]
Expansion outside the Middle East[link]
Main article: Al Jazeera English
In 2003, Al Jazeera hired its first English-language journalists, among whom was Afshin Rattansi,[26] from the BBC's Today Programme.
In March 2003, it launched an English-language website[27] (see below).
On 4 July 2005 Al Jazeera officially announced plans to launch a new English-language satellite service to be called Al Jazeera International.[28] The new channel started at 12h GMT on 15 November 2006 under the name Al Jazeera English and has broadcast centers in Doha (next to the original Al Jazeera headquarters and broadcast center), London, Kuala Lumpur and Washington D.C. The channel is a 24-hour, 7-days-a-week news channel, with 12 hours broadcast from Doha, and four hours each from London, Kuala Lumpur, and Washington D.C.
With Al Jazeera's growing global outreach and influence, some scholars including Adel Iskandar have described the station as a transformation of the very definition of "alternative media."[29]
As of 2007, the Arabic Al Jazeera channel rivals the BBC in worldwide audiences with an estimated 40 to 50 million viewers.[30] Al Jazeera English has an estimated reach of around 100 million households.[31]
On 26 November 2009, Al Jazeera English received approval from the CRTC, which enables Al Jazeera English to broadcast via satellite in Canada.[32]
Al Jazeera Turkey and Balkans[link]
On 22 September 2010, Al Jazeera purchased a broadcasting station in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and began its Balkan News Channel on 11 November 2011.The managing director of Aljazeera Balkan is Tarik Dodic and the channel is available through Eutelsat W3C 16 Degrees East.[33]
On 11 February 2011, the Turkish government approved the sale of the TV channel "Cine5" to Al-Jazeera. Cine5 television station has been administered by a government-run fund since its owner's business ran into economic trouble. Al-Jazeera paid US$40.5 million for Cine5 TV channel in an auction. Al Jazeera said it planned to launch a news channel in Turkey.[34]
Availability[link]
The original Al Jazeera channel is available worldwide through various satellite and cable systems.[35]
In the United States, Al Jazeera English is available through free to air DVB-S on the Galaxy 19 (and Galaxy 23 C-band) satellites. However, Al Jazeera English is unavailable to cable viewers in the US, with the exception of those in Toledo, Ohio; Burlington, Vermont; Washington State and Washington, D.C. Many analysts consider this to be effectively a "black out".[36][37] An Al Jazeera spokesperson confirmed a scheduled meeting with the large cable company Comcast, but as yet there has been no indication of the news network being made available to Comcast subscribers.[38]
In contrast, in the United Kingdom, Al Jazeera English is available on the Sky and Freesat satellite platforms, as well as the standard terrestrial service (branded Freeview), thus making it available to the vast majority of UK households.
Al Jazeera can also be freely viewed with a DVB-S receiver in Europe, Northern Africa and the Middle East as it is broadcast on the Astra 1M, Eutelsat Hot Bird 13A, Eutelsat 10A, Badr 4, Turksat 2A, Thor 6, Nilesat 102, Hispasat 1C and Eutelsat 28A satellites. The Optus C1 satellite in Australia carries the channel for free and from July 2012 is available at no extra charge to all subscribers to Australia's Foxtel pay-TV service.
For availability info of the Al Jazeera network's other TV channels, see their respective articles. Segments of Al Jazeera English are uploaded to YouTube.[39]
It is also possible to watch Al Jazeera English over the internet from their official website. The low-resolution version is available free of charge,[40] while the high-resolution version is available under subscription fees through partner sites. In some countries that do not regularly offer Al Jazeera English through satellite or cable, the availability of internet video streaming receiver boxes, like those sold by Roku in the United States, offer the low-resolution stream without the use of a computer.[41]
Al Jazeera's English division has also partnered with Livestation for Internet-based broadcasting.[42] This enables viewers to watch Al Jazeera English and Al Jazeera live worldwide.
Al Jazeera is available in Canada on Bell Express Vu Channel 516, as part of the package "International News I." Al Jazeera is available on Rogers Cable individually. Al Jazeera is also available on Shaw Cable TV Channel 513, as part of the package "Multicultural" Free preview until 8 March 2011
On 7 December 2010, Al Jazeera said its English language service has got a downlink license to broadcast in India. Satellite and cable companies would therefore be allowed to broadcast Al Jazeera in the country.[43] The broadcaster will be launched soon on Dish TV, and is considering a Hindi-language channel.[44]
On the Web[link]
Al Jazeera's web-based service is accessible subscription-free throughout the world. The station launched an English-language edition of its online content in March 2003. This English language website was relaunched on 15 November 2006, along with the launch of Al Jazeera English. The English and Arabic sections are editorially distinct, with their own selection of news and comment. Al Jazeera and Al Jazeera English are streamed live on the official site,[45][46] as well as on YouTube.[47][48] On 13 April 2009, Al Jazeera launched condensed versions of its English and Arabic sites for mobile device users.
The Arabic version of the site was brought offline for about 10 hours by an FBI raid on its ISP, InfoCom Corporation, on 5 September 2001. InfoCom was later convicted of exporting to Syria and Gaddafi-ruled Libya, of knowingly being invested in by a Hamas member (both of which are illegal in the United States), and of underpaying customs duties.[49]
Web host changes[link]
The English-language site was forced to change internet hosting providers several times, due, in Al Jazeera's opinion, to political pressure. Initially, hosting for the English-language site was provided by the U.S.-based company DataPipe, which gave Al Jazeera notice, soon followed by Akamai Technologies.[50] Al Jazeera later shifted to the French branch of NavLink, and then to (the current host) AT&T WorldNet Services.
Internet TV Appliances[link]
On 1 February 2011, Internet Appliance Roku, had posted on its Facebook page [1] that the English-Language Al Jazeera Live, would be streaming on its Roku devices through a private channel called Newscaster and also through the BBC channel. It permitted the announcement following an unrest in Egypt so American viewers can watch the latest events going on in the middle east. A Roku user must add the private channel Newscaster by going to Roku.[51] Roku is used to stream Netflix and Hulu content as well as many other private channels.
An Al Jazeera site designed specifically for Google TV exists, featured under the "Spotlight" section of the operating system.[52][53]
Free Android market app offers free 24/7 live streaming of Al Jazeera in English and in Arabic.[54]
Creative Commons[link]
On 13 January 2009, Al Jazeera released some of its broadcast quality footage from Gaza under a Creative Commons license. Contrary to business "All Rights Reserved" standards, the license invites third parties, including rival broadcasters, to reuse and remix the footage, so long as Al Jazeera is credited. The videos are hosted on blip.tv, which allows easy downloading and integration with Miro.[55][56][57][58][59][60][61]
Al Jazeera also offers over 2,000 Creative Commons-licensed still photos at their Flickr account.
Citizen journalism[link]
Al Jazeera accepts user-submitted photos and videos about news events through a Your Media page, and this content may be featured on the website or in broadcasts.[62]
Al Jazeera used the Ushahidi platform to collect information and reports about the Gaza War, through Twitter, SMS and the website.[63][64]
Plans[link]
Future projects in other languages include Al Jazeera Urdu, an Urdu language channel to cater mainly to Pakistanis and possibly some Indians,[65] as well as a Kiswahili service called Al Jazeera Kiswahili to be based in Nairobi and broadcast in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi.[66]
Al Jazeera has been preparing to launch a Turkish language news channel. On 10 February, Al Jazeera acquired Turkey's Cine 5 television channel.[67]
Al Jazeera has also been reported to be planning to launch an international newspaper.[68]
Al Jazeera Arabic began using a chroma key studio on 13 September 2009. Similar to Sky News, Al Jazeera broadcast from that studio while the channels main newsroom was given a new look. The channel relaunched, with new graphics and music along with a new studio, on 1 November 2009, the 13th birthday of the channel.
Attacks on and censorship of Al Jazeera[link]
Algeria[link]
On 27 January 1999, several Algerian cities lost power simultaneously, reportedly to keep residents from watching a program in which Algerian dissidents implicated the Algerian military in a series of massacres.[17][18][21]
On 4 July 2004, the Algerian government froze the activities of Al Jazeera's Algerian correspondent. The official reason given was that a reorganization of the work of foreign correspondents was in progress. The international pressure group Reporters Without Borders says, however, that the measure was really taken in reprisal for a broadcast the previous week of another Al-Itijah al-Mouakiss debate on the political situation in Algeria.[69]
Israel[link]
On 13 March 2008, Israel imposed sanctions on Al Jazeera, accusing it of slanted coverage favoring Hamas. Deputy Foreign Minister Majalli Wahabi said that Israel would deny entry visas to Al Jazeera employees, and that Israeli officials would not be available for interviews with the network. According to Wahabi, "We have seen that Al Jazeera has become a part of Hamas... taking sides and cooperating with people who are enemies of the State of Israel. The moment a station like Al Jazeera gives unreliable reports, represents only one side, and doesn't present the positions of the other side, why should we cooperate"? Wahabi said that the Israeli Foreign Ministry would send letters of complaint to the government of Qatar and Al Jazeera.[70]
In February 2009, Israel again imposed sanctions on Al Jazeera after Qatar closed the Israeli trade office in Doha in protest to the Gaza War. Initially, Israel contemplated declaring Al Jazeera a hostile entity and shutting down its Israel offices, but after a legal review, the Israeli government decided instead to impose limited measures to restrict Al Jazeera's activities in the country. All Al Jazeera employees would not have their visas renewed, and the Israeli government would issue no new visas. Al Jazeera staff would also not be allowed to attend government briefings and reduced access to government and military offices or interview Knesset members. The station would only be allowed access to three official spokespersons: The Prime Minister's Office, the Foreign Ministry, and the IDF Spokesperson's Unit.[71]
In August 2011, Samer Allawi, Al Jazeera's Afghanistan bureau chief, was arrested by Israeli authorities on charges of being a member of Hamas. Walied Al-Omary, Al Jazeera's bureau chief in Israel and the Palestinian territories, said the military court accused Allawi of making contact with members of Hamas's armed wing.[72] A co-leader of The Committee to Protect Journalists said "Israel must clarify why it continues to hold Samer Allawi."[73][74]
Palestinian Territories[link]
On 15 July 2009, the Palestinian National Authority closed down Al Jazeera's offices in the West Bank, apparently in response to claims made on the channel by Farouk Kaddoumi that PA President Mahmoud Abbas had been involved in the death of Yasser Arafat. In a statement announcing the decision, the Palestinian Information Ministry said the station's coverage was "unbalanced" and accused it of incitement against the PLO and the PA.[75]
On 19 July 2009, President Abbas rescinded the ban and allowed Al Jazeera to resume operations.[76]
United States[link]
On 13 November 2001, during the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, a U.S. missile strike destroyed Al Jazeera's office in Kabul. There were no casualties.[77]
According to Glenn Greenwald, Al Jazeera is "constantly demonized in the American media."[78] When Al Jazeera reported events featuring very graphic footage from inside Iraq, Al Jazeera was decried as anti-American and as inciting violence because it reported on issues concerning national security.[79]
Examples of censorship in the U.S. came shortly after the start of the invasion.[80] On Monday, 24 March 2003, two Al Jazeera reporters covering the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) had their credentials revoked. The New York Stock Exchange banned Al Jazeera (as well as several other news organizations whose identities were not revealed) from its trading floor indefinitely. NYSE spokesman Ray Pellechia claimed "security reasons" and that the exchange had decided to give access only to networks that focus "on responsible business coverage". He denied the revocation has anything to do with the network's Iraq war coverage.[81][82] However, Robert Zito, the exchange's executive vice president for communications, indicated that Al Jazeera's graphic footage broadcast on Sunday, 22 March 2003, led him to oust Al Jazeera.[80] The move was quickly mirrored by NASDAQ stock market officials.[83] The NYSE ban was rescinded a few months later.[84] In addition, Akamai Technologies, a U.S. company whose founder was killed in 9/11, canceled a contract to provide web services for Al Jazeera’s English language website.[85][86]
[edit] Death of Tareq Ayyoub
Main article: Tareq Ayyoub
On 8 April 2003, Al Jazeera's office in Baghdad was hit by a missile, killing reporter Tareq Ayyoub and wounding another.[87] Al Jazeera reports that it had mailed coordinates for their office to the U.S. State Department six weeks earlier and that these should have clearly identified their location.[88] Dima Tareq Tahboub, the widow of Tareq Ayyoub, continues as of 2003[update] to denounce her husband's death and has among other things written for The Guardian and participated in a documentary broadcast on Al Jazeera English.[89]
On 30 January 2005, The New York Times reported that the Qatari government, under pressure from the Bush administration, was speeding up plans to sell the station.[90] However, as of 2011, the station/network has not been sold and it is unclear whether there are still any plans to do so.
Al Jazeera bombing memo[link]
Main article: Al Jazeera bombing memo

Also see O'Connor - Keogh official secrets trial.

On 22 November 2005, the UK tabloid The Daily Mirror published a story claiming that it had obtained a leaked memo from 10 Downing Street saying that former U.S. President George W. Bush had considered bombing Al Jazeera's Doha headquarters in April 2004, when United States Marines were conducting a contentious assault on Fallujah.[91]
In light of this allegation, Al Jazeera has questioned whether it has been targeted deliberately in the past – Al Jazeera's Kabul office was bombed in 2001 and another missile hit its office in Baghdad during the invasion of Iraq, killing correspondent Tareq Ayyoub. Both of these attacks occurred subsequent to Al Jazeera's disclosure of the locations of their offices to the United States.[92]
Egypt[link]
During the 2011 Egyptian protests, on 30 January, the Egyptian government ordered the TV channel to close its offices. A day after, on 31 January, Egyptian security forces arrested six Al Jazeera journalists for several hours and seized their camera equipment. There were also reports of disruption in Al Jazeera Mubasher's Broadcast to Egypt.[93][94][95][96]
Libya[link]




Written by martyr to be Ali Hassan al-Jaber in Bayda, Libya


Ali Hassan al-Jaber, a cameraman, was killed by pro-Gaddafi sleeper cells while covering the 2011 Libyan civil war in Benghazi.[97]
China[link]
In May 2012 chinese authorities refused to renew Al Jazeera correspondent's press credentials and visa, or allow a replacement journalist. Al Jazeera consequently closed its burea in Beijing.[98]
Website attacks[link]
Immediately after its launch in 2003, the English site was attacked by one or several hackers, who launched denial-of-service attacks, and another hacker who redirected visitors to a site featuring an American flag.[50][99] Both events were widely reported as Al Jazeera's website having been attacked by "hackers".[100] In November 2003, John William Racine II, also known as 'John Buffo', was sentenced to 1,000 hours of community service and a $1,500 U.S. fine for the online disruption. Racine posed as an Al Jazeera employee to get a password to the network's site, then redirected visitors to a page he created that showed an American flag shaped like a U.S. map and a patriotic motto, court documents said.[101] In June 2003, Racine pleaded guilty to wire fraud and unlawful interception of an electronic communication.[102] As of 2012, the perpetrators of the denial-of-service attacks remain unknown.
Editorial independence[link]
Al Jazeera emphasizes that it is editorially independent, though much of its funding comes from the Qatar government. U.S. State Department internal communications, released by WikiLeaks as part of the 2010 United States diplomatic cables leak, claim that the Qatar government manipulates Al Jazeera coverage to suit political interests.[103]
Criticism and controversy[link]
While Al Jazeera has a large audience in the Middle East, the organization and the original Arabic channel in particular have taken criticism and been involved in several controversies.[104]
A widely reported criticism is the unfounded allegation that Al Jazeera showed videos of masked terrorists beheading western hostages in Iraq.[105] When this was reported in other media, Al Jazeera pressed for retractions to be made.[106] This allegation was again repeated on Fox News Channel in the USA on the launch day of Al Jazeera's English service, 15 November 2006.[107] Later The Guardian apologized for incorrect information that Al Jazeera "had shown videos of masked terrorists beheading western hostages".[108]
Bahrain[link]
The Bahraini Information Minister, Nabeel Yacoob Al Hamer, banned Al Jazeera correspondents from reporting from inside the country on 10 May 2002, saying that the station was biased towards Israel and against Bahrain.[109] After improvements in relations between Bahrain and Qatar in 2004, Al Jazeera correspondents returned to Bahrain. In 2010, the Information Ministry again banned Al Jazeera correspondents from reporting inside the country. The ministry accusing the network of "flouting [Bahrain's] laws regulating the press and publishing" after Al Jazeera aired a report on poverty in Bahrain.[110]
During his visit to Egypt in November 2011, Nabeel Rajab, the president of Bahrain Center for Human Rights, criticized Al Jazeera's coverage for 2011-2012 Bahraini uprising, saying that it represents an Arabic double standards. Rajab commented, "Al Jazeera's intentional ignoring for coverage of Bahrain protests makes me strongly believe that we need channels that are sponsored by people rather than by regimes".[111]
Egypt[link]
Al Jazeera has been criticized by an Egyptian newspaper for its allegedly biased coverage of news that are related to Egypt and its government, and they argue that these "continuous attacks against Egypt is to destroy Egypt’s image in the region" as many of them suggest.[112][113][114] In addition, Al Jazeera has filed a lawsuit against the Egyptian Al-Ahram Newspaper for an article posted on 9 June 2010 named "Jazeerat AlTaharoush" ("Al Jazeera an Island of Harassment"), which Al Jazeera finds to be "wholly deceptive and journalistically unprofessional" and claims that the article's aim is to "damage the reputation of the Al Jazeera Network".[115][116] The Egyptian regime would later collapse as a result of the Arab Spring.[117][118]
Iraq[link]
During the Iraq war, Al Jazeera faced reporting and movement restrictions, as did other news-gathering organizations. In addition, one of its reporters, Tayseer Allouni, was expelled from the country, while another one, Diyar Al-Omari, was stripped of his journalistic permits by the US. Reacting to this, Al Jazeera announced on 2 April 2003, that it would "temporarily freeze all coverage" of Iraq in protest of what Al Jazeera described as unreasonable interference from Iraqi officials.[119] During 2004, Al Jazeera broadcast several video tapes of various victims of kidnappings in Iraq, which had been sent to the network. The videos had been filmed by the kidnappers holding the hostages. The hostages were shown, often blindfolded, pleading for their release. They often appeared to be forced to read out prepared statements of their kidnappers. Al Jazeera has assisted authorities from the home countries of the victims in an attempt to secure the release of kidnapping victims.[citation needed] This included broadcasting pleas from family members and government officials. Contrary to some allegations, including the oft-reported comments of Donald Rumsfeld on 4 June 2005, Al Jazeera has never shown beheadings. (Beheadings have appeared on numerous non-Al Jazeera websites and have sometimes been misattributed to Al Jazeera.)[105]
On 7 August 2004, the Iraqi Allawi government shut down the Iraq office of Al Jazeera, claiming that it was responsible for presenting a negative image of Iraq, and charging the network with fueling anti-Coalition hostilities. Al Jazeera spokesman Jihad Ballout said: "It's regrettable and we believe it's not justifiable. This latest decision runs contrary to all the promises made by Iraqi authorities concerning freedom of expression and freedom of the press,"[120] and Al Jazeera vowed to continue its reporting from inside Iraq.[121] News photographs showed United States and Iraqi military personnel working together to close the office. Initially closed by a one-month ban, the shutdown was extended indefinitely in September 2004, and the offices were sealed,[122] drawing condemnation from international journalists.[123]
Kuwait[link]
The Al Jazeera office in Kuwait City was closed by government officials after airing a story on police crackdowns. The story had video of police beating activists and included interviews with members of the Kuwaiti opposition. Four MP's were injured in the crackdown. Kuwait's Minister of Information described Al Jazeera's coverage as "intervention in a Kuwaiti domestic issue".[124]
Somalia[link]
In January 2009 Al Jazeera aired a documentary on toxic waste dumped in Somalia. A Somali journalist who studied the contents of the two-part Al Jazeera documentary, The Toxic Truth,[125] has concluded that Al Jazeera failed to rigorously research the story because one of the letters used to substantiate arms smuggling was issued on 15 April 1992, from the Ministry of Defence of People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, almost two years after South Yemen and North Yemen united to form the Republic of Yemen in May 1990.[126] Another criticism of the documentary was that Al Jazeera did not allow Ali Mahdi Muhammad, former interim president of Somalia, to exercise his right of reply for being accused of authorising Italy based companies to build dumping grounds in Somalia.
Spain[link]
Main article: Tayseer Allouni
Reporter Tayseer Allouni was arrested in Spain on 5 September 2003, on a charge of having provided support for members of al-Qaeda.[127] Judge Baltasar Garzón, who had issued the arrest warrant, ordered Allouni held without bail. Al Jazeera wrote to then Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar and protested: "On several occasions Western journalists met secretly with secret organizations and they were not subjected to any legal action because they were doing their job, so why is Allouni being excluded?"[128] Allouni was released on bail several weeks later over health concerns, but prohibited from leaving the country.
On 19 September, a Spanish court issued an arrest warrant for Allouni before the expected verdict. Allouni had asked the court for permission to visit his family in Syria to attend the funeral of his mother but authorities denied his request and instead ordered him back to jail.[129]
Although he pleaded not guilty of all the charges against him, Allouni was sentenced on 26 September 2005 to seven years in prison for being a financial courier for al-Qaeda. Allouni insisted he merely interviewed bin Laden after the 11 September attack on the United States.[130] Al Jazeera has continuously supported Allouni and maintain that he is innocent.[131]
Many international and private organizations (Reporters Without Borders among them) condemned the arrest and called on the Spanish court to free Taysir Allouni.[132] Websites such as Alony Solidarity were created to support Allouni.
United Kingdom[link]
UK officials, like their US counterparts, strongly protested against Al Jazeera's coverage of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Al Jazeera stated that the coalition leaders were taking exception because its reporting made it more difficult for both countries to manage the way the war was being reported.[79]
United States[link]
Since 9/11 U.S. officials have claimed an anti-American bias to Al Jazeera's news coverage.[79][133] The station first gained widespread attention in the West following the September 11, 2001 attacks, when it broadcast videos in which Osama bin Laden and Sulaiman Abu Ghaith defended and justified the attacks. This led to significant controversy and accusations by the United States government that Al Jazeera was engaging in propaganda on behalf of terrorists. Al Jazeera countered that it was merely making information available without comment, and several western television channels later followed suit in broadcasting portions of the tapes. At an 3 October 2001 press conference, Colin Powell tried to persuade the emir of Qatar to shut down Al Jazeera.[134][135][136]
On 13 November 2001, during the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, a U.S. missile strike destroyed Al Jazeera's office in Kabul. There were no casualties.[77] On 12 October 2008, Al Jazeera broadcast interviews with people attending a Sarah Palin 2008 United States presidential election rally in St. Clairsville, Ohio, with interviewees making comments about Barack Obama such as "he regards white people as trash" and "I'm afraid if he wins, the blacks will take over". The report received over 2 million views on YouTube[137] and elicited comment by Colin Powell: "Those kind of images going out on Al Jazeera are killing us."[138] Following this the Washington Post ran an op-ed,[139] claiming the news channel was deliberately encouraging "anti-American sentiment overseas",[139] which was criticized by Al Jazeera as "a gratuitous and uninformed shot at Al Jazeera's motives", as the report was just one of "hundreds of hours of diverse coverage".[138]
Detention of Sami Al Hajj[link]
Main article: Sami Al Hajj
Al Jazeera cameraman Sami Al Hajj, a Sudanese national, was detained while in transit to Afghanistan in December 2001, and up until May 2008 was held, without charge, as an enemy combatant in Camp Delta at Guantánamo Bay. The reasons for his detention remain unknown, although the U.S.' official statement on all detainees is that they are security threats. Reporters Without Borders have repeatedly expressed concern over Al Hajj's detention,[140] mentioned Al Hajj in their Annual Worldwide Press Freedom Index,[141] and launched a petition for his release.[142] On 23 November 2005, Sami Al Hajj's lawyer Clive Stafford-Smith reported that, during (125 of 130) interviews, U.S. officials had questioned al-Hajj as to whether Al Jazeera was a front for al-Qaeda.[143] Al-Hajj has since expressed plans to launch legal action against former U.S. President George W. Bush for his treatment while in Guantanamo. According to Smith, these accusations include having been beaten and sexually assaulted during his incarceration.
Satellite disruption[link]
During the 2010 FIFA World Cup opening game, Al Jazeera Sports' transmission in the Arab world went down without explanation in the first half, while the second half transmission was patchy. Al Jazeera and FIFA said they were working to figure out the cause of the disruption to Al Jazeera's official broadcasting rights.[144] The British newspaper The Guardian reported that evidence points toward jamming by the Jordanian government.[145]
Documentaries[link]

Al Jazeera's coverage of the invasion of Iraq was the focus of an award-winning 2004 documentary film, Control Room by Egyptian-American director Jehane Noujaim.
In July 2003, PBS broadcast a documentary, called Exclusive to al-Jazeera on its program Wide Angle.[146]
In 2008, Al Jazeera filmed Egypt: A nation in waiting, which documented trends in Egypt's political history and foreshadowed the Egyptian Revolution of 2011.[147]
Another documentary, Al-Jazeera, An Arab Voice for Freedom or Demagoguery? The UNC Tour[148] was filmed two months after the September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack.

Awards and accolades[link]

1999 Prince Claus Award for "Creating Spaces of Freedom", in Amsterdam
In December 1999, Ibn Rushd (Averoes) Fund for Freedom of Thought in Berlin awarded the "Ibn Rushd Award" for media and journalism for the year to Al Jazeera.[149]
In March 2003, Al Jazeera was awarded by Index on Censorship for its "courage in circumventing censorship and contributing to the free exchange of information in the Arab world."[150]
In April 2004, the Webby Awards nominated Al Jazeera as one of the five best news Web sites, along with BBC News, National Geographic, RocketNews and The Smoking Gun. According to Tifanny Schlain, the founder of the Webby Awards, this caused a controversy as [other media organisations] "felt it was a risk-taking site".[151]
In 2004, Al Jazeera was voted by brandchannel.com readers as the fifth most influential global brand behind Apple Computer, Google, Ikea and Starbucks.[152]
During the 2011 Egyptian protests, the online magazine Salon.com wrote that "Al Jazeera's Egypt coverage embarrasses U.S. cable news channels.",[153] and WikiLeaks commented on their Twitter feed that "Yes, we may have helped Tunisia, Egypt. But let us not forget the elephant in the room: Al Jazeera + sat dishes".[154]

Recognition by Secretary Clinton[link]
On 4 March 2011, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that Al Jazeera provided more informative news coverage than the opinion-driven coverage of American mass media.[155] Most American media outlets declined comment. Michael Clemente of Fox News called the comments "curious", while not directly refuting them.
Secretary Clinton's remarks contrast dramatically to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's complaints of bias early in the previous decade.[156]
Competitors[link]

In response to Al Jazeera, a group of Saudi investors created Al Arabiya in the first quarter of 2003. Despite (especially initial) skepticism over the station's Saudi funding (cf. History) and a perception of censorship of anti-Saudi content,[157] Al Arabiya has successfully emulated Al Jazeera, garnered a significant audience share, and has also gotten similarly involved in controversy – Al Arabiya has been severely criticised by the Iraqi and US authorities and has also had journalists killed on the job.[158]
In order to counter a perceived bias of Al Jazeera, the U.S. government in 2004 founded Al Hurra ("the free one"). Al Hurra is forbidden to broadcast to the US under the provisions of the Smith–Mundt Act. A Zogby poll found that 1% of Arab viewers watch Al Hurra as their first choice.[159] while an Ipsos-MENA poll from March–May 2008 showed that Alhurra was drawing more viewers in Iraq than Al Jazeera.[160] Citing these figures, Alvin Snyder referred to Alhurra as a "go to" network in Iraq.[161]
Since the launch of Al Jazeera English, Al Jazeera directly competes with BBC World and CNN International, as do a growing number of other international broadcasters such as France 24, NHK World, and Russia Today.
Another competitor is Al-Alam, Established in 2003 by Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, it broadcasts continuously. It seeks to address the most challenging issues of the Muslim and Arab world and the Middle East.
A further competitor is the Rusiya Al-Yaum channel – the first Russian TV news channel broadcasting in Arabic and headquartered in Moscow, Russia. Rusiya Al-Yaum started broadcasting on 4 May 2007 at 7:00 (Moscow time). The Channel is established and operated by RIA Novosti, the same news agency that launched Russia Today TV in December 2005 to deliver a Russian perspective on news to English-speaking audiences, and "Rusiya Al-Yaum" is indeed a translation of "Russia Today" into Arabic.
The BBC launched BBC Arabic Television on 11 March 2008, an Arabic-language news channel in North Africa and the Middle East.[162] This is the second time that the BBC has launched an Arabic language TV channel; as mentioned above, the demise of the original BBC World Service Arabic TV channel had at least contributed to the founding of the original Al Jazeera Arabic TV channel.
When Euronews started broadcasting its programs in Arabic on 12 July 2008, it entered into competition with Al Jazeera. Arabic is the eighth language in which Euronews is broadcast, after English, French, German, Russian, Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese.

Network[link]
Al Jazeera operates a number of specialty channels besides its original flagship news channel. As of early 2007, the Al Jazeera network's TV channels include:[163]




Launched in
Website


Al Jazeera
the original international Arabic-language 24h news channel
1 November 1996
aljazeera.net/channel


Al Jazeera Sports
a popular Arabic-language sports channel
2003
aljazeerasport.net


Al Jazeera Sports +1
2004


Al Jazeera Sports +2
2004


Al Jazeera Sports +3
2008


Al Jazeera Sports +4
2008


Al Jazeera Sports +5
August 2009


Al Jazeera Sports +6
August 2009


Al Jazeera Sports +7
August 2009


Al Jazeera Sports +8
August 2009


Al Jazeera Sports HD



Al Jazeera Mubasher (a.k.a. Al Jazeera Live)
a live politics and public interest channel (similar to C-SPAN, Houses of the Oireachtas Channel or BBC Parliament), which broadcasts conferences in real time without editing or commentary
2005
mubasher.aljazeera.net


Al Jazeera Children's Channel (a.k.a. JCC)
a children's interest channel
2005
jcctv.net


Al Jazeera English
a global English-language 24h news channel
2006
aljazeera.com


Al Jazeera Documentary Channel
an Arabic language documentary channel
2007
doc.aljazeera.net


Al Jazeera Training Center
an Arabic language Training Center

training.aljazeera.net


Al Jazeera Mubasher Misr
a version of Al Jazeera Mubasher focused on Egypt
2011
mubasher-misr.aljazeera.net


Al Jazeera Balkans
a version of Al Jazeera in the Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian language(s) stationed in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina catering to and broadcasting around the Balkans
2011
balkans.aljazeera.com


References[link]


^ Listening Post. "Al Jazeera's change of guard – Listening Post". Al Jazeera English. http://aljazeera.com/programmes/listeningpost/2011/09/201192473817775267.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ David Lepeska and David Lepeska (25 May 2010). "Al Jazeera accuses Nato over arrest of journalists in Afghanistan – The National". Thenational.ae. http://www.thenational.ae/news/worldwide/middle-east/al-jazeera-accuses-nato-over-arrest-of-journalists-in-afghanistan. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "60 Minutes: Inside Al Jazeera". CBS News. 11 February 2009. http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2001/10/10/60minutes/main314278.shtml. Retrieved 26 August 2011. 
^ Campbell, Deborah (October, 2009). "The Most Hated Name in News". The Walrus. http://www.walrusmagazine.com/articles/2009.10-media-the-most-hated-name-in-news/2/. Retrieved 26 August 2011. 
^ Whitaker, Brian (7 February 2003). "Battle station". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/2003/feb/07/iraqandthemedia.afghanistan. Retrieved 26 August 2011. 
^ "AL JAZEERA TV: The History of the Controversial Middle East News Station Arabic News Satellite Channel History of the Controversial Station". Allied-media.com. http://allied-media.com/aljazeera/jazeera_history.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Robert Fisk: The Independent, 2 November 2011. Retrieved 5 November 2011
^ Naomi Sakr, 2001. Satellite Realms: Transnational Television, Globalization & the Middle East. London: I.B. Tauris, pp.57, Books.google.com
^ a b Hugh Miles, 2005. Al-Jazeera: The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel that is Challenging the West. New York: Grove Press, p.346, Books.Google.com
^ Naomi Sakr, 2001. Satellite Realms: Transnational Television, Globalization & the Middle East. London: I.B. Tauris, pp.58, Books.Google.com
^ Hugh Miles, 2005. Al-Jazeera: The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel that is Challenging the West. New York: Grove Press, p.347, Books.Google.com
^ Qatar's Al-Jazeera livens up Arab TV scene BBC News – Monitoring; published Thursday, 7 January 1999
In defense of al-Jazeera MSNBC; by Michael Moran; published 18 October 2001
^ "Tutwiler's mission impossible". Web.archive.org. 27 April 2006. http://web.archive.org/web/20060427171936/http://www.washtimes.com/commentary/20040506-085117-7996r.htm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ According to pravda.ru Pravda.ru, a tabloid-style website unrelated to the original Pravda, "Al Jazeera received $20,000 per minute for Bin Laden's speech."
^ Al-Jazeera – "The opinion, and the other opinion" – Sustaining a Free Press in the Middle EastPDF (966 KiB) by Kahlil Byrd and Theresse Kawarabayashi; MIT's Media in Transition 3; published 2–4 May 2003
^ "Arabic in Graphic Design: Al Jazeera's Cartouche". Fight.Boredom. Cloudjammer Creative Network. 18 February 2008. http://www.fightboredom.net/2008/02/arabic-in-graphic-design-al-jazeeras.html. Retrieved 5 November 2008. 
^ a b c Books of our Time: Al-Jazeera at Google Video; TV programme feat. Lawrence Velvel, Dean of the Mass. School of Law, interviewing author Hugh Miles who reveals a lot about the channel (a, c: 48:30, b: 55:00)
^ a b c El-Nawawy and Iskandar. Al-Jazeera: How the free Arab News Network Scooped the World and Changed the Middle East. Westview.  cf. Further reading
^ "The Minotaur of 'Contextual Objectivity': War coverage and the pursuit of accuracy with appeal". Tbsjournal.com. http://www.tbsjournal.com/Archives/Fall02/Iskandar.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ BBC in news deal with Arabic TV BBC News, published 17 January 2003
^ a b The Rise of Al Jazeera[dead link]PDF (502 KiB) by Nicolas Eliades; Peace & Conflict Monitor; University for Peace
Qatar's Al-Jazeera TV: The Power of Free Speech[dead link]
^ E.g. in 1999, New York Times reporter Thomas L. Friedman called Al-Jazeera "the freest, most widely watched TV network in the Arab world." – Friedman, Thomas L. (12 February 1999). "Fathers and Sons". New York Times: A27. 
^ "Al Jazeera and Bin Laden". BBC News. 14 November 2002. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/2460705.stm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ CJR.org, Does the Path to Middle East Peace Stop in Doha?
^ "Seizing a Moment, Al Jazeera Galvanizes Arab Frustration", New York Times, 27 January 2011
^ "Afshinrattansi.com". Afshinrattansi.com. http://www.afshinrattansi.com/. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ aljazeera.com[dead link]
^ "Al Jazeera turns its signal West". Web.archive.org. 10 July 2005. http://web.archive.org/web/20050710010536/http://www.cnn.com/2005/WORLD/meast/07/04/aljazeera.spread.ap/index.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Is Al Jazeera Alternative? Mainstreaming Alterity and Assimilating Discourses of Dissent". Tbsjournal.com. 22 July 2003. http://www.tbsjournal.com/Iskandar.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Audience Demographics and Viewership Profile[dead link]
^ Release: We break 100 million barrier[dead link]
^ "Al-Jazeera English gets CRTC approval". Canada: CBC. 26 November 2009. http://www.cbc.ca/arts/tv/story/2009/11/26/al-jazeera.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al Jazeera makes its Balkan début". Deutsche Welle. 22 September 2010. http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,6031138,00.html. 
^ "Al-Jazeera buys TV station in Turkey" b92.net 11 February 2011 Link retrieved 11 February 2011
^ Al Jazeera TV Footprint – Coverage[dead link]
^ Grim, Ryan (2011-01-30) Al Jazeera English Blacked Out Across Most Of U.S., The Huffington Post
^ Ronnie Lovler (20 February 2011). "Absence of Al Jazeera English in US is troubling". San Francisco Chronicle. http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/02/20/INHD1HO6NG.DTL. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Key, Peter (22 February 2011). "As world watches Middle East, Al Jazeera lobbies to get on Comcast". http://www.bizjournals.com/philadelphia/news/2011/02/22/as-world-watches-middle-east-al.html#Comments. 
^ "Al Jazeera YouTube Channel". Youtube. 23 November 2006. http://www.youtube.com/profile?user=AlJazeeraEnglish. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Aljazeera.com[dead link]
^ "Roku Channel Store | Netflix, Amazon Video On Demand, Hulu Plus & More on Roku Streaming Player". Roku.com. http://www.roku.com/roku-channel-store. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Watch Al Jazeera English on your PC". Livestation. 5 January 2012. http://livestation.com/channels/3-al_jazeera_english. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Machado, Kenan (7 December 2010). "Al Jazeera English to Broadcast in India". The Wall Street Journal. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703296604576005161024520544.html?mod=googlenews_wsj. 
^ "Al Jazeera English to be available in India – TV – Indian TV – ibnlive". Ibnlive.in.com. http://ibnlive.in.com/news/al-jazeera-launches-english-channel-in-india/203246-44-124.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al Jazeera Livestream". Al Jazeera. http://aljazeera.com/channel/livestreaming. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Al Jazeera English: Live Stream". Al Jazeera English. http://aljazeera.com/watch_now. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Al Jazeera Channel". YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/aljazeera. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Al Jazeera English". YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/user/AlJazeeraEnglish. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ Elisha Brothers convictedPDF (63.1 KiB)
^ a b Al Jazeera and the Net – free speech, but don't say that by John Lettice; The Register; published Monday, 7 April 2003
^ "Owner.roku.com". Owner.roku.com. https://owner.roku.com/Add/newscaster. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Lee, Daniels (11 February 2011). "Al Jazeera on Google TV". Best of Google TV Series. The Official Google TV Blog. http://googletv.blogspot.com/2011/02/al-jazeera-on-google-tv.html. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Al Jazeera Google TV". Al Jazeera. http://apps.aljazeera.net/ajtv. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Al Jazeera LIVE". Market.android.com. https://market.android.com/details?id=com.mobiclip.ajlive. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "cc.aljazeera.net". cc.aljazeera.net. http://cc.aljazeera.net. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Benenson, Fred (13 January 2009). "Al Jazeera Launches Creative Commons Repository". creativecommons.org. http://creativecommons.org/weblog/entry/12049. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ Steuer, Eric (13 January 2009). "Al Jazeera Announces Launch of Free Footage Under Creative Commons License". creativecommons.org. http://creativecommons.org/press-releases/entry/12166. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ Cohen, Noam (11 January 2009). "Al Jazeera provides an inside look at Gaza conflict". International Herald Tribune. http://www.iht.com/articles/2009/01/11/technology/jazeera.php. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ "Al Jazeera Announces Launch of Free Footage under Creative Commons License". Al Jazeera Creative Commons Repository. http://cc.aljazeera.net/content/launch-press-release. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ Andrews, Robert (14 November 2009). "Al Jazeera Offers Creative Commons Video, Lessig Lends Backing". paidcontent.co.uk. http://www.paidcontent.co.uk/entry/419-al-jazeera-offers-creative-commons-video-lessig-lends-backing/. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ Ito, Joi (14 January 2009). "Al Jazeera Launches Creative Commons Repository". joi.ito.com. http://joi.ito.com/weblog/2009/01/14/al-jazeera-laun.html. Retrieved 19 January 2009. 
^ "Submit Your Contributions – Your Media". Al Jazeera English. http://yourmedia.aljazeera.com. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "War on Gaza". Al Jazeera. http://labs.aljazeera.net/warongaza. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ Ekine, Sokari (9 January 2009). "Ushahidi Platform Used to Document Congo, Gaza Crises". MediaShift. Public Broadcasting Service. http://www.pbs.org/mediashift/2009/01/ushahidi-platform-used-to-document-congo-gaza-crises009.html. Retrieved 19 March 2011. 
^ "Aljazeera and ARY Digital Network to launch Aljazeera Urdu | Al Jazeera". Ameinfo.com. 16 November 2006. http://www.ameinfo.com/76550.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Aljazeera Swahili Formally Announce Recruitment". Thejackalnews.com. http://thejackalnews.com/media-news/news-media/810-a-brief-look-al-jazeera-to-open-swahili-service. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al Jazeera acquires Turkey’s Cine 5". Hurriyet Daily News. Turkey. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=al-jazeera-acquires-turkey8217s-cine-5-2011-02-10. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Al Jazeera plans to launch Arab newspaper Arabian Business; published Saturday 4, November 2006
^ RSF strongly condemns ban on al-Jazeera[dead link]
^ Friedman, Matti (13 March 2008). "Israel imposes sanctions on Al-Jazeera". The Boston Globe. http://www.boston.com/news/world/middleeast/articles/2008/03/13/israel_imposes_sanctions_on_al_jazeera/. 
^ "CBN.com". CBN.com. 3 February 2009. http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/insideisrael/2009/February/Govt-Sanctions-on-al-Jazeera-in-Israel-/. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Kessler, Oren (16 August 2011). "'IDF is holding Al Jazeera Kabul bureau chief in W. Bank'". Jerusalem Post. http://www.jpost.com/MiddleEast/Article.aspx?id=234015. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al Jazeera journalist held in Israeli prison". Aljazeera. http://aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2011/08/2011816144147569483.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Al-Jazeera journalist detained by Israel (15 August 2011). "Al-Jazeera journalist detained by Israel". Cpj.org. http://www.cpj.org/2011/08/al-jazeera-journalist-detained-by-israel.php. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al-Jazeera closed in West Bank". BBC News. 15 July 2009. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/8152418.stm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ AP: Ban on Al-Jazeera operations in West Bank lifted[dead link]
^ a b "Al Jazeera Kabul offices hit in U.S. raid". BBC News. 13 November 2001. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1653887.stm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Greenwald, Glenn (2011-11-17) Applying U.S. principles on Internet freedom
^ a b c Al-Jazeera: News channel in the news BBC News; published Saturday, 29 March 2003
^ a b Purnick, Joyce (27 March 2003). "Metro Matters; Censorship Is Patriotism To Big Board". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2003/03/27/nyregion/metro-matters-censorship-is-patriotism-to-big-board.html?pagewanted=1. Retrieved 25 January 2010. 
^ "Al Jazeera banned from NYSE floor". Arab Press Freedom Watch. Archived from the original on 24 November 2005. http://web.archive.org/web/20051124201030/http://www.apfw.org/indexenglish.asp?fname=news%5cenglish%5c12018.htm. 
^ Bhatnagar, Parija (25 March 2003). "Al Jazeera ousted from NYSE". CNN. http://money.cnn.com/2003/03/25/news/nyse_aljazeera. 
^ "Al Jazeera banned from two Wall Street exchanges (26 March 2003)". Pbs.org. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/media/media_watch/jan-june03/aljazeera_03-26-03.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ 22 August 2006 (22 August 2006). "Journalism.org". Journalism.org. http://www.journalism.org/node/1530. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "CRS Report for Congress". United States Department of State. p. 7. http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/23002.pdf. Retrieved 25 January 2010. 
^ "Al Jazeera Denied Akamai Services". Massachusetts Institute of Technology. http://tech.mit.edu/V123/N17/17aljazeera.17n.html. Retrieved 25 January 2010. 
^ "Al Jazeera 'hit by missile'". BBC News. 8 April 2003. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/2927527.stm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "U.S. Bombing Raid Kills Three Journalists in Baghdad". Fox News. http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,83503,00.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ The war on Al Jazeera Comment by Dima Tareq Tahboub, the widow of Tareq Ayyoub, The Guardian, 4 October 2003
^ Under Pressure, Qatar May Sell Jazeera Station, New York Times, 30 January 2005
^ "MSN.com". MSNBC. 22 November 2005. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/10153489/. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Did the U.S. murder these Journalists? by Robert Fisk; SF Bay Guardian; published 26 April 2003
^ Twitter.com[dead link]
^ "blogs.aljazeera.com". blogs.aljazeera.com. http://blogs.aljazeera.com/middle-east/2011/01/29/live-blog-301-egypt-protests. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "aljazeera.com". Aljazeera. http://aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2011/01/2011131123648291703.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Manilanews.net". Manilanews.net. 29 January 2011. http://www.manilanews.net/story/737532/ht/Media-should-be-able-to-report-freely-in-Egypt-says-al-Jazeera. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Ryan Lucas And Sarah El Deeb. "Huffingtonpost.com". Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/12/al-jazeera-cameraman-ali-hassan-al-jaber-killed-libya_n_834947.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Al Jazeera English to close China bureau". 8 May 2012. http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2012/05/201257195136608563.html. Retrieved 8 May 2012. 
^ Al-Jazeera hacker pleads guilty BBC News; published Friday, 13 June 2003
^ Al-Jazeera websites 'hit by hackers' by Dominic Timms; Guardian Unlimited; published Wednesday, 26 March 2003
^ Al-Jazeera cracker charged by John Leyden; The Register; published Thursday, 12 June 2003
^ Southern California Man Who Hijacked Al Jazeera Website Agrees to Plead Guilty to Federal Charges
Guilty plea in Al Jazeera site hack
Al Jazeera hacker gets community service
^ Robert, Booth (6 December 2010). "WikiLeaks cables claim al-Jazeera changed coverage to suit Qatari foreign policy". The Guardian (London: Guardian Media Group). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/05/wikileaks-cables-al-jazeera-qatari-foreign-policy. Retrieved 21 December 2010. 
^ Al Jazeera under fire[dead link]
^ a b "Rumsfeld blames Al Jazeera over Iraq". Aljazeera. http://aljazeera.com/English/archive/archive?ArchiveId=12703. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Was George Bush serious about attack on Al Jazeera?[dead link]
^ by Brent Bozell at 12:30 ET during the Fox Online program (YouTube video[dead link])
^ The Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 November 2005[dead link]
^ "Bahrain bans Al Jazeera TV". BBC News. 10 May 2002. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/world/middle_east/1980191.stm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Bahrain blocks Al Jazeera team". Al Jazeera. 19 May 2010. http://aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2010/05/2010519123656935254.html. Retrieved 31 December 2011. 
^ Ahmed Al Samany (2 November 2011). "حقوقي بحريني: "استقبال "العسكري" للملك رسال سيئة.. والجزيرة تجاهلت أحداث البحرين"". Tahrir newspaper. http://tahrirnews.com/%D8%AE%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%AC-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%AF/%D8%AD%D9%82%D9%88%D9%82%D9%8A-%D8%A8%D8%AD%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%86%D9%8A-%C2%AB%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%AA%D9%82%D8%A8%D8%A7%D9%84-%C2%AB%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B3%D9%83%D8%B1%D9%8A%C2%BB-%D9%84%D9%84%D9%85%D9%84/#.TrEbQEK3etk.twitter. Retrieved 27 December 2011. 
^ "TBSjournal.com". TBSjournal.com. http://www.tbsjournal.com/Archives/Fall00/news.htm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Almasryalyoum.com[dead link]
^ "Google.com". Google. http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=auto&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.almasryalyoum.com%2Fopinion%2F%25D9%2583%25D9%2584-%25D9%2587%25D8%25B0%25D8%25A7-%25D9%2588%25D9%2586%25D8%25B4%25D9%2583%25D9%2588. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "albawaba.com". albawaba.com. http://albawaba.com/en/news/al-jazeera-files-lawsuit-against-egyptian-al-ahram-newspaper. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Iloubnan.info
^ Shadid, Anthony; Kirkpatrick, David D. (30 January 2011). "Opposition Rallies to ElBaradei as Military Reinforces in Cairo". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/31/world/middleeast/31-egypt.html. Retrieved 31 January 2011. 
^ El Deeb, Sarah; Al-Shalchi, Hadeel (1 February 2011). "Egypt Crowds Unmoved by Mubarak's Vow Not To Run". Associated Press (via ABC News). http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory?id=12815050. Retrieved 1 February 2011. 
^ "CPJ News Alert – Missing journalist's wife demands more information". Cpj.org. 3 April 2003. http://www.cpj.org/news/2003/Iraq03apr03na.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Militia dig in as fighting rages in holy city The Sydney Morning Herald; published 9 August 2004
^ Iraqi Government Shuts Al-Jazeera Station[dead link] by Rawya Rageh; Associated Press; published 7 August 2004
^ Iraq extends al-Jazeera ban and raids offices by Luke Harding; The Guardian; published Monday 6 September 2004
^ Al-Jazeera Under Fire: IFJ Condemns Iraqi Ban and Canada’s "Bizarre" Restrictions International Federation of Journalists; published 6 September 2004
^ Kuwait shuts down Al Jazeera office
^ (English) aljazeera.com
^ Somalipressreview.com[dead link]
^ Al-Jazeera Arrest CNN; published 5 September 2003
^ Spanish judge orders Al-Jazeera reporter to jail by Mar Roman; Associated Press; published Thursday, 11 September 2003
^ Aljazeera reporter placed in detention Al Jazeera; published Wednesday, 19 January 2005
^ Special Reports – Taysir Alluni Al Jazeera
^ A fight for justice – Al Jazeera[dead link]
^ e.g. Al Jazeera journalist re-arrested 10 days before trial verdict[dead link]
^ World and America watching different wars Christian Science Monitor
^ Colin Powell, news conference with Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Thani, 3 October 2001, Washington, D.C.
^ FAIR (December 2001). "Patriotism & Censorship:"Reining in" journalism". http://www.fair.org/index.php?page=1089. 
^ Vedantam, Shankar (31 January 2005). "Qatar Advances Plans To Privatize Al-Jazeera". Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A49759-2005Jan30.html. Retrieved 23 April 2010. 
^ Kauffman, Casey (13 Oct 08). "Misconceptions of Obama fuel Republican campaign – 13 Oct 08". Al Jazeera. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRqcfqiXCX0. 
^ a b Tony Burman, Managing Director of Al Jazeera English (24 October 2008). "Letter to The Washington Post". http://aljazeera.com/aboutus/2008/10/20081024214239215281.html. 
^ a b King, Colbert I. (18 October 2008). "A Rage No One Should Be Stoking". Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/10/17/AR2008101702496.html. 
^ Call for Sami Al-Haj’s release from Guantanamo after lawyer provides new information[dead link]
Call for release of cameraman Sami Al Hajj as he completes fourth year in Guantanamo[dead link]
Call for Al-Jazeera cameraman's release from Guantanamo on fifth anniversary of arrival of first detainees[dead link]
^ North Korea, Turkmenistan, Eritrea the worst violators of press freedom[dead link]
^ Sami Al Haj[dead link] – Petition – Reporters Sans Frontieres
^ More news is good news[dead link] at New Age BD
^ "aljazeera.com". Aljazeera. http://aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2010/06/2010612134143244810.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Foul play: how al-Jazeera's live World Cup football coverage got in a jam" The Guardian, 29 September 2010
^ Benjamin says: (10 July 2003). "Wide Angle – Exclusive to Al Jazeera". Pbs.org. http://www.pbs.org/wnet/wideangle/shows/aljazeera/. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Egypt: A Nation in Waiting Retrieved 15 February 2011.
^ "Al-Jazeera, An Arab Voice for Freedom or Demagoguery? The UNC Tour". Unc.edu. http://www.unc.edu/~kindemg/aljazeera.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Ibn Rushd prize 1999". Ibn-rushd.org. 24 April 2000. http://www.ibn-rushd.org/prize99/pr99engl.htm. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Index: Free speaking voices in the wilderness[dead link]
^ "The Webby Awards". Web.archive.org. 29 May 2006. http://web.archive.org/web/20060529172442/http://www.webbyawards.com/press/article.php?id=2. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "Apple bites big". Brandchannel.com. http://www.brandchannel.com/features_effect.asp?pf_id=248. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Pareene, Alex (2011-01-28) Al Jazeera's Egypt coverage embarrasses U.S. cable news channels, Salon.com
^ "Yes, we may have helped Tunisia, Egypt. But let us not forget the elephant in the room: Al Jazeera + sat dishes". Wikileaks/Twitter. 29 January 2011
^ Weprin, Alex (3 March 2011). "Mediabistro.com". Mediabistro.com. http://www.mediabistro.com/tvnewser/hillary-clinton-al-jazeera-real-news-instead-of-a-million-commercials_b55569. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Yahoo! News[dead link]
^ Attacks on the Press 2004: Saudi Arabia. "Attacks on the Press – 2004: Mideast". Cpj.org. http://www.cpj.org/attacks04/mideast04/saudi.html. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ Profile: Al Arabiya TV
Shock over Iraqi reporter's death
^ "Time for the Last Hurrah for US' Al-Hurra". Arabnews.com. 16 February 2006. http://www.arabnews.com/?page=7&section=0&article=77899&d=16&m=2&y=2006. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "USCpublicdiplomacy.com". USCpublicdiplomacy.com. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.com/index.php/newswire/cpdblog_detail/alhurra_locates_the_arab_street/#read_comments. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "MEtimes.com". MEtimes.com. http://www.metimes.com/Opinion/2009/01/09/al-hurra_locates_the_arab_street/9311/. Retrieved 12 April 2012. 
^ "BBC launches Arabic TV channel". BBC News. 11 March 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/7288062.stm. Retrieved 23 April 2010. 
^ Lyngsat page showing, among others, Al Jazeera's channels
Lyngsat page showing Qatari TV channels, including Al Jazeera's


Further reading[link]

Abdul-Mageed, M. M. (2008). Online News Sites and Journalism 2.0: Reader Comments on Al Jazeera Arabic. TripleC: Cognition, Communication, Co-operation, 6(2), 59–76. Abstract and full article: Blogspot.com
Abdul-Mageed, M. M., and Herring, S. C. (2008). Arabic and English news coverage on aljazeera.net. In: F. Sudweeks, H. Hrachovec, and C. Ess (Eds.), Proceedings of Cultural Attitudes Towards Technology and Communication 2008 (CATaC'08), Nîmes, France, 24 June-27. Abstract and full article: Blogspot.com[dead link]
M. Arafa, P.J. Auter, & K. Al-Jaber (2005), Hungry for news and information: Instrumental use of Al-Jazeera TV among viewers in the Arab World and Arab Diaspora, Journal of Middle East Media, 1(1), 21–50
Marc Lynch (2005), Voices of the New Arab Public: Iraq, al-Jazeera, and Middle East Politics Today, Columbia University Press
N. Miladi (2004), Al-Jazeera, ISBN 1-86020-593-3
Hugh Miles (2004), Al Jazeera: How Arab TV news challenged the world, Abacus, ISBN 0-349-11807-8,

aka Al Jazeera: How Arab TV News challenges America, Grove Press, ISBN 0-8021-1789-9 (2005 reprint),
aka Al Jazeera: The inside story of the Arab news channel that is challenging the West, Grove Press, ISBN 0-8021-4235-4 (2006 reprint)


Mohammed el-Nawawy and Adel Iskandar (2002), Al-Jazeera: How the Free Arab News Network Scooped the World and Changed the Middle East, Westview Press, ISBN 0-8133-4017-9,

aka Al-Jazeera: The story of the network that is rattling governments and redefining modern journalism, aka Al-Jazeera: Ambassador of the Arab World, Westview Press/Basic Books/Perseus Books, ISBN 0-8133-4149-3 (2003 reprint)


Erik C. Nisbet, Matthew C. Nisbet, Dietram Scheufele, and James Shanahan (2004), Public diplomacy, television news, and Muslim opinionPDF (187 KiB), Harvard International Journal of Press/Politics 9 (2), 11–37
Donatella Della Ratta (2005), Al Jazeera. Media e società arabe nel nuovo millennio (Italian), Bruno Mondadori, ISBN 8-8424-9282-5
Naomi Sakr (2002), Satellite Realms: Transnational Television, Globalization and the Middle East, I.B. Tauris, ISBN 1-86064-689-1
Tatham, Steve (2006), Losing Arab Hearts & Minds: The Coalition, Al-Jazeera & Muslim Public Opinion, Hurst & Co (London), Published 1 January 2006, ISBN 0-9725572-3-7
Mohamed Zayani (2005), The Al Jazeera Phenomenon: Critical Perspectives On New Arab Media, Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1-59451-126-8
Augusto Valeriani (2005), Il giornalismo arabo, (Italian) Roma, Carocci ISBN 88-430-3280-1

External links[link]

Official Al Jazeera websites:

Al Jazeera English website
Al Jazeera English mobile website
Al Jazeera English TV-optimized website (for Google TV)
(Arabic) Al Jazeera Arabic website
(Arabic) Al Jazeera Arabic mobile website
Template:Bs, sr icon Al Jazeera Balkans website


Official Al Jazeera live streams:

Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera Arabic


(Arabic) Watching Al Jazeera Online




Al Jazeera English Live Stream
Al Jazeera English Live Stream on YouTube
(Arabic) Al Jazeera Arabic Live Stream
(Arabic) Al Jazeera Arabic Live Stream on YouTube


Al Jazeera: demographics, programs, history
Al Jazeera demographics
Al Jazeera, Radio Sawa Founders Report on Media in the Middle East, UCLA Ronald W. Burkle Center for International Relations, posted 11/4/2003, retrieved 01/26/2007
US-Arab Relations – 4 October 2006 lecture by Hafez Al Mirazi, host of the Al Jazeera (Arabic) talk show "From Washington", at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (Realplayer video).
Arabic in Graphic Design: Al Jazeera's Cartouche, an interactive guide to the Arabic calligraphy of the network's logo.
Unofficial Al Jazeera live streams (during down times):

Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera Arabic
Al Jazeera Arabic Live tv
Al Jazeera English Live tv


Former Al Jazeera director general Waddah Khanfar at London Frontline Club interviewed by Jon Snow of Channel 4 News, 18 January 2012




Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Al Jazeera










v
t
e


Al Jazeera Network






News



Al Jazeera
Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera Mubasher
Al Jazeera Urdu
Al Jazeera Balkans








Sports



Al Jazeera Sports
Al Jazeera Sports +1
Al Jazeera Sports +2
Al Jazeera Sports +3
Al Jazeera Sports +4
Al Jazeera Sports HD








Documentaries



Al Jazeera Documentary Channel








Children



Al Jazeera Children's Channel
















v
t
e


International news channels






Africa



Al Nile
Africa Independent Television
A24 news channel
MSNBC Africa
Orbit News
SABC News International
Nile TV International





Specialty news




CNBC Africa











Asia



Aaj Tak
Aaj TV
ABP Ananda
ABP Majha
ABP News
ABS-CBN News Channel
AksyonTV
Al Arabiya
Al Ekhbariya
Al Jazeera
Al Jazeera English
Al-Alam News Network
Asianet News
Astro Awani
ARY News
ATN News
BeritaSatu TV
Bernama TV
Blue Ocean Network
CCTV-13
CCTV News
Channel NewsAsia
Channel 10
CNC (CNC World)
CNN-IBN
CSB News
CTi News
CTV News Channel
DD News
Dawn News
Era News
ETTV News
Express 24/7
Express News
FTV News
GEO News
GMA News TV
Headlines Today
HispanTV
IBN-7
IBN-Lokmat
i-CABLE News Channel (Hong Kong)
Indus News
IRINN
Jewish News One
Kolkata TV
Mahuaa Khobor
Manorama News
MetroTV
MNC News
NDTV 24x7
NDTV India
Ne Bangla
News One
News Time
NewsX
NHK World TV
OSN News
Phoenix InfoNews Channel
Press TV
PTV News
SET News
Sky News Arabia
talktv
Tara Newz
Times Now
TV9 (Kannada)
TV9 (Telugu)
TVBN
TVBS-NEWS
tvOne
Waqt News
Worldview Broadcasting Channel
YTN
Zee News
Zee 24 Taas
24 Ghanta





Specialty news




Business Plus
Bloomberg UTV
CNBC Arabiya
CNBC Asia
CNBC Awaaz
CNBC-TV18
CNBC Pakistan
ET Now
MNC Business
NDTV Profit
Nikkei CNBC
SBS-CNBC
TTV Finance
Unique Business News











Europe



3/24
5 Kanal
Ada TV (TRNC)
Antena 3 (Romania)
BBC Arabic Television
BBC Persian Television
BBC News
BBC World News
BFM TV
Canal 24 Horas
Canal Nou 24
ClassTV MSNBC
CNN Türk
ČT24
DW
Euronews
France 24
I-Télé
Kanal 5
LCI
N24 Germany
N24 Romania
NTV (Turkey)
N-tv
OSN News
Polsat News
RBC TV
Rai News
Realitatea TV Romania
RTÉ News Now
RTP Informação
RT
Russia 24
Rusiya Al-Yaum
SIC Notícias
Sky News
Sky TG24
Superstacja
SVT 24
TA3
TV 2 News
TV 2 Nyhetskanalen
TVI 24
TVN24
TVP Info





Specialty news




Class CNBC
CNBC Europe
CNBC-e
TV Biznes
TVN CNBC











North America



ABC News Now
Caribbean Media Corporation
CBC News Network
CNN
CNN en Español
CNN International
CTV News Channel
Fox News Channel
HLN
LCN
MSNBC
RDI
Sun News Network
VOA TV
Milenio TV
Foro TV





Specialty news




Argent
Bloomberg Television
Business News Network
CNBC
CNBC World
ESPNews
Fox Business Network
The Weather Channel











Oceania



ABC News 24
Australia Network
Sky News Australia
Sky News New Zealand
TVNZ 7





Specialty news




Sky News Business Channel











South America



América 24
Band News
Canal i
Canal 5 Noticias
Canal 26
Canal N
CNC3
CNN Chile
Globovisión
Globo News
HLN
Nuestra Tele Noticias 24 Horas
Record News
teleSUR
Todo Noticias
TVN 24 Horas





Specialty news




CNBC Latin America











Related topics



International broadcasting
Technical: TVRO
Cable television
Business channels
Television standards conversion









http://wn.com/Al_Jazeera
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Al Jazeera
http://cs.wn.com/Al-Džazíra
http://id.wn.com/Al Jazeera
http://es.wn.com/Al Jazeera
http://ru.wn.com/Аль-Джазира
http://pt.wn.com/Al Jazira
http://pl.wn.com/Al-Dżazira
http://fr.wn.com/Al Jazeera
http://de.wn.com/Al Jazeera
http://hi.wn.com/अल जज़ीरा
http://nl.wn.com/Al Jazeera


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Jazeera
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all














Al Jazeera English (AJE) is an international 24-hour English-language news and current affairs TV channel headquartered in Doha, Qatar. It is the sister channel of the Arabic-language Al Jazeera.
The station broadcasts news features and analysis, documentaries, live debates, current affairs, business, technology, and sports. The station claims to be the first global high-definition television network.
Al Jazeera English is the world's first English-language news channel headquartered in the Middle East. The channel aims to provide both a regional voice and a global perspective to a potential world audience of over one billion English speakers who don't have an Anglo-American worldview. Instead of being run under central command, news management rotates around broadcasting centers in Doha and London. Complete news bulletins from Kuala Lumpur stopped on 30 September 2010 and from Washington D.C on 28 January 2011. These have been replaced by news from Doha, with news inserts from Kuala Lumpur ending in early 2011 and Washington D.C on 15 April 2012. Al Jazeera English is one of the few foreign media outlets to have agencies in Gaza and Harare.










go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























