Brazil Nightclub Fire Kills At Least 233 People (VIDEOS, PHOTOS)













 
































HuffPost's QuickRead...




Loading...

 










HuffPost's QuickRead...
















Loading...

 























Middle East Protests



iPhone app
iPad app
Android phone app
Android tablet app
More





Log in
Create Account






Notifications













Profile
Settings


                            Logout                        









 






    February  1, 2013    












Edition: U.S. 




CA Canada
                            



FR France
                            



IT Italia
                            



ES España
                            



US United States
                            



UK United Kingdom
                            









































FRONT PAGE



Politics


 


HHS Announces New Details On Contraception Rule13k


WATCH: Hagel And McCain Have Testy Exchange Over Iraq Surge20k


Christie: 'The Stupidest Thing The Republican Party Ever Did!'3k


'Accept The Facts'7k


Brown Not Running For Senate3k






Go to Politics 




More in Politics

Pollster
Politics Blog
Speculatron
Off The Bus
Election Maps

You might also like

World
Green
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Gay Voices








Business


 


Applebee's FIRES 'I Give God 10%' Tip Receipt Waitress8k


'Glitch' Excludes Poor From Obamacare Overhaul15k


Woman Claims She Was Fired For Missing Work For Cancer Treatment 814


Disgraced CEO Sentenced To 50 Years In Prison588


Justice Department Sues To Stop Big Beer Merger2k






Go to Business 




More in Business

Small Business
Money

You might also like

World
Tech
Media
Arts
Sports
Weird News
Crime








Entertainment


 


Dakota Fanning On Her First Nude Scene272


Beyonce Silences Critics By Singing National Anthem Live1k


'Star Wars' Star Didn't Get Along With George Lucas233


Justin Bieber Does It Again129


8 Awful Justin Timberlake Movies102






Go to Entertainment 




More in Entertainment

Celebrity
TV

You might also like

Comedy
Arts
Books
Food
Style
Weird News
Moviefone








Media


 


Geraldo Rivera 'Truly Contemplating' Senate Run1k


MSNBC Criticized For Editing Of Controversial Video5k


WATCH: Piers Morgan Enrages Chelsea Handler208


WATCH: Every 2013 Super Bowl Ad So Far59


WATCH: Super Bowl Reporter Asks Drunk Passerby If She Has An STD396






Go to Media 




More in Media

Eat The Press
Calderone: The Backstory

You might also like

Entertainment
TV
Comedy
Arts
Books
Religion
Moviefone








Green


 


Man Finds Smelly Whale Treasure183


How This Animal Could Make You Sick57


PHOTOS: Damage From Tornadoes In Georgia And Tennessee855


Several Dead, Many Injured As Storm Moves East30


8 Invasive Species The U.S. Gave The World15






Go to Green 




More in Green

Energy
Climate Change
Animals
Green Tech
Green Holiday

You might also like

Politics
Food
World
Science
Healthy Living








Tech


 


5 Signs That BlackBerry Is Desperate66


Facebook Ads Fail To Impress157


The Fail Whale Returns83


Why Is This Man Getting A BlackBerry 10 Tattoo!?138


Meet The Two New BlackBerry Phones126






Go to Tech 




More in Tech

TEDWeekends
Social Media

You might also like

Small Business
Green
Science
New York
San Francisco
TechCrunch
Engadget
Joystiq








Arts


 


Calling All Nudists... This Museum Is For You33


A Very Strange Way To Honor The Dead14


LOOK: This GIF Artwork Will Blow Your Mind41


Bizarre Architectural Landscapes62


'Women Don't Paint Very Well' 107






Go to Arts 




More in Arts

Painting
Film
Design
Photography
Theater
Architecture

You might also like

Books
New York
Los Angeles








Travel


 


PHOTOS: Behind The Scenes Of Grand Central On Its 100th Birthday65


PHOTOS: New Orleans' Famed Cemeteries15


PHOTOS: The Best Hotels Ranked98


PHOTOS: London's New Landmark Doesn't Disappoint


PHOTOS: 11 Over-The-Top Valentine's Day Packages14






Go to Travel 




More in Travel

Travel Video
Destinations
Themed Guides
TSA
Airlines

You might also like

Food
Arts
World
GPS for the Soul
Recipes








Food


 


Burger King Admits Burgers Were Possibly Tainted With Horsemeat1k


Chick-Fil-A Sales Soar Despite Bad PR2k


Young People Are Crazy For Yogurt, Study Finds23


Taco Bell-Flavored Doritos?!25


How The Molten Chocolate Cake Made It To Arby's14






Go to Food 




More in Food

Chefs
Restaurants
Food Safety
Fast Food
Wine
Beer

You might also like

Taste
Travel
Green








LIVE






Now
'The Lying Game'




Next
Redefining Sexy




Coming Up
Super Bowl Stimulus?




Coming Up
Brother Outsider




Coming Up
Working Moms Speak Up



Go to HuffPost Live









ALL SECTIONS 



News


Politics
World
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News




Entertainment


Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV
Moviefone




Life & Style


Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Food
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN




Tech & Science


Tech
Science
Green
TEDWeekends
TechCrunch
Engadget
TUAW
Joystiq




Voices


Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact




Local


Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Miami
New York
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Patch.com
Mapquest





Our Mobile Apps

iPhone
iPad
HuffPost Live iPad
Android Phone
Android Tablet











World




Israel-Gaza Conflict
Foreign Affairs
Drug War
Afghanistan War
Syria
World Videos






 

























 






HuffPost Social Reading




Some error occurred




Login with Facebook to see what your friends are reading

Enable Social Reading


i

















 







Settings


Read Share Settings
Share everything I read
Share only things safe for work
Dont share what I'm reading



Read Share History
Learn More



















																				Brazil Nightclub Fire Kills At Least 233 People (VIDEOS, PHOTOS)
									



By JULIANA BARBASSA and MARCO SIBAJA  
											
											01/27/13 10:40 PM ET EST											








 

reddit
stumble

























Get World Alerts:


Sign Up








Follow:



 Brazil,  Video, Brazil Nightclub Fire, Brazil Fire, Brazil Club Fire, Brazil Night Club Fire, Brazil Nightclub Fire Deaths, Brazil Nightclub Fire Injuries, Kiss Club Fire, Kiss Fire, Kiss Nightclub Brazil, Nightclub Fire In Brazil, Santa Maria Brazil, Santa Maria Fire,
									
World News







  









SANTA MARIA, Brazil -- A fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, filling the air in seconds with flames and a thick, toxic smoke that killed more than 230 panicked partygoers, many of whom were caught in a stampede to escape.
Inspectors believe the blaze began when a band's small pyrotechnics show ignited foam sound insulating material on the ceiling, releasing a putrid haze that caused scores of university students to choke to death. Most victims died from smoke inhalation rather than burns in what appeared to be the world's deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade.
Survivors and the police inspector Marcelo Arigony said security guards briefly tried to block people from exiting the club. Brazilian bars routinely make patrons pay their entire tab at the end of the night before they are allowed to leave.
But Arigony said the guards didn't appear to block fleeing patrons for long. "It was chaotic and it doesn't seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died," he told The Associated Press.
Later, firefighters responding to the blaze initially had trouble getting inside the Kiss nightclub because "there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance," Guido Pedroso Melo, commander of the city's fire department, told the O Globo newspaper.
Authorities said band members who were on the stage when the fire broke out later talked with police and confirmed they used pyrotechnics during their show.
Police inspector Sandro Meinerz, who coordinated the investigation at the nightclub, said one band member died after escaping because he returned inside the burning building to save his accordion. The other band members escaped alive because they were the first to notice the fire.
"It was terrible inside – it was like one of those films of the Holocaust, bodies piled atop one another," said Meinerz. "We had to use trucks to remove them. It took about six hours to take the bodies away."
Television images from Santa Maria, a university city of about 260,000 people, showed black smoke billowing out of the Kiss nightclub as shirtless young men who attended the university party joined firefighters using axes and sledgehammers to pound at the hot-pink exterior walls, trying to reach those trapped inside.
Bodies of the dead and injured were strewn in the street and panicked screams filled the air as medics tried to help. There was little to be done; officials said most of those who died were suffocated by smoke within minutes.
Within hours a community gym was a horror scene, with body after body lined up on the floor, partially covered with black plastic as family members identified kin.
Outside the gym police held up personal objects – a black purse, a blue high-heeled shoe – as people seeking information on loved ones crowded around, hoping not to recognize anything being shown them.
Teenagers sprinted from the scene after the fire began, desperately seeking help. Others carried injured and burned friends away in their arms. Many of the victims were under 20 years old, including some minors. About half of those killed were men, about half women.
The party was organized by students from several academic departments from the Federal University of Santa Maria. Such organized university parties are common throughout Brazil.
"There was so much smoke and fire, it was complete panic, and it took a long time for people to get out, there were so many dead," survivor Luana Santos Silva told the Globo TV network.
The fire spread so fast inside the packed club that firefighters and ambulances could do little to stop it, Silva said.
Another survivor, Michele Pereira, told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was near the stage when members of the band lit some sort of flare that started the conflagration.
"The band that was onstage began to use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward," she said. "At that point, the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak, but in a matter of seconds it spread."
Guitarist Rodrigo Martins told Radio Gaucha that the band, Gurizada Fandangueira, started playing at 2:15 a.m. "and we had played around five songs when I looked up and noticed the roof was burning."
"It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it," he said. "When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working."
He confirmed that accordion player Danilo Jacques, 28, died, while the five other members made it out safely.
Police Maj. Cleberson Braida Bastianello said by telephone that the toll had risen to 233 with the death of a hospitalized victim. He said earlier that the death toll was likely made worse because the nightclub appeared to have just one exit through which patrons could exit.
Officials earlier counted 232 bodies that had been brought for identification to a gymnasium in Santa Maria, which is located at the southern tip of Brazil, near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay.
Federal Health Minister Alexandre Padhilha told a news conference that most of the 117 people treated in hospitals had been poisoned by gases they breathed during the fire. Only a few suffered serious burns, he said.
Brazil President Dilma Rousseff arrived to visit the injured after cutting short her trip to a Latin American-European summit in Chile.
"It is a tragedy for all of us," Rousseff said.
Most of the dead apparently were asphyxiated, according to Dr. Paulo Afonso Beltrame, a professor at the medical school of the Federal University of Santa Maria who went to the city's Caridade Hospital to help victims.
Beltrame said he was told the club had been filled far beyond its capacity.
Survivors, police and firefighters gave the same account of a band member setting the ceiling's soundproofing ablaze, he said.
"Large amounts of toxic smoke quickly filled the room, and I would say that at least 90 percent of the victims died of asphyxiation," Beltrame told the AP.
"The toxic smoke made people lose their sense of direction so they were unable to find their way to the exit. At least 50 bodies were found inside a bathroom. Apparently they confused the bathroom door with the exit door."
In the hospital, the doctor "saw desperate friends and relatives walking and running down the corridors looking for information," he said, calling it "one of the saddest scenes I have ever witnessed."
Rodrigo Moura, identified by the newspaper Diario de Santa Maria as a security guard at the club, said it was at its maximum capacity of between 1,000 and 2,000, and partygoers were pushing and shoving to escape.
Santa Maria Mayor Cezar Schirmer declared a 30-day mourning period, and Tarso Genro, the governor of the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul, said officials were investigating the cause of the disaster.
The blaze was the deadliest in Brazil since at least 1961, when a fire that swept through a circus killed 503 people in Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro.
Sunday's fire also appeared to be the worst at a nightclub since December 2000, when a welding accident reportedly set off a fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309.
In 2004, at least 194 people died in a fire at an overcrowded nightclub in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Seven members of a band were sentenced to prison for starting the flames.
A blaze at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, Russia, killed 152 people in December 2009 after an indoor fireworks display ignited a plastic ceiling decorated with branches.
Similar circumstances led to a 2003 nightclub fire that killed 100 people in the United States. Pyrotechnics used as a stage prop by the 1980s rock band Great White set ablaze cheap soundproofing foam on the walls and ceiling of a Rhode Island music venue.
The band performing in Santa Maria, Gurizada Fandangueira, plays a driving mixture of local Brazilian country music styles. Guitarist Martin told Radio Gaucha the musicians are already seeing hostile messages.
"People on the social networks are saying we have to pay for what happened," he said. "I'm afraid there could be retaliation".
___
Sibaja reported from Brasilia. Associated Press writers Stan Lehman and Bradley Brooks contributed to this report from Sao Paulo.

Related on HuffPost: 

Loading Slideshow
Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)People run away as firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)A victim of a fire in a club is carried in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Deivid Dutra/Agencia Freelancer)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)A man carries an injured victim of a fire at the Kiss club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013.  (AP Photo/Agencia RBS)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims cry after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims embrace as they wait for information after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims cry after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012.  (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)Relativies prays in the wake of a victim of the Kiss night club fire at the local cementery on January 27, 2013 in Santa Maria.(JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims react in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Evandro Sturm)Family members and friends stand around coffins containing the remains of victims after the bodies were identified at a gymnasium in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Nabor Goulart)A woman cries over the coffin of her boyfriend at a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Nabor Goulart)Relatives of a victim of the Kiss nightclub blaze mourn him during a wake held at the chapel of the cemetery on January 28, 2013 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Soldiers carry the coffin of a victim of a nightclub blaze in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 28, 2013, where more than 230 people died and 116 more were injured. (JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Relativies and friends of Heitor de Oliveira, one of the victims of the Kiss night club fire, gather around his coffin during the funeral at Santa Rita cementery in Santa Maria, on January 28, 2013. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Livia Oliveira, mother of Heitor, one of the victims of the Kiss night club fire, kisses his coffin during his funeral at Santa Rita cementery in Santa Maria, on January 28, 2013. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives and friends carry the coffins of two brothers, Pedro and Marcelo Salla, who died in a nightclub fire, as they prepare to bury them at a cemetery in Santa Maria, Brazil, Monday, Jan. 28, 2013. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana)Relatives of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve cry at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve cry at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives and friends attend the funeral of Juan Calegaro, one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve, at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Friends of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve put flowers on his grave, at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)
























 






  		Contribute to this Story:  	  

Send us a tip


Send us a photo or video


Suggest a correction






		FOLLOW WORLD  	







Like



71k












 






 Get Alerts








  






Most Popular


Video


Brazil




				SANTA MARIA, Brazil -- A fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, filling the air in seconds with flames and a thick, toxic smoke that killed mo...			

				SANTA MARIA, Brazil -- A fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, filling the air in seconds with flames and a thick, toxic smoke that killed mo...			





 


Related News On Huffington Post:





							 
						


										Brazil Nightclub Fire Safety Becomes Focus After Deadly Blaze
									

										Rio De Janeiro Embeds QR Codes Into Sidewalks To Give Tourist Info
									

										Brazil Nightclub Fire 'Kills At Least 245 People' In Town Of Santa Maria
									

 






                                			Brazil Nightclub Fire Safety Becomes Focus After Deadly Blaze
                                		




		                        
																SANTA MARIA, Brazil — Penny-pinching by a band known for its onstage pyrotechnic displays may have cost more than 230 people their lives at a...                                




 






                                			Rio De Janeiro Embeds QR Codes Into Sidewalks To Give Tourist Info
                                		




		                        
																RIO DE JANEIRO -- Rio de Janeiro is mixing technology with tradition to provide tourists information about the city by embedding bar codes into the...                                




 






                                			Brazil Nightclub Fire 'Kills At Least 245 People' In Town Of Santa Maria
                                		




		                        
																A fire in a Brazilian nightclub has killed at least 245 people with fears that the death toll could rise further, initial reports suggest. The...                                
















Around the Web:
  Rhode Island nightclub fire site donated for memorial to victims ... Tattoos memorialize victims of RI nightclub fire - The Big Story ... Police say at least 90 people have died in a nightclub fire in southern Brazil More than 90 dead in Brazil nightclub fire




Filed by Alana Horowitz

												 | 
										
										
								
						
						




More in World...

 

U.S. Embassy Bombing In Turkey Was Suicide...Hillary Clinton: Syria's War Could Still Get...Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Imprisoned Pussy Riot Member, HospitalizedU.S. Embassy Suicide Bomber Believed To Be... 







 





 
















 















 
















FOLLOW US

















































Connect with your friends


Check out stories you might like,  and see what your friends are sharing!
















Most Popular on HuffPost



4Fp5C4mY0S6J4xvdIf72EJyj%2Bk5cyw3538c9NvC%2FaMnDirSwo4ygWFLbY3TdiAPDHhNxvpsXlpdr4fwoQ9se0AxSY5nROrpx
Iql3MlwLuA2Ur242634ALMoaNczwEJ%2BUXg6fFhM1ObeHxN4uAjLvR9i73mSKdiDVP%2B38mB%2FekNMHaI6e%2FV2SNU1KNp6Mqds0



1 of 2













Applebee's FIRES 'I Give God 10%' Tip Receipt Waitress






Recommend



24k













Burger King Admits Burgers Were Possibly Tainted With Horsemeat






Like



20k













#FreeCrunkBear: Too Hot For Twitter Teacher Backed By Students






Like



606













WATCH: Piers Morgan Enrages Chelsea Handler






Like



263













'Gay' Dog Saved After Owner Sends It To Be Euthanized 






Like



30k













49ers' Teammates Say They Never Participated In 'It Gets Better' Video (Even Though They're In It)






Recommend



7k













Dakota Fanning On Her First Nude Scene






Like



188













Shooting At Middle School (UPDATE)






Recommend



15k













Beyonce Silences Critics By Singing National Anthem Live






Like



10k















Don't Miss HuffPost Bloggers



1 of 5















Bradley Cooper
Mental Health in America (Video)













Alan Colmes
Dear NRA, Please Put Me On Your Enemies List













Cecile Richards
Birth Control Benefit a Huge Advance for Women’s Health and Equality













Michael Shermer
What Is Skepticism, Anyway?













Marlo Thomas
Heart Health Month: What Every Woman Should Know













Leonard Maltin
5 Must-See Indie Films This Month













Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
Girls Just Wants to Have (White) Fun













Amb. Swanee Hunt
Marshall and Clinton: A Shared Legacy













Sec. Tom Vilsack
Celebrating Inclusion at the 2013 Special Olympics World Winter Games













Sec. Kathleen Sebelius
Countdown to Affordable Health Insurance



 















Late-Night Laughs: The 5 Best Comedy Clips of the Week
 





Loud and Proud: Japanese Husbands Shout Declarations of Love in Public
 





Lady Gaga Calls Ex-Assistant “A Disgusting Human Being” under Oath
 





Time - World







TOP VIDEO PICKS


1 of 9







Biden To Meet On Syria









New Jersey Auto Repair Shop Holds Historic Toilet









'Creeping Annexation'







 
















MOST DISCUSSED RIGHT NOW


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8a43pip0bdKP
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgKQA9zRBn5c9



1 of 2













Suicide Bombing At U.S. Embassy In Turkey












U.N. Panel: Israeli Settlements Are 'Illegal'





 





HOT ON FACEBOOK


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8TKPvBq8xPkmgYINREC4w8w%3D
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgPTAYkCdRanfpr%2BnvSQA9QM%3D
jpeKJKgSs0bJPlRX0pV4Fss35VaaM%2Fhsd5ArrOAf1yA%3D
RmGEoNfRqc5CzahDwgqSmw%3D%3D



1 of 3













Imprisoned Pussy Riot Member Hospitalized












Which Countries Get The Most Plastic Surgery?





 




 



HUFFPOST'S BIG NEWS PAGES











Celebrity Super Bowl Fans: Who's Rooting For The 49ers And The Ravens?



Video








Chipotle Salary Can Top $95,000 Annually



Careers








Marriage Research: Happy Teenage Years Lead To Happier Marriages



Marriage









Energy Secretary Steven Chu Resigns, Chastises Climate Deniers And Clean-Energy Critics



Climate Change








Twitter Stock Market Hoax Draws Attention Of Regulators



Twitter








U.S. Bureau Of Land Management Emphasizing 'Compassion And Concern' For Wild Mustangs



Denver News









Post-Super Bowl Shows Through The Years: How Will 'Elementary' Do Compared To Others? (VIDEO)



Television








Michigan Deferred Action Recipients To Receive Driver's Licenses



Immigration








Best Latino 'American Idol' Auditions From Season 12, So Far (VIDEOS)



Latino Entertainment




more big news pages »
			





 


  

 























Advertise | 

Make HuffPost your Home Page | 
RSS | 
Careers | 
FAQ


User Agreement | 
Privacy | 
Comment Policy | 
About Us | 
About Our Ads | 
Contact Us


Copyright © 2013 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. | 
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.


Part of 
                        HPMG News                        








 

























HuffPost Lightbox


























