From joy to tragedy: Inside the Brazil nightclub where 233 died - World News




 
MSN
Hotmail

More

Autos
My MSN
Video
Careers & Jobs
Personals
Weather
Delish
Quotes
White Pages
Games
Real Estate
Wonderwall
Horoscopes
Shopping
Yellow Pages
Local Edition
Traffic
Feedback
Maps & Directions
Travel
Full MSN Index


Bing 

 

NBCNews.com
sites & shows:
TODAY
Nightly News
Rock Center
Meet the Press
Dateline
msnbc
Breaking News
EveryBlock
Newsvine

 
Home
US
World
Politics
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Health
Tech & science
Travel
Local
Weather



Advertise | AdChoices 







Recommended: Analysis: Israel's airstrike likely to complicate Syria crisis
Recommended: US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack
Recommended: Malala, teen champion of girls' rights, nominated for Nobel Peace Prize 
Recommended: At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion





First for breaking news and analysis: Compelling world news stories from NBC News journalists. Follow us on Twitter and  Facebook.

↓ About this blog↓ Archives E-mail updates Follow on Twitter Subscribe to RSS













161commentsPrint








4daysagoFrom joy to tragedy: Inside the Brazil nightclub where 233 diedSlideshow: Nightclub fire in BrazilYuri Weber/ Agencia O Dia via ReutersAn interior view of the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria, Brazil, after it was destroyed by a fire on Jan. 27. Launch slideshowBy Alastair Jamieson, Staff Writer,  NBC NewsShoes, bottles and slices of lime lay scattered around the blackened remains of a dancefloor in Brazil on Monday – signs of how quickly a Saturday night student party turned into one of the world’s worst nightclub fires.End-of-summer celebrations were in full swing at the Kiss club in the university town of Santa Maria when a band’s pyrotechnic display set fire to the sound-proofed ceiling and started a fire that choked dozens to death and saw dozens more trampled in the ensuing panic.The image of the burned, empty building was in stark contrast to the town’s packed gymnasium where relatives of the victims gathered late on Sunday to mourn after the mortuary became overwhelmed with bodies.

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





One woman fell to her knees in grief at the coffin of a relative, while others waited to identify their loved ones.In total, at least 233 died - 120 men and 113 women - while 92 people are still being treated in hospitals, Reuters reported.About 50 funerals were expected to take place at the municipal cemetery in Santa Maria on Monday, according to Brazilian television news broadcast Zero Hora.The cemetery opened early, at 7:30 a.m. local time (4:30 a.m. ET), and was planning to conduct burials at half-hour intervals, O Globo reported, saying the army had helped dig graves.A Brazilian nightclub owner and two members of a band have been arrested by civil police investigating the blaze, newspaper Diario de Santa Maria reported Monday. A fourth person is also being sought, the newspaper said.It said businessman Elissandro Spohr, also known as ‘Kiko’ – one of the owners of the Kiss nightclub in the city of Santa Maria – was detained “on a temporary basis.”Marcelo Arigony, a police inspector, said the arrests were "provisional" and that there was not yet a criminal accusation. He declined to confirm the identities of those arrested, saying the investigation "is still quite precarious."Sphor's lawyer, Jader Marques, told the Diario de Santa Maria that his client was present in the club with his pregnant wife at the moment that a spark from the pyrotechnic flare or fuse handled by the band lit the soundproofing on the ceiling.One of the worst nightclub fires in history has claimed a terrible toll in the southern Brazil city of Santa Maria, with at least 233 dead by the most recent count. Authorities and witnesses are saying the fire may have been sparked by a pyrotechnics show. NBC's Mike Taibbi reports.The main door of the nightclub was locked at the time, fire chief Guido Pedroso de Melo told O Globo.He added that firefighters responding to the blaze initially had trouble getting inside the nightclub because "there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance.”Survivors and the police inspector Marcelo Arigony said security guards briefly tried to block people from exiting the club, according to the AP, perhaps fearing that patrons would leave without paying their tab.

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





But Arigony said the guards didn't appear to block fleeing patrons for long. "It was chaotic and it doesn't seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died," he told the AP.In a radio interview, the band’s guitarist Rodrigo Martins said the fire began shortly after the band took to the stage at 2.15 a.m. local time Sunday."When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working," he said, adding that the accordion player Danilo Jacques, 28, died, while the five other members made it out safely.Reuters and The Associated Press contributed to this report. Explore related topics: brazil, fire, nightclub, featured, santa-maria
older4daysago'A dangerous precedent': Russia to put dead man on trialnewer4daysagoRussia Bolshoi Ballet acid victim: I forgive my attackerDiscuss this post

Jump to discussion page: 1 2 3
Thomas90210It's a shame that most of you bloggers are so consumed with your self-worth. This is not the time for innuendos and personal bickering. Think and pause for a moment - say a prayer for the families of those who just lost their loved ones!
You guys are insensitive.
2 votes#55 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 3:49 PM ESTBruce-1054515Miss Amy I like your attitude but to quote you, " I do not think that it is your place in society to make that choice for the rest of us."  I deleted the part about guns and your argument makes sense.  If we don't try to tell law biding people what to do as long as it does not infringe on others we have the basics of what the founding fathers where trying to say. Thanks for making that point for me.#56 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:10 PM ESTBorderlandsWow, 200+ people in just a few minutes done by a pyrotechnics show.
Tragic. 
Extremely tragic.1 vote#57 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:22 PM ESTOldTimeDemocratPyrotechnic shows, indoors? 
Once bitten, twice shy. 2 votes#58 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:25 PM ESTPyroManagerMy, my, my OTD.  Clueless and classless in the face of this tragedy.
Every week, licensed and qualified pyrotechnicians do site inspections, put together safety plans, submit and receive proper permits from the fire departments having jurisdiction, set up and safely provide indoor pyrotechnic displays professionally and without damage, injury or fatalities.
Based on reports so far, it would appear that the common thread between this and the other horrible instances are non-licensed, non-permitted, un-qualified, non-professionals using a product in an un-safe, un-prepared for manner.
Horribly, it was fire that ended the lives of these people, but, amongst many other reasons, it was the poor judgement of those involved that killed them.
My, my, my OTD, Rock Me with some education and discretion, please.#58.1 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:26 PM ESTMichael-1033656Doesn't it strike anyone else as odd as how quickly actual coffins arrived on the scene. not body bags or ambulances, but i assume coffins picked out and purchased and then burials within 24 hours of the event.
Seems kind of odd. Not conspiratorially odd, just culturally odd.1 vote#59 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:26 PM ESTMike-2594304The EPA got to them. body bags not allowed, and wood is biodegradeable.#59.1 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:26 PM ESTBiffster-2512712233 seems like an insane number of deaths for such an event.  Almost a Perfect Storm.1 vote#60 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:36 PM ESTFormerCAResPerhaps the root cause....please indulge me a moment.
Many (too many) people are dishonest. The exits are (illegally) locked because people use them for unauthorized entrance (a friend lets them in) or people try to get out without paying their bill. In frustration, the club owner chain-locks the exits to prevent theft (people walking out on their bill). So the cheaters cause the owner to do something he shouldn't, then innocent folks die.
If everyone could be trusted then access wouldn't need to be restricted == much less danger....1 vote#61 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:39 PM ESTScott-535668We need to ban fire! Way to many people get killed by fires every year!#62 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 4:56 PM ESTMike-2594304All right,,, BHO will ban fire next.#62.1 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:25 PM ESTBillLumberghYeah the next thing you know there will be a bunch of government regulations regarding fire safety, controls on how we build our buildings, mandates on fire extinguishers, escapes and sprinklers, inspections, etc. Freakin' dictator!!!1 vote#62.2 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:38 PM ESTGood Grief-593798It happened in Brazil -- our regulations are fine the way they are.  It's theirs that need fixing before the 2016 Olympics or else this event will be small potatoes if anything happens there....#62.3 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 8:12 PM ESTMike-2594304And this is where it is going to be "safe" to have the 2016 summer olympics?  They will be so poorly attended that the ratio of pickpockets to tourists will rise from 2/1 to 4/1. The kidnappings will be down because the tourists will need to have armed body guards.2 votes#63 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:23 PM ESTMaggie-3093411It is such a tragedy.  I feel so bad for the people who lost their lives, so young, just trying to have a good time, and for the friends, and families of those who passed.  Yes, hindsight is 20-20-BUT-There is really no excuse for the owners of the club.  A tragedy like this has happened before. Pyrotechnics should be outlawed across the board, inside a building, worldwide.  Don't know the size of the club where this happened, but it sounds like it was pretty big.  Is there a maximum capacity for the # of people  allowed at an event? Retrospect/Hindsight again, Several working fire extinguishers throughout building, clearly marked, as well as several clearly marked exits, out of building, an Evacuation plan in case of Emergency?  To have front door, and only door, locked because your afraid people will leave without paying their tab?  Inexcusable !  All the money in the world, can't replace the lives that were lost, or changed forever.2 votes#64 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:35 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Beat the Republitards in 2012Maybe regulations such as building codes designed to keep the public safe from business propensity to put profit ahead of anything else are not such a bad thing after all.  Are you Tea baggers listening?1 vote#65 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:39 PM ESTTexas WarrenThere is a reason fire codes exist. Horrible, horrible tragedy.1 vote#66 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:43 PM ESTGood Grief-593798It was Brazil -- who's to say there were fire codes?#66.1 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 8:10 PM ESTEd_in _PHXWe had one like this on a smaller scale not too many years ago. If I remenber correctly it was somewhere in New England and the band was Jackel (has been 80's metal outfit). Small club, blocked fire exits and the bands pyrotechnics added up to 20+ dead I think. Fire codes in this country are strict for commercial properties but enforcement is lax. Most building owners could care less anyway and more times that not it is negligence on the property owners part that causes these useless tragedies.#67 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 5:51 PM ESTPhonesAAAonlyHow sad for the families.  So many young college students lost.  This is a great tragedy.1 vote#68 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:02 PM ESTBillLumberghWhen you think about it, the most determined people trying to kill  people with guns don't even come close to this kind of mayhem.  The  ridiculous band Great White accidentally killed more than the worst mass  shooter in history (I believe that Scandinavian guy, who killed about  70).  Fires are bad news, and I see why we've done so much in the past  50 years regarding fire code and safety.#69 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 6:37 PM ESTJim Johnson-767323And these events always have the same characteristics- fireworks, flammable soundproofing, locked exits & malfunctioning fire extinguishers. It's also not hard to figure out that there were probably way too many people in the club to begin with...1 vote#70 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 7:16 PM ESTGood Grief-593798Hello -- everybody?  Can we stop with the gun comments, the Obama and Bush and Clinton comments, and anything else that has nothing to do with this article?  Okay?  Thank you.
First off -- this tragedy happened in BRAZIL.  Brazil, the land of poverty, bribes, corruption, and with a lack of any type of real (as we in the US know them) construction or fire codes and especially a lack of respect for the laws.  Ask anyone who has either been born there, lived there or visited there and they will tell you that if you line the right pockets, anyone from politicians to police to inspectors to judges will look the other way (just ask the guy in NJ who fought for custody of his own son from the kid's stepfather after the mother died - took years)  And, since Brazilians have a cavalier attitude about everything and especially like to party, I'm surprised this type of tragedy hasn't happened sooner.  As someone else said earlier on another board, it's a third world country trying to pretend it's first world.   Good luck to Brazil in sprucing up their image for the World Cup and the Olympics -- they're gonna need it. 
Second -- No matter what country, including this one, the owners aren't going to have a guard at every exit watching to see if someone opens the back door to sneak in friends without paying the cover.  So they'll block the exits.  Maybe not chain them shut -- it's against the law in the US -- but block them just the same, or at least make them hard to get to.    It's all about the bottom line for a clubowner -- sometimes they make more money on the cover charge than they do with the drinks, especially if the kids just come in to dance and listen to the bands.   A dark nightclub is a firetrap waiting to happen.  Maybe not from pyrotechnics, but maybe just from a shorted-out electrical cord or sparks coming from the sound system.  Most of those buildings are just shacks -- four walls and a roof -- with a bar and a stage.  Be grateful for indoor non-smoking laws in the States. 
This was a horrible tragedy, but it will happen again somewhere else, in another part of the world.   And it won't be the fault of Obama, Bush, gun laws, Clinton, or the US (even if it happens in the US -- because sometimes you can't control stupidity or stupid people, no matter what laws you have in place)
1 vote#71 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 8:08 PM ESTcheryl-1989378This incident reminds me of the Triangle Shirtwaist factory in 1911.  They locked doors so the girls could not take product when they left.  Mostly young underpaid immigrant girls perished in this fire.  That was a time when unions really were needed.  I doubt if anything will happen to the owners or the idiot that set off the flare.#72 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 8:23 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Ron46Ever set fire to s styrofoam cup?  Light off those "4th of July snakes?  The both generate copious amounts of thick black smoke.  Other foams respond the same way to fire.  Many of the sound proofing and or "decorative" foams behave in the same manner.  They generate thick black smoke which literally chokes you as well as making it almost impossible to see the exit(s).  Pyrotechnics in an enclosed area is a bad idea, but mixing them with foam is even worse.  If you go to a club where foam is used  - leave.  Don't risk it.  #73 - Mon Jan 28, 2013 11:02 PM ESTsemik5Nightclub? 
What were you doing in nightclub? I wander if those people new God as personal saver, they would never went to nightclub. Now, how many people went to to other place than heaven. These lost souls will have judgement day ahead of them and sad part is that there is no return. My cry today is for those that still alive, people, please don't look for temporary happiness in nightclubs but look for internal life in the word of God. If you have God in your life you would newer want to go to night club. 
I feel very sorry for the loss of the families.1 vote#74 - Tue Jan 29, 2013 1:37 AM ESTTeachitupChris,
1. I understand where you are coming from with wanting to ban nightclubs. This was atragedy and I can see where you would draw that conclusion 100%, however, youhave to think about how that might impede on people's rights. Judging by yourcomments all over this page about an individual's right to bear arms, that issomething that is rather important to you, so you need to keep that in mind forothers as well.
2. Also,the unstoppable death of elementary schoolers due to a man using a gun not onlynegates your arguments that are for guns but it also has nothing to do withfires in a nightclub. If you are going to make an argument about this, at leastmake relevant points.
3. Lastly, if you are going to dog on "Americans" and how "stupid" we are make sure you are grammatically corrent in your arguments. (PASS and PAST are not interchangeable words, they have different meanings).
To people who keep arguing with Chris,
While I see why his argument would completely annoy you (being that the main one was slightlyillogical at times-no offense) you are only fueling him to keep arguing aboutguns rather than concentrating on the story, which if I remember correctly, thedeath of over 200 innocent people due to a raging fire still is the main andmost important aspect of the story.#75 - Tue Jan 29, 2013 8:04 AM ESTJose L Estevesvia FacebookThe Jan/27th fire tragedy in Brazil: How long it will take until another young life is gone by negligence and greed of others? The emotion rolercoaster of these brazilian families whom so many precious and young lives were taken away on such unespeakable manner seems to be like the top of a huge, imense iceberg: the day after this tremendous loss will leave deep, heartbreaking and long lasting wounds and scars in parents, brothers, sisters, families, friends. As we ask God for mercy and light for those who are now transpassing the last frontier we also pray for the enlighted confort that only God may seed among those who stay. While we all mourn the event, it will be also the time to campaign and enforce whatever is necessary to avoid that this long chain of faults - of men, return in the manner of an announced tragedy again. Thank you all for your thoughts of faith and help.#76 - Tue Jan 29, 2013 10:00 AM ESTjohn algarmeA classic example of the herd mentality, moo, moo, baa, baa ! Congratulations, Brazil is the new Mecca of the Burning Man fans. Sex, drugs and rock and roll = lethal incompetence. " Burn baby, burn!" Party hardy you fools ! If you manage to survive the inferno and the stampede, a Joran van der Sloot may be waiting for you.#77 - Wed Jan 30, 2013 12:38 PM ESTJump to discussion page: 1 2 3Leave a Comment:Name: Email Address (will be verified, but never shown): You're in Easy Mode. If you prefer, you can use XHTML Mode instead.You're in XHTML Mode. If you prefer, you can use Easy Mode instead.(XHTML tags allowed - a,b,blockquote,br,code,dd,dl,dt,del,em,h2,h3,h4,i,ins,li,ol,p,pre,q,strong,ul)


Post to my Facebook Wall

Newsvine Privacy StatementAs a new user, you may notice a few temporary content restrictions. Click here for more info.





Most popular postsolder4daysago'A dangerous precedent': Russia to put dead man on trialnewer4daysagoRussia Bolshoi Ballet acid victim: I forgive my attackerMost popular posts628Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 2335daysago82'Not survivable': Wreckage of missing Antarctica plane found, rescuers say7daysago416Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues4daysago1889US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack4hoursago498At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict6daysago



Browsefeatured, world-news, syria, china, europe, afghanistan, middle-east, israel, egypt, pakistan, iran, uk, world, london, russia, africa, protest, environment, military, al-qaida, assad, britain, france, taliban, north-korea, asia, india, terrorism, japan, germany, economy, crime, human-rights, weather, mexico, libya, security, nuclear, italy

Also

Advertise | AdChoices 



 







Archives2013February (11)January (323)2012December (332)November (332)October (313)September (360)August (362)July (310)June (351)May (427)April (404)March (427)February (347)January (284)2011December (357)November (3)Most CommentedUS Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack (1890)Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 233 (628)At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict (498)UN panel's report: Israel must withdraw all settlers from West Bank (463)Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues (416)Zimbabwe checks its bank balance, finds only $217 (256)At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion (224)Other blogsThe Body OddCosmic LogRed Tape ChroniclesPhotoBlogGadgetboxTechnologUS NewsOpen ChannelInGame top stories

3147,10



© 2013 NBCNews.com


World news on NBCNews.com 

About us


Contact


Help


Site map


Careers


Closed captioning


Terms & Conditions






Privacy policy


Advertise
 








