BBC News - Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















2 February 2013
Last updated at 12:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples
 


Tory backbenchers are linking tax breaks for married couples to plans for gay marriage


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Clegg targets marriage tax breaks


Coalition unveils gay marriage bill


Q&A: Gay marriage



The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it has emerged.
There had been speculation David Cameron would bring in the measure to appease Tory backbenchers who are opposed to gay marriage.
However legislation is expected to be introduced before 2015 to allow couples to transfer part of their personal tax allowance to their partner. 
The Commons will vote next week on the government's plans for gay marriage.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill would enable same-sex couples to get married in both civil and religious ceremonies, where a religious institution had formally consented, in England and Wales.
It would also allow couples who have previously entered into civil partnerships to convert their relationship into a marriage.
BBC political correspondent Vicki Young said the tax news had to be seen in the context of the highly contentious vote on gay marriage, with dozens of Tory MPs opposed to it.
The two issues are linked in their minds because they say it is about Mr Cameron's priorities, putting gay marriage ahead of married tax breaks.
Some of them say it will increase anger and consternation on the backbenches, our correspondent added.
'Serious unrest'

Continue reading the main story Analysis 


Tom Barton
BBC News



The decision not to include a tax break for married couples in next month's budget has to be seen within the context of Tuesday's vote on same-sex marriage. 
Introducing the tax break remains part of the coalition programme, but there had been suggestions that David Cameron would introduce them earlier than planned. 
The idea was that the move would pacify MPs who complain that gay marriage, which wasn't in the last Tory manifesto, is being prioritised over the tax break, which was.
Strictly, this shouldn't be seen as a potential rebellion, as Conservative MPs are expected to be offered a free vote on Tuesday. But David Cameron is a vocal supporter of gay marriage. 
So, to have a significant number of his MPs (one backbencher today suggested more than half) voting against him would be embarrassing. 
After a week which has been full of talk of a possible leadership challenge from the backbenches, the prime minister's relationship with some sections of his party looks in need of some marriage guidance.

 The tax measure is in the coalition agreement but Liberal Democrat MPs would be allowed to abstain.
It is expected that one stay-at-home member of a married couple or civil partnership would be able to move £750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their working partner, reducing their tax bill. This would be worth about £150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.
A senior government source said: "It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this parliament. This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy".
According to the Times, the issue of gay marriage is causing Conservative members to leave the party in significant numbers.
The newspaper claimed that as many as 100 members had revoked their affiliation in some constituencies.
Tory MP David Burrowes is quoted as saying: "There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away."
'Definition of marriage'
He told the BBC that had the government introduced the tax breaks, it may have "softened the blow" of plans to legalise same-sex marriage, but that it would not have been a "clinch for any deal".
He also said it was an "issue of finance" as to why tax breaks for married couples were not being introduced in the forthcoming Budget, but said it was not "a case of if, it's a case of when" they would eventually come in.
"It is something that should be a priority, not just because it's a commitment in our manifesto and a coalition agreement, but also because it's where we can particularly support the poorest of families by ensuring there is a tax allowance for married couples with children."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 He also said: "Civil partnerships, quite rightly, give legal rights for same-sex couples. That doesn't mean we should change the definition of marriage, which is between a man and a woman." 
Conservative MP Peter Bone is opposed to gay marriage and believes the vote shows the coalition has got its priorities wrong.
"I absolutely understand there could be a debate about it but as no party had it in their manifesto we shouldn't be pushing it through now," he said.
"I'm always being told we can't get any measures through because it's not in the coalition agreement."
But a Tory supporter of the bill, Jane Ellison, says the policy is winning the party new support.
"A great many people, a great many young people support this measure and their voice is really important in politics too," she told the BBC.
Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family" and can discriminate against married couples.
"Introducing an allowance that lets families share some of their personal allowance would help tackle poverty and reduce the perverse disincentives created by our dysfunctional tax code."
Conservative MPs will get a free vote on whether to introduce same-sex marriage. Labour and the Lib Dems have backed the idea.
The bill will allow religious organisations to offer same-sex marriages but Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Clegg targets marriage tax breaks

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Coalition unveils gay marriage bill

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Q&A: Gay marriage

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK








From other news sites


Huffington Post UK  'DAMAGING THE PARTY' 3 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Tories urge gay marriage rethink 3 hrs ago


Sky News  Tory Rebellion Over Gay Marriage Vote 4 hrs ago


Channel 4  Fresh claims Tory gay marriage policy will cause damage 7 hrs ago


New Statesman  Tories squabble over gay marriage 32 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


The TaxPayers' Alliance


HM Treasury


Department for Culture Media and Sport


The Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 634       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 94.  pique  2nd February 2013 - 14:51   "79. frankiecrisp 9 MINUTES AGOWhy should two people on £40.000 a year pay less tax than a single person on £40.000."They do, 2x personal allowance means less tax on overall earnings of 2 people with joint income of £40,000    Report this comment (Comment number 94) Link to this (Comment number 94)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 93.  CURTAINS 2012  2nd February 2013 - 14:50   Isn't this part of the equalisation of homosexual "marriage" and civil partnership?    Report this comment (Comment number 93) Link to this (Comment number 93)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 92.  Coggin  2nd February 2013 - 14:49   Trying to buy votes dave?    Report this comment (Comment number 92) Link to this (Comment number 92)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 91.  Bovver Boy  2nd February 2013 - 14:49   Vicki Young does make a point, and that is Dave seems all consumed  with gay marriage which doesn't appear in the manifesto. Is this Dave's personal agenda for reasons best known to himself,  though he was at Eton an all boys school, or is he following the agenda of others unknown. Is someone pulling his strings?    Report this comment (Comment number 91) Link to this (Comment number 91)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 90.  will50000  2nd February 2013 - 14:47   78.SteveIts was worth even with inflation not very much, unlike now!"It was modified in 1977, with the payments being termed "child benefit" and given for the eldest child as well as the younger ones; by 1979 it was worth £4 per child per week. In 1991, the system was further altered"I was born in 1974    Report this comment (Comment number 90) Link to this (Comment number 90)                 rate this     +14      rate this     +14   Comment number 89.  Stuart Wilson  2nd February 2013 - 14:45   "Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family"I think I might use that as an excuse, it certainly rivals "I've got one of my headaches coming on."    Report this comment (Comment number 89) Link to this (Comment number 89)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 88.  Duncan  2nd February 2013 - 14:44   The first decision by this mob that I can get onboard with.Not because giving tax breaks is wrong (its clear they give the rich every chance to extend their wealth at the expense of the rest), but because marriage isn't the choice for many regardless of sexual preference.Also, I don't know the finer details of it to be fair but why should being in a relationship entitle you to a break?    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 87.  Dr_Ads  2nd February 2013 - 14:43   @75"Children suffer...the reality is a man and a man can't breed and neither can a woman and woman"But they can adopt, and a woman can have given birth (& a man could have fathered) in a previous heterosexual relationship prior to a gay marriage.Would you be happy for those particular children to suffer?    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 86.  Landshark  2nd February 2013 - 14:41   If I ever vote again, it will be UKIP. As a life-long conservative I had hoped that the much-touted "Family Values" that Cameron harped on about would promote families and what they contribute to the future (i.e.: children). Yet again, nothing is being done and what little we have is being squandered in policies that simply don't work. Bring back MIRAS and have done with it. It worked.    Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)                 rate this     +81      rate this     +81   Comment number 85.  HanPeters  Comment number 85 is an Editors' Pick 2nd February 2013 - 14:41   I may be hugely unpopular in saying this, but as a married woman I don't agree with such a thing as a tax break just for being married. Why do I deserve it more than a committed couple, raising children, who just happen to not have signed a bit of paper. Or a hard working, rent/bill/tax paying single person? I don't. Marriage is a choice, in this day and age it shouldn't equal special privileges.    Report this comment (Comment number 85) Link to this (Comment number 85)                 rate this     -15      rate this     -15   Comment number 84.  Damian  2nd February 2013 - 14:40   Have a go at amrried people, have a go at hetrosexual people, have a go at Catholics. What a great country we have, media driven no less so thanks BBC, your leftist middleclass dreams come true.    Report this comment (Comment number 84) Link to this (Comment number 84)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 83.  keithkettlewell  2nd February 2013 - 14:40   Me and my partner have been together for 45 years . Now retired we gays were formally classed as "single" and taxed as such all our working lives . Hetero couples have always been entiled to tax and welfare breaks.We're satisfied with our Civil Agreement , which actually entitles us to NO tax breaks . Moreover , we don't agree , by centuries of custom and practice, to "Marriage" for gays .    Report this comment (Comment number 83) Link to this (Comment number 83)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 82.  Piestall_Fred  2nd February 2013 - 14:39   Cameron couldn't possibly give in on this; he might as well just announce that from now on, the hardline Right are writing his manifesto. He's already let UKIP write his European policy.    Report this comment (Comment number 82) Link to this (Comment number 82)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 81.  Jim  2nd February 2013 - 14:39   Something the all in it together party just do not understand is fairness.Allowing a married couple to have their tax affairs treated as a couple is just fairer than the current system that is great if both partners earn the same but unfair on most other married couples.    Report this comment (Comment number 81) Link to this (Comment number 81)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 80.  Maybridge  2nd February 2013 - 14:39   Extra tax allowances for married couples is a step back in time (like many conservative ideals).  I was widowed with a young child many years ago and at that time the married women I worked with (double income households) paid less tax on their salary than I did, as my widow's allowance was taxable.  Stupid idea.    Report this comment (Comment number 80) Link to this (Comment number 80)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 79.  frankiecrisp  2nd February 2013 - 14:38   Why should two people on £40.000 a year pay less tax than a single person on £40.000.    Report this comment (Comment number 79) Link to this (Comment number 79)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 78.  steve   2nd February 2013 - 14:38   When I was a lad there were no child tax credits, and no my single mother, there were no baby voucher etc---Family  allowance effectively  child tax credit was  introduced in 1948  Vouchers  in the form of Free School Milk started in 1937  some forms  of  free state  paid child care have been available since 1890 so that makes you at least 124!    Report this comment (Comment number 78) Link to this (Comment number 78)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 77.  WASP  2nd February 2013 - 14:29   Shame.Might as well cancel my Wedding plans now.    Report this comment (Comment number 77) Link to this (Comment number 77)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 76.  will50000  2nd February 2013 - 14:37   71.David H Its ok for someone who chooses animals in there life to watch them starve or if they are ill suffer because of inflated vets bills, but heaven forbid my neighbour cannot buy her kids a plasma TV each to play on their Playstations & Xboxes, and all go to America every year,while she gets into her new car,all that I am paying for with my increased tax! so she gets her credits.    Report this comment (Comment number 76) Link to this (Comment number 76)                 rate this     -20      rate this     -20   Comment number 75.  Swing Lowe  2nd February 2013 - 14:34   Children suffer because same sex partnerships are not marriages and therefore politicians have to be seen to be inclusive but the reality is a man and a man can't breed and neither can a woman and woman, it's called science.    Report this comment (Comment number 75) Link to this (Comment number 75)         Page 28 of 32    Newer 1 ... 26 27 28 29 30 ... 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



6: Gangnam Style hits one billion views  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



10: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





