BBC News - Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















2 February 2013
Last updated at 12:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples
 


Tory backbenchers are linking tax breaks for married couples to plans for gay marriage


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Clegg targets marriage tax breaks


Coalition unveils gay marriage bill


Q&A: Gay marriage



The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it has emerged.
There had been speculation David Cameron would bring in the measure to appease Tory backbenchers who are opposed to gay marriage.
However legislation is expected to be introduced before 2015 to allow couples to transfer part of their personal tax allowance to their partner. 
The Commons will vote next week on the government's plans for gay marriage.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill would enable same-sex couples to get married in both civil and religious ceremonies, where a religious institution had formally consented, in England and Wales.
It would also allow couples who have previously entered into civil partnerships to convert their relationship into a marriage.
BBC political correspondent Vicki Young said the tax news had to be seen in the context of the highly contentious vote on gay marriage, with dozens of Tory MPs opposed to it.
The two issues are linked in their minds because they say it is about Mr Cameron's priorities, putting gay marriage ahead of married tax breaks.
Some of them say it will increase anger and consternation on the backbenches, our correspondent added.
'Serious unrest'

Continue reading the main story Analysis 


Tom Barton
BBC News



The decision not to include a tax break for married couples in next month's budget has to be seen within the context of Tuesday's vote on same-sex marriage. 
Introducing the tax break remains part of the coalition programme, but there had been suggestions that David Cameron would introduce them earlier than planned. 
The idea was that the move would pacify MPs who complain that gay marriage, which wasn't in the last Tory manifesto, is being prioritised over the tax break, which was.
Strictly, this shouldn't be seen as a potential rebellion, as Conservative MPs are expected to be offered a free vote on Tuesday. But David Cameron is a vocal supporter of gay marriage. 
So, to have a significant number of his MPs (one backbencher today suggested more than half) voting against him would be embarrassing. 
After a week which has been full of talk of a possible leadership challenge from the backbenches, the prime minister's relationship with some sections of his party looks in need of some marriage guidance.

 The tax measure is in the coalition agreement but Liberal Democrat MPs would be allowed to abstain.
It is expected that one stay-at-home member of a married couple or civil partnership would be able to move £750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their working partner, reducing their tax bill. This would be worth about £150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.
A senior government source said: "It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this parliament. This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy".
According to the Times, the issue of gay marriage is causing Conservative members to leave the party in significant numbers.
The newspaper claimed that as many as 100 members had revoked their affiliation in some constituencies.
Tory MP David Burrowes is quoted as saying: "There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away."
'Definition of marriage'
He told the BBC that had the government introduced the tax breaks, it may have "softened the blow" of plans to legalise same-sex marriage, but that it would not have been a "clinch for any deal".
He also said it was an "issue of finance" as to why tax breaks for married couples were not being introduced in the forthcoming Budget, but said it was not "a case of if, it's a case of when" they would eventually come in.
"It is something that should be a priority, not just because it's a commitment in our manifesto and a coalition agreement, but also because it's where we can particularly support the poorest of families by ensuring there is a tax allowance for married couples with children."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 He also said: "Civil partnerships, quite rightly, give legal rights for same-sex couples. That doesn't mean we should change the definition of marriage, which is between a man and a woman." 
Conservative MP Peter Bone is opposed to gay marriage and believes the vote shows the coalition has got its priorities wrong.
"I absolutely understand there could be a debate about it but as no party had it in their manifesto we shouldn't be pushing it through now," he said.
"I'm always being told we can't get any measures through because it's not in the coalition agreement."
But a Tory supporter of the bill, Jane Ellison, says the policy is winning the party new support.
"A great many people, a great many young people support this measure and their voice is really important in politics too," she told the BBC.
Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family" and can discriminate against married couples.
"Introducing an allowance that lets families share some of their personal allowance would help tackle poverty and reduce the perverse disincentives created by our dysfunctional tax code."
Conservative MPs will get a free vote on whether to introduce same-sex marriage. Labour and the Lib Dems have backed the idea.
The bill will allow religious organisations to offer same-sex marriages but Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Clegg targets marriage tax breaks

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Coalition unveils gay marriage bill

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Q&A: Gay marriage

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK








From other news sites


Huffington Post UK  'DAMAGING THE PARTY' 3 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Tories urge gay marriage rethink 3 hrs ago


Sky News  Tory Rebellion Over Gay Marriage Vote 4 hrs ago


Channel 4  Fresh claims Tory gay marriage policy will cause damage 7 hrs ago


New Statesman  Tories squabble over gay marriage 32 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


The TaxPayers' Alliance


HM Treasury


Department for Culture Media and Sport


The Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 634       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 34.  shaun  2nd February 2013 - 14:02   Look whats happening in this country, it makes me sick. Single career minded get sent to the gallows for paying tax through the nose and if your the opposite its all child benefit, tax benefit, housing benefit, my huge amount of tax i'm paying is paying for all you tramps. I get nothing, no tax break, no housing benefit, no child benefit its all pay pay pay. So I support this broken pledge    Report this comment (Comment number 34) Link to this (Comment number 34)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 33.  Bruce Tuxford  2nd February 2013 - 14:01   The days of the Torys being the party for the family  are long gone. I suggest a move to that nice man in Ukip!    Report this comment (Comment number 33) Link to this (Comment number 33)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 32.  Craig  2nd February 2013 - 14:00   Wasn't allowances for marriage abolished years ago to reflect modern society??We do not need to re-introduce old ideas that have had their day!!Whether straight, gay or whatever, it does not matter.    Report this comment (Comment number 32) Link to this (Comment number 32)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 31.  frankiecrisp  2nd February 2013 - 14:00   People will end up getting married just to get a tax break that sounds a like a marriage of convenievce and will end up in higher levels of break up.    Report this comment (Comment number 31) Link to this (Comment number 31)                 rate this     +15      rate this     +15   Comment number 30.  Lemog  2nd February 2013 - 13:59   No, married couples should not get a tax break just for being married with kids. If married couples want to have children, then they should make sure that they can afford to keep them, instead of relying on the rest of the tax payers to part fund their costs. bribing people to get married and stay together isn`t just sad, it`s deluded    Report this comment (Comment number 30) Link to this (Comment number 30)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 29.  Thought for the day  2nd February 2013 - 13:59   We need population growth, stable families and support for children to become skilled responsible (and tax paying) citizens to sustain our economy in the future.  Marriage is the route to responsible parenthood and should be encouraged and supported.Tax breaks for married couples is a supportive policy..    Report this comment (Comment number 29) Link to this (Comment number 29)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 28.  Cornholio  2nd February 2013 - 13:59   So, our tax system is decided not on what's right or fair, but to appease those in their party desperate to refuse marriage to those with different sexual preferences to their own. -> Progressive.Conservatism. Glad the Libdems will be allowed to abstain or we might think they'd sold out.    Report this comment (Comment number 28) Link to this (Comment number 28)                 rate this     +22      rate this     +22   Comment number 27.  AMcL63  2nd February 2013 - 13:59   12. "Other people's children will pay their taxes for your medical treatment and pension when you are older."Just like my taxes pay for the current older generation, and "other people's children" will be supported by subsequent generations when the time comes. That's how the system works, so don't try to make it sound like a charity deal.    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 26.  Dr_Ads  2nd February 2013 - 13:57   @10"gay couples do not need the same help"Just curious, but why not? Plenty of same-sex couples have children - meaning they have the same responsibilities as any other couple - so why shouldn't they get the same help?Personally, I'm against ANY tax breaks, it should just be a straight 25% of ALL annual earnings over (for example) £10kpa - but that's a different argument for a different time    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 25.  will50000  2nd February 2013 - 13:56   How are married people less of a burden on the state? my tax goes to run schools,child tax credits,pay child benefit,baby vouchers and child care,all things I do not want to pay for, all spent on people who choose to have children, so why should I now pay more tax than a married couple who already are costing me more in tax in the first place,they use the services they should be paying more tax    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 24.  tomfer  2nd February 2013 - 13:56   Typical government "eejits" , do EVERYTHING for minorities but NOTHING for the normal everyday general populace . It is about time that the majority voter population voted ONLY for those with stated and committed MAJORITY INTERESTS , regardless of party affiliation , that is one of the many things that are wrong with UK politics - party politics with people NOT voting for individuals manifests !    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 23.  qwerty  2nd February 2013 - 13:56   "Other people's children will pay their taxes for your medical treatment and pension when you are older."I suspect the amount I will have already paid into the system would more than pay for that.  The need for an ever expanding population to pay for the previous generation's retirement sounds like a classic ponzi scheme.  Pretty soon we will reach a population limit - what then?    Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 22.  steve   2nd February 2013 - 13:55   How about a tax break for the single and childless? -Children irrespective of whether  you are married or not cost  approximately £175,000 each to bring  up to adulthood the states contribution to this is approximately £10,000  On average a  person will pay £250,000 tax in their life. So if you are childless other peoples children are subsidising you.So please don't play hard  done by.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     +19      rate this     +19   Comment number 21.  Chris Neville-Smith  2nd February 2013 - 13:54   Speaking as someone who likes the idea of encouraging marriage, I think the idea of a tax break is a mistake.If you really are prepared to make the lifetime commitment that marriage entails, I would have thought a tax break wouldn't come into that decision.If you're umming and ahhing about marriage and it take a bit of cash to persuade you to tie that knot, is that really a good idea?    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)     Comment number 20.  Binxie  2nd February 2013 - 13:53    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 19.  Indication  2nd February 2013 - 13:52   Another promise that's been broken. The only policies that the government does are the ones that no one voted for.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 18.  shaun  2nd February 2013 - 13:51   To right too!I'm single and pay a massive amount of tax, should I get a career minded individual tax reduction?, I deserve it more then getting one because I'm married    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 17.  geoff  2nd February 2013 - 13:50   no surprise there then!    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     -24      rate this     -24   Comment number 16.  sadbuttrue  Comment number 16 is an Editors' Pick 2nd February 2013 - 13:50   Married people are more likely to stay together and support themselves.  They are less of a burden on the state.  They are more likely to pay for their own kids.Lets encourage marriage with a tax break.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 15.  TheGingerF  2nd February 2013 - 13:49   George and Dave have used up their tax cut money on the super rich with th 50% to 45% tax cut. No way they can afford to chuck in a married tax allowance as we need to pay down the debt, I mean deficit, or is it debt, or deficit, no definitely debt cos that's what Dave said. Nope it's defcit cos the stats boys had to correct Dave. Yup, no more tax cuts for now. Unless you earn >£150k.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)         Page 31 of 32    Newer 1 ... 28 29 30 31 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



6: Gangnam Style hits one billion views  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



10: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





