BBC News - Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















2 February 2013
Last updated at 12:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples
 


Tory backbenchers are linking tax breaks for married couples to plans for gay marriage


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Clegg targets marriage tax breaks


Coalition unveils gay marriage bill


Q&A: Gay marriage



The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it has emerged.
There had been speculation David Cameron would bring in the measure to appease Tory backbenchers who are opposed to gay marriage.
However legislation is expected to be introduced before 2015 to allow couples to transfer part of their personal tax allowance to their partner. 
The Commons will vote next week on the government's plans for gay marriage.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill would enable same-sex couples to get married in both civil and religious ceremonies, where a religious institution had formally consented, in England and Wales.
It would also allow couples who have previously entered into civil partnerships to convert their relationship into a marriage.
BBC political correspondent Vicki Young said the tax news had to be seen in the context of the highly contentious vote on gay marriage, with dozens of Tory MPs opposed to it.
The two issues are linked in their minds because they say it is about Mr Cameron's priorities, putting gay marriage ahead of married tax breaks.
Some of them say it will increase anger and consternation on the backbenches, our correspondent added.
'Serious unrest'

Continue reading the main story Analysis 


Tom Barton
BBC News



The decision not to include a tax break for married couples in next month's budget has to be seen within the context of Tuesday's vote on same-sex marriage. 
Introducing the tax break remains part of the coalition programme, but there had been suggestions that David Cameron would introduce them earlier than planned. 
The idea was that the move would pacify MPs who complain that gay marriage, which wasn't in the last Tory manifesto, is being prioritised over the tax break, which was.
Strictly, this shouldn't be seen as a potential rebellion, as Conservative MPs are expected to be offered a free vote on Tuesday. But David Cameron is a vocal supporter of gay marriage. 
So, to have a significant number of his MPs (one backbencher today suggested more than half) voting against him would be embarrassing. 
After a week which has been full of talk of a possible leadership challenge from the backbenches, the prime minister's relationship with some sections of his party looks in need of some marriage guidance.

 The tax measure is in the coalition agreement but Liberal Democrat MPs would be allowed to abstain.
It is expected that one stay-at-home member of a married couple or civil partnership would be able to move £750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their working partner, reducing their tax bill. This would be worth about £150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.
A senior government source said: "It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this parliament. This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy".
According to the Times, the issue of gay marriage is causing Conservative members to leave the party in significant numbers.
The newspaper claimed that as many as 100 members had revoked their affiliation in some constituencies.
Tory MP David Burrowes is quoted as saying: "There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away."
'Definition of marriage'
He told the BBC that had the government introduced the tax breaks, it may have "softened the blow" of plans to legalise same-sex marriage, but that it would not have been a "clinch for any deal".
He also said it was an "issue of finance" as to why tax breaks for married couples were not being introduced in the forthcoming Budget, but said it was not "a case of if, it's a case of when" they would eventually come in.
"It is something that should be a priority, not just because it's a commitment in our manifesto and a coalition agreement, but also because it's where we can particularly support the poorest of families by ensuring there is a tax allowance for married couples with children."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 He also said: "Civil partnerships, quite rightly, give legal rights for same-sex couples. That doesn't mean we should change the definition of marriage, which is between a man and a woman." 
Conservative MP Peter Bone is opposed to gay marriage and believes the vote shows the coalition has got its priorities wrong.
"I absolutely understand there could be a debate about it but as no party had it in their manifesto we shouldn't be pushing it through now," he said.
"I'm always being told we can't get any measures through because it's not in the coalition agreement."
But a Tory supporter of the bill, Jane Ellison, says the policy is winning the party new support.
"A great many people, a great many young people support this measure and their voice is really important in politics too," she told the BBC.
Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family" and can discriminate against married couples.
"Introducing an allowance that lets families share some of their personal allowance would help tackle poverty and reduce the perverse disincentives created by our dysfunctional tax code."
Conservative MPs will get a free vote on whether to introduce same-sex marriage. Labour and the Lib Dems have backed the idea.
The bill will allow religious organisations to offer same-sex marriages but Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Clegg targets marriage tax breaks

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Coalition unveils gay marriage bill

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Q&A: Gay marriage

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK








From other news sites


Huffington Post UK  'DAMAGING THE PARTY' 3 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Tories urge gay marriage rethink 3 hrs ago


Sky News  Tory Rebellion Over Gay Marriage Vote 4 hrs ago


Channel 4  Fresh claims Tory gay marriage policy will cause damage 7 hrs ago


New Statesman  Tories squabble over gay marriage 32 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


The TaxPayers' Alliance


HM Treasury


Department for Culture Media and Sport


The Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 634       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 634.  MYHERO  2nd February 2013 - 23:44   Whats the point of getting married?  Why buy a book when you can join a library?    Report this comment (Comment number 634) Link to this (Comment number 634)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 633.  squirrel  2nd February 2013 - 23:35   610.ChainReaction - I agree mukka, but it's proving it through 1000's of individual receitps/person. The 2 biggest things to person development in the UK are Tax and Voting parity. At the moment with 'Lobbying' and the FPTP system....there is no future for the UK.....Cameron, Clegg and Miliband...Your Public Dispise YOU ALL! - and it proves the complete waste of time the Monarchy really is...    Report this comment (Comment number 633) Link to this (Comment number 633)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 632.  cbarry  2nd February 2013 - 23:24   Maybe we should anticipate yet another David Cameron 'U Turn'! there is still plenty of time before the Budget is set. Clearly David Cameron is going to come under a lot of pressure from some of his backbenchers and then he'll wake up and realise the need to pacify them and ofcourse promise the earth.    Report this comment (Comment number 632) Link to this (Comment number 632)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 631.  MYHERO  2nd February 2013 - 23:31   625. jennybookgroup children cost money to bring up, and need looked after at pre-school age. If you do that yourself you get no help+++My lifestyle choices cost money, a lot of money in fact but I get no help whatsoever!    Report this comment (Comment number 631) Link to this (Comment number 631)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 630.  jennybookgroup  2nd February 2013 - 23:30   The difference in tax should be whether you have children under 18 or not rather than married as such. But currently the "model family" of two equal earners is rewarded massively through the tax system. Yes, single people should not suffer either. We do need a massive overhaul of tax and benefits system but also stopping those corporations who dont pay tax + we now cant sustain tax havens .    Report this comment (Comment number 630) Link to this (Comment number 630)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 629.  Matt  2nd February 2013 - 23:24   @605 "Matt you learnt your morals from your family, the fact you can identify you have morals means you had some social structure setup..."---Not sure what I said to have my post removed (maybe the Beeb could explain, but suspect someone just didn't like my POV), so I'll repeat: my parents split when I was 8, thirty years ago: I did not need married parents to tell me right from wrong.    Report this comment (Comment number 629) Link to this (Comment number 629)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 628.  Jack Griffin  2nd February 2013 - 23:23   This is pure & simple a tax bribe the outgoing Government offers to the part of the electorate who are more likely to vote for them Watch & see it will come into play just before the next election, so it is fresh in peoples minds.    Report this comment (Comment number 628) Link to this (Comment number 628)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 627.  Ronnie M  2nd February 2013 - 23:22   "624.redand2000In a secular country, why do we continue to afford people privileges based on their religious practices?"Not exactly secular when we have bishops deciding various laws in the House of Lords.    Report this comment (Comment number 627) Link to this (Comment number 627)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 626.  paulmerhaba  2nd February 2013 - 23:21   624. redand2000 2 MINUTES AGOIn a secular country, why do we continue to afford people privileges based on their religious practices?--I thought it was more of an oblong shape.    Report this comment (Comment number 626) Link to this (Comment number 626)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 625.  jennybookgroup  2nd February 2013 - 23:20   To reply to he people who don't think its fair that a married couple get a tax break.  The thing is that currently there is a discrepancy - children cost money to bring up, and need looked after at pre-school age. If you do that yourself you get no help. If you let others do it and are both working you get all sorts of benefits and 2 personal allowances - the difference can be as much as £5,000.    Report this comment (Comment number 625) Link to this (Comment number 625)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 624.  redand2000  2nd February 2013 - 23:18   In a secular country, why do we continue to afford people privileges based on their religious practices?    Report this comment (Comment number 624) Link to this (Comment number 624)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 623.  TD_Pete  2nd February 2013 - 23:18   Reading the comments here I do wonder whether people have actually read what is being suggested. Its talking about transferring part of an unused tax allowance of a spouse to a higher income earner. Its not suggesting that married couples who work pay less tax. In other words not punishing couples that have a spouse that gives up work to provide childcare....    Report this comment (Comment number 623) Link to this (Comment number 623)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 622.  Derpsworth  2nd February 2013 - 23:18   People need to get over demonising atypical or unorthodox family types, its 2013. And what makes a married couple better or more deserving than a non-married couple anyway? or even a single? the only difference is one expensive day playing dress up and saying some special words - is this Harry Potter/Middle Earth?Still dont see what would warrant a tax break for them specifically    Report this comment (Comment number 622) Link to this (Comment number 622)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 621.  CensoredbyBBC  2nd February 2013 - 23:16   Why should married people get a tax break?    Report this comment (Comment number 621) Link to this (Comment number 621)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 620.  Mike  2nd February 2013 - 23:14   Tax breaks for married couples discriminate against single people. On a per capita basis, its cheaper for 2 people to live together than for a single person to live alone. Logically, single people should get tax breaks to help with these costs    Report this comment (Comment number 620) Link to this (Comment number 620)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 619.  rosswrightglasgow  2nd February 2013 - 23:08   There isn't a shred of logic in giving people who marry a tax break. It's people who have children who should get the tax breaks as they are bringing up the next generation.    Report this comment (Comment number 619) Link to this (Comment number 619)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 618.  Ade  2nd February 2013 - 23:12   Fact is tax was never designed to be fair , reasonable or even logical. Tax is about raising as much money as possible in any way possible by pulling as much wool over the eyes of the population as they can get away with. We are all just numbers in a game, the players of the game couldnt care less its just numbers to them nothing more.This move will not affect the numbers or the votes so forget it    Report this comment (Comment number 618) Link to this (Comment number 618)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 617.  Ronnie M  2nd February 2013 - 23:10   For tax breaks don't get married. Change your name to Starbucks Vodafone...    Report this comment (Comment number 617) Link to this (Comment number 617)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 616.  jennybookgroup  2nd February 2013 - 23:09   Why only £150 ! Are you joking ? Currently a family with one earner on £60,000 is paying £5,000 more in tax than a family with two earners on £30,000 each or equivalent when you take into account 40% tax rate, loss of child benefit and the fact that the two earner family gets two personal allowances. Absolutely ridiculous. The full tax free allowance used to be transferable. Why be married ?    Report this comment (Comment number 616) Link to this (Comment number 616)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 615.  Adam H  2nd February 2013 - 23:08   what planet are these Tories on? Fair play to Cameron for not siding with his growing lunatic fringe.if this madness carries on will any "normal" people actually vote Tory    Report this comment (Comment number 615) Link to this (Comment number 615)         Page 1 of 32    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



6: Gangnam Style hits one billion views  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



10: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





