BBC News - Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















2 February 2013
Last updated at 12:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples
 


Tory backbenchers are linking tax breaks for married couples to plans for gay marriage


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Clegg targets marriage tax breaks


Coalition unveils gay marriage bill


Q&A: Gay marriage



The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it has emerged.
There had been speculation David Cameron would bring in the measure to appease Tory backbenchers who are opposed to gay marriage.
However legislation is expected to be introduced before 2015 to allow couples to transfer part of their personal tax allowance to their partner. 
The Commons will vote next week on the government's plans for gay marriage.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill would enable same-sex couples to get married in both civil and religious ceremonies, where a religious institution had formally consented, in England and Wales.
It would also allow couples who have previously entered into civil partnerships to convert their relationship into a marriage.
BBC political correspondent Vicki Young said the tax news had to be seen in the context of the highly contentious vote on gay marriage, with dozens of Tory MPs opposed to it.
The two issues are linked in their minds because they say it is about Mr Cameron's priorities, putting gay marriage ahead of married tax breaks.
Some of them say it will increase anger and consternation on the backbenches, our correspondent added.
'Serious unrest'

Continue reading the main story Analysis 


Tom Barton
BBC News



The decision not to include a tax break for married couples in next month's budget has to be seen within the context of Tuesday's vote on same-sex marriage. 
Introducing the tax break remains part of the coalition programme, but there had been suggestions that David Cameron would introduce them earlier than planned. 
The idea was that the move would pacify MPs who complain that gay marriage, which wasn't in the last Tory manifesto, is being prioritised over the tax break, which was.
Strictly, this shouldn't be seen as a potential rebellion, as Conservative MPs are expected to be offered a free vote on Tuesday. But David Cameron is a vocal supporter of gay marriage. 
So, to have a significant number of his MPs (one backbencher today suggested more than half) voting against him would be embarrassing. 
After a week which has been full of talk of a possible leadership challenge from the backbenches, the prime minister's relationship with some sections of his party looks in need of some marriage guidance.

 The tax measure is in the coalition agreement but Liberal Democrat MPs would be allowed to abstain.
It is expected that one stay-at-home member of a married couple or civil partnership would be able to move £750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their working partner, reducing their tax bill. This would be worth about £150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.
A senior government source said: "It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this parliament. This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy".
According to the Times, the issue of gay marriage is causing Conservative members to leave the party in significant numbers.
The newspaper claimed that as many as 100 members had revoked their affiliation in some constituencies.
Tory MP David Burrowes is quoted as saying: "There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away."
'Definition of marriage'
He told the BBC that had the government introduced the tax breaks, it may have "softened the blow" of plans to legalise same-sex marriage, but that it would not have been a "clinch for any deal".
He also said it was an "issue of finance" as to why tax breaks for married couples were not being introduced in the forthcoming Budget, but said it was not "a case of if, it's a case of when" they would eventually come in.
"It is something that should be a priority, not just because it's a commitment in our manifesto and a coalition agreement, but also because it's where we can particularly support the poorest of families by ensuring there is a tax allowance for married couples with children."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 He also said: "Civil partnerships, quite rightly, give legal rights for same-sex couples. That doesn't mean we should change the definition of marriage, which is between a man and a woman." 
Conservative MP Peter Bone is opposed to gay marriage and believes the vote shows the coalition has got its priorities wrong.
"I absolutely understand there could be a debate about it but as no party had it in their manifesto we shouldn't be pushing it through now," he said.
"I'm always being told we can't get any measures through because it's not in the coalition agreement."
But a Tory supporter of the bill, Jane Ellison, says the policy is winning the party new support.
"A great many people, a great many young people support this measure and their voice is really important in politics too," she told the BBC.
Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family" and can discriminate against married couples.
"Introducing an allowance that lets families share some of their personal allowance would help tackle poverty and reduce the perverse disincentives created by our dysfunctional tax code."
Conservative MPs will get a free vote on whether to introduce same-sex marriage. Labour and the Lib Dems have backed the idea.
The bill will allow religious organisations to offer same-sex marriages but Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Clegg targets marriage tax breaks

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Coalition unveils gay marriage bill

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Q&A: Gay marriage

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK








From other news sites


Huffington Post UK  'DAMAGING THE PARTY' 3 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Tories urge gay marriage rethink 3 hrs ago


Sky News  Tory Rebellion Over Gay Marriage Vote 4 hrs ago


Channel 4  Fresh claims Tory gay marriage policy will cause damage 7 hrs ago


New Statesman  Tories squabble over gay marriage 32 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


The TaxPayers' Alliance


HM Treasury


Department for Culture Media and Sport


The Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 634       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -11      rate this     -11   Comment number 154.  minstrelblue  2nd February 2013 - 15:34   cameron would do well to remember that married couples who have children are providing the nations future tax payers, where's the incentive to get married and have children ?, as i tell my children, stay single,don't get married, buy a porche, as its cheaper in the long run !    Report this comment (Comment number 154) Link to this (Comment number 154)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 153.  mja  2nd February 2013 - 15:34   Surly you marry for love not tax breaks! Benifits are given to bring up children, not some outdated minority religous consept.    Report this comment (Comment number 153) Link to this (Comment number 153)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 152.  arjomac  2nd February 2013 - 15:33   @129@130Nice to see that you took the bait hook,line and sinker.  Given the absurdity of certain judgements from the ECHR I would suggest that my example may not be a million miles off target.    That there is a sudden need for a redefinition of "marriage" I find unnecessary. That women would aspire to be priests or bishops goes against biblical texts, but this is the strange 21st century.    Report this comment (Comment number 152) Link to this (Comment number 152)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 151.  John_from_Hendon  2nd February 2013 - 15:33   145correction - the bbc 400 char limit and editing to fit left a rather more confusing entry than I had envisaged!first line should read 'that is being able to afford TO be a couple'sorry!    Report this comment (Comment number 151) Link to this (Comment number 151)     Comment number 150.  Fr Karras  2nd February 2013 - 15:33    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 150) Link to this (Comment number 150)                 rate this     +73      rate this     +73   Comment number 149.  tiredallthetime  Comment number 149 is an Editors' Pick 2nd February 2013 - 15:31   How about a fair tax for everyone.  We could start with no one paying tax until their salary, pension and investments amount to £12,000, we could then do away with 'credits' as we would be allowed to keep much more of our own money. Quite a number of low income people would be taken out of the taxable income which is totally fair, we all would be better off.    Report this comment (Comment number 149) Link to this (Comment number 149)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 148.  Tony Hannibal  2nd February 2013 - 15:31   There goes my incentive to propose to my good lady!    Report this comment (Comment number 148) Link to this (Comment number 148)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 147.  wookie  2nd February 2013 - 15:31   135. Bradford"it is better to bring up children in a marriage than anything else"What has "marriage' got to do with it? —"Stable relationship" I could maybe buy, but what difference does going through a certain ceremony make? Given the divorce rates, apparently not much. Also, what about all those married couples who can't have, or don't want kids - by your logic they're getting a free ride.    Report this comment (Comment number 147) Link to this (Comment number 147)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 146.  DebateSettler  2nd February 2013 - 15:30   Marriage is not pointless. If you do not want to marry your partner what are you saying to them? Are you telling them your love is so strong that you're not willing to make a committed promise to be with them forever? I think you are. I'm marrying my girlfriend because it matters. She needs to know I will be with her and that I will entrench that promise righteously and not selfishly.    Report this comment (Comment number 146) Link to this (Comment number 146)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 145.  John_from_Hendon  2nd February 2013 - 15:29   Family finances - that is being able to afford the be a couple and have children have been under continuous attack for over half a century.The biggest and most serious threat is the way that mortgage loans to income have been calculated.  The move from 3 x biggest + smallest has progressively crippled the family. The absurd 16 x joint are a disaster.The REAL culprit is the BoE + the banks!    Report this comment (Comment number 145) Link to this (Comment number 145)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 144.  Eddy from Waring  2nd February 2013 - 15:28   "Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples"..."===Spoilsport. That was about the only fun to be had in this respect.    Report this comment (Comment number 144) Link to this (Comment number 144)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 143.  Dr_Ads  2nd February 2013 - 15:28   @117"I worked for a public sector organisation with 18,000 employees. Only 1 of these earned over £150k"9000 public employees earn over £150k and 1000 earn more than £200,000.362 council employees, 331 BBC employees & 17 teachers earn in excess of £150kpa.(Source: Panorama: Because We're Worth It - The Taxpayers' Rich List)    Report this comment (Comment number 143) Link to this (Comment number 143)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 142.  Abdi  2nd February 2013 - 15:28   It's clear why Cameron has pledged an EU referendum at the next election, as it's his ONLY HOPE of getting rejected. Conservatives will leave him in droves over Gay Marriage, and others angry at his cuts will certainly vote Labour. Even the EU referendum might not be enough. I say get ready for PM E. Milliband...    Report this comment (Comment number 142) Link to this (Comment number 142)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 141.  will50000  2nd February 2013 - 15:28   135.Bradford What the hell is a single parent benefit? you get child benefit and tax credit and care vouchers whether you are single or married, and we have gone off topic really, this would of been given for being married, so it actually  has nothing to do with the raising of kids, couples without them would still of been better off which is wrong.    Report this comment (Comment number 141) Link to this (Comment number 141)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 140.  Pete Greenfield  2nd February 2013 - 15:28   Sigh. Is this Government now going to base every policy decision on buying off Middle England and Tory backbenchers? When did politicians (and I include Labour) stop having the political conviction and guts to stand up and lead? Then again, I guess we get the politicians we deserve....    Report this comment (Comment number 140) Link to this (Comment number 140)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 139.  Dave666  2nd February 2013 - 15:26   Well that seems like another vote for UKIP.    Report this comment (Comment number 139) Link to this (Comment number 139)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 138.  Matt  2nd February 2013 - 15:26   Good, as someone who is single (with a girlfriend) and has no intention of ever getting married as its pointless in today's society I see no reason why those who choose to get married are treated differently in the tax system to those who aren't interested.    Report this comment (Comment number 138) Link to this (Comment number 138)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 137.  Mick Hodd  2nd February 2013 - 15:25   I expect Cameron & Osbourne will only give tax breaks to Gays    Report this comment (Comment number 137) Link to this (Comment number 137)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 136.  JoJoDeathunter  2nd February 2013 - 15:24   #131: "He is more interested in forcing gay marriage on churches than sorting out this country and the family unit."Someone clearly did not do the research since the proposed bill very specifically forbids the Church of England from conducting same-sex marriages and gives other religious intuitions the freedom to choose whether to offer such services or not. Nothing is being forced on anyone.    Report this comment (Comment number 136) Link to this (Comment number 136)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 135.  Bradford  2nd February 2013 - 15:23   People question why it is right to have a tax break for being married.Simple, because it is better to bring up children in a marriage than anything else It is also cost effective for the government because it doesn't have to pay out as much on single parent benefits It amazes me that as a nation our standards have dropped so low & Labour rights fundamentalist brainwashing has been so effective    Report this comment (Comment number 135) Link to this (Comment number 135)         Page 25 of 32    Newer 1 ... 23 24 25 26 27 ... 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



6: Gangnam Style hits one billion views  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



10: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





