BBC News - Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK Politics







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















2 February 2013
Last updated at 12:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Budget 2013: No tax break for married couples
 


Tory backbenchers are linking tax breaks for married couples to plans for gay marriage


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Clegg targets marriage tax breaks


Coalition unveils gay marriage bill


Q&A: Gay marriage



The government will not introduce a tax break for married couples in next month's Budget, it has emerged.
There had been speculation David Cameron would bring in the measure to appease Tory backbenchers who are opposed to gay marriage.
However legislation is expected to be introduced before 2015 to allow couples to transfer part of their personal tax allowance to their partner. 
The Commons will vote next week on the government's plans for gay marriage.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill would enable same-sex couples to get married in both civil and religious ceremonies, where a religious institution had formally consented, in England and Wales.
It would also allow couples who have previously entered into civil partnerships to convert their relationship into a marriage.
BBC political correspondent Vicki Young said the tax news had to be seen in the context of the highly contentious vote on gay marriage, with dozens of Tory MPs opposed to it.
The two issues are linked in their minds because they say it is about Mr Cameron's priorities, putting gay marriage ahead of married tax breaks.
Some of them say it will increase anger and consternation on the backbenches, our correspondent added.
'Serious unrest'

Continue reading the main story Analysis 


Tom Barton
BBC News



The decision not to include a tax break for married couples in next month's budget has to be seen within the context of Tuesday's vote on same-sex marriage. 
Introducing the tax break remains part of the coalition programme, but there had been suggestions that David Cameron would introduce them earlier than planned. 
The idea was that the move would pacify MPs who complain that gay marriage, which wasn't in the last Tory manifesto, is being prioritised over the tax break, which was.
Strictly, this shouldn't be seen as a potential rebellion, as Conservative MPs are expected to be offered a free vote on Tuesday. But David Cameron is a vocal supporter of gay marriage. 
So, to have a significant number of his MPs (one backbencher today suggested more than half) voting against him would be embarrassing. 
After a week which has been full of talk of a possible leadership challenge from the backbenches, the prime minister's relationship with some sections of his party looks in need of some marriage guidance.

 The tax measure is in the coalition agreement but Liberal Democrat MPs would be allowed to abstain.
It is expected that one stay-at-home member of a married couple or civil partnership would be able to move £750 of their tax-free personal allowance to their working partner, reducing their tax bill. This would be worth about £150 a year to basic-rate taxpayers.
A senior government source said: "It won't be in the Budget but it will be in this parliament. This Budget obviously, with all that has happened in recent weeks and months, will be very much focused on growth in the economy".
According to the Times, the issue of gay marriage is causing Conservative members to leave the party in significant numbers.
The newspaper claimed that as many as 100 members had revoked their affiliation in some constituencies.
Tory MP David Burrowes is quoted as saying: "There's serious unrest in the grassroots. You cannot avoid the fact that the troops are unhappy. People are drifting away."
'Definition of marriage'
He told the BBC that had the government introduced the tax breaks, it may have "softened the blow" of plans to legalise same-sex marriage, but that it would not have been a "clinch for any deal".
He also said it was an "issue of finance" as to why tax breaks for married couples were not being introduced in the forthcoming Budget, but said it was not "a case of if, it's a case of when" they would eventually come in.
"It is something that should be a priority, not just because it's a commitment in our manifesto and a coalition agreement, but also because it's where we can particularly support the poorest of families by ensuring there is a tax allowance for married couples with children."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 He also said: "Civil partnerships, quite rightly, give legal rights for same-sex couples. That doesn't mean we should change the definition of marriage, which is between a man and a woman." 
Conservative MP Peter Bone is opposed to gay marriage and believes the vote shows the coalition has got its priorities wrong.
"I absolutely understand there could be a debate about it but as no party had it in their manifesto we shouldn't be pushing it through now," he said.
"I'm always being told we can't get any measures through because it's not in the coalition agreement."
But a Tory supporter of the bill, Jane Ellison, says the policy is winning the party new support.
"A great many people, a great many young people support this measure and their voice is really important in politics too," she told the BBC.
Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said the UK's "complicated tax system makes it harder for people to start a family" and can discriminate against married couples.
"Introducing an allowance that lets families share some of their personal allowance would help tackle poverty and reduce the perverse disincentives created by our dysfunctional tax code."
Conservative MPs will get a free vote on whether to introduce same-sex marriage. Labour and the Lib Dems have backed the idea.
The bill will allow religious organisations to offer same-sex marriages but Equalities Minister Maria Miller has said no religious organisation "will ever be forced to conduct marriages for same-sex couples".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Clegg targets marriage tax breaks

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Coalition unveils gay marriage bill

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK POLITICS



Q&A: Gay marriage

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                UK








From other news sites


Huffington Post UK  'DAMAGING THE PARTY' 3 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Tories urge gay marriage rethink 3 hrs ago


Sky News  Tory Rebellion Over Gay Marriage Vote 4 hrs ago


Channel 4  Fresh claims Tory gay marriage policy will cause damage 7 hrs ago


New Statesman  Tories squabble over gay marriage 32 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


The TaxPayers' Alliance


HM Treasury


Department for Culture Media and Sport


The Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 634       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 14.  brian358  2nd February 2013 - 13:49   Tricky one...Morally speaking there's no reason for giving married couples tax advantages over singles & non-married couples.But, if I'm correct, children in married households tend to go on to do better - not just for themselves but the rest of us...???So undecided.    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 13.  Gareth  2nd February 2013 - 13:49   All because Tory backbenchers don't want gay couples to benefit.Such is the petty bigotry of our political masters.    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 12.  Thought for the day  2nd February 2013 - 13:49   9.qwertyOther people's children will pay their taxes for your medical treatment and pension when you are older.    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     +52      rate this     +52   Comment number 11.  Treena  2nd February 2013 - 13:48   Why should people be penalised by the tax system for being single? It doesn't make sense to me. I'm no longer married because my husband died, why should I then be financially worse off due to tax changes that favour the married?    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     -19      rate this     -19   Comment number 10.  Bye Auntie  2nd February 2013 - 13:46   Married couples lay the foundations for a family environment. In an age when young people can't afford homes to raise children, tax breaks for them should be more important than ever. However old married couples and gay couples do not need the same help. Nor do single people. Families are the future of a civilisation. We have too much selfish like #2. Children are future tax payers.    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     +48      rate this     +48   Comment number 9.  qwerty  2nd February 2013 - 13:46   How about a tax break for the single and childless?  We seem to be paying for everyone elses children and if this gets through married couples as well!    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 8.  steve   2nd February 2013 - 13:44   Unless of Course you happen to be a married Millionaire  and then your  own little tax break is worth at  least £45,000    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)                 rate this     +62      rate this     +62   Comment number 7.  will50000  2nd February 2013 - 13:44   Why should there be a tax break for being married, if you are married things are cheaper as you are sharing bills, buying bigger packs costs less, rent/mortgage is halved, bills are split between 2, I  am single so my costs are more as I have to cover everything, where is my tax break, blimey even when they go on holiday its cheaper per person as I have to pay a single supplement. so I am ppleased    Report this comment (Comment number 7) Link to this (Comment number 7)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 6.  Ian Duncan Smurf  2nd February 2013 - 13:44   I dont expect any good new to come from the upcoming budget, poor, working poor, gay, straight, married, single  and middle class will all be bashed even further. The only winners in Gideons budgets seem to be the City the rich and those who tax dodge.    Report this comment (Comment number 6) Link to this (Comment number 6)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 5.  Little_Old_Me  2nd February 2013 - 13:43   Why should married couples be singled out for tax breaks & not all couples living in stable relationships.....?????Stupid idea in the first place considering:Mariage at an all time low (& records go back centuraries)Divorce at an all time highFor once a well done to Cameron for not giving in to the right wing head bangers on his back benches....    Report this comment (Comment number 5) Link to this (Comment number 5)                 rate this     -12      rate this     -12   Comment number 4.  Binxie  2nd February 2013 - 13:43   Of course the Government will not help married couples. It is the aim of this and the previous Governments for the past twenty or so years to destroy all notions of family and community to allow gradual acceptance of the 'Big State'. The last thing they want is for children to start growing up having had some form of decent upbringing. Children with instilled values are much harder to control.    Report this comment (Comment number 4) Link to this (Comment number 4)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 3.  Coltar  2nd February 2013 - 13:42   Good.    Report this comment (Comment number 3) Link to this (Comment number 3)                 rate this     +58      rate this     +58   Comment number 2.  frankiecrisp  Comment number 2 is an Editors' Pick 2nd February 2013 - 13:42   Why should someone who wants to stay single or in our case just live together have to pay more tax than a couple who marry or have a civil partnership  . marriage is a choice and people who choose not to marry or just live together should not be punished    Report this comment (Comment number 2) Link to this (Comment number 2)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 1.  MD K47  2nd February 2013 - 13:41   Typical...    Report this comment (Comment number 1) Link to this (Comment number 1)         Page 32 of 32    Newer 1 ... 28 29 30 31 32 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK Politics stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media




Blair warns against quitting EU












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



8: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



6: Gangnam Style hits one billion views  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



10: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





