BBC News - Syria conflict: UK to give extra £5m to opposition groups


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















10 August 2012
Last updated at 10:06 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Syria conflict: UK to give extra £5m to opposition groups
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Hague: "Aid would include medical supplies, communications equipment and body armour"




Continue reading the main story


Syria conflict


'Islamic Syria'


Rallying the faithful


Life amid the conflict


Under fire over the border



 Foreign Secretary William Hague says the UK's commitment of an extra £5m in non-lethal equipment to Syrian opposition groups is "the right thing to do" and will "help save lives".
The help for unarmed opposition members will include medical supplies and radio and satellite equipment.
But it will not include weapons and is in addition to £27.5m humanitarian aid.
The BBC's James Robbins says the move is a significant shift in policy after frustration about Syria's opposition. 
Aside from concerns about divisions within the opposition, there have also been complaints that it has failed to set out a clear programme for good government, our correspondent added. 
Speaking at a press conference, Mr Hague said the funding would go to "unarmed opposition groups, human rights activists and civilians" and that Britain was speaking to people from the political arm of the Free Syrian Army, an armed rebel group which is opposed to President Bashar al-Assad.
Attempts to oust President Assad have led to 17 months of unrest, during which activists claim more than 20,000 people have died. 
However, reports of casualties often cannot be independently verified.
'Terrible conflict'
The UK is also telling opposition forces they must observe human rights standards.
Syrian people need "urgent help" and "cannot wait indefinitely" for a peaceful resolution to the conflict, Mr Hague said, describing them as being at the "mercy of a regime that is hunting down its opponents". 
The UN Security Council, which meets again at the end of this month, has a responsibility to "stop the bloodshed", he said.

Continue reading the main story 


Jonathan Marcus
BBC Diplomatic Correspondent



More medical supplies and communications gear for the civilian opposition in Syria should help to save lives but may not significantly alter the course of the fighting. 
There will be body armour too for key activists. But William Hague underlined again that this would go to the civil opposition rather than military fighters. Such a distinction may not always be so easy to maintain. 
Britain has shifted its ground - it is now willing to talk to people close to the Free Syrian Army - a tacit admission that to have any influence you have to have lines of communication with the key players involved. 
A diplomatic solution to the crisis though is as distant as ever. There will be another UN Security Council meeting at the end of this month. 
And Britain's stepped-up civil assistance is clearly a signal to Russia and China - who in Mr Hague's view have blocked concerted UN action - that, as he put it, the world does not stand still.

 Mr Hague said the money "will help people caught up in a terrible conflict. It will be delivered in co-ordination with other countries. It is the right thing to do, while not pausing for a second in our efforts to secure the united robust diplomatic action which this crisis demands."
The money will be spent on medical supplies such as trauma kits, surgical equipment, medicines and water purification and to assist local doctors with the means to gather forensic evidence for any potential trials in future. 
The communications equipment includes mobile and satellite phones and radar equipment. The Foreign Office says it will help protect activists overcome the Syrian government's jamming and blocking techniques. 
The foreign secretary added that body armour would be provided for civilians who were involved in the protection of others.
Mr Hague, who has also described the Assad regime as "doomed", said it remains British policy not to send arms to Syria.
BBC security correspondent Frank Gardner says the UK has been quite vocal at the UN but reluctant to get involved on the ground in Syria. 
But the latest announcement is a realisation that the situation will continue to get worse if it does nothing, he added.
Military support
Former British foreign secretary, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, says the government should be doing more in Syria. 
"The way in which you have to act is to actually take the very difficult decision of providing military support to the insurgents," he said. 
"That way you may enhance the conflict in the short term, in the longer term you're more likely to save thousands of lives."


The extra practical support for the opposition FSA will include more radio and satellite equipment

The UK had previously made £1.4m available in "non-lethal support to the political opposition" in Syria which included training and assistance to human rights groups.
The £27.5m in humanitarian aid is for food, medical care, water sanitation and shelter in Syria, as well as for Syrian refugees who have fled to neighbouring countries. 
International Development Secretary Andrew Mitchell had announced this week that the amount of assistance being given to the refugees was being quadrupled.
It follows on from £18.4m in UK humanitarian assistance to Libya during the uprising against Colonel Gaddafi last year. This included supplying shelter for both refugees and those made homeless, supporting mine clearance and also helping the World Health Organization to provide medical care.

 



More on This Story


Syria conflict
	      



Features and analysis



'Islamic Syria'

Senior commander of feared jihadi group tells Paul Wood Syria's only future is as an Islamic state.




Rallying the faithful




Life amid the conflict




Under fire over the border




After Assad




Uncertain fate




Russia resigned




Winter of discontent




Rebels' tactical shift




Chemical fears




Damascus defiant




Dream of home




Insurgency mapped




Guide to conflict




Credible alternative?




Can US reshape opposition?







Profiles



President's inner circle




Bashar al-Assad




Who are the Alawites?




Guide to the Syrian opposition




Profile: Moaz al-Khatib




Profile: Syria's Baath Party







Around the web



BBC Arabic website




Revolution 2011 on Facebook




Syrian state news agency Sana




Human Rights Observatory (Arabic)














Related Internet links


Foreign Office


Times



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1021       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 881.  Rosetta  10th August 2012 - 14:50   797.DrBob‘As for calling the rebels terrorists, terrorists target civilians - Assad's the one doing that’--Please read the links from my previous post @548.Now tell me, do you really see this as black and white?    Report this comment (Comment number 881) Link to this (Comment number 881)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 880.  anti-idiot  10th August 2012 - 14:50   We are now funding Terrorism.Aren't we having a 'War Against Terrorism'?So, we're at war with ourselves?    Report this comment (Comment number 880) Link to this (Comment number 880)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 879.  Wiltshire Girl  10th August 2012 - 14:49   After attacks by Assad's army & 'paid thugs' & children were tortured for graffiti, demonstrators had to arm. Now a few terrorists exploit the chaos. This £5m to strengthen the 'right groups' is NOTHING if it helps prevent years of strife that WILL affect the UK so we have to act (it's NOT from an NHS budget). A safe zone is needed too & this £5m may be too little too late to stop the massacres.    Report this comment (Comment number 879) Link to this (Comment number 879)     Comment number 878.  thefatladysang  10th August 2012 - 14:49    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 878) Link to this (Comment number 878)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 877.  UKStinks  10th August 2012 - 14:49   So whilst we all suffer from the recession and every increasing food and fuel bills. We send out kids to schools that are crumbling and lack investment, some of our roads are worse than some in the 3rd world and our NHS is at the brink of collapse but We can fund £5 million for something that is nothing to do with the UK.Absolute Joke and an insult to the taxpayer    Report this comment (Comment number 877) Link to this (Comment number 877)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 876.  mythoughtz  10th August 2012 - 14:49   "The extra practical support for unarmed opposition members will include more radio and satellite equipment. "What does he thinks it will be used for though? doubt they are going to join the seti program or listen to the olympics on bbc radio.    Report this comment (Comment number 876) Link to this (Comment number 876)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 875.  Hwest83  10th August 2012 - 14:48   You can never know if a rebel group are freedom fighters or just led by another would be dictator hungry for power. We've backed people before that turned against us, even in libya both sides commited war crimes against civillians. So let's use the money to fix our economy, all of the money.    Report this comment (Comment number 875) Link to this (Comment number 875)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 874.  workingstiff  10th August 2012 - 14:47   More worrying than the 5 Million given to what the BBC reports say are Jihadist. Is the censorship here in the U.K. once a certain religion is mentioned.I hope I live to see the day when the British people rise and demand their rights of free speech and open debate. armed if need be  I hope that the state sponsored propagandists broadcasters are brought to book.I think they will.    Report this comment (Comment number 874) Link to this (Comment number 874)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 873.  robert catesby  10th August 2012 - 14:43   The UK and the rest who are giving aid to the 'REBELS' are sponsoring terrorism and bloodfshed in another sovereign country.    Report this comment (Comment number 873) Link to this (Comment number 873)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 872.  RightInTheHead  10th August 2012 - 14:43   This could also be seen as creating more enemies for our selves, then we need a few extra billions for protecting our selves..    Report this comment (Comment number 872) Link to this (Comment number 872)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 871.  ItsOver  10th August 2012 - 14:47   I saw live yes "LIVE" Broadcasts of these Syrian people suffering by Al-Assad's regime but his deserters from the regime now calling themselvesFree Syrian Army (FSA) are just as bad by fighting in streets towns village's as if using ordinary Syrian people as collateral damage and their homes.But the ordinary Syrian people still support the FSA strange hmmm    Report this comment (Comment number 871) Link to this (Comment number 871)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 870.  Luther_Wesley-Baxter  10th August 2012 - 14:46   Whichever way you look at it, Britain is aiding in the rebellion against the legitimate government of Syria. Britain should be seeking peace in Syria, and not fanning the flames of war.    Report this comment (Comment number 870) Link to this (Comment number 870)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 869.  haraboji  10th August 2012 - 14:46   So very wrong to back rebels in any country.Hopefully no money will change hands with only goods and services sent.My vote will have to change at next election,but to whom?    Report this comment (Comment number 869) Link to this (Comment number 869)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 868.  Cooper89  10th August 2012 - 14:45   I wonder what would happen to rebel fighters in this country?We have seen what happens to peaceful protesters    Report this comment (Comment number 868) Link to this (Comment number 868)     Comment number 867.  John  10th August 2012 - 14:45    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 867) Link to this (Comment number 867)     Comment number 866.  markdoncaster  10th August 2012 - 14:45    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 866) Link to this (Comment number 866)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 865.  Apetime  10th August 2012 - 14:44   Maybe the government didn't know what to do with Abu Hamza benefit money since he got deported.    Report this comment (Comment number 865) Link to this (Comment number 865)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 864.  HugoFurst  10th August 2012 - 14:44   We can't keep out of it can we? This is not our problem, it is the Arab Nations' problem. Why the hell to British Politicians think they can save the World ?  If there is any hint of sending in British troops, there should be riots on the streets.    Report this comment (Comment number 864) Link to this (Comment number 864)                 rate this     +14      rate this     +14   Comment number 863.  Ian  Comment number 863 is an Editors' Pick 10th August 2012 - 14:44   Something for those who think that we should be taking sides in Syria should ponder on.What is happening in Syria today is very like the situation in Germany in the early 1930s when the Nazis and the communists used violence to polarise society.Neither side then deserved our support,and neither side now deserves it.It's the people caught in the middle of it that we must support and protect.    Report this comment (Comment number 863) Link to this (Comment number 863)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 862.  AndyC555  10th August 2012 - 14:42   "Sixp I think he works helping tax dodgers"That's everyone.  Unless you go out of your way to pay more tax than you need to.  Which I'm sure you don't.    Report this comment (Comment number 862) Link to this (Comment number 862)         Page 8 of 52    Newer 1 ... 6 7 8 9 10 ... 52 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Knifeman Tasered outside palace




Mitchell blasts 'plebgate' media












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



4: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



5: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: Mars rover hammers down into rock



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: Dozens dead in Iraq police attack



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



4: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



5: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: What is inside a zombie's mind? Watch



10: Digital artists inspired by the gif's resurgence Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





