BBC News - As it happened: Norway attacks


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             












Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





As it happened: Norway attacks















Key points

A huge bomb has caused large-scale devastation close to government headquarters in Oslo
Norwegian police say at least seven people have been killed and two are badly wounded
At least 10 people are killed in a shooting at a Labour Party youth camp outside Oslo
A 32-year-old Norwegian has been arrested and is thought to be behind both attacks
PM Jens Stoltenberg says: "No-one will bomb us to silence"
Times in BST (GMT+1)

















Report
Reporters:
	    Anna Jones, Matthew Danzico, Vanessa Barford and Susannah Cullinane
      









 

1530:


Welcome to our live coverage of events in the Norwegian capital Oslo, where an explosion struck this afternoon. The blast is thought to have caused damage to the offices of Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and a number of other official buildings. 


 

1530:


A journalist from public radio NRK says: "I see that some windows of the VG building and the government headquarters have been broken. Some people covered with blood are lying in the street." 


 

1531:


Eyewitness Ole Tommy Pedersen says he saw the blast shatter almost all of the windows of the high-rise building. "I saw three or four injured people being carried out of the building a few minutes later," he tells the Associated Press. A cloud of smoke was sent billowing from the bottom floors, he adds. 


 

1533:


Police are not commenting on the cause of the explosion in the centre of the Norwegian capital.    


 

1535:

Christian Aglen



tweets: The blast area has been blocked off now...authorities probably trying to get a sense of the situation... 


 

1536:


David Lea, Western Europe analyst, at Control Risks tells Reuters it is difficult to tell what has happened. "There certainly aren't any domestic Norwegian terrorist groups although there have been some al Qaeda-linked arrests from time to time.     "They are in Afghanistan and were involved in Libya, but it's far too soon to draw any conclusions."    


 

1539:


Neighbouring offices - including those housing some of Norway's leading newspapers and news agency NTB - have been evacuated, Associated Press says.     


 

1542:


Immediately after the blast people ran towards the building whilst security guards tried to keep others away, saying it was too dangerous, Ingunn Andersen from Norwegian station NRK tells the BBC. 


 

1544:

Erik in Oslo



emails: The bomb went of at Youngstorget, in the central parts of Oslo. People are crying in the streets, injured people are taking care of by a huge amount of police and medical forces. People ran from the scene in panic. The police is now evacuating all people from Youngstorget. Windows are shattered up to 400m away. And you could hear the explosion 4km outside Oslo. 


 

1546:


Norwegian police issue an official statement confirming "a powerful explosion" has taken place in the government quarter of Oslo. 


 

1546:


Briton Ben McPherson, who is in Oslo with his wife, says he heard the blast from about a mile away. "It looks quite bad, the assumption is that it has to be terrorism," he tells the BBC.    


 

1546:


More from Ingunn Andersen, who says people in Norway generally feel safe and don't expect terrorist attacks to take place in their country. There has been no confirmation that the explosion was terrorist-related. 


 

1548:


Public broadcaster NRK reports one fatality has been confirmed. 


 

1550:

Evert Whitehouse in Oslo



emails: Well it's quite shocking, it seems unreal that places here would be targeted by bombs. Apparently the prime minister is in safety and unharmed according to media reports here. The areas that have been hit, such as the government HQ looks like an urban warzone, glass lies scattered all over the streets and a building is on fire, from what I can see on the television. The areas are being cordoned off by the police in fear of more bombs going off. 


 

1550:


Back to Ben McPherson, who says he though it was thunder when he first heard the blast from his home. "I saw on the Aftenposten website - the main newspaper here - that there were bodies spotted in the government building. This will come as a huge shock and will shatter the innocence of this country," he says. 


 

1552:

Athar Kaleem in Oslo



emails: It was a massive explosion, I was at least 1km away from the scene but I felt the explosive in my feet. Everyone had the same feeling. It seems the explosion got very high shock waves as it broken the mirrors at quite larger distances. Now I am near the main place and city is in panic, grief and in tears. 


 

1553:

Andrew Holmes in Oslo



emails: My wife was caught by the glass and shockwave of the explosion. She phoned me and I was able to get into Oslo and pick her up. She is in complete shock. The police are moving people away from the area for the third time as they are concerned about the possibility of more explosions. The local TV are saying that there is a big possibility of a terror connection. 


 

1555:

Bjorn Magne Slinde



emails: Smell of ionized air lingers, this appear by the smell as if gas containers have exploded. Police and security forces have sealed off the area. Reports of damaged persons being taken away by ambulances is all over the news. 


 

1556:


Photos are coming in of the aftermath of the blast in Oslo. View our gallery here. 


 

1557:


Witness Ben McPherson tells the BBC news channel that Oslo does not have natural gas pipes, although he says some people do keep cannisters in their homes. 


 

1558:

Ian Dutton in Oslo



I'm looking down at the explosion site from an adjacent tower hotel. The streams of ambulances remind me of the scenes from around my home on September 11 2001. 


 

1601:


There are dramatic pictures on the front page of NRK's website - the public broadcaster reporting that one person has been killed in the blast. 


 

1606:


US-based news broadcaster ABC is quoting US government sources as saying the explosion was caused by "a massive vehicle bomb". 


 

1607:


Olaf Furniss, a reporter in the city, says: "There was a huge blast. All the windows have been blown out from one of the main government buildings, it's a sort of big skyscraper.   "And that's where the prime minister's office is, one of the main newspapers is based there, and a lot of other government buildings. "The whole area has been damaged, there's windows blown out in about a 1km radius, a lot of shock. And I can hear a lot of ambulance and police activity as well."     


 

1610:

Ella Mork in Oslo



"I was at home, just half a kilometre away when I heard the noise. At first, I thought it was thunder, but then I thought it was a little too loud. I was on my way out and when I arrived at the scene, there was shattered glass everywhere and buildings on fire."    


 

1612:


Police in Norway have confirmed the blast was caused by a bomb and that people have been killed and injured. 


 

1612:

Leif Landsverk



emails: The city centre is now being evacuated. The central train station is now closed. 


 

1616:

Saskia in Oslo



emails: I was at work a few blocks away when we heard a huge bang and my 10-storey building shook like it had been hit by a crane, or there was an earthquake. We all ran to the side facing central Oslo to see smoke billowing up very high. The smoke didn't last long. No one knew what it was as Oslo has never seen anything like this before. They've sectioned off a large area around the explosion sight with tape and there is glass everywhere. The streets are fuller than i've ever seen and everyone is on phones, although the networks are jamming. There are traffic jams and people wandering around looking shocked. It is especially odd as this is the time of year that everyone is on holiday and abroad. Also, the public sector leave work early on Fridays during the summer so was this targeted to not hurt too many people? It is so shocking for such a normally calm and relaxed city. 


 

1618:


A press officer at Oslo University tells Reuters: "So far I can confirm that we have received seven people at Oslo University Hospital. I don't know how seriously wounded they are." 


 

1615:


Public broadcaster NRK says at least two people have been killed. 


 

1623:


Eyewitnesses have been describing the blast to the BBC and news agencies. Read their experiences here. 


 

1632:


James McCarthy, who's a British musician working in Oslo, says he was in a library, about 50 metres from the building nearest to the explosion, when the bomb went off. "I just saw the flash - and the force threw myself and a few other people that were trying to go down the first set of stairs that  exit the library. It threw us back.  "The building shook and you know, we hear the bang and everything. The fire alarms went off, so the staff in the library ushered us out." 


 

1634:


Government minister Hans Kristian Amundsen confirms to the BBC PM Jens Stoltenberg is safe and was not in the building at the time of the bomb. 


 

1634:


He says people are believed to still be trapped in the building and the focus is on rescuing people. 


 

1636:


An injured man is treated at the scene.    


 

1638:


In a statement, Oslo police say confirm "one or several" explosions. "So far, police cannot say anything about the scope of the damage, aside from that there's been one or several explosions." An Oslo police official tells Associated Press: "There are several people injured." 


 

1643:


Olaf Furniss, a reporter in the city, tells the BBC it is impossible to get anywhere the site of the blast. He says there are police, military police and plainclothes officers in the area. 


 

1646:


Mr Furniss says he hasn't seen many people being treated because the area is cordoned off. But he says there is significant damage. "I'm surprised that more people haven't been declared dead or injured."    


 

1650:


Government minister Hans Kristian Amundsen tells the BBC many hundreds of people would have been in the building - which has 17-18 floors - on a normal day, but he thinks there may have been fewer today because it was a Friday afternoon, and many people may have already left the office. 


 

1651:


Many people are still being treated in the streets outside the building.    


 

1652:


Eyewitness Siv Hartvigsen tells the BBC she was shopping nearby when the bomb went off. Ms Hartvigsen says it was a terrifying experience and the situation felt "really, really threatening". 


 

1653:

Rannveig Mjelde Vareberg in Oslo



emails: I am on my way back to Stavanger. Ten minutes ago heavy armed police stopped and searched our bus on the way to Oslo airport. They stop all traffic to the airport. 


 

1653:


For eye-witness accounts and video footage, Norwegian journalist Ingunn Andersen says people were lying there bleeding in the moments after the explosion hit the centre of Oslo, while Olaf Furniss says you could smell the burning from the blast. 


 

1655:


Assistant Chief Constable Egil Vrekke of the Oslo Police confirms two people have died. He says police know there have been "a lot" of casualties but the rescue operation is ongoing. 


 

1702:


ACC Vrekke tells the BBC he does not know if there was more than one explosion. If there were multiple blasts, he says, they occurred simultaneously. He says he cannot confirm whether the bomb was in a vehicle at this stage. 


 

1703:


ACC Vrekke says the police operation is continuing. "We will still secure the area and of course make certain there are no other possible bombs in this area and also the rescue operation will be ongoing for quite some time," he tells the BBC. 


 

1704:


Oslo police say 15 people have been injured, Associated Press reports. 


 

1706:


The BBC's Emma Jane Kirby says whatever has happened in Oslo, it has left people extremely frightened. 


 

1709:


Norwegian police are urging people to leave central Oslo, Reuters reports. 


 

1711:


Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg says that all cabinet ministers in the centre-left coalition government appear to be safe, Reuters says. 


 

1712:


BBC diplomatic correspondent Bridget Kendall says if the bomb - or bombs - were targeting the Norwegian government they were detonated at a time when many workers may have left for the weekend. 


 

1714:


ACC Vrekke says police are asking people to stay out of central Oslo. "We do have persons on the scene investigating whether there are other devices in the area." He says while the media is reporting 15 people injured he cannot confirm that figure. 


 

1716:


Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg tells Norwegian TV2 television in a phone call that the situation is "very serious". But he adds it is too early to say if the blast was a terrorist attack.  He says police have advised him not to say where he is speaking from. 


 

1718:


Oslo police say the office of broadcaster TV2 has been sealed off because of a suspicious package, AP reports. 


 

1719:


Readers have been sending in photos from the scene of the bombing. You can view them here: Oslo blast: Your pictures 


 

1719:


Police say some shots have been fired at a youth meeting in Oslo, Reuters reports. 


 


Freddy in Oslo



I am in Norway right now. It's total chaos in the downtown right now. The police are starting to close down the down town and I started to see militaty police start helping wounded and shocked people. Also it's very very hard to leave the downtown of Oslo because the police says it's more safe to stay where we are. 


 

1723:


Oslo journalist Hans Torgersen tells the BBC there have been reports that a gunman dressed as a policeman has attacked a Labour Party youth camp at an island just outside of Oslo. 


 

1730:


The wreckage of a car lies outside a building in the centre of Oslo after the bombing.    


 

1730:


A quick recap: Police in Norway have confirmed that a bomb has ripped through buildings in central Oslo, killing two and injuring at least 15. There are separate unconfirmed reports that a gunman has attacked a youth camp outside the city. 


 

1735:


Norwegian police are telling Oslo residents to stay at home, French news agency AFP reports. "It is necessary to avoid big gatherings, to go back home," AFP quotes a police officer as saying. "It is wise to stay at home." 


 


James Keane in Olso



emails: I was 300 metres from the blast, I walked down the street and saw people crying, people with shards of glass in them. There are windows within a 400 metre raduis with windows blown out. The blast was massive or at least from where I was standing. Police are cornering off huge areas inside the city, they have been quick and seem to have people under control. 


 


Nina in Oslo



emails: The police are telling everyone to stay at home or in their hotel rooms this evening. 


 

1739:


AFP report police say Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg had been due to attend a rally of his Labour Party's youth section on the island of Utoya where a gunman reportedly opened fire earlier. 


 

1744:


UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon is about to make a UN statement on the attack in Norway, Reuters reports. 


 

1749:


Norwegian state broadcaster NRK says five people have been injured in the shooting at a Labour Party youth camp on the island of Utoya. 


 

1753:


Osten Mjarum, from the Norwegian Red Cross in Oslo, says that some people remain trapped after the bombing. "We're getting reports that there are still injured people inside some of the government buildings. But the rescue workers are in contact with them and trying to help them out as well." 


 

1755:


10 people have been admitted to hospital in Oslo, Reuters says. 


 

1754:


The US condemns the "despicable" blast that tore through government buildings in Oslo and says it is ready to provide assistance if requested. "We condemn these despicable acts of violence," State Department spokeswoman Heide Bronke Fulton tells AFP.  "Our hearts are with the victims and their families, and we have reached out to the Norwegian government to express our condolences." 


 

1759:


Around 560 people were attending the youth camp for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's Labour Party, AFP reports. 


 

1801:


EU president Herman Van Rompuy describes the bomb that hit government buildings in Norway's capital as an act of "cowardice". "I am deeply shocked by the bomb blasts this afternoon in Oslo which have killed a number of innocent people and left many others injured," Van Rompuy says in a statement. "I condemn in the strongest terms these acts of cowardice for which there is no justification." 


 

1757:


Emergency workers remain at the scene of the bombing in central Oslo.    


 

1803:


Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg tells public broadcaster NRK "there is a critical situation at Utoya", Reuters reports. Mr Stoltenberg's calendar shows that he had been due to make a speech at the Labour Party's youth meeting on the island Saturday. 


 

1803:


Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland had been due to attend the Labour Party youth meeting on Friday, Reuters adds. 


 


Jorunn Bj\u00f8rk \u00c5lvik



tweets: Still in disbelief... On top of that a gunman disguised as a police officer is shooting teenagers & others at Ut\u00f8ya. Norway's in chaos today 


 

1809:


A police official tells a news conference that authorities had little idea of the reasons for the attack. "We have no main theory, we don't even have a working theory," Reuters quoted the official as saying. "We already have enough to do to get an understanding of the situation." 


 

1811:


Reuters reports state TV says one person has been arrested at the Labour Party youth camp on the island of Utoya. 


 

1813:


Henrik Pryser Libell, a journalist in Oslo, says the city centre seems like a ghost town at the moment. 


 

1815:


AFP says the gunman in the shooting on the island of Utoya has been arrested.  


 

1818:


An aerial view of Utoya Island, Norway taken on 21 July.    


 

1820:


The BBC's diplomatic correspondent says the fact a government building was targeted makes one think this could be connected with government decisions on Afghanistan or Libya. 


 

1822:


Reuters reports several people have been killed in the shooting at a Labour Party youth camp on the island of Utoya. 


 

1826:


The BBC's Jorn Madslien asks whether if the bomb blast in Oslo turns out to be a terror attack, it will mark a 9/11 moment for Norway. Read his analysis piece: Oslo bomb attack: End of innocence? 


 


Bjorn Magne Slinde



emails: People are adviced NOT to call people they know on Utoya, due to the risk of it giving off the location of those who are hiding in the bushes and elsewhere on the island, to the shooter. 


 

1830:


Meanwhile, rescue workers continue to work at the site of the bomb that rocked central Oslo.    


 

1835:


The medical director in charge at Oslo University Hospital, Eric Carlson, tells BBC Radio 5 live his hospital has received 11 casualties. He says conditions are described as stable. 


 

1836:


Police say seven people have been killed and two are badly wounded after a bomb attack in Oslo, Reuters reports. 


 

1839:


Norway police say they fear there may be explosives at the Labour Party youth camp on the island of Utoya, Reuters reports. 


 

1843:


Foreign Secretary William Hague says he sends his deepest condolences to all those who have lost relatives or been injured in the "horrific" bomb blast in Oslo. "Our Embassy stands ready to provide assistance to any British nationals who may have been caught up in the attack.   "We condemn all acts of terrorism. The UK stands shoulder to shoulder with Norway and all our international allies in the face of such atrocities. We are committed to work tirelessly with them to combat the threat from terrorism in all its forms," he says in a statement. 


 

1845:


Soldiers have taken up positions around central Oslo, Reuters reports, quoting a witness. 


 

1848:


Norwegian police say they believe there is a connection between the Oslo bombing and Labour party youth camp shootings on the island of Utoeya. 


 

1854:


BBC security correspondent Gordon Correra says it is significant that the Norwegian police say they believe the Oslo bomb and Labour youth camp shootings are related. 


 

1856:


Our correspondent says one of the key questions will be, was the shooting carried out by the same person that planted the Oslo bomb, or is there a gang involved. 


 

1900:


The medical director in charge at Oslo University Hospital, Eric Carlson, says there could be as many as 100 walking wounded, in addition to those who have been seriously wounded. 


 

1905:


Jane Owen, the British Ambassador to Norway, tells the BBC there is no information that any British nationals have been hurt in the "horrific" attacks. 


 


Julia in Berlin



emails: Residents in Oslo are asked via Twitter to unlock their WiFi signals to let trapped people communicate via wireless because phones will jam!  


 

1911:


A quick recap. Police say seven people have been killed and two are badly wounded after a bomb attack in Oslo, Reuters reports. Oslo police are advising residents to stay at home. No-one has claimed responsibility for the attack. 


 

1917:


Meanwhile a gunman dressed as a policeman started shooting at a Labour youth camp on the island of Utoeya. Unconfirmed reports say several people have been killed. The gunman has been arrested. 


 

1917:


Norwegian police say they believe there is a connection between the two incidents. 


 

1920:


US President Barack Obama says events in Oslo are a reminder that the world has a role in stopping acts of terrorism, AP says. 


 

1926:


Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg says he has called a crisis meeting of his government, to be held on Friday evening, following the bombing and shootings that have shaken the country. 


 

1928:


"Several ministers are going to meet this evening," Mr Stoltenberg says.  The Norwegian PM says he will also be meeting the leaders of the main political parties on Saturday. 


 

1932:


The BBC's security correspondent Gordon Correra says he believes an al-Qaeda influenced group is most likely to be behind the attacks. 


 

1933:


Norwegian PM Jens Stoltenberg has urged Norwegians not cave in to fear caused by the bombing in Oslo. 


 

1936:


Mr Stoltenberg tells Norwegian broadcaster NRK: "Co-workers have lost their lives today... It's frightening. That's not how we want things in our country.  "But it's important that we don't let ourselves be scared. Because the purpose of that kind of violence is to create fear." 


 

1944:


An eyewitness has told the Norway national broadcaster NRK that he saw more than 20 bodies at the Labour Party youth camp in Utoeya. 


 

1948:


Eyewitness Andre Scheie told NRK: "There are very many dead by the shore... There are about 20-25 dead." Mr Scheie also said he saw people dead in the water at the camp. 


 

1955:


A doctor at Oslo University Hospital tells the BBC the facility has taken in 11 "heavily injured people" following the blast. He said hospital staff are treating injuries to people's head, chest and abdomen.  


 

1957:


Norwegian radio NRK reports that police have arrested one man after the shooting at the Workers' Youth League camp outside Oslo.  


 

2003:


French President Nicolas Sarkozy has called the deadly bombing in Oslo an "odious and unacceptable act" of violence. "At this dramatic time, I wish to pass on the profound sympathy of the entire French people for the Norwegian people," he said.  


 

2005:

Henrik Hodne in Oslo



The Norwegian Blood Bank in Oslo is requesting people with blood type 0 to donate, which suggests many wounded with blood losses. 


 

2010:


The man arrested after a shooting at the camp in Utoeyais has ties to the bombing in Oslo, police say. 


 

2012:

Henrik Strand



tweets: The PM ask us to stand up and be strong, and don't let the violence scare us! He's right, we'll stand together and show what we're made of. 


 

2019:


Jane Owen, the British ambassador to Norway, tells the BBC the Norwegian government is currently focusing its primary efforts on dealing with the "situation as it unfolds". She says the government has not yet pointed the finger toward groups who could be responsible for the bombing. 


 

2025:


The BBC's Kim Ghattas in Washington says the reaction in the US to the bombing is "one of caution", adding that most speculation has been linked to Norway's involvement in conflicts in Afghanistan and Libya. 


 

2032:


Police are yet to comment on the number of deaths that are being reported by some witnesses at the camp. Some said they saw 20 bodies following the shooting. 


 

2039:


The New York Times is reporting that the terror group Ansar al-Jihad al-Alami, or the Helpers of the Global Jihad, is claiming responsibilty for the bombing in Oslo. 


 

2045:


Police in Norway have said that at least nine were killed when a gunman opened fire indiscriminately on young people at a camp in Utoeya. Previous reports put the number of deaths at four. 


 

2053:


Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store tells the BBC that though the government will have to physically relocate in Oslo due to the bombings, Norway will not "sell out our core values of democracy" in the face of the attacks.  


 

2056:


The foreign minister has also confirmed that the man arrested following the shooting on the island is Caucasian. 


 

2100:


Acting Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim in Oslo says the shooter had also been spotted in the capital prior to the explosions. 


 

2107:


Aerial images have been released by Norway's TV2 showing members of a Swat team arriving at the island where the shooting took place. In the same set of images, young people stripped down to their underwear could be seen swimming away from the island toward shore. 


 

2115:


Oslo police spokesman Ander Frydenberg has told the BBC the shooter is currently being questioned at a local police station in Utoeya. 


 

2119:


Police are still searching the water around the youth camp in Utoeya for missing people.  


 

2124:


A terrorism expert tells the BBC that Ansar al-Jihad al-Alami, or the Helpers of the Global Jihad, a terror group that claimed responsibility for the explosion in Oslo, was not behind the attack. 


 

2129:


Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper has said he was "shocked and intensely saddened to learn of the attacks in Oslo and Uoeya". 


 

2134:


A witness in Oslo tells the BBC that the explosions rattled the government offices with such force that it seemed as if the buildings would completely collapse.  


 

2139:


Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is speaking at a press conference in Oslo. "We will find the guilty and hold them responsible," he says. 


 

2142:


"No one will bomb us to silence. No one wil shoot us to silence. No one will ever scare us away from beign Norway," Mr Stoltenberg says. 


 

2143:


"You will not destroy us. You will not destroy our democracy or our ideals for a better world," Prime Minister Stolenberg adds. 


 

2145:


The justice minister has just confirmed the suspect arrested today at the youth camp in Utoeya was Norwegian. 


 

2151:


Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg says the attacks in Oslo and shooting in Utoeya will create "more openeness and more democracy" in the country. He adds that the government "will understand that violence is something that can hit our society" in the future. 


 

2155:


"Attacking one of the most peaceful places, a political youth camp, is especially brutal - an act of cowardice," Mr Stoltenberg says. 


 

2158:


"We do not wish to confirm or deny any reports of groups taking responsibility for the attacks. We don't want to make the situation seem more serious than it is," the prime minister says. 


 

2207:


Mr Stoltenberg says the country's priority now is to "comfort and care for people who have lived through a nightmare which very few of us can imagine". The PM has now left the press conference to visit injured people in hospital. 


 

2211:

Gordon Corera
Security correspondent, BBC News



During the day, after an initial focus on an al-Qaeda link, the possibility of domestic extremism increasingly came into focus. The choice of targets - government buildings and a political youth rally - suggested a possible political agenda rather than the mass casualty approach typically employed by al-Qaeda. 


 

2220:


Anita Bakaas told the BBC her daughter was on the island when the gunman hit, but managed to hide in a toilet with some friends from where she sent her text messages. Ms Bakaas said her daughter could hear gunshots the whole time. "It was scary, scary, scary."  


 

2223:


"She has talked to some of her friends but still some of her friends are missing," said Ms Bakaas. "I don't know if they are alive or in hospital." She said police were still hunting for missing people on the island and for those who tried to swim to the mainland. "A lot of people here now don't know if their children are alive or not." 


 

2228:

Frank Gardner
BBC security correspondent



It's still very odd what would motivate someone to get hold of so much explosives - enough to devastate the centre of downtown Oslo - then travel 30 to 40 minutes northwest of there and start spraying people indisciminately and mercilessly. 


 

2231:


Police say undetonated explosives have been found on Utoeya island. 


 

2234:


Police have also said they expect the death toll from the twin attacks to rise overnight, Reuters reports. 


 

2236:

Gordon Corera
Security correspondent, BBC News



"Constructing a large car bomb requires a degree of sophistication. The crucial factor for the police will be establishing how many people are behind this attack, whether any are still at large and to whom they might connected." 


 

2238:


Deputy Oslo police chief Sveining Sponheim tells reporters the man under arrest is 32 and "ethnic Norwegian". 


 

2242:


Sveinung Sponheim has said the man in custody has never worked for the police. The island gunman was reported to have been wearing police clothing when he attacked. 


 

2248:


We have put together a collection of eyewitness reports from people who were on Utoeya island or in touch with people there. One father said he received a text from his daughter saying: "There is gunfire, I am hiding." 


 

2251:


It has been a dramatic and painful day for Norway. First, a huge bomb hit the government quarter of the capital Oslo, killing at least seven people and injuring an unknown number. A few hours later, an apparently lone gunman opened fire at a political youth camp on an island to the west of the city, leaving at least 10 young people dead. The search for missing people there is ongoing. 


 

2252:


One man, reported to be a Norwegian national, is under arrest and is believed by police to be connected to both incidents. No-one else has said they were behind the attacks. 


 

2255:


As yet, the motivation for the attack is not known. 


 

2256:


Norwegian PM Jens Stoltenberg says the country has been "shaken by the evil that struck us so brutally". But he added: "We are a small nation and a proud nation. No-one will bomb us to silence, no-one will shoot us to silence, no-one will ever scare us from being Norway." 


 

2259:


Pictures from Oslo show the scale of the damage done by the huge blast.    


 

2300:


We are now bringing our live coverage of the Norway attacks to a close. Thank you for staying with us on this fast-moving and dramatic day. You can continue to follow all the news on this and other stories as it happens on the BBC news website. 








Join the discussion



                                                Send us an SMS to +44 624 800 100


Videos: Send videos






Comment here






(Required) 
 Name




(Required) 
 Your E-mail address




(Required) 
 Town & Country




 Your telephone number





(Required) 
Comments





Send
Clear
The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide.
Terms and conditions





















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





