BBC News - Diamond Jubilee: Queen 'humbled' by celebrations


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















5 June 2012
Last updated at 23:49 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Diamond Jubilee: Queen 'humbled' by celebrations
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Queen Elizabeth II: ''It has touched me deeply to see so many thousands of families, neighbours and friends celebrating together''




Continue reading the main story


The Diamond Jubilee


Royals end Australia Jubilee trip


Camilla's hug with orphaned joey


Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea


Duchess makes first speech abroad



 The Queen has called her Diamond Jubilee "a humbling experience", saying she had been "touched deeply" by seeing so many people celebrating together.
In a message to the nation, she thanked all those who organised the events.
Festivities culminated in an appearance by the senior royals on the Buckingham Palace balcony in front of huge crowds to watch an RAF flypast.
But the Queen's consort, Prince Philip, was absent from her side as he remains in hospital with a bladder infection. 
The Earl and Countess of Wessex visited the Duke of Edinburgh on Tuesday afternoon.
Afterwards, Prince Edward said: "He's feeling better." The countess added: "He's in good spirits; he's on good form."
'Happy atmosphere'
The Queen's message was broadcast on television and radio across the UK and Commonwealth.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
As one who knows the Queen put it to me once - you don't want a monarch who fizzes like a Catherine wheel  ”
End Quote



Peter Hunt News correspondent





Read more from Peter

 "The events that I have attended to mark my Diamond Jubilee have been a humbling experience," she said.
"It has touched me deeply to see so many thousands of families, neighbours and friends celebrating together in such a happy atmosphere.  
"But Prince Philip and I want to take this opportunity to offer our special thanks and appreciation to all those who have had a hand in organising these Jubilee celebrations.  
"It has been a massive challenge, and I am sure that everyone who has enjoyed these festive occasions realises how much work has been involved." 
She added: "I hope that memories of all this year's happy events will brighten our lives for many years to come.  
"I will continue to treasure and draw inspiration from the countless kindnesses shown to me in this country and throughout the Commonwealth. Thank you all."
Commonwealth leaders
The Queen will continue to mark her Diamond Jubilee on Wednesday after four days of public celebrations.

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Daniela Relph
Royal correspondent



After Monday's party, Tuesday was a more sedate tribute to the Queen.
The Service of Thanksgiving at St Paul's Cathedral was a celebration of 60 years of loyal service and commitment.
In his sermon, the Archbishop of Canterbury spoke of the Queen's "years of utterly demanding yet deeply joyful service". His words are a reflection of the mood throughout the Jubilee celebrations.
Thousands again descended on central London for the ceremonial part of the weekend's festivities - especially the Royal Family's appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace. 
I have spoken to many people over the past few days about how they view the Queen. Some have been royalists, some far from it. But nearly all have held the Queen in high regard.
The day's events have been marked though by the absence of the Duke of Edinburgh. For 60 years he has been at the Queen's side at almost every ceremonial occasion. On Tuesday, she was without him.

 She will attend a lunch for the anniversary at Marlborough House in Pall Mall in central London with Commonwealth leaders, including prime ministers, governor generals and high commission representatives.
The Queen had been due to be accompanied at the event by the Duke of Edinburgh.
On Tuesday, the Queen attended a thanksgiving service at St Paul's Cathedral where Archbishop of Canterbury Dr Rowan Williams paid tribute to her "lifelong dedication".
"I don't think it's at all fanciful to say that, in all her public engagements, our Queen has shown a quality of joy in the happiness of others," he said.
David Cameron, who gave a reading at the service, called her "a real inspiration".
"We have seen the country come together with a sense of celebration and unity but also tremendous resilience, resilience from people who want to celebrate despite the weather and resilience, of course, from Her Majesty - nothing stops her doing the job she does," the prime minister said.
US President Barack Obama was among those who paid tribute to her "60 extraordinary years". 
In a specially recorded message he called the Queen "a steadfast ally, loyal friend and tireless leader" and said she had been "the chief source of resilience" for the unique alliance between his country and the UK throughout her reign.  
In other Jubilee events on Tuesday:

 Crowds gathered from early morning to cheer the Queen on her journey from Buckingham Palace to St Paul's
 The congregation at the cathedral included a large representation from the government, military personnel and members of the royal household, alongside diplomats and foreign leaders
 After the service, the Queen attended a reception at nearby Mansion House - the official residence of the Lord Mayor of London
 The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry were at a similar event at the Guildhall
 All of the senior royals then enjoyed a lunch at Westminster Hall before embarking on a carriage procession through packed streets back to the palace
 The day ended in an appearance by the senior royals on the palace balcony to watch a flypast by World War II aircraft and the Red arrows
 Other events during the extended Jubilee weekend included a star-studded concert outside Buckingham Palace on Monday night.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Queen's procession in open-top carriage procession



 At the end the Queen came on to the stage to press a diamond-shaped crystal into a pod, igniting a beacon in The Mall to mark her 60 years on the throne. It was one of more than 4,000 lit across the UK and the Commonwealth. 
On Sunday, about a thousand boats took part in the Diamond Jubilee Thames River Pageant, the first of its kind for 350 years.  
See all the latest Diamond Jubilee news and features at bbc.co.uk/diamondjubilee

 



More on This Story


The Diamond Jubilee
	      



Latest news



Royals end Australia Jubilee trip




Camilla's hug with orphaned joey




Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea




Duchess makes first speech abroad




Prince wishes for 'two children'




Charles and Camilla visit Jersey







In pictures and video



In Pictures: Royal diamonds




McGuinness used 'bloodstained hand' Watch




Queen's 1953 NI visit in colour Watch




God Save the Queen sung Watch




In pictures: Jubilee concert




See how the UK celebrated







Features



NI jubilee: 1977 versus now




A final flourish




A day at the pageant




In pictures: Millennium artists at the Jubilee pageant




Diamond Jubilee: Avoiding the hype




France switches on to Jubilee












       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 257       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 117.  Flashman  Comment number 117 is an Editors' Pick 6th June 2012 - 10:21   We have a Prime Minister elected by the political class in a two party system, we have a second chamber mostly appointed by the Government of the day and a head of state appointed by god and controlled by the Government of the day.... what a loaded deck against the common man!!Yeah foreign countries love our pageantry but not our system.... it's like something out a fairy tale for them.    Report this comment (Comment number 117) Link to this (Comment number 117)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 116.  jauntycyclist  6th June 2012 - 10:19   The monarchist cult will never freely do the right thing. They only accepted parliament when they were looking down the barrel of cromwell's canon.  Today millionaire landowners get 4 billion a year subsidy just for being rich enough to own land. Why is it ring fenced when child benefit etc was not? Look at the list of those who get the most? So there is big money to be had in this monarchy game.    Report this comment (Comment number 116) Link to this (Comment number 116)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 115.  Euan  6th June 2012 - 10:18   Lynn "From the comments I have read so far, what a lot of sour people who seem to have no pride or roots"I dont understand your commentWhy can't you be proud of being 'British' unless you are a monarchist? There's a WHOLE lot of good things going on in this country, and i'm proud of that. But I have no care whatsover for the QueenIs that OK? Or will I be hunted down with burning stakes?    Report this comment (Comment number 115) Link to this (Comment number 115)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 114.  JamesR1701  6th June 2012 - 10:16   @112.lynnYet again the royalist cultists are wrong, I have roots in this country going back centuries, I just have the intelligence and freedom of thought to question the status quo. May I also point out that I have never asked for or received hand outs, I have worked for a living since leaving uiversity and paid back my student loan within 2 years. Next unitelligent arguement please?    Report this comment (Comment number 114) Link to this (Comment number 114)     Comment number 113.  JCisJD  6th June 2012 - 10:13    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 113) Link to this (Comment number 113)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 112.  lynn  6th June 2012 - 10:09   From the comments I have read so far, what a lot of sour people who seem to have no pride or roots in this Country.  All want a piece of it though, (i.e) handouts, but do not want to support us any other way.  If they dont like it .............Three cheers for the Royal Family!!!    Report this comment (Comment number 112) Link to this (Comment number 112)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 111.  navilite  Comment number 111 is an Editors' Pick 6th June 2012 - 10:12   The Queen has shown complete dedication to serving her country for 60 years. She has less freedoms than almost any member of society. She has never let herself down in public & is a true role model. Her dedication is such that she didn't rush to her husband's bedside over the weekend, but instead kept a brave face & continued to show herself to her people. She is deserving of great respect.    Report this comment (Comment number 111) Link to this (Comment number 111)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 110.  Flashman  6th June 2012 - 10:10   Matt93"head of state (Tony Blair?!?"Right I am SICK of this argument...for starters we have never elected any Prime Minister, we are one of the few countries in the world where the citizens are unable to elect any person directly into high office through popular vote.We are divided by an elite party political system with the Queen at the top ensuring that NO plebeian tribune can ever be.    Report this comment (Comment number 110) Link to this (Comment number 110)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 109.  Big Papa Smurf  6th June 2012 - 10:09   So, 20 Gazillion pounds spent on this Circus and the royalists are getting all lathered up because 'foreigners' were 'jealous' of this tawdry spectacle... what fantasy land do these people frequent? I know they're not too keen on Johnny Foreigner down there but no-one was jealous of this 2nd rate street parade. Far from it... It just makes the passion to get rid of these fools burn even brighter.    Report this comment (Comment number 109) Link to this (Comment number 109)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 108.  traveller  6th June 2012 - 10:09   To the moaners/republicans against the Monarchy - Set out your vision to everyone here on what/how you think we should be ruled/governed or whatever and who this should be?!?!  Not a rant just a calculated and thought out vision please!  Cant wait to read this.....    Report this comment (Comment number 108) Link to this (Comment number 108)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 107.  Euan  6th June 2012 - 10:06   DiddleypeteAll of us 'moaners', Republicans, whatever.  We should just sit there and be subservient and say nothing, even though we have a heartfelt opinion on the matter?Is that not one of the reasons Britain is such a great country, because we ARE allowed to state our opinions freely, and without fear of retribution?You obviouslt still live in the 19th century...    Report this comment (Comment number 107) Link to this (Comment number 107)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 106.  Matt93  6th June 2012 - 10:04   Looking down the comments, all you seeis a minority of republican negativity against a tide of the true British. Those of us who are proud of our heritage, those who shudder at the thought of having a politician for our head of state (Tony Blair?!?) and realise that the celebrations were paid for by business, not tax. I for one say God save the Queen, and God send the republicans elsewhere.    Report this comment (Comment number 106) Link to this (Comment number 106)     Comment number 105.  JCisJD  6th June 2012 - 10:01    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 105) Link to this (Comment number 105)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 104.  Sniff this  6th June 2012 - 10:00   Cameron - you just can not keep your neb out .A classic ME      Report this comment (Comment number 104) Link to this (Comment number 104)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 103.  Flashman  6th June 2012 - 9:58   The Queen is an ornamental head of state who has given 60 years of service to charity and the Government of the day.Of course people come out to see pageantry but she is nothing more than that a totally powerless head of state in a country that could do with someone with a mandate to express and stand up for public opinion. Also Blair ect were never personally elected by the people!!    Report this comment (Comment number 103) Link to this (Comment number 103)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 102.  Surely not  6th June 2012 - 9:55   I've just heard on the news, the following countries are so envious of us they're going to renounce their republics and find some of Betty's relatives to pay to wear nice hats.Switzerland, Brazil, Germany, USA, India.Honest.    Report this comment (Comment number 102) Link to this (Comment number 102)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 101.  JamesR1701  6th June 2012 - 9:53   @89.imperial-echoesSorry but I don't allow sub-intelligent cultists into my house. And the typo was fairly obvious but thank you for pointing it out, I'm sure it made you feel very superior for about 20 seconds. Oh and yes it was a lot of work done but with four days to do it in and the help of the girlfriend it wasn't that arduous. A much better use of my time than glued to the tv.    Report this comment (Comment number 101) Link to this (Comment number 101)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 100.  Pauline Fothergill  6th June 2012 - 9:53   Can all you moaners just shut up for a bit!  You didn't have to watch it!  I'm not a great royalist, but I enjoyed the pagentary, I appreciate the historical significance of the event and was quite proud that this country can put on an event like this so well for the enjoyment of many.    Report this comment (Comment number 100) Link to this (Comment number 100)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 99.  oldpip  6th June 2012 - 9:52   I remember her visit to Crewe once. The streets along which she ttravelled were laid with gravel to hide the cracked tarmac beneath.All we got for her visit were cracked windscreens for weeks afterwards.This latest circus is just another quick lick of paint to brighten things up for a while.There are deep wounds to this country and the revolution is in full swing, it's just not bloody, yet.    Report this comment (Comment number 99) Link to this (Comment number 99)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 98.  F1fan26662  6th June 2012 - 9:52   Further to my post @37, I am not English, I am Welsh with Norwegian  mixed in. I didnt watch a minute of the TV coverage, I didnt attend any celebration, I decided to work and study. I have been fortunate to have met and spoken to the Queen and Prince Phillip on a few occasions. I wish Her Majesty a long reign good health and a speedy recovery for Prince Phillip.    Report this comment (Comment number 98) Link to this (Comment number 98)         Page 8 of 13    Newer 1 ... 6 7 8 9 10 ... 13 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: French jets bomb northern Mali 



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Malala recovering after operation



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: Where did Richard III go wrong?



10: Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



5: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



8: The art looking death in the face Watch



9: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



10: Brothers head-to-head at Superbowl Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





