BBC News - Most parents 'lie to their children'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Education & Family







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















23 January 2013
Last updated at 09:51 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Most parents 'lie to their children'
 

By Sean Coughlan
BBC News education correspondent










Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























People share some of lies they have told, or been told while growing up



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Do you lie to other parents? Listen



Most parents tell lies to their children as a tactic to change their behaviour, suggests a study of families in the United States and China.
The most frequent example was parents threatening to leave children alone in public unless they behaved.
Persuasion ranged from invoking the support of the tooth fairy to telling children they would go blind unless they ate particular vegetables.
Another strategic example was: "That was beautiful piano playing."
The study, published in the International Journal of Psychology, examined the use of "instrumental lying" - and found that such tactically-deployed falsehoods were used by an overwhelming majority of parents in both the United States and China - based on interviews with about 200 families.
'I'll buy it next time'
The most commonly used lie - popular with both US and Chinese families - was parents pretending to a child that they were going to walk away and leave the child to his or her tantrum.
"The pervasiveness of this lie may relate to the universality of the challenge parents face in trying to leave a place against their child's wishes," say the researchers.
Another lie that was common in both countries was the "false promise to buy a requested toy at some indefinite time in the future".

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Your pet went to live on your uncle's farm where he will have more space to run around”
End Quote
Well-intentioned or immoral? An example of what parents told their children
 Researchers established different categories of these untruths.
There were "untrue statements related to misbehaviour", which included: ''If you don't behave, I will call the police," and: "If you don't quiet down and start behaving, the lady over there will be angry with you.''
If these seem rather unheroic examples of parenting by proxy threat, there are some more startling lies recorded.
Under the category of "Untrue statements related to leaving or staying" a parent was recorded as saying: "If you don't follow me, a kidnapper will come to kidnap you while I'm gone."
There were also lies motivated by protecting a child's feelings - labelled as "Untrue statements related to positive feelings."
This included the optimistic: "Your pet went to live on your uncle's farm where he will have more space to run around."
A rather self-serving untruth was used for a quick getaway from a toy shop: ''I did not bring money with me today. We can come back another day."
There was also a selection of lies relating to "fantasy characters", also used to enforce good behaviour, such as in the run-up to Christmas.
'Broccoli makes you taller'
The study found no clear difference between the lies used by mothers and fathers, according to researchers, who were from psychology departments at the University of California San Diego in the US, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua in China and the University of Toronto, Canada.


The tooth fairy, bringing wishes to stressed parents

Although levels of such "instrumental lying" were high in both countries, they were highest in China.
The study found there was an acceptance of such lies among parents when they were used as a way of reinforcing desirable social behaviour.
For example, the lie told to children that they would grow taller for every bite of broccoli was seen as encouraging healthy eating habits.
The study raises the longer-term issue of the impact on families of such opportunistic approaches to the truth. It suggests it could influence family relationships as children get older.
The researchers, headed by Gail D. Heymana, Anna S. Hsua, Genyue Fub and Kang Leeac, concluded that this raises "important moral questions for parents about when, if ever, parental lying is justified".

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Do you lie to other parents? Listen

17 JANUARY 2011,    
                                                UK






Related Internet links


Research on instrumental lying in International Journal of Psychology



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 763       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 283.  Ponderer  23rd January 2013 - 11:27   Relationships are better when there is trust. I want my child to trust me. That's a good reason to be honest. There are plenty of honest ways to get children to follow instruction.Furthermore expressing belief is not a lie if you say "I believe this to be true but other people disagree." I hope my child will, in time, choose to believe in God as I do, but whatever he holds as true is up to him.    Report this comment (Comment number 283) Link to this (Comment number 283)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 282.  AuntieGloxx  23rd January 2013 - 11:26   Like....this is the tune the icream man plays when he's got no more left.Or the the cat can talk to me and he'll tell me what you've been up to?    Report this comment (Comment number 282) Link to this (Comment number 282)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 281.  Sean  23rd January 2013 - 11:26   43. Shoogly PegImagine ... Hi, gosh you are ugly by normal standards ... you are an old man and smell of wee.---You haven't met my best friends, have you? Sometimes it's important for one's social and emotional welfare to adopt an alert expression, shave, wash and change one's clothes. I respect and am grateful for my friends' honesty ... in the long run.    Report this comment (Comment number 281) Link to this (Comment number 281)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 280.  clearwater11  23rd January 2013 - 11:26   Lies about things like the toothfairy and santa clauas I feel are justified in that kids generally find them fun (and it also help control their behaviour!).But lies in the shape of religion and dogma are dangerous and cruel.    Report this comment (Comment number 280) Link to this (Comment number 280)                 rate this     -9      rate this     -9   Comment number 279.  Phil O  23rd January 2013 - 11:25   Why the downer on religion?  Has anyone proved God doesn't exist?If you believe God gives you great strength, support and peace, why wouldn't you pass this on to your kids?  I encourage mine to be thankful (to God) for the many blessings in their lives and we enjoy kids gospel stories based on Jesus' teachings which are sound, if sometimes counter me-me-me cultural.They can choose when older.    Report this comment (Comment number 279) Link to this (Comment number 279)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 278.  Living By Logic  23rd January 2013 - 11:25   @246.AndyPUK re 232 - lying is simple laziness."Rubbish. Nothing to do with being lazy at all. I have a foster child at home who asks dozens of questions a day, some need quite long and protracted answers.I completely disagree with you. I would prefer to supply the long answer than 'adapt' it into a 'white lie'.  I think it's unfair to teach by example that white lies are ok.    Report this comment (Comment number 278) Link to this (Comment number 278)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 277.  LS25Rhino  23rd January 2013 - 11:25   "Jesus died to save you"?"God created the world"?I'd much rather a few magical white lies about Santa and the Tooth Fairy, to add sparkle to childhood, than to saddle them with the above for the rest of their lives.    Report this comment (Comment number 277) Link to this (Comment number 277)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 276.  Penny  23rd January 2013 - 11:25   The only surprising thing in this article is the first word - 'most'.  Do you mean there are some children who don't have Father Christmas or the Tooth Fairy?  How very sad for them.  And the example of the music playing is unfair, how 'beautiful' the music is depends on the listener.  To hear my 6 year old play 'B' on her recorder after 1 lesson is indeed beautiful to me.    Report this comment (Comment number 276) Link to this (Comment number 276)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 275.  Playrealfooty  23rd January 2013 - 11:24   Much of what parents say are not lies per se, but a way of explaining various 'possibilities', e.g., one may say you don't have money as a way of saying you don't have money to spend on toys;  eating broccoli doesn't improve your eyesight, but it is healthy, etc.  I'm quite blunt with my kids, like saying if you don't clean your teeth, they'll go rotten.  Maybe they won't, but they could!!    Report this comment (Comment number 275) Link to this (Comment number 275)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 274.  RobinTheBoyWonder  23rd January 2013 - 11:24   "264. you must be right""254. squodge"So do your children get a little lecture every time they deal with fiction to explain that it's not true?Some untruths aren't lies and others are?Read a few of the posts on here!You've both proved the point I was trying to make:-A lot of people are taking this all FAR too seriously!    Report this comment (Comment number 274) Link to this (Comment number 274)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 273.  lee  23rd January 2013 - 11:24   A lot of people here obviously just want to think they are being clever by bad mouthing religion. These people have to remember that not everyone is as strong as them. They feel the that there has to be something for comfort, security and there wellbeing in general or maybe just a guide to how to best live there lives. So maybe it is a lie, maybe not.    Report this comment (Comment number 273) Link to this (Comment number 273)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 272.  elenabottici  23rd January 2013 - 11:23   As much as i appreciate the interesting results of those studies, i would not condemn parents that result to lying in order to change a child behaviour. We are in the first generation where to hit a miss behaving child is unaccented which i agree and support fully. But i would dare any parent in the world , even those with lots of spare time to never lie to their children .    Report this comment (Comment number 272) Link to this (Comment number 272)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 271.  ProfPhoenix  23rd January 2013 - 11:22   Anyone thought of distinguishing between lies and myths? Unlike lies, myths are not to be judged according to appeals to facts; they paint a picture with a space in it for the listener to enter and focus on the moral lesson. Myths are neither true nor false. Suppose the story of the Good Samaritan is a myth. Don't check the facts like a detective, ask the child which character she should admire.    Report this comment (Comment number 271) Link to this (Comment number 271)     Comment number 270.  siz1000  23rd January 2013 - 11:21    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 270) Link to this (Comment number 270)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 269.  Vboulderer  23rd January 2013 - 11:20   It depends on the situation. With such as McDonalds telling lies about their food being fresh, free range, implying it is good for you and the choice of athletes, I do not have an issue with using their own tactics i.e. Ronald is a child catcher and their burgers contain flies and spiders. Fight fire with fire I say:-) Anyhting to prevent them being indoctrinated from a young age.    Report this comment (Comment number 269) Link to this (Comment number 269)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 268.  Howesyourview  23rd January 2013 - 11:20   What......if this study.....was a lie.Mind blown    Report this comment (Comment number 268) Link to this (Comment number 268)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 267.  Knut Largerson  23rd January 2013 - 11:20   The only person you really shouldn't lie to is yourself. That really is destructive.    Report this comment (Comment number 267) Link to this (Comment number 267)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 266.  Mrs Vee  23rd January 2013 - 11:18   I don't believe anyone who says they've never lied to their children; what about the Tooth Fairy and Father Christmas? Don't even mention religion!    Report this comment (Comment number 266) Link to this (Comment number 266)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 265.  orientrich  23rd January 2013 - 11:17   262.fuzzy I guess when David Cameron gave a speech there was a meteor shower    Report this comment (Comment number 265) Link to this (Comment number 265)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 264.  you must be right  23rd January 2013 - 11:15   237RTBWHi Robin.Fiction is not lying. Fiction is telling or portraying something that is not true, but without any real pretense that it is true. It is not an attempt to deceive.The same goes for most jokes and a lot of playing. If you play Monopoly, no player expects the others to believe they really own Old Kent Road. It is play, not a lie.Play and joke with your kids; don't lie.    Report this comment (Comment number 264) Link to this (Comment number 264)         Page 25 of 39    Newer 1 ... 23 24 25 26 27 ... 39 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Education & Family stories
RSS




Grayling defends child smacking

Justice Secretary Chris Grayling says he smacked his own children when they were young and defends the right of parents to smack. 



School buildings deals announced 




Warning over world schools rankings












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Afghan talks due to begin in UK


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


France guards Niger uranium mine


Cambodia to cremate King Sihanouk









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Wrong place, wrong time

Musicians who play for Mexico's drug gangs -  voluntarily or not 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Richard III dig skull image shown



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



8: France guards Niger uranium mine



9: Decoding facial hair in the Arab world



10: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



Video/Audio




1: One-minute World News Watch



2: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



3: The art looking death in the face Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



5: Apology over police beating footage Watch



6: Assad: Israel 'destabilising' Syria Watch



7: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



10: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





