Reuters journalists: Israeli troops assaulted us, forced us to strip in street - World News




 
MSN
Hotmail

More

Autos
My MSN
Video
Careers & Jobs
Personals
Weather
Delish
Quotes
White Pages
Games
Real Estate
Wonderwall
Horoscopes
Shopping
Yellow Pages
Local Edition
Traffic
Feedback
Maps & Directions
Travel
Full MSN Index


Bing 

 

NBCNews.com
sites & shows:
TODAY
Nightly News
Rock Center
Meet the Press
Dateline
msnbc
Breaking News
EveryBlock
Newsvine

 
Home
US
World
Politics
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Health
Tech & science
Travel
Local
Weather



Advertise | AdChoices 







Recommended: Analysis: Israel's airstrike likely to complicate Syria crisis
Recommended: US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack
Recommended: Malala, teen champion of girls' rights, nominated for Nobel Peace Prize 
Recommended: At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion





First for breaking news and analysis: Compelling world news stories from NBC News journalists. Follow us on Twitter and  Facebook.

↓ About this blog↓ Archives E-mail updates Follow on Twitter Subscribe to RSS













284commentsPrint








14Dec20123:21am, ESTReuters journalists: Israeli troops assaulted us, forced us to strip in streetDozens of Palestinians faced off with Israeli soldiers in the West Bank city of Hebron. The confrontation came after the shooting death of a 17-year-old by Israel's paramilitary border police force. NBCNews.com's Alex Witt reports.By NBC News staff and wire reportsHEBRON, West Bank -- Israeli soldiers have been accused of punching two Reuters cameramen and forcing them to strip in the street, before letting off a tear gas canister in front of them, leaving one of them needing hospital treatment.Israel's military said Thursday it took the allegations seriously. "The regional brigade commander was ordered to open an investigation," Israeli Defense Forces spokeswoman Avital Leibovich said in an email.Yousri Al Jamal and Ma'amoun Wazwaz said a foot patrol stopped them on Wednesday in the heart of Hebron as they were driving to a nearby checkpoint where a Palestinian teenager had just been shot dead by an Israeli border guard.

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Their car was clearly marked "TV" and they were both wearing blue flak jackets with "Press" emblazoned on the front.The soldiers forced them to leave the vehicle and punched them, striking them with the butts of their guns. They accused the journalists of working for an Israeli NGO, B'Tselem, which documents human rights violations in the occupied West Bank, the Reuters cameramen said.Follow @NBCNewsWorld

Locals say B'Tselem has given a number of Palestinians video cameras so they can film soldiers and settlers who live in this divided city. The NGO was not immediately available for comment.The soldiers did not let the men produce their official ID papers and forced them to strip down to their underwear, making them kneel on the road with their hands behind their heads, the cameramen said.Two other Palestinian journalists working for local news organizations, including a satellite television station affiliated to the Islamist group Hamas, were also stopped and forced to the ground.One of the soldiers then dropped a tear gas canister between the men and the IDF patrol ran away, according to the cameramen. The four journalists scrambled clear and Jamal and Wazwaz got to their car, which had rapidly filled up with tear gas, they said.More Israel coverage from NBC NewsThey tried to drive away, but said they only got around 200 meters before they had to stop and exit the vehicle because of the gas. The soldiers then fired more tear gas in their direction, the cameramen said.Wazwaz was overcome by the fumes and was taken to hospital by ambulance. He was released later the same night.'Mistreatment'The Israeli soldiers allegedly took two gas masks and a video camera from their car. The undamaged camera was later found abandoned further up the road, according to the Reuters journalists."We deplore the mistreatment of our journalists and have registered our extreme dismay with the Israeli military authorities," said Stephen J. Adler, editor-in-chief of Reuters News.Paul Danahar, the chairman of the Foreign Press Association in Israel, said on Twitter that the organization would soon issue a statement on the attack.There “must be a limit (on) how many times (the) IDF can say this stuff is usual behavior,” he wrote.

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Complete World coverage on NBCNews.comTensions have been running particularly high in Hebron in the past week following repeated clashes between stone-throwing youths and soldiers.Muhammad al-Salameh, 17, was shot dead close to his house in the heart of Hebron on Wednesday evening after an altercation with border guards at a nearby checkpoint. Israeli police said he had brandished a gun, which later proved to be a toy gun.Some 800 Jewish settlers live among 30,000 Palestinians in the parts of the old city that are under Israeli control.Reuters contributed to this report.More world stories from NBC News:

ANALYSIS: Egypt's  military keeps close eye on politics
EXCLUSIVE: Susan Rice drops out of running for secretary of state
North Korean progress on nuclear arms, long-range missiles rattle U.S.  and allies
'Who is my Mandela?' South Africans consider icon's place in a changing  world
Google+ Hangout from  Egypt with NBC News' Ayman Mohyeldin
Royal prank call: Duped nurse was found hanging, also had wrist  injuries
Follow World News from NBCNews.com on Twitter and Facebook Explore related topics: featured, israel, palestinians, reuters, west-bank, idf, journalists, hebron
older13Dec201211:19pm, ESTPhilippine death toll rises to 902 after Typhoon Bopha; 80,000 homelessnewer14Dec20123:41am, ESTKeeping options open: Egypt's military maintains watchful eye on politicsDiscuss this post

Jump to discussion page: 1 2 3
rockmebritney Comment collapsed by the communityyeah, right.   ive lived in israel for 5 years.  israeli soldiers would not do that without being seriously provoked in some way.  this story doesnt surprise me at all since MSN only publishes pro-palestinian news anyway that is completely exaggerated to make israel look like the aggressor.
hey, msn... how many rockets were fired from gaza into israel since the ceasefire?  DOZENS.  wheres the report on that?   how about reporting on the fact that israel hasn't once fired back?
you did report, however, on the fact that israel is withholding funds from palestine... but again failed to mention that this week israel delivered several dozen TONS of building materials and supplies to gaza.
you reported on the death toll in gaza... but failed to report that gaza had stolen the names and photos of victims from the syrian civil war (taken last summer) and tried to pawn them off as their own victims.  they also posted a dozen victims of a cafe attack and claimed israel blew up a bunch of gaza civilians... but in the end it was proven (easily) that those victims were from a 2001 suicide bombing in jerusalem where a hamas suicide bomber walked into a cafe and blew up over a dozen israeli civilians.
you reported on the gaza tunnels... saying they are for smuggling "food".  are you kidding?  the president of egypt is a member of the muslim brotherhood. so is hamas.  those tunnels are for the egyptian government to smuggle weapons into gaza.
ive had enough of these disgusting articles from you.  you have no idea what you're talking about in the israeli/palestinian situation.
34 votes#1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 3:54 AM ESTtracontech Comment collapsed by the communityI wish that the mystical christian rapture would transpire soon because it includes Israel as the place it happens. Then, the world can let Israel handle their own wars and their own economy without American aide. If Israel gets wiped off the face of the earth by all the enemies it has created, then so be it. The Israeli government is evil, bitter, bigoted and not worthy of support by the civilized communites across the globe.14 votes#1.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:30 AM ESTwolfhound27There are alot of things that can happen when in a high tension region.(same as a combat zone)Working for a news media does not give anyone immunity from what might happen.If these two reporters were warned about possible hostilites in the are prior to them going in,then that's the chance they chose to take.If the two reporters were experienced they would have known better in the 1st place.Also,The only reason this is makeing any kind of headline is because it involved Israel.I am sure nothing would have been said if anyone else had done it.11 votes#1.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:02 AM ESTjimcv62 Comment collapsed by the communityTell them how it is Brother !! POS MSN...Biased in every way !!11 votes#1.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:42 AM ESTED-2874315Sadly, this is not an isolated incident.
When you dehumanize your 'enemy' in the minds of of your soldiers, abusive behavoir becomes commonplace.15 votes#1.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:08 AM ESTEevieThere will be no peace in this area until both sides recognize each other as equal human beings.  As long as the authorities, and by extension, the armed forces see the other side as not deserving of respect, this sort of scene will just keep repeating, and far worse.
Rockme and Jim, You've got to be kidding.  How much documentation do you need--via video, eye witnesses from BOTH sides as well as documentation by NGOs and journalists from everywhere?  Last year, during the riots in Gaza and elsewhere, the soldiers were shooting at cameramen and satellite equipment, for pete's sake!  What, filming the action is now a provocation?  What about last year's military attack on a Turkish ship full of peace activists?  And look at the way they're bad-mouthing B'Tselem, an ISRAELI NGO!
You want to see biased?  Look in the mirror!
That's not saying that the Palestinians aren't just as bad.  There is, however, a huge difference between throwing rocks and using live ammo against rock-wielding civilians.11 votes#1.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:33 AM ESTthirdlifetaking palestinian land, assaulting reporters, blockading gaza, refusing to pay palestinian taxes. Where are the shared values?11 votes#1.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:34 AM ESTMary Jones-1616541They are just being themselfs. And they say all they want is peace.5 votes#1.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:54 AM ESTsandmantruth Comment collapsed by the community"The Most Moral Army in the World" did that?  Why is anyone surprised that this did happen and by those in denial that it did happen.  Maybe this is where the US learned to target journalist in the siege of Iraq, bombing Al-Jazeera headquarters and killing their reporters, to clean the country out and cover up any crimes.  The Union between the US and Israel is a losing one for Americans since Israel only uses the US to achieve their own ends.  Once the US dies out, they will attach to the next great power like a parasite and desert the US.  Anyone who knows anything about Zionism should not be surprised by the happenings around the world.  
Maybe Americans should take a look at the Zionists who are in top positions in the country:
Chairmen of the Federal Reserve: Ben Shalom BernankeSecretary of Treasury: Tim Geitner, married to a ZionistMayor of NYC: Michael Bloomberg (woth $20 billion), previously JulianiMayor of Chicago: Rahm EmmanuelCommissioners of: NBA, NHL, MLB 33 out of the top 100 richest people in the US (more than people who profess Christianity as their religion, once you remove the families, like Walmart)
The list goes on and on and on... 4 votes#1.8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:32 AM ESTGlen-1484791Moderator!!!! Uncollapse the comment from
rockmebritney
I might not agree with what he says but what you are doing is exactly what is done all the time in the middle east: suppress free speech and force the point of those in power.
Just because you do not like what someone says does not entitle you to suppress it on Newsvine. That is why we are here in the first place.
I gave a like: to rock simply because he was collapsed.14 votes#1.9 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:47 AM ESTBasil RomeoYes Sandman, and the "list goes on and on and on" for every military in the world that has even been involved in war. And make no mistake about it, this is war. Khaled Mashaal made that very clear during his visit to Gaza when he announced that Hamas wants total control over the entire region. He's not against Jews so long as they remain obedient under Sharia Law. There will be peace when the Palestinians abrogate their covenant of genocide and accept a two-state solution. Jews and arabs have always lived in that part of the world and one wonders why, considering the mass of Arab land realtive to the size of Israel (about the size of New Jersey) they would be against a Jewish state living alongside a Palestinian state. Here is the answer:
Look up: “Avalon Project: Hamas Covenant 1988,” Yale University School of Law for more information.
http://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/hamas.asp
The desire of the Muslims to commit Jewish genocide has existed since the days of Allah and did not start with the onset of the Arab-Israeli conflict.  With regards to imposing Sharia law, they make no distinction between lands originally Muslim and lands that they conquered by force. They are also not in favor of  “peaceful solutions,” and prefer to kill or be killed.  They believe that the Jews started the French Revolution and the first and second world wars and their views on Jews and financial institutions are comparable to the Nazis. They claim freedom of all religions under Islam though go on to say that “Israel, Judaism and Jews challenge Islam and the Moslem people” and that “Peace and quiet would not be possible except under the wing of Islam.” 
The Covenant
of the
Islamic Resistance Movement
8 August 1988
Article Six:
The Islamic Resistance Movement is a distinguished Palestinian movement, whose allegiance is to Allah, and whose way of life is Islam. It strives to raise the banner of Allah over every inch of Palestine, for under the wing of Islam followers of all religions can coexist in security and safety where their lives, possessions and rights are concerned. In the absence of Islam, strife will be rife, oppression spreads, evil prevails and schisms and wars will break out.
The Prophet, Allah bless him and grant him salvation, has said:
"The Day of Judgement will not come about until Moslems fight the Jews (killing the Jews), when the Jew will hide behind stones and trees. The stones and trees will say O Moslems, O Abdulla, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him. Only the Gharkad tree, (evidently a certain kind of tree) would not do that because it is one of the trees of the Jews."(related by al-Bukhari and Moslem).
Article Eleven:
The Islamic Resistance Movement believes that the land of Palestine is an Islamic Waqf consecrated for future Moslem generations until Judgement Day. It, or any part of it, should not be squandered: it, or any part of it, should not be given up. Neither a single Arab country nor all Arab countries, neither anyking or president, nor all the kings and presidents, neither any organization nor all of them, be they Palestinian or Arab, possess the right to do that. Palestine is an Islamic Waqf land consecrated for Moslem generations until Judgement Day. This being so, who could claim to have the right to representMoslem generations till Judgement Day?
This is the law governing the land of Palestine in the Islamic Sharia (law) and the same goes for any land the Moslems have conquered by force, because during the times of (Islamic)conquests, the Moslems consecrated these lands to Moslem generations till the Day of Judgement. 
Article Thirteen:
Initiatives, and so-called peaceful solutions and international conferences, are in contradiction to the principles of the Islamic Resistance Movement. Abusing any part of Palestine is abusedirected against part of religion. Nationalism of the Islamic Resistance Movement is part of its religion. Its members have been fed on that. For the sake of hoisting the banner of Allah over their homeland they fight. "Allah will be prominent, but most people do not know."
Article Fifteen:
"I swear by the holder of Mohammed's soul that I would like to invade and be killed for the sake of Allah, then invade and be killed, and then invade again and be killed."(As related by al-Bukhari and Moslem). 
Article Twenty-Two:
For a long time, the enemies have been planning, skillfully and with precision, for the achievement of what they have attained. They took into consideration the causes affecting the current of events. They strived to amass great and substantive material wealth which they devoted to the realisation oftheir dream. With their money, they took control of the world media, news agencies, the press, publishing houses, broadcasting stations, and others. With their money they stirred revolutions in various parts of the world with the purpose of achieving their interests and reaping the fruit therein. They were behind the French Revolution, the Communist revolution and most of the revolutions we heard and hear about, here and there. With their money they formed secret societies, such as Freemasons, Rotary Clubs, the Lions and others in different parts of the world for the purpose of sabotaging societies and achieving Zionist interests. With their money they were able to control imperialistic countries and instigatethem to colonize many countries in order to enable them to exploit their resources and spread corruption there.
You may speak as much as you want about regional and world wars. They were behind World War I, when they were able to destroy the Islamic Caliphate, making financial gains and controlling resources. They obtained the Balfour Declaration, formed the League of Nationsthrough which they could rule the world. They were behind World War II, through which they made huge financial gains by trading in armaments, and paved the way for the establishment of their state. It was they who instigated the replacement of the League of Nations with the United Nations and the Security Council to enable them to rule the world through them. There is no war going on anywhere, without having their finger in it. 
Article Twenty-Eight:
Israel, Judaism and Jews challenge Islam and the Moslem people. "May the cowards never sleep."
Article Thirty-One:
The Islamic Resistance Movement is a humanistic movement. It takes care of human rights and is guided by Islamic tolerance when dealing with the followers of other religions. It does not antagonize anyone of them except if it is antagonized by it or stands in its way to hamper its moves and waste its efforts.
Under the wing of Islam, it is possible for the followers of the three religions - Islam, Christianity and Judaism - to coexist in peace and quiet with each other. Peace and quiet would not be possible except under the wing of Islam. Past and present history are the best witness to that.”
Look up: “Avalon Project: Hamas Covenant 1988,” Yale University School of Law for more information.
http://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/hamas.asp
12 votes#1.10 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:53 AM ESTreterryRock, never believe a soldier to be immune to misbehavior, and Israelis are likely no better than ours in this matter of battlefield discipline.
Semper Vigilans2 votes#1.11 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:11 AM ESTTomsterRockMe,
who has killed more innocent civilians; not just in this latest Gaza event but overall?  Palestine or Israel?    
Of course, just as once the Nazis didn't think Jewish people were human, many Israeli's don't think of Palestinians - or Arabs, for that matter- as human. It makes it so much easier to excuse their actions.4 votes#1.12 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:12 AM ESTFedupwithFedrockmebritney is right!  Another day of Israel bashing courtesy of NBC!  I went to Israel this summer, the Israeli soldiers take more crap and do nothing to retaliate.  I would not have as much restraint as they do given the same situation.  Palestinians have proven over and over they are liars and only instigate trouble, then cry wolf when something happens!
Go back to your own countries!!!  Oh, thats right....they dont want you either!!11 votes#1.13 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:35 AM ESTHal-2824511Fedup, what did Moshe Dayan say when he spoke at a funeral back in 1956? "...For eight years now, they have sat in the refugee camps of Gaza and have watched how, before their very eyes, we have turned their lands and villages, where they and their forefathers previously dwelled, into our home..."
Now what do you mean when you say "Go back to your own countries!!!"?3 votes#1.14 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:08 AM ESTJohn Q Public-6353273blah blah blah MSNBC should be called PBC. The Jew haters are out in force but they do know of what they speak,these are the same people that were out in the streets after 9/11 dancing and celebrating an chanting Death to Amerika. Point, Set Match--CASE CLOSED9 votes#1.15 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:33 AM ESTFedupwithFedHal,  
When the Jordanians and Egyptians controlled the so-called West Bank and the Gaza Strip for 19 years (1948 to 1967), there was never a thought of giving the disorganized mass of “migrant workers” a state. Why? Because they knew there was no cohesive, homogeneous people known as “Palestinians.”
By all eyewitness accounts of that era, Palestine was a total desolation. There were virtually no trees and no people. Because of lack of trees, the weather changed and it rarely ever rained. The irrigation systems of the once fertile valleys were all destroyed, rendering most areas into malaria-ridden swamps. The terraces of the mountainsides were torn down, causing terrible erosion that left only barren rocks. This was the condition of Palestine by the beginning of the 19th century.
It was at this time that Jews began to flee severe persecutions in Russia and Eastern Europe. In the mid-1800s, some Jews came to Palestine and, with the generous aid of some successful Jews like the Rothschilds, began to buy property from Muslim Ottoman Turks. The Muslims thought the land was worthless anyway, so they sold it to the “dumb Jews” for extremely inflated prices.
To everyone’s amazement, the Jews were very successful at reclaiming the land. Many of them died from malaria and the rigorous life the work demanded, but they performed an agricultural miracle that made the land very productive again. As a result of their success, poor migrant workers from the surrounding Muslim countries began to flood in to work for the Jews. The Jews literally became victims of their own success – almost all of the people calling themselves “Palestinians” today are the descendants of those migrant workers.
-Hal Lindsey's book "Everlasting Hatred: The Roots of Jihad,"7 votes#1.16 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:38 AM ESTDerek-381097It is so stupid how people, being suckers, take this to mean everything broad about the Middle East and what should be done with it.
Let's look at it this way.  US soldiers were convicted of rape in Japan.  Hamas shoots rockets at schools.  Syrians shoot children directly.  British troops, French troops, German troops, and YOUR COUNTRY TOO, if it isn't on this list, has had individuals commit wrong in uniform.
So wake the F**K UP.  And deal with it as an incident that is horrible, but doesn't necessarily mean anything beyond the incident itself, unless something you don't know comes to light later on, such as more incidents or a policiy of treating journalists is shown with evidence.
Really, you should watch reality TV instead.  It is more factual.5 votes#1.17 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:07 AM ESTchefaz-1319563
I gave a like: to rock simply because he was collapsed.

I gave a like to rock simply because she speaks the truth.
GM Fed, Basil, kpr.5 votes#1.18 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:28 AM ESTHal-2824511FedUp- Don't mistake me for siding with the Palestinians, I am neutral on this topic. As far as Americans are concerned, most don't even bother trying to view this from their perspective. Whether the Palestinians are "a homogeneous people" whether they are Muslim, Christian or Jew (and they are all three) is not relevant, the point is many of them were given a rather raw deal 60 years ago.
Of course now it is a different generation and most of the people who were directly affected or did the affecting, are now gone and only the results of their actions remain. That makes this a situation where neither perspective right or wrong. The only right and wrong is the manner in which the sides decide to deal with it. As far as Palestine is concerned, the wrong thing is killing innocent civilians, as far as Israel is concerned the wrong thing is discriminating against those who identify as Palestinians. There is no black and white.
As for Hal Lindsey, he lost me at "The Late Great Planet Earth" when I picked it up in 1975. But on the positive side, he helped me to be critical of what I read thanks to that drivel....1 vote#1.19 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:32 AM ESTTeachingYoufor25YearsWould love to know WHO the MODERATOR is that collapesed Rockme's post. There is nothing in that prost that is problematic except for the fact that i calls out MSNBC for "YELLOW JOURNALISM" AND LIES JUST LIKE TRAYVON MARTIN.3 votes#1.20 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:25 PM ESTchefaz-1319563Hi Teaching.
The moderators do not collapse these posts.  They only delete, ban or suspend.  If you click the exclamation point down on the lower right, it will give you options for no value, inflammatory or advertising.  Enough of these from readers will buy the collapse although I have no idea how many of these you need to get collapsed.
The moderator has the option of restoring posts.  The good thing is that we can still open them at the little cross next to the poster's name. 3 votes#1.21 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:39 PM ESTmichigan voter-546572Teaching? (#1.20)  What you need to do is learn.  The comment was collapsed because enough people went to the little box in the lower right corner of the comment and clicked where it said "No Value" or "Inflammatory".  That's why it says, "collapsed by the community".
I think we as a group here collapse way too many posts because we don't like what the person has posted, but it's not the moderator.
Your statement of Yellow journalism and lies is just silly and shows that you are not very well informed.1 vote#1.22 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:49 PM ESTDuquOh my god, those soldiers actually searched their stuff near an area where someone "had just been shot"! 
Oh my GOD! What were those soldiers thinking???
It's almost as brutal as what happened to that Fox News guy who was shoved and punched in the face by those union guys in Michigan the other day. Man, those brutal Israelis are almost as violent as union guys in Detroit...
Of course let's forget what Hamas would do to reporters who were not just filming what they told them to, but instead trying to get pictures of Hamas hiding rockets in a mosque or a school. These soldiers actually stopped and searched these poor innocent reporters near a place where there was a shooting earlier!
THIS IS UNHEARD OF! THIS IS BREAKING NEWS STUFF RIGHT HERE!
It's definitely worth another headline on MSNBC. I mean, what's a reporter got to do to get a headline these days, it's not like there are bigger stories just around the corner, like say 40,000 Syrians being brutally killed just a couple hours drive from Hebron in the neighboring country of Syria!
I wonder what would happen to those reporters if they went over to Syria and tried to get footage of what the Syrian army is doing to the people there. I wonder what those Syrian soldiers would do if they saw them filming them while they were going down a street and shooting people on sight...
But then those brave reporters wouldn't be able to stay at those deluxe five star hotels in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv or Bethlehem, and they wouldn't get their macchiato every morning with their paper...
These are true journalists who aren't afraid to report the really big stories, like getting searched by the brutal thugs of the IDF. Sure, they'd love to go over to Syria and live in hiding in dirty rebel homes with no running water, no electricity, and no cable TV, but then who would report these horrific stories about the IDF?
It's a sacrifice they're willing to make. Damn these five star hotels with their satin sheets! Damn this Château Lafite...5 votes#1.23 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 2:13 PM ESTleftrightcenter Comment collapsed by the communityLiar. This is the same Israel that launched a willful, cowardly attack on a US war ship and continues to lie through it's whores teeth to this day. Israel is as guilty as everyone else, they're nothing but petty spoiled old hags.21 votes#2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 3:59 AM ESTArt-BklynCant' come up with anything better than the USS Liberty??? An incident that Israel apologized for and paid for the dead and injured. And just to clarify to those who dont know, the Liberty was attacked DURING the 6 Day War in 1967 by Israeli aircraft AFTER checking with the US 6th Fleet if any of their ship were in that location and being told no.
Where are the apologies or reperations for the USS Cole, the Marine Barracks in Lebanon, the first WTC attack, 9/11 and so on? These and many, many others were attacks against the US and US citizens.
If the Liberty is the best you've got, place it in the real context of attacks against the United States. 34 killied and 171 wounded and during an actual war, in an actual war zone. In just the other 4 attacks against the US over 3,241 were killed and more than 7,000 injured. 8 votes#2.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:08 AM ESTskibum609I actually got a warm fuzzy feeling reading this story.  In a world where a child with a backpack is a potential suiceide bomber painting TV on a car is meaningless.  Its time Israel realized that no matter what they do their Jew hating Islamist/Progressive enemies as exemplified by the biasedreporting of Reuters is going to come after them so they might as well do the right thing and fight their enemies everywhere, every way, every day.8 votes#2.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:29 AM ESTDick-2100935Just be thankful they didn't kill you like Palestinian children.3 votes#2.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:48 AM ESTDougLogan-stuntman, P.I.NBC is a real news website. No, seriously. The staff at NBC is not subversive at all they are just reporting the news. I mean, people act like the staff at NBC would take time to doctor audio tapes at the the risk of jeopordizing their journalistic integrity or something. Any idiot would know that if they were to do something like that, everything else they ever printed would have to be taken with a HUGE grain of salt. Therefore, we should trust in NBC.16 votes#3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:23 AM ESTWA-MoscowHuh?10 votes#3.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 5:00 AM ESTScubasteve58001Doug is being sarcastic and referring to the incident where MSNBC edited the George Zimmerman/Trayvon Martin phone call to make Zimmerman look like a racist (MSNBC edited out the part where the dispatcher asked Zimmerman what race Trayvon was, 3 editors lost their jobs).9 votes#3.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:26 AM ESTkpr37How do we know that all of this is just not another "Pallywood" production. http://youtu.be/mA4WQ-MbjRo7 votes#3.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:21 AM ESTrameshm2kpr37...dah.. they have them on camera. and isreali admit it and that is why they are questioning the sodliers. you can't deceive people anymore. it is not 1960-70 it is 2012 and there are cameras all over the place with worldwide sharing.5 votes#3.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:40 AM ESTkpr37
 they have them on camera.

Yes, that is "Pallywood"  http://youtu.be/mA4WQ-MbjRo all of that, is "on camera" as well.4 votes#3.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:47 AM ESTGlen-1484791Moderator, UNCOLLAPSE the post by
rockmebritney
I might not agree with what he says but he has the right to say it.
If you suppress what people say on Newsvine you do what they do all the time in the middle east and is what this article is accusing Israel of doing: Suppressing free speech and enforcing rule of those in power.12 votes#3.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:50 AM ESTPhil-1026522What a shame, poor war correspondent. Lucky they didn't shoot you as spies6 votes#3.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:57 AM ESTRandooAgreed Phil.  Those journalists need to realize that they are not guaranteed all the warm and fuzzy greetings they are (sadly required) given with the US Military.  I think they have a tendency to be a little too invasive in the name of news.  They really ARE lucky they didn't get shot at or worse. 
Until the journalists take up a gun and protect themselves, they are a LOAD to any military that needs to babysit these idiots.  I say let them go in on their own without the aid of protection and fend for themselves.  Now that would be true journalistic work. 5 votes#3.8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:18 AM ESTDan-1018744The military wants imbedded journalists, not wandering off by themselves.  They did that in Vietnam and the military couldn't control the flow of information.  Maybe the halocaust would have been different if the news would have picked it up.  Randoo, I assume you are about 12 so you don't understand these things, but when you get bigger, maybe learn to read4 votes#3.9 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:53 AM ESTDerek-381097It is so stupid how people, being suckers, take this to mean everything broad about the Middle East and what should be done with it.
Let's look at it this way.  US soldiers were convicted of rape in Japan.  Hamas shoots rockets at schools.  Syrians shoot children directly.  British troops, French troops, German troops, and YOUR COUNTRY TOO, if it isn't on this list, has had individuals commit wrong in uniform.
So wake the F**K UP.  And deal with it as an incident that is horrible, but doesn't necessarily mean anything beyond the incident itself, unless something you don't know comes to light later on, such as more incidents or a policiy of treating journalists is shown with evidence.
Really, you should watch reality TV instead.  It is more factual.4 votes#3.10 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:06 AM ESTBob-1540553That would be like NBC planting incendiary bombs on a GM pickup to show that GM pickups are unsafe.
http://articles.latimes.com/1993-02-10/news/mn-1335_1_gm-pickup1 vote#3.11 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:26 AM ESTLarry-2260635@ Derek
I have to laugh at the reality TV comment because it's just about as real as wrestling.#3.12 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:27 AM ESTbart martin-3773750Many journalists  and cameramen violate their professional obligation to cover the news and not intervene and support one side or another.They come with an agenda.As for the details of this case,it might be a case of a young soldier  losing it.He or she must be investigated .but so must any provocative or suspicious  behavior  of the journalists.There are so many Islamic terrorists in this confrontation.And before any one says" what about the Israelis? Well,they are defending their country against types like hamas and hezbollah who against all international law don´t even recognize Israel  and continiously commit war crimes in the name of their crimes against the peace to support their policy of destroying Israel.5 votes#3.13 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:35 AM ESTJohn-2032532Reuters journalists: Israeli troops Al Qaeda assaulted us, forced us to strip in street and chopped our heads off.
There, fixed it for you NBC.2 votes#3.14 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:17 PM ESTGossamer WingsIf you don't believe or trust NBC then why read their story????2 votes#3.15 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:20 PM ESTfrogman-2463629What a terrible story.  Wow, how can any civilized group be so cruel and heartless. Buttttttt, if those cameramen had been christian journalists, trudging/sneeking/SPYING!!!!! around Hamas or Hezbollah neighborhoods looking to film rocket launches against Israeli cities or childrens school buses, those much misunderstood Palestinian boys would have put the replay on the Internet with them also making the cameramen strip, then getting raped, then beheaded in the name of Allah. They would have been heros' of the Palestinians smiting the infidels.  A little tear gas, now that is barbaric.5 votes#3.16 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:24 PM ESTGossamer WingsFrogman has a good point.1 vote#3.17 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:27 PM ESTJohn-2032532Reuters CBS journalists: Israeli troops Cairo mob assaulted us, forced us to strip in street themselves inside us.
There, fixed it for you NBC6 votes#3.18 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:28 PM ESTSvenolafsonFirst ambulances now TV trucks.  What will the terrorists think of next?2 votes#3.19 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:33 PM ESTsomebefuddledpersonThere is every chance they weren't journalist. Just because your car has a "TV" sticker doesn't make you a journalist. They were of middle eastern ethnicity and names. Considering Muslims have a religious policy of lying to all non-muslims, suspicion is warranted. There is every chance that the "press" jackets were full of explosives. The Palestinian "teen" was also probably a suicide bomber.
Israel did not say it happened. The alleged incident is being investigated.
Finally, any journalist worth his/her title knows that putting yourself in the middle of a war puts you directly in harm's way. If you don't want to be harmed, don't go there. If this incident had occured on the Palestinian side, the "soldiers" would be celebrated. No sympathy here.2 votes#3.20 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:49 PM ESTDuquGood point frogman. Forget what Hamas would do to reporters who were not just filming what they told them to, but instead trying to get pictures of Hamas hiding rockets in a mosque or a school. It's almost as brutal as what happened to that Fox News guy who was shoved and punched in the face by those union guys in Michigan the other day. Man, those brutal Israelis are almost as violent as union guys in Detroit...
But this is definitely worth another headline on MSNBC. I mean, what's a reporter got to do to get a headline these days, it's not like there are bigger stories just around the corner, like say 40,000 Syrians being brutally killed just a couple hours drive from Hebron in the neighboring country of Syria!
I wonder what would happen to those reporters if they went over to Syria and tried to get footage of what the Syrian army is doing to the people there. I wonder what those Syrian soldiers would do if they saw them filming them while they were going down a street and shooting people on sight...
But then those brave reporters wouldn't be able to stay at those deluxe five star hotels in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv or Bethlehem, and they wouldn't get their macchiato every morning with their paper...
These are true journalists who aren't afraid to report the really big stories, like getting searched by the brutal thugs of the IDF. Sure, they'd love to go over to Syria and live in hiding in dirty rebel homes with no running water, no electricity, and no cable TV, but then who would report these horrific stories about the IDF?
It's a sacrifice they're willing to make. Damn these five star hotels with their satin sheets! Damn this Château Lafite...4 votes#3.21 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 1:04 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Losmuertos Comment collapsed by the communityThis doesn’t surprise me at all the IDF in the West Bank do stuff like this all the time because they know they can get away with it, they know the rest of the world is more focused on Gaza and Hamas and they also know that the government wants control of the West Bank so anything they do will not be met with scrutiny, and will be supported by the Settler lobby too.
So he’s what will happen the IDF will investigate, drags its heels in the investigation, then 5 years down the line when nobody remembers quietly find that it’s soldiers were not at fault and had reasonable cause to do that, no doubt they say the Hamas has been using “media disguised suicide bombers” to infiltrate IDF check points or some rubbish like that.21 votes#4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:32 AM ESTAppu Dasavia FacebookWho will take action against Israel. Even UN is spineless and they never sees what Israel does. But when some third world country cry fowl they will decompose them saying all kinds of things against them  10 votes#5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:38 AM ESTDan-1018744It is bigger than just this.  I am 55 and for years have very strongly supported Israel.  My thesis for my masters was in support of Israel but not anymore.  They treat Americans of Palestinian decent like trash.  There has not been one case of an American of Palestinian decent doing a terrorrist attack but there have been American Jews attacking innocents in Palestine.  
If current demographic trends continue Arab Israelis will out number Jewish Israelis very soon, so then what the Israeli aparteid.  They were always good friends with South Africa.  In 1973 they attacked an American warship and sent spies to the US to spy on us and one that we caught is still in prison although every Israeli Prime Minister asks for his freedom.
I am not an anti-semite, I am an American Taxpayer that only has ONE passport and only allegiance to ONE country not two. We have bankrolled Israel for over 50 years, against our best interests, I say it is time to cut them loose.9 votes#5.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:46 AM ESTLarry-2260635Police beat a black man in LA.
Police pepper spray protesters in Michigan.
Israel harasses reporters.
Kinda like the war zone we had in the south 40-50 years ago.
Listen, there is hate over there and there is hate over here. It's just that when there's a hate story the media goes hog wild because it keeps them working. Most people feed on this kind of BS hate stories and they will as long as the media feeds it to them.
 We've had our own share of soldiers going off their rocker and killing their own buddies. This could be a simple case of a couple of Israeli soldiers going out on their own and most likely has nothing to do with Israeli policy. I say find those guilty, punish them, and let it die.1 vote#5.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:18 AM ESTPM NYCThank you Dan! One country! Cut them loose.1 vote#5.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:42 AM ESTskibum609Israel should be supported against the Islamics who are the scourge of the world.3 votes#5.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:49 AM ESTBj Reynoldsvia Facebooklame ass reporters should shut up and publish their nude pics.  that would get them the views they are supposed to be getting.  and if they don't like war zones, stay the F out.9 votes#6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:59 AM ESTwolfhound27they got what they went in for.Some action..just not the kind of action they wanted.1 vote#6.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:04 AM ESTchefaz-1319563Israeli soldiers are faced with constant taunting every day, many times by children and always while a camera is running.  Couple this with the gifts from the anytime rocket brigade (hamas) and it's amazing that these incidents do not occur with more frequency.5 votes#6.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:23 AM ESTinMYdayAgreed. There should be much more nudity for us to see and far less violence presented under a pretext or agenda. There's not a lot of politics in nudity, and--except for Lady Godiva--only a little nudity in politics; and most of the nudity in politics is in hot tubs behind closed hotel doors.1 vote#6.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:48 AM ESTculheathSometimes soldiers of any nation go rogue and that sounds like the case with the IDF soldiers here.
Investigate and discipline. If there's integrity in the investigation the discipline will follow,  if not, nothing but coverup will follow. 
Some of the above comments are outright pathetic in the level of stupidity and hysteria.10 votes#7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 5:29 AM ESTrameshm2culheath... with idf is not sometimes, it is all the time. they did this to news media imagine what crime they are doing when media is not there. these bastards now they can get away with it and that is why they do it.7 votes#7.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:25 AM ESTEli100No military in the world is watched closer than IDF, that is why the dirt on them is so much easier to dig up.
You friends on Hamas throw their political opposition of the roofs of one-story buildings and the press is perfectly at peace with that.#7.2 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:13 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Henrich von Dorf Comment collapsed by the communityIdf members are sadist killers and animals. They are gutless cowards and only turn on to unarmed civilians, women and children.13 votes#8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 5:38 AM ESTwolfhound27It would seem they may have had good teachers.Like Nazi Germany on how to deal with your enemies.It would also seem that they are surrounded by countries and terrorists groups that got those same lessons from the same place.Yeah right.2 votes#8.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:07 AM ESTBasil RomeoVon Dorf: You just provided a very good description of your own kin, the Nazis. What the Israelis should do is arrest Palestinian parents who dress their infants in homicide belts and machine guns instead of Sesame Street costumes and send their children to confront and provoke IDF soldiers, and charge them with child endangerment. And I really wonder who hides behind women and children and in mosques and schools during war. Once again Von Dorf, don't let facts get in the way of your bigoted and racist mind.5 votes#8.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:07 AM ESTBasil RomeoIndoctrination of Muslim Children
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-kd0NcoxFU
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDohNq9BORo&feature=endscreen&NR=13 votes#8.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:37 AM ESTDan-542129Israel is becoming a rogue state. Yes, Israelis feel under threat and it is in part to blame for it committing human rights abuses. But a moral society doesn't mistreat people like this, or bomb and kill indiscriminately. Israel has long since lost the moral high ground. 21 votes#9 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:16 AM ESTJohn AalborgIsrael never had the high ground. Genocidal from the beginning, the Israelites during the time of Moses killed everything in their path on their exodus from Egypt on their way to Palestine. Jehovah's orders. Since the motto for the USA has changed to "In God We Trust", I think it's time we stop wasting the 4-8 billion dollars per year we spend on Israel and turn their protection back to the god who led them there.
NB: On his genocidal rampage, "kill everything that breatheth [in Canaan / Palestine]" (including the olive trees and cattle), Moses did not allow the killing of young virgins. "God wants you to Keep those for yourselves" he said.9 votes#9.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:50 AM ESTArt-BklynJohn - Amazing that you really let your feeling about Israel out!!!! Did you ever read the Old Testament? Any version? BTW its only about $3B that Israel gets in foreign aid from the US, but hey, dont let facts get in the way of your rant.6 votes#9.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:15 AM ESTBasil RomeoAalborg: Please provide sources and links. Any ancient reference to genocide, if it exists, has long ago been abrogated as a means of jurisprudence  by the Jews (and other religions). But here is a modern version of Muslim genocidal aspirations;
Look up: "Avalon Project: Hamas Covenant 1988," Yale University School of Law for more information.
http://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/hamas.asp
Please comment on this. I posted a section above. I'm awaiting your response.4 votes#9.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:16 AM ESTtruthbe knownThese so called "reporters" took a risk by entering that area.  Nothing the IDF did to them was that terrible.  Are they still alive?  Are they permanently injured?  The world's press, especially Reuters and NBC are totally biased against the IDF and Israel.  The haters on this blog jump all over the story and make it out to be an "atrocity".  Bull--it!  What about the cowardly Palestinians who killed an entire civilian family at Itafar, slitting an infant's throat? What about indiscriminately firing missiles at Israeli civilians. thousands of times?   How would you like that "incoming" going on in YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD all the time?  The Pals are really brave, hiding behind children and women's skirts so as to drive up civilian casualties when the IDF returns their fire.  The level of stupidity behind some of these posts is unbelievable.4 votes#9.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:50 AM ESTDan-1018744it should scare the hel! out of you because Israel no longer has this 100% support from US anymore.  You lost it.  But thank you for your contribution form whatever Jewish lobby you represent.  I only have one passport, I only have allegiance to one country, if you feel so strongly, get off your fat a$$ and go join the IDF4 votes#9.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:58 AM ESTtruthbe knownI proudly served my country (Viet Nam era) in the USAF.  
What did you do for your country except sit on your fat a$$ and type mindless comments keyboard warrior? 
Oh, and which country is that one passport from, North Korea?3 votes#9.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:34 AM ESTGossamer WingsTruthbe Known I'm glad you served. We all know two wrongs don't make a right. It is time to have sanity brought back in. There is much anger for a strip of land that was supposed to be turned over. We count on reporters telling us the truth. How about the US reporters in Vietnam? They were trying to tell us the truth. Not all reporters are bad. What prompted the soldiers to act this way needs to be investigated. 3 votes#9.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:02 PM ESTEli100"Two wrongs don't make it right". We hear that statement all the time, but no one ever has any ideas on how to correct one wrong without committing another wrong.
In Russia there is another expression: "You live among wolves - you howl like a wolf."
Those who enjoy judging Israel so much should really be glad that Israel is not using exact same methods as their enemies. Although, I suspect they would be a lot more respected if they did that.#9.8 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:17 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





bob-1800129Why do we keep supporting this evil country ?16 votes#10 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:18 AM ESTwolfhound27why do we support ANY country other than our own.8 votes#10.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:49 AM ESTviknatWhy don't you ask Obama who gave the Palestinians terrorist 192 million in 2012 and 400 million in 20107 votes#10.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:36 AM ESTrameshm2viknat... that is pocket money compaired to what isreal gets. this is what isreal is getting from our tax money
1- $3.1 billion /year automatically as part of the u.s budget
2- some $6 billion/year as loan which then will be forgiven. isreal has never paid back a penny of those loans.
3-$other to build their iron dome. congress is trying to approve $680 million to improve their iron dome so when they go and commit genocide, the retaliation would be nulled.8 votes#10.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:34 AM ESTArt-BklynRamesh - the $3B the US gives is in the form of military aid that MUST be spent here in the US.
The "loans" that you talk about do not exist and have never existed.
In 2010 the US approved $205M for Iron Dome, part of the 2011 budget but that was way after the system had been developed and deployed. Another allocation of $680M was approved by Congress in 2012 but included part of a buy-in to the program which is to include technology sharing and perhaps even more importantly to the US and one would think its citizens, that major components of the system (40-50%) be built here in the United States by US companies employing US workers.  OMG, this sounds terrible for the United States!!!!!!!!!!!!! We get a battle tested system at a bargain price and get to manufacture major parts of it HERE!!!!!  Those rotten Israelis!!!!!  5 votes#10.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:29 AM ESTrameshm2art. you are deceiving people. the loan exists and forgiven. can't deny it. you make it sound like it is justified to give aid and spend it here.$3b is still money from ouy pocket to yours regarless of where it is spent. and I can gaurantee they spend alot of it back here to buy out our polititians. here is a link of the loans and finacial aids to isreal..http://www.wrmea.org/special-topics/9748-us-aid-to-israel.html3 votes#10.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:57 AM ESTDan-1018744the thing is that it has just grown old.  We are now talking about cutting spending to Americans, I am sorry I am an American my country comes first,   I passport and allegiance to ONE country.2 votes#10.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:50 AM ESTskibum609True Americans support Israel.  Americans similar to Nazis support the Palestinians who supported Hitler in WW2.3 votes#10.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:50 AM ESTrameshm2skibum...  here you are. another example of isrealis tagging people with nazi and hitler when others have different oppinion. why don't you put a hitler style  mustache on your nutcaseyahu and see the similarities.oh by the way a true american stands for what is right, well minus the polititians.2 votes#10.8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:23 PM ESTEli100Let's see Bibi with mustache. No, I still don't see any similarities to Hitler once or ever, looks just like Charlie Chaplin, though.
Yes, a true American stands for what is right, that is democracy, not islamist dictatorships, support for a country that is just defending itself, not the ones who try to destroy it.
My support for Israel does not interfere with my loyalty to USA in any way. The money that goes to Israel is money well spent, not just because every cent of it goes back to USA, but also because in return Israel shares it's technical and medical discoveries with US making our lives better, and because the intelligence and military training that they share with US comes in handy when it comes to dealing with the islamists who are the true enemies of US and the rest of the West.#10.9 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:23 PM ESTjimcv62Tracontech....You are a disturbed person and have lost reality on what the bible says concerning the Rapture and what will take place in Israel, if you did you wouldnt make them comments..You cant in any way be a Christian!1 vote#11 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:47 AM ESTIAMMYOWNWOMANjimcv62 @#11, my God gave me brains.  He also gave me his son who died on the cross for my sins.  That is what Christianity is all about.  God gave us doctors to assist him in healing us.  He gave us lots of things.  My brain says... if you know the end of the world will happen in israel, it is because of israel.  Why would you continue to support a country that will ultimately be the downfall of mankind?  Perhaps Revelations is God's way of telling us about the future so that we have a possibility of changing it.  Ever think of that?1 vote#11.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:15 AM ESTArt-BklynIAMMYOWNWOMAN - Just a reminder for you: Jesus was a JEW!!! The Last Supper was the Passover Seder.  It happened in what is called modern day Israel.3 votes#11.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:31 AM ESTArt-BklynIAMMYOWNWOMAN - Just a reminder for you: Jesus was a JEW!!! The Last Supper was the Passover Seder.  It happened in what is called modern day Israel.3 votes#11.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:32 AM ESTGossamer WingsArt also remember that he was a Jew that disliked violence and made comments against the corruption he found in his Jewish temples. Also try to remember who wanted him killed. If anything Christianity is about Christ and what he had to say in his four years of teaching. Remembering how and who was responsible for his death tells us that mankind can use religion for corruption. This is not saying that religion does not serve a good purpose. If anything it requires all of us to think carefully and critically.2 votes#11.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:13 PM ESTrameshm2art.... just a reminder for you. that jesus was not a jew. study religion . here is why. 1000 years before jesus, in persia there was" mithra "who was born from a virgin mother"anahid" on a rock on dec 25th. was visited by 3 wise man from"persia" mithra's holy day was sunday, he had 12 deciples, he cured the ill.he was crucified and after 3 days raised to heaven. I am not making this up. so you see the jews didn't even believe in the idea of god and devil, heaven and hell and the idea of judgement day. this was all zorastrian and mithraism principle that the jews adopted after their enounter with persians. the only thing you are good at is to take credit for things that others have done.#11.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:35 PM ESTrameshm2art... by the way here is what jesus thought of jews."
1. According to our Bible, it was Jews who were responsible for falsely accusing Jesus (pbuh), deceiving the masses about his true mission and causing him to be crucified by the Romans. It is also true that in the Bible Jesus called Jews murderers, children of the devil, vipers, liars and other vile things. Jesus did not pull any punches in describing them. I guess in today’s world he would have been arrested for Antisemitism. He realized the truth and exposed them for what they really were. You Christian Zionists and far right Christians should go study your Bible. You may either learn something or come back denouncing Jesus as an anti-Semite. #11.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 1:02 PM ESTkpr37
it was Jews who were responsible for falsely accusing Jesus

Ah yes, Christ killers one and all. "Deicide" was the historic charge.
 Let us charge the "Jews" with deicide, it's worked wonders in the past. Remember the "middle ages"
It's unbelievable that in the year 2012, you can still find people charging Jews, with killing god.
Why would anyone continue the myth that has caused the death of so many Jewish people? It's vomitous, stomach turning, and is false.

Jewish deicide is a belief that places the responsibility for the death of Jesus on the Jewish people as a whole. This deicide accusation is expressed in the ethnoreligiousslur "Christ-killer."

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish_deicide
History, is not in dispute. Tacitus, The Roman Historian recorded the event.

Tacitus, in full Publius Cornelius Tacitus, or Gaius Cornelius Tacitus      (born ad 56—died c. 120), Roman orator and public official, probably the greatest historian and one of the greatest prose stylists who wrote in the Latin language. Among his works are the Germania, describing the Germanic tribes, the Historiae (Histories), concerning the Roman Empire from ad 69 to 96, and the later Annals, dealing with the empire in the period from ad 14 to 68.

http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/579997/Tacitus
Tacitus, in Annals 1544 provides the answer who killed  Jesus.

Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at  the hands of one of our procurators, Pontius Pilatus, and a most  mischievous superstition, thus checked for the moment, again broke out not only in Judaea, the first source of the evil, but even in Rome, where all things  hideous

Full collection of the works of Gaius Cornelius Tacitus
http://mcadams.posc.mu.edu/txt/ah/tacitus/3 votes#11.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 1:19 PM ESTMCR-4250086Jews didn't kill Jesus. They did hated him, ratted him out and probably didn't loose any sleep when the Romans nailed him to the cross. One more thing, Jesus was not nor is not God. But based on what has happen to Jews since his death, you never now. How do you people put it "vengeance is mines, saith the Lord. I would count the Holocaust as revenge#11.8 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 11:16 AM ESTEli100You guys know that Jesus was Jewish, right?1 vote#11.9 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:25 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Robert 43The Israelis are a very sick group of people. For some time I have been reading Israeli newspapers online and I am amazed at the amount of hatred expressed in the comments on the articles and their religious justification for the hatred. Regularly their are comments about killing all the Palestinians or driving them all into the sea or Jordan. They attempts to delegitimize them is extreme "invented people", "so called Palestinians", etc is a way to dehumanize them to make any action against them justified. The hatred expressed is not just toward the Palestinians since it is expressed towards Bedouins, Ethiopian Jews, African migrants, Europeans, Christians, etc. who don't agree with Israel's policies. One that had extreme hatred was on an article about a poll that showed that about 70% of American Jews would vote for Obama. American Jews were called every imaginable name in the book and their were even calls for the Israeli god to strike them down for being traitors to Israel. I nave decided that I don't much like Israelis since this level of hatred seems to know no bounds. In Israel it appears that the "chosen people" mantra has morphed into something more akin to a "master race"which is the view of the settlers. The hatred expressed toward goyim (non-Jews) and even non-Israeli Jews show how entitled the Israelis feel they are. In Israel, anti-goyimism is growing. Can anyone say that assimilation is a bad thing when we can see what comes from the lack of it. This extreme hatred will destroy Israel.15 votes#12 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:56 AM ESTLeslie-2501509Yes b/c you'd never find hateful or racist comments from Americans. Give me a break. Way to judge an entire nation from the .00000000001% of hateful people who comment on internet sites.
signed, an American goy happily living in Israel8 votes#12.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:03 AM ESTMatttWhat Leslie said.  What do you think people in other countries hear and read about from America?  Only the extremists make the news.1 vote#12.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:45 AM ESTrameshm2leslie... what are you talking about. it is not about the comments here. it is about the isrealis braking all the international laws and not respecting any country what so ever. they don't even respect the american and american government as we witnessed how the nutcaseyahu tried to influence the outcome. isreal is ranked the 4th most dangerous country in the world and that is right up there with somalia, afghanistan and iraq. unless u.s stop this unjust support of isreal, they will do as they please w/o any respect to international laws and ethics.6 votes#12.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:49 AM ESTlaughingcatLeslie, your number would mean only 1 in 100 BILLION are hateful. You may want to rethink your math. Been around the comment streams for awhile, and there are many more hateful people than that. A LOT more. And your reasoning is somewhat flawed regardless of the number. There are so many hateful people commenting on political articles that, having read about 3000 political articles over the past two years (yes I'm a political junkie and have been for 40 years with a degree in psych with a specialty in social psychology) I'd place hateful people as about 10-15% of any population. And I really don't like being that uncharitable, if realistic. General populations usually show as a bell-shaped curve, you know.....2 votes#12.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:03 AM ESTBasil RomeoIndoctrination of Muslim Children
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-kd0NcoxFU
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDohNq9BORo&feature=endscreen&NR=1
Rame:  "it is about the isrealis braking all the international laws and not respecting any country what so ever..." I wonder who is breaking international law here. Or perhaps you don't care about the human rights of children.4 votes#12.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:50 AM ESTBasil RomeoRobert43: Provide sources and links. And to those who voted for Robert, I'm not surprised that you would do so considering that your hatred is indeed blind. Have no use for sources and links to verify his claims?   4 votes#12.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:58 AM ESTRobert 43Leslie, I will give you another example. Google "israeli travelers" to see why they have become despised worldwide and why they are being banned from hotels and hostals and it has nothing to do with anti-semitism, but is due to obnoxious behaviors. Some of the comments by other travelers refer to them as racist, entitled, arrogant, loud, argumentative, superior, clannish, theives etc. You may enjoy living with people like this but be careful, many don't like goys. When you have Former Chief Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, leader of the Shas Party in the government, besides calling for the annihiliation of all Arabs, claims that goyim (non-Jews) were created like donkeys to serve the Jews. The government's silence on his claims of a Jewish "master race was quite telling. It should be noted that this Rabbi is very powerful in Israel and he regularly meets with Israeli PM Netanyahu. His views are the views of the settlers and the Ultra-Orthodox. Basil, you can google  many of the things I cited and look for Israeli magazines and newspapers and view the comments. You can also google what I have written in this comment to show I am accurate.#12.7 - Sun Dec 16, 2012 10:15 AM ESTEli100Name one country that does not have any crazy extremists in the government.
Also, the statement: "Some of the comments by other travelers refer to them as racist, entitled, arrogant, loud, argumentative, superior, clannish, theives etc." contradicts the statement"it has nothing to do with anti-semitism".
There is no way someone who is not a bigot could describe a whole country as "arrogant, loud, argumentative, superior, clannish, theives etc."#12.8 - Sun Dec 16, 2012 9:38 PM ESTRobert 43These comments are not describing a whole country but just the travelers from that country. Also I have not described Jews. I have met Jews traveling from many countries and would not describe them this way. I don't know if this has to do assimilation or if Israelis have a strange mindset. As for "crazy extremists in government" I doubt if a US president would hang-out with a preacher that claims that "non-Christians were created, like donkeys, to serve the Christians or calling for the anhiliation for a whole group of people. And it does say something about Netanyahu and religious fanaticism in Israel#12.9 - Thu Dec 20, 2012 10:57 AM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





Leslie-2501509Amazing how many of you are jumping to the worst conclusions and calling an entire nation "evil" off the hearsay of one article by 2 journalists who benefit from making a mountain over what could be a molehill. Too soon to tell what the truth is. Hate much??
Many times Israeli soldiers are hurt/killed by people posing as journalists, ambulance personnel, you name it. I wouldn't blame them if they took extreme protection measures. It just amazes me however how so many of you are willing and happy even to assume the worst motives of these soldiers because they are ISRAELI. You're total hypocrites b/c if this had been you or your son you'd want him to do whatever it took not to be in harms way. And if you were living here you'd be crying like babies over the 13,000 missiles we've received since 2000. No other nation has been as patient as ours. Continue living on your Native American land, in a nation that has killed more people and waged more war than any other on the surface of the world and pointing your hypocrite fingers.6 votes#13 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 6:59 AM ESTrameshm2leslie... what is amazing is the fact that you don't even mention what the isrealis are doing to the palestinian. lets put gaza aside for a moment and talk about the west bank and jerusalem. they didn't shoot rackets into isreal. why the isrealis keep building in their territories and distroying their houses, farms and everything they have. on one hand you condemn the gazan which have opposed the isrealis monopoly and on the other hand the west bank and e. jerusalem who tried to solve the problem diplomatically kept losing land each and every day. the fact is isreal dos not want a 2 state solution. constructing in zone e1 is the prove of it. since it would cut the palestinian land in two and then there would be only one state"isreal" you can not deceive people anymore.5 votes#13.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:32 AM ESTDan-1018744and thank you JDL (Jewish Defense League)  you just don't get it do you, former supporters have had it, with Israel, I am tired of paying.  Now take your Israeli passport and go, just if all goes to hel! don't come back here with your US passport.4 votes#13.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:00 AM ESTtruthbe knownDan,
which country is your passport from?  Iran?3 votes#13.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:15 AM ESTrameshm2truthbe hiden... you see you are tagging people again. all you isreali lobbyist just have to tag everyone who has a different oppinion. it is not working.3 votes#13.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:41 PM ESTtruthbe knownrameshm2
I am not a lobbyist, just an American citizen.  You would have more credibility if you knew how to spell, including the word- Israel.   Your name suggests an Indian/Hindu origin.  Why are you defending followers of Islam who don't like your religion very much either?
or, how is the weather in Tehran these days?#13.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 2:30 PM ESTrameshm2truthbe hiden...  what do you mean. dual citizen of u.s and israel"is that better now I spelled it correctly" that is just stupid to overlook the substance and try to escape the truth. by the way it is also spelled israhell. I am neither hindu, muslim or christian. I actually don't believe in that bs . I defend human rights. your assumption of my origin and where I live is also wrong. I am not defending followers of islam. just because they are muslim that doesn't mean they have no rights. what are you defending the rogue state of israel for. just name me one reason and give me one good thing that israel has done for u.s. let me answere that for you.NONE. besides the false flags, consuming the congress and undermining u.s interest. spying on u.s. trying to impose it's will on u.s policy and etc.1 vote#13.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 2:57 PM ESTEli100When you ask a question, you really should not answer it yourself, you might be embarrassed when somebody gives a correct answer.
Good things done by Israel for USA:
1) Shared technology, like the Intel chips in twitters, cellphones and computers you use to bash Israel.
2) Shared intelligence that is used to keep good Muslims from creating another 9/11
3) Shared training, that is used to keep good Muslims from creating another 9/11
4) Shared medical research, that might save your life one day.2 votes#13.7 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:29 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





John GaskillOne really must admire the mainstream media and their ability to, from their unstoppable bully pulpit, spread one one-sided story after another and wrap the label of "news" around it.
Sadly, at the very same time, one can only but weep at the sight of the masses of brain-dead zombies and sheep who accept every uttering and regurgitation as some sort of holy writ from the Fourth Estate, never to be questioned or independently vetted.5 votes#14 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:01 AM ESTrameshm2john gaskill....that is how isreali wanted it.  a whole bunch of sheeps who dosn't ask. I think you are wrong. people are questioning it more and more and that is why they start to realize what a terrorist state the state of isreal is.6 votes#14.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:35 AM ESTDan-1018744oh come on John take your head out of your a$$.  Yesterday was the anniversary of the Rape of Nanjing ever hear of it. The halocaust was horrible but it has been very well marketed.  Cambodia, Rawanda why don't they have museums in DC or memorials in Berlin.  The "liberal" New York Times is so pro-israeli, most of our press is.  Go to Europe and see how people feel.  I am tired of paying and demographics are against you, 20 years and you will have to be an aparteid state.3 votes#14.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:05 AM ESTEli100Can it be that Cambodia and Rwanda don't have memorials in Berlin, because their destruction was not by orders form Berlin?
Obviously, you guys would love it if all was forgotten about Holocaust, that would make it so much easier to create another one, but don't get your hopes up. 
Dan, Ramesh and others of the kind, you all will have to face it that Jew-hunting is not a safe sport any more, you will have to find something else to do on your spare time.1 vote#14.3 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:34 PM ESTWilmer-furmanFor Israel, job number one is stealing what little Palestinian property they haven't taken already. Job number two is manipulating public opinion about it -- and, as we see, that requires the occasional application of violence. No problem: If anyone objects, just tell them they must be "anti-semitic."11 votes#15 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:05 AM ESTviknatSympathizer watch some of the Hamas kiddie shows then go get a free strap on vest from the Palestinians P.S. don't play with the wires
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJDNXztFmS02 votes#15.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:32 AM ESTBasil RomeoIndoctrination of Muslim Children
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-kd0NcoxFU
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDohNq9BORo&feature=endscreen&NR=12 votes#15.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:35 AM ESTrameshm2basil... the link video only proves how the isrealis pushed these people to take the action that  they are taking and nothing more.   you isrealis are pissed off because the assumption by your leaders 50 years ago was" we throw the palestinian out, demolish their houses, farms and villages so they have nothing to go back to and eventually they'll forget that they ever lived there. but guess what. this video shows that your leaders assumption was wrong. they will remember and fight generation after generation to get their land back.6 votes#15.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:05 AM ESTBasil RomeoWhere do the people who call themselves “Palestinians” really come from; this, from thePalestinians themselves. 
The link below is to a clip from an interview on Egyptian TV with Fathi Hamad, the Minister of the Interior of the Hamas government in the Gaza Strip.
It is very brief and I would appreciate it if you would take the time to watch it and then to forward it to all your contacts.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbuM91PeSOs
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ZtiUdl9Cd0
The True Face of Islam : Amanpour:Hamas founder's son Hassan Yousef : I spied for Israel
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J70x3LjgdkU&feature=related
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqSY285BqQg1 vote#15.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:55 AM ESTrameshm2basil...where did the europian convert jews came from?3 votes#15.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:43 PM ESTHenrich von Dorfbasil romero idf are the true disciple of nazi, learning their deadly trade from their teachers during the days of internment in the Warsaw ghetto.#15.6 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:25 AM ESTEli100Ramesh, 
There were hardly any converts to Judaism. Jews were never welcoming of converts, except for those who marry into Jewish families. The only known case of mass conversion are Khazars, but those were completly wiped out by Russians.
von Dorf,
Repeat the word 'nazis" all you want, they are still not coming back, your side still lost WWII.2 votes#15.7 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:38 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





viknat Affiliated to the Islamist group Hamas would not make them journalist but propagandist2 votes#16 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:25 AM ESTHappy To Speak Out"An altercation"? The young Palestinian put a so-called "toy gun" that looked pretty darned real to the HEAD of an IDF soldier.  So how about it, NBC -- what about journalistic objectivity?  Things aren't always what they seem. 4 votes#17 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:28 AM ESTrameshm2happy to deceive.  are you telling us that the isreali soldier lets a palestinian kid put a gun on his head? wow. what was he doing. sleeping on job? man your senario is just plain stupid. to think that an isreali soldier let a kid put a gun to his head is just a dumb comment.3 votes#17.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:11 AM ESTEli100Well, when someone puts a gun to someone else's head, they usually don't ask for a permission.1 vote#17.2 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:39 PM ESTSantos-DumontThat's nothing. In 1967 the Israeli air force attacked the U.S.S. Liberty, killing U.S. sailors. Later they said it was a mistake. Actually the reason for the attack was that the Liberty was an intelligence gathering ship (NSA), and the specialists aboard were listening to radio transmissions from the Sinai where Israeli troops were murdering thousands Egyptian POWs.9 votes#18 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:44 AM ESTArt-BklynCant' come up with anything better than the USS Liberty??? An incident that Israel apologized for and paid for the dead and injured. And just to clarify to those who dont know, the Liberty was attacked DURING the 6 Day War in 1967 by Israeli aircraft AFTER checking with the US 6th Fleet if any of their ship were in that location and being told no. Also, its been disproved over and over and over that no Egyptian POWs were murdered during the 6 Day War, if ever.
Where are the apologies or reperations for the USS Cole, the Marine Barracks in Lebanon, the first WTC attack, 9/11 and so on? These and many, many others were attacks against the US and US citizens.
If the Liberty is the best you've got, place it in the real context of attacks against the United States. 34 killied and 171 wounded and during an actual war, in an actual war zone. In just the other 4 attacks against the US over 3,241 were killed and more than 7,000 injured.2 votes#18.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:38 AM ESTIan EmdeeArt-Bklyn.......

Clark Clifford Report Quote......The unprovoked attack on the Liberty constitutes a flagrant act  of gross negligence for which the Israeli Government should be held  completely responsible, and the Israeli military personnel involved  should be punished........EndQuote

.....and......

Israelis Judge Yerushalmi Quote........I have not discovered any deviation from the standard of reasonable  conduct which would justify committal of anyone for trial. (In other  words, he found no negligence by any IDF member associated with the  attack)........EndQuote

Who could know better the circumstances of the attack than those attacked?  The USS Liberty Veterans Association made the following submission:
A Report  --  War Crimes Committed  Against U.S. Military Personnel, June 8, 1967
http://www.usslibertyveterans.org/files/War%20Crimes%20Report.pdf
Anyone wishing to know the FACTS, should read this report.
The Israelis government not only HAS NOT APOLOGIZED for their actions, they have NOT ADMITTED their actions.  Not a single Israelis has been found guilty of anything. Yet, the Americans are DEAD.  Clark Clifford's report, though damning, was a white-wash of the truly despicable nature of the Israelis attack.
Your dishonesty is not only disgusting, it is futile.  History records the premeditated Israelis aggression against the UNARMED USS Liberty. It will live in infamy.2 votes#18.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:40 AM ESTDan-1018744and Art you lie out your A$$, you are garbage, those were americans, obviously you are one of those 2 passport americans, go join the IDF you gutless wonder while you keep your blue passport just in case.   1 country, 1 passort and allegiance to 1 country4 votes#18.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:08 AM ESTRalphH Comment collapsed by the communityArt - Here is a timeline of the attack on the Liberty, posted by the survivors of the Liberty. Please note the comments of Lyndon Johnson, our first Jewish president. He was Jewishon both his maternal grandparents side. Also note the comments from former Israeli pilots. Israel paid peanuts in reparationsfor the attack.
June 8,1967, Israeli forces attack the USS Liberty. They kill 34 American servicemen,wounding 171 others. It will be the highest casualty rate ever inflicted on aU.S. naval vessel, with 7 out of every 10 crew members killed or injured. Itwill also be the only peacetime attack on a U.S. naval vessel that, to thisday, the Congress of the United States of America formally refuses toinvestigate.
2 June 1967. Libertydeparts Rota at top speed of 18 knots en route to a point 13 miles off the GazaStrip, well within international waters.
5 June 1967, 7:45(all times cited are local Liberty time). Israel attacks Egypt, simultaneouslyputting out false reports that Egypt had attacked first. Captain McGonagle asksVice Admiral William Martin at Sixth Fleet headquarters to send a destroyer asan armed escort and auxiliary communication center, noting that Liberty's"self defense capability limited to four .50 caliber machine guns andsmall arms."
6 June1967. Admiral Martin replies "Liberty is clearly marked United States shipin international waters, not a participant in the conflict and not a reasonablesubject for attack by any nation . . . Request for escort denied."
7 June1967, shortly before midnight. Office of the U.S. Defense Attaché in Tel Avivsends coded message to U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) that Israel intendsto attack the Liberty if her course is not changed.
8 June 1967:
1000: Two unmarked,rocket-armed, delta-winged jets circle Liberty three times. Liberty officerscan count rockets and see the pilots, but see no identifying marks on theplane. The jets radio Israeli headquarters that the ship is flying an Americanflag.
1030: Israeli "flying boxcar" with Israeli markings circlesLiberty at about 200 feet. Crew member Larry Weaver says, "I was actuallyable to wave to the co-pilot, a fellow on the right-hand side of the plane. Hewaved back, and actually smiled at me."
1055: Pinchas Pinchasy, naval liaison officer at Israeli air forceheadquarters, reports to Naval Headquarters that the ship cruising slowly offEl Arish is "an electromagnetic audio-surveillance ship of the U.S. Navy,named Liberty, whose marking was GTR-5."
1100 & 1130: Israeli reconnaissance aircraft again circle Liberty.
1205: Three Israeli motor torpedo boats leave Ashdod at high speed headedtoward Liberty. They are followed by Israeli air force fighters, loaded with30mm cannon ammunition, rockets, and napalm.
1215 & 1245: Israeli reconnaissance aircraft again circle Liberty.
1341: Israeli torpedo boats spot Liberty and call for an immediate air strike.
1358: Two unmarked delta-winged Mirage jets attack Liberty. After taking outgun mounts, they target ship's antennae and bridge with heat-seeking missiles.
1405: Three unmarked Dassault Mystère IIIC jets attack with napalm androckets. Ship tries to contact Sixth Fleet headquarters, but five of Liberty'ssix shore circuits are jammed. Radio operator manages to send distress signalfrom Captain McGonagle: "Under attack by unidentified jet aircraft,require immediate assistance." Attack lasts approximately 22 minutes,involving 30 to 35 sorties, killing nine men and wounding around 60. Israelipilot reports to base: "Great, wonderful, she's burning, she'sburning."
1409: Captain Joe Tully of the USS Saratoga acknowledges call for help,dispatches four F-4 Phantom jets, and informs Liberty that help is on the way.Within minutes U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert MacNamara orders rescue jets toreturn: : "Tell Sixth Fleet to get those aircraft backimmediately." Rear Admiral Geis relays message and tells them to re-launchjets in 90 minutes.
1424: Three French-built 62-ton Israeli motor torpedo boats approach Liberty inattack formation. Because the Israeli fighters had destroyed the American flag,Captain McGonagle orders the signalman to hoist the "holiday ensign,"the largest flag the ship has.
1435: Torpedo boats launch five German-made 19-inch torpedoes at Liberty.One torpedo strikes starboard directly into NSA area, accounting for 25 of the34 men who would be killed. Torpedo boats then circle, machine-gunning the shipwith armor-piercing projectiles for another 40 minutes.
1450: Commander of Sixth Fleet orders carriers USS America and USS Saratoga tosend aircraft to defend Liberty.
1500: NSA Sigint Command Center receives first notice of the attack from eitherthe America or Saratoga: "USS Liberty has been reportedly torpedoed byunknown source in Med near 32N 33E. Request examine all communications forpossible reaction/reflections and report accordingly."
1505: Message sent to Liberty from Sixth Fleet: "Sending aircraft to coveryou. Surface units on the way." Liberty is off the air and does notreceive the message.
1511: First "official" notice that Liberty is under attack reachesNational Military Command Center in Washington.
1515: After the order to "prepare to abandon ship" comes over theloudspeaker system, the lifeboats are lowered into the water. Israeli torpedoboats move in closer and fire on them, as well as those still on deck, makingthem all unusable. "I watched with horror as the floating life rafts wereriddled with holes," recalled Lieutenant Lloyd Painter, in charge of theevacuation. Said Petty Officer Rowley, who also witnessed the event: "Theydidn't want anyone to live." After destroying the life rafts, the Israeliboats departed. Next, two Israeli SA-321 Super Frelon Hornet assaulthelicopters carrying soldiers in battle dress circle ship several times, thendepart.
1520: Commander of Sixth Fleet announces that 12 aircraft will be launched at1545 to arrive near Liberty at 1715.
1532: Walt Rostow, President Johnson's Special Assistant for National SecurityAffairs, notifies the president of the attack.
1536: Israeli torpedo boats return, then leave.
1545: USS Saragota and America launch second rescue flights.
1555: Liberty regains its transmitter; still has no receiver.
1600: Liberty transmits: "Flash, flash, flash. I pass in the blind. Weare under attack by aircraft and high-speed surface craft." DeputyDirector Louis Tordella is informed by Deputy Director of Joint ReconnaissanceCenter, Captain Vineyard, that "consideration was then being given by someunnamed Washington authorities to sink the Liberty in order that newspaper menwould be unable to photograph her and thus inflame public opinion against theIsraelis." Tordella makes an "impolite" comment about the idea,writes a memo of the conversation for the record, and stores it away.
1605: Liberty transmits: "Request immediate assistance. Torpedo hitstarboard side."
1614: American embassy relays Israeli apology to White House, Department ofState, and Sixth Fleet that an unidentified "maybe Navy" ship hasbeen erroneously attacked.
1615: Two unidentified jets approach Liberty, then veer off.
1630: Israeli jets and three torpedo boats return, offer assistance. CaptainMcGonagle refuses their help. Boats leave after 12 minutes.
1639: Secretary of Defense McNamara again orders rescue planes recalled;order is confirmed by President Johnson because "we are not going toembarrass an ally." Naval Air Attaché at U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv,Commander Ernest Castle, is summoned to Israeli Defense Forces headquarters.
1717: Deputy Secretary of Defense orders that all news releases on attack areto be made in Washington. Soon after, Israeli helicopter approaches Liberty andrequests permission to land. McGonagle refuses. Helicopter departs.
1729: Rear Admiral Lawrence Geis, commander of the Sixth Fleet in theMediterranean, protests decision to recall rescue planes to Secretary ofDefense McNamara. At that point President Johnson comes on the phone and sayshe didn't care if the ship sunk, he would not embarrass his allies. Admiral Geistells Lt. Commander David Lewis, head of the Liberty's NSA group, of theremark, but asks him not to repeat it until after he dies. It is a promiseLewis will honor.
1915: Captain McGonagle, wounded and exhausted, dictates first report onestimated casualties: 10 dead; 15 severely wounded; 75 total wounded;undetermined missing. His estimates would prove low.
9 June 1967:
After midnight: Soviet guided missiledestroyer sends flashing-light message in English: "Do you needhelp?" Liberty responds: "No thank you." Soviets answer: "Iwill stand by in case you need me."
0600: USS Navy destroyers Davis and Masseyarrive.
Mid-morning: Dead and wounded are evacuated by helicopter.
1450: Israeli Lt. Col. Michael Bloch telephones Commander Castle that Liberty, becauseit was not flying a flag, had been mistaken for the Egyptian supply ship ElQueseir. State Department assures Congress that attack was accidental.
10 June 1967: Vice Admiral McCain orders Rear Admiral Isaac Kidd to conveneNavy Court of Inquiry.
11 June 1967: Admiral Kidd boards Libertywith small staff to head Navy Court of Inquiry.
14 June 1967: Liberty arrives in Malta. Totalnews blackout imposed. Rear Admiral Kidd warns crew: "You are never,repeat never, to discuss this with anyone, not even your wives. If you do, youwill be court-martialed and will end your lives in prison or worse."Secretary of Defense McNamara informs media that, "Department of Defensewill have no further comment."
15 June 1967: Secretary of State Dean Rusktells NATO ambassadors in Luxembourg that Israel's attack was deliberate. Hisremark is reported in European, but not U.S. papers.
18 June 1967: Israeli Court of Inquiryexonerates Israeli government and all those involved, saying that its torpedoboats erroneously reported the Liberty's speed at 30 knots instead of 5, andthat the Liberty flew no flag and had no identifying markings. Later, Israelwill honor Motor Torpedo Boat 203, the one that fired the deadly torpedo at theLiberty, by putting its wheel and bell on display in its naval museum, amongthose maritime items of which it is most proud.
July 1967: Shortly after the burial of sixLiberty crewmen in Arlington National Cemetery, a monument is erecteddescribing the six as having "Died in the Eastern Mediterranean."Liberty survivors complain that the marking is evasive and improper.
September 1967: State Department legaladviser Carl Salans finds many discrepancies with the Israeli report. Hisreport is classified Top Secret.
11 June 1968: Captain McGonagle is awardedthe Congressional Medal of Honor. The Medal, usually presented by the Presidentof the United States at the White House, is presented by the Secretary of theNavy during a hastily arranged ceremony at the Washington D.C. Navy Yard.Admiral Thomas H. Moorer, the Chief of Naval Operations, calls the way theMedal is presented a back-handed slap. "Everyone else received their medalat the White House," Moorer will later observe. "President Johnsonmust have been concerned about the reaction of the Israeli lobby."
1980: National Security Agency DirectorMarshall Carter tells investigative author James Bamford that, regarding theattack on the Liberty, "There was no other answer than that it wasdeliberate."
1981: National Security Agency review,"Attack on a Sigint Collector, the USS Liberty Incident," rejects theIsraeli Court of Inquiry's "mistake" theory and accuses Israelifighter pilots and torpedo boat crewmen and commanders of perjury.
1982: Israeli senior lead pilot approachesformer Congressman Pete McCloskey and admits that he recognized the Liberty asAmerican immediately, so informed his headquarters, and was told to ignore theAmerican flag and continue his attack. He said he refused to do so and returnedto base, where he was arrested.
6 October 1982: A new headstone for the sixLiberty crew members at Arlington National Cemetery is unveiled. This onereads: "Killed USS Liberty June 8, 1967."
1986: Lt. Commander Walter H. Jacobsen writesin Naval Law Review: "To speculate on the motives of an attack group thatuses unmarked planes and deprives helpless survivors of life rafts raisesdisturbing possibilities, including the one that the Liberty crew was not meantto survive the attack..."
6 November 1991: Columnists Evans and Novakpublish interview with Dwight Porter, U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon in 1967, inwhich Porter says that during or immediately after the attack on the Libertythe CIA station chief showed him transcripts of intercepted Israeli messages.One has Israel ordering the attack on the Liberty, another has an Israeli pilotreplying it's an American ship. When the order to attack is repeated, the pilotinsists he can see the American flag. The pilot is told again: "Attackit."
8 June 1997: Adm. Thomas H. Moorer, appointedChief of Naval Operations shortly after the attack on the Liberty, tells areunion of survivors: "I have to conclude that it was Israel's intent tosink the Liberty and leave as few survivors as possible. Israel knew perfectlywell that the ship was American."
November 1998: Captain McGonagle breaks hislong silence: "After many years I finally believe that the attack wasdeliberate. I don't think there has been an adequate investigation of theincident . . . The flag was flying prior to the attack..." McGonagle willdie four months later, on March 3, 1999.3 votes#18.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:26 AM ESTskibum609Zeig Heil Adolph.5 votes#18.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:51 AM ESTkpr37Rules dont apply to newsvine's own "plagiariser" and chief? do they Ralph.
Coh
block quote, and link the source.5 votes#18.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:52 AM ESTRalphHDoes the truth hurt, kpr? You cannot dispute one word of my post.Did you read the words of the Israeli pilot? Pretty damning, were they not? What do you think of Lyndon Johnson's comments?Imagine, an American president who would rather see an American ship sunk with all hands, than embarrass Israel. Think where Israel might be now, if Johnson had not kept the attack secret from the American people.
http://lennybendavid.com/2008/05/lyndon-johnsons-historical-connection.html
http://www.jweekly.com/article/full/36262/friend-ally-savior-revealing-lbj-s-jewish-ties/
Research intoJohnson's personal history indicates that he inherited his concern for theJewish people from his family. His aunt Jessie Johnson Hatcher, a majorinfluence on LBJ, was a member of the Zionist Organization of America. As ayoung boy, Lyndon watched his politically active grandfather "Big Sam"and father "Little Sam" seek clemency for Leo Frank, the Jewishvictim of a blood libel in Atlanta. Frank was lynched by a mob in 1915, and theKu Klux Klan in Texas threatened to kill the Johnsons. Johnson's speechwriterlater stated, "Johnson often cited Leo Frank's lynching as the source ofhis opposition to both anti-Semitism and isolationism."
Lyndon Johnson’s maternal ancestors, the Huffmans, apparently migrated toFrederick, Maryland from Germany sometime in the mid-eighteenth century. Laterthey moved to Bourbon, Kentucky and eventually settled in Texas in themid-to-late nineteenth century.10
According to Jewish law, if a person’s mother isJewish, then that person is automatically Jewish, regardless of the father’sethnicity or religion. The facts indicate that both of Lyndon Johnson’sgreat-grandparents, on the maternal side, were Jewish. These were thegrandparents of Lyndon’s mother, Rebecca Baines.11Their names were John S. Huffman and Mary Elizabeth Perrin.12John Huffman’s mother was Suzanne Ament, a common Jewish name. Perrin is also acommon Jewish name.
Huffman and Perrin had a daughter, Ruth Ament Huffman,13who married Joseph Baines14and together they had a daughter, Rebekah Baines,15Lyndon Johnson’s mother. The line of Jewish mothers can be traced back threegenerations in Lyndon Johnson’s family tree. There is little doubt that he wasJewish.
“To learn who rules over you simply find out who are notallowed to criticize”
—–Voltaire3 votes#18.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:21 PM ESTBasil RomeoFor a balanced view and for readers to decide for themselves after reviewing both sides of the argument (from Wikipedia) 
Sources claiming attack was a mistake
UStapes confirm Israel's '67 attack on 'Liberty' was accidental

The Liberty Incident, by A.Jay Cristol
The USS Liberty: CaseClosed Azure articleby MichaelOren
MichaelOren's "Six Days of War." Ballantine Books, 2003,p. 263–271
Memosshow Liberty attackwas an error Haaretz article by Nathan Guttman
Returnof the USS Liberty Critiqueof Bamford's "Body of Secrets" from HonestReporting
BamfordBashes Israel: Conspiracy Theorist Claims Attack on USS Liberty Intentional from the Committeefor Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America
The USS Liberty Attack from the Anti-Defamation League
USS Liberty:Israel Did Not Intend to Bomb the Ship by A. Jay Cristol
USS Liberty on www.sixdaywar.org
USS'Liberty' hit was unintentional, says CIA

[edit]Sources claiming attack was deliberate
Survivors of the attack

USS Liberty VeteransAssociation website
USS Liberty Memorial, bysurvivor Jim Ennes. This site includes a wide variety of documents,photographs, statements by survivors, and responses to authors who argue thatthe attack was a mistake.
USS Liberty, by JohnGidusko, former Electronics Material Officer aboard the USS Liberty before theattack.
Assaulton Liberty StillCovered Up After 26 Years by JimEnnes at Washington-Report
Dead inthe Water BBC documentary(2002).
BrasscheckTV Documentary Video:"Loss of Liberty—The Israeli Attack on the USS Liberty"
43Years After Surviving Israeli Attack on USS Liberty, US Veteran Joe MeadorsSeized by Israeli Forces on Gaza Aid Flotilla - video report by DemocracyNow!
TheAssault on the Liberty: The True Story of the Israeli Attack on an AmericanIntelligence Ship, online ebook.

From Wikipedia.
It's amazing that Jew haters consistently turn to the Liberty whenever they have little or nothing to say to further their misguided arguments. The reason that the Liberty was an accident rather than a deliberate attack was motive. What would the Israelis have gained by purposely attacking an ally that was instrumental in liberating the Jews during WWII and relatively soon after the war ended? The Liberty, though decidedly tragic, pales in comparison, and is a drop in the ocean relative to the number of American lives and the lives of other nationals that the Muslim murderers have taken since then. Your argument is, therefore, ridiculous. Blind hatred has taken over reason.3 votes#18.8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 1:55 PM ESTIan EmdeeBasil Romeo........you said:

Quote.......What would the Israelis have gained by purposely attacking an ally that  was instrumental in liberating the Jews during WWII and relatively soon  after the war ended?.......EndQuote

Perhaps you should ask Jonathan Pollard.
Israel admits it spied on US ------    http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/91260.stm
Why would you believe a people that perpetrated a massacre such as the King David Hotel bombing would not do similarly to the United States?  After all, 28 British citizens were killed in that attack.  Remember, it was (British) Lord Balfour who was singularly responsible for the Jewish return to Palestine.  Obviously, that favor gave the British no special immunity (from Zionist fanatics).
http://britains-smallwars.com/Palestine/Kingdavid.htm
The Israelis have lied to the United States (and many others) whenever and for whatever reason it suits their purposes.  Is it really necessary to recount them for you and any others who feign ignorance?
Some Zionists are much as any creature that has been brutalized.  No matter how its wounds are soothed, or by whom, it never really trusts another again.  This is a sad fact that none of us should ever forget lest we be bitten.  Just ask the hard bitten survivors of the USS Liberty.1 vote#18.9 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:32 PM ESTRalphHBasil - My post 18.4 was an actual timeline of the entire attack from the actual survivors and had direct quotes from some of those who participated, including Israelis. The Zionists on this thread collapsed the post, because it was too factual and revealed the duplicity of Israel.
The attack was also done on the History Channel, many years ago.
Your so called balanced  arguement was written by a Zionist Jew.
The reason Israel attacked the Liberty, was to sink the ship and blame Egypt, in order to bring in the US against Egypt.  It was a false flag attack, much like the attack on the King David Hotel. Israel got caught again, red handed. They were able to get out of it because Lyndon Johnson was a Zionist Jew and he may have known beforehand of the attack. He was a traitor to his country (America), as proven by his words and his deeds on that day. 
If it was such an obvious mistake, it would have been revealed to the American people.
Here, read about Johnson's actions on behalf of Israel, right from Israeli news sources. His real allegiance was to Israel, not the USA.How convenient for Israel to have JFK assasinated in Dallas and the alleged perpetrator removed by a Zionist Jew named Jack Ruby. It was a an incredible circumstance that a small time Jewish mobster decided to kill Oswald prior to any testimony or investigation. Wow!
http://lennybendavid.com/2008/05/lyndon-johnsons-historical-connection.html
http://www.jweekly.com/article/full/36262/friend-ally-savior-revealing-lbj-s-jewish-ties/1 vote#18.10 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:59 PM ESTHenrich von Dorfbasil romeo is a paid agent of the zionist rogue state and will white wash whatever crimes israel commits.1 vote#18.11 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 2:28 AM ESTEli100So von Dorf,
Have you become desperate enough to believe Ralph's idiotic conspiracy theories?
I don't recall you ever openly repeating those or claiming to believe them.1 vote#18.12 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 8:58 PM EST

Advertise | AdChoices 



 





starz-2031249
Israeli soldiers do not like the international press or peaceful activists of any kind. Israeli soldiers many times have shot at journalists and peace activists, killing some. The Israeli army always vows to investigate--but the incidents and crimes get swept under the rug. Israel does not want peace--and neither do idiotic conservative pols in America. The Palestinian issue should have been resolved long ago. 8 votes#19 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:45 AM ESTArt-BklynAnd it would have been solved a long time ago if the palestinians would simply come and negotiate without preconditions. The Israelis have stated over and over that they are ready to negotiate. The Palestinians keep coming up with reasons, excuses and preconditions why they can't. Any reasonable person would think that the poor oppressed Palestinians would want an end to this but the proof is not in the nonsense being posted by the bigots here, but rather by the Palestinians themselves. They want a country? Come to the table. They want peace? Come to the table? The bottom line is COME TO THE TABLE.3 votes#19.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 9:42 AM ESTrameshm2art. the palestinian in the west bank and e. jerusalem have tried to negotiate peacefully, but what they got in reward was more land theaft from isrealis. the isreali tend to tag people with all kind of @!$%# if they don't agree with them and you are not an exception. deceiving does not work anymore.2 votes#19.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 10:16 AM ESTskibum609To the Palestinians negotiating peacefully means blowing themselves up in Pizzeria Uno.  People of other religions look at negotiating in a different light.1 vote#19.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:52 AM ESTIxor KlebRamesham
imagine that:
"Jews stealing Jewdea"
"Palestinians demand West Bank to be "Jew-free Zone"1 vote#19.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 3:06 PM ESTSlightly Bmusedvia FacebookPalestinian militants have a history of impersonating journalists and medical personel; commandeering ambulances and press vehicles to transport weapons and fighters.  Why wouldn't Israeli troops take precautions?  Those reporters should be thankful they weren't accused of being "Zionist collaborators" by Hamas, or they'd be treated to post-mortem motorcycle surfing through the streets of Gaza, or bungie-less roof jumping.  BTW, compare the lively gay nightlife in the streets of Tel-Aviv with gay culture in Gaza.....dead, absolutely dead, because that's the way (uh huh, uh huh) Hamas likes it.3 votes#20 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:50 AM ESTRaven Storm CrowDid anyone notice that part about the 17 year old kid with a toy pistol in a war zone? I would think that if I were to walk up to a group of soldiers on high alert, all armed with high powered weapons and on the alert for people trying to kill them and start waving what looked visually like a pistol that I would be shot immediately. That 17 year old kid was comitting "suicide-by-cop."
It's no excuse for the reporters being harrassed (which NBC just reported on here, which is why we are commenting here on NBC) but you can definitely understand why the kid got shot to death. Duh!2 votes#21 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:54 AM ESTAlan-962575I think it is called "Your In a War Zone" Folks are fighting to the death. Things like this happen like it or not. They drag dead bodies though the streets of Gaza. Shoot thousands of rockets into Israel. The only answer is Peace. Do the Hamas want Peace? Nope. When both sides can sit down and finally get through their thick skulls that Peace is the only option unless of course you love killing more. War is Hell. People have been fighting one another since the Dawn Of Man.5 votes#22 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 7:57 AM ESTMark Bernadiner-1136934Reuters so called "journalists" are well known as proislamofascists supportes, pathological liars and profoundly ignorant people. They have been caught numerous times in falsification of facts to whitewash palestinian crimes. They are responsble for death of hundreds of civilians, including Americans. So, IDF makes right thing punching them in their stupid faces. They are deserve death.3 votes#23 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:01 AM ESTAnthony1972You say they were "proislamofascist supporters" and they had "stupid" faces?  Ouch.  Someone's cranky.1 vote#23.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 4:46 PM ESTenlightenedeuropean Comment collapsed by the communityFookin' jews need a kicking !! THEY are the real terrrorists, and the scum with the money running the show in the US !!4 votes#24 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:17 AM ESTkpr37
Fookin' jews need a kicking !!

While I don't question that you are European, I do bring in to question, the "enlightened" part.8 votes#24.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:26 AM ESTenlightenedeuropeanAs a French foreign minister once said, "Israel is  crappy little country in the Med." It would be nothing without US support. The whole world despises it, but the UN is tooothless. Times are changing though, and there is hope yet for the Palestinians.
Go back to sleep mate.2 votes#24.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:29 AM ESTkpr37
Go back to sleep mate.

No, wake up Laddie.
From my favorite Irish atheist.
The left and Israel

Israel is a litmus test for me. 

Palestinian Muslim totalitarians are fighting Jewish/secular democrats. 

The former jail and torture gays. 

The latter have gay pride marches. 

 The former beat women for immodest dress. 
The latter have topless beaches.
 
The former get new rulers when the old ones are shot and thrown off rooftops. 

The latter have decades of peaceful elections. 
The former have sharia law. 

The latter are more secular than Ireland. 

If you support the Palestinians, you have no moral compass. 
There are a range of trendy reasons why westerners refuse to support a liberal western country under siege from people who do not subscribe to western values. Self-hatred may be the single most dominant reason. Hating Israel is a safe way of hating the west, for a certain left-wing mindset. Whatever the reasons, the left disgraces itself by its support for the Palestinians.



http://markhumphrys.com/left.israel.html6 votes#24.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:54 AM ESTRalphHkpr - Have you ever considered the fact that many Americans are sick and tired of supporting a nation of parasites, who start wars and are constantly scheming to get America invloved in wars for Israel? The war in Iraq, alone, will cost America in excess of 3.5 trillion dollars. It was planned and sold by Zionists, led by Paul Wolfowitz, with false intelligence provided by ther Mossad. 
Brom told The Associated Press in an interview Thursday that "Israeliintelligence was a full partner with the United States and Britain indeveloping a false picture of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destructioncapability."
He said Israeli intelligence "badly overestimated the Iraqi threat to Israeland reinforced the American and British belief that the weapons existed."
Brom said the Israeli assessment may have been influenced by politics. "Israelhas no reason to regret the outcome of the war in Iraq," he wrote, notingSaddam was an implacable enemy.
Brom ended his 25-year military career in 1998. Career officers in Israeltraditionally maintain close ties with military colleagues after theirretirement.
Zionistwarmongers like Ken Adelman and the Zionist Washington Post pushed the war inan editorial titled, “Cakewalk in Iraq.” Jewish supremacists Richard Perle andPaul Wolfowitz told you that Iraq would “Welcome us as liberators.” Iraq becamethe longest war in American history. Here is a report from USA Today: “Pentagonofficials estimated for the first time Wednesday that up to 360,000 Iraq andAfghanistan veterans may have suffered traumatic brain injuries.” Now that’snot counting tens of thousands who have suffered maiming, amputations, or deathin this war based on lies.
I find it mystifying how Zionists believe Americans should just overlook the role they played in the tremendous losses the US suffered in Iraq, due to their actions.  2 votes#24.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:38 AM ESTkpr37
Have you ever considered the fact that many Americans are sick and tired of supporting a nation of parasites,

What nation are you referring to there Ralph?

It was planned and sold by Zionists, led by Paul Wolfowitz

"The Protocols of the elders of Zion" are not true. Did you know that.4 votes#24.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:48 AM ESTRalphHkpr - You say they are not true, but are you lying or just ignorant of the truth? Israel is the nation we have been supporting for 60 years. Each year we send them the equivalent of more than $500.00 for each man woman and child. No other nation comes close. For comparison, the amount we send Egypt amounts to a few dollars per person and that is just bribe money to make Egypt play nice with Israel. We also provide loan guarantees, where we pay all the interest and fees, and make donations to Israel, tax deductable for rich Jews, thus depriving the US of more money for our coffers. That is a little known, but important, fact.
Imagine, over 3 trilion dollars will have been spent on the Iraq war. Wow. That is a significant portion of our debt. Thanks Israel. Thanks also to the cabal of Zionists who worked in the Bush Pentagon, cherry picking intelligence for an excuse to go to war with Iraq. (If you desire, I will post a list for you, just ask.)
I notice you didn't even try to rebut my assertion that the war in Iraq was planned and sold by the Zionists, led by Wolfowitz.  Shlomo Brom admitted Israel was behind much of the false intelligence, which makes it hard to dispute.2 votes#24.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:41 PM ESTkpr37
I notice you didn't even try to rebut my assertion that the war in Iraq was planned and sold by the Zionists,

When people make claims about pink polka dotted mice, living on the moon, and feasting on green cheese, I don't refute them either, I laugh.3 votes#24.7 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 2:56 PM ESTRalphHThe difference kpr, is I posted quotes and evidence, which prove what I wrote is true. Keep laughing, when America cuts off support to those parasites in israel. How does it feel to support leaches and parasites?
Your feeble arguments to delegitimize my posts are weak attempts at best. All you have is your Zionist propaganda, which is easily disproved, thanks to the internet.#24.8 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:18 PM ESTkpr37
America cuts off support to those parasites in israel

You know Israel is the Jewish state? Right? That was why I asked before

The source: G. G. Otto, Der Jude als Weltparasit (Munich: Eher Verlag, 1943). It was issued by Alfred Rosenerg’s office. I’m translating from the edition provided to the military, with thanks to Ken Fields, who provided scans of the original.


The Jew as World Parasite



http://www.calvin.edu/academic/cas/gpa/weltparasit.htm
the symbolism says it all, I think.2 votes#24.9 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 3:34 AM ESTkpr37
America cuts off support to those parasites in israel

I see you use the word "parasites" in many of your postings. Where did you get your terminology?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Eternal_Jew_(1940_film)

Jews as an uncivilized and parasitic people

Just change one word

All you have is your Zionist propaganda,
2 votes#24.10 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 3:45 AM ESTkpr37http://brainz.org/10-most-evil-propaganda-techniques-used-nazis/

The Nazi Party accused them of being a parasitic race that attached itself to capitalist nations to destabilize the economy and culture of their ‘host’ nation
2 votes#24.11 - Sat Dec 15, 2012 3:53 AM ESTCommon Man-3493893You know there is a lot more to the story than what was reported. The point here is don't mess around with Israeli soldiers.5 votes#25 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 8:24 AM ESTRalphHThe point here is that Israeli soldiers are cowardly bullies and war criminals. The journalists were not MESSING with them.2 votes#25.1 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:28 AM ESTchefaz-1319563Were you there Ralph???3 votes#25.2 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:46 AM ESTskibum609Ralph is sad he wasn't old enough to work at Auschwitz and is reduced to just looking at old film footage for enjoyment.  He is typical of Europeans and Progressives.5 votes#25.3 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 11:54 AM ESTfarideh kashanianIranian radical muslim RALPH -
Saffice to say this to you:
ASSAD is almost gone - your master ahmadinejad is NEXT.5 votes#25.4 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:15 PM ESTchefaz-1319563skibum, that was a terrible thing that you just said...and it had me laughing until my sides hurt.  ☺4 votes#25.5 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 12:15 PM ESTdjo_34Muslims lob rockets into their country.
The media scolds them for defending their people and nation.
And then they bitch and moan for getting roughed up.
Hamas would drag you behind a motorcycle for a few miles.3 votes#25.6 - Fri Dec 14, 2012 1:14 PM ESTJump to discussion page: 1 2 3Leave a Comment:Name: Email Address (will be verified, but never shown): You're in Easy Mode. If you prefer, you can use XHTML Mode instead.You're in XHTML Mode. If you prefer, you can use Easy Mode instead.(XHTML tags allowed - a,b,blockquote,br,code,dd,dl,dt,del,em,h2,h3,h4,i,ins,li,ol,p,pre,q,strong,ul)


Post to my Facebook Wall

Newsvine Privacy StatementAs a new user, you may notice a few temporary content restrictions. Click here for more info.





Most popular postsolder13Dec201211:19pm, ESTPhilippine death toll rises to 902 after Typhoon Bopha; 80,000 homelessnewer14Dec20123:41am, ESTKeeping options open: Egypt's military maintains watchful eye on politicsMost popular posts628Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 2335daysago82'Not survivable': Wreckage of missing Antarctica plane found, rescuers say7daysago416Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues4daysago1890US Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack4hoursago498At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict6daysago



Browsefeatured, world-news, syria, china, europe, afghanistan, middle-east, israel, egypt, pakistan, iran, uk, world, london, russia, africa, protest, environment, military, al-qaida, assad, britain, france, taliban, north-korea, asia, india, terrorism, japan, germany, economy, crime, human-rights, weather, mexico, libya, security, nuclear, italy

Also

Advertise | AdChoices 



 







Archives2013February (11)January (323)2012December (332)November (332)October (313)September (360)August (362)July (310)June (351)May (427)April (404)March (427)February (347)January (284)2011December (357)November (3)Most CommentedUS Embassy compound in Turkey hit by 'terrorist' attack (1890)Police: Brazil nightclub fire kills at least 233 (628)At least 30 die in clashes over Egypt soccer disaster verdict (498)UN panel's report: Israel must withdraw all settlers from West Bank (463)Egypt could 'collapse,' army chief warns as violence continues (416)Zimbabwe checks its bank balance, finds only $217 (256)At least 32 dead in Mexico City skyscraper explosion (224)Other blogsThe Body OddCosmic LogRed Tape ChroniclesPhotoBlogGadgetboxTechnologUS NewsOpen ChannelInGame top stories

3147,10



© 2013 NBCNews.com


World news on NBCNews.com 

About us


Contact


Help


Site map


Careers


Closed captioning


Terms & Conditions






Privacy policy


Advertise
 








