BBC News - State of the Union: Obama calls for end to inequality


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















25 January 2012
Last updated at 09:03 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





State of the Union: Obama calls for end to inequality
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Obama renewed call for the Buffett Rule on taxation




Continue reading the main story


US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 US President Barack Obama has attacked income inequality, using his third State of the Union speech to set the tone for his re-election bid.
Mr Obama emphasised the importance of an economy that works for everyone, in the nationally televised address to Congress.
The speech saw a renewed call for higher taxes on the wealthy, something Republicans strongly oppose.
The US economy is on the mend, but unemployment remains high at 8.5%.
The annual State of the Union address - one of the most keenly watched events in US politics - traditionally includes policy prescriptions from the White House for the upcoming year.
Mr Obama will now take the themes of Tuesday night's speech on the road, spending three days visiting manufacturing companies and higher education institutions in five states - all seen as important in November's election.
'Reclaim American values'
President Obama's speech on Tuesday in the Republican-dominated House of Representatives was delivered with an eye on November's presidential election, when he will seek another four years in office.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
At the heart of this speech is a president, defiant. Defending the role of government and what he wants it to do”
End Quote



Mark Mardell North America editor





Read more from Mark

 He said: "We can either settle for a country where a shrinking number of people do really well, while a growing number of Americans barely get by.  
"Or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  
"What's at stake are not Democratic values or Republican values, but American values. We have to reclaim them."    
Mr Obama said the economy was bouncing back from the 2007-09 recession.
He sounded a warning to his conservative opponents, as he added: "I intend to fight obstruction with action, and I will oppose any effort to return to the very same policies that brought on this economic crisis in the first place."  

Continue reading the main story US media reaction


For the New York Times, Mr Obama went in the right direction in challenging the Republican notion that excessive government spending was to blame for the country's economic plight. "He sounded many of the same themes as last year, but his tone was sharper and he was far more willing to apportion blame," it says approvingly.
There was a very different view in the Wall St Journal, which accuses him of trying to campaign as an incumbent whose every move has been stymied by Congress.  "For two years he had the largest Democratic majorities in Congress since the 1970s and achieved nearly everything he wanted." But those achievements have resulted in such weak, unpopular results, the paper argues, that he is forced to resort to the "politics of envy".
For Time, Mr Obama's "startlingly blunt" insistence that America was not in decline was not, according to polls, shared by the vast majority of the American people.  And this optimism characterised the whole of the speech. "He came out swinging, with positive data, happy anecdotes and an energy that he rarely displays these days when he's off the campaign trail."
Fox News' depiction of this optimism was laced with a little more scorn. "Don't worry, America," writes Rich Lowry. "There's nothing that ails this country that can't be made right by a catalogue of piddling proposals that will be forgotten tomorrow - and oh yeah, more taxes on the rich. Such was the message of President Obama's State of the Union address."

 Mr Obama also made a renewed call for his Buffett Rule - a principle that millionaires should not pay a lower tax rate than typical workers.
The idea is named after billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who famously complained that his secretary pays a higher rate of tax than he does.
Mr Buffett's secretary, Debbie Bosanek, watched the speech alongside First Lady Michelle Obama from the gallery.
Pledging no tax increases for those earning under $250,000 (£160,000), Mr Obama said: "If you make more than $1 million a year, you should not pay less than 30% in taxes."
"Now, you can call this class warfare all you want," he added. "But asking a billionaire to pay at least as much as his secretary in taxes? Most Americans would call that common sense."  
Republicans have repeatedly rejected Mr Obama's call for higher taxes on the wealthy and accuse him of resorting to class warfare to get elected again.
Mr Obama also proposed:

 tax reforms to make it less attractive for US companies to transfer jobs overseas 
 allowing homeowners with privately held mortgages to refinance at lower interest rates 
 a new trade enforcement unit dedicated to deterring unfair practices by rival economies, such as China
 A wave of unity swept over the chamber as Democratic Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot by a lone gunman in Arizona shortly before the last state of the union, attended during her last week serving as a congresswoman.

Continue reading the main story What is the State of the Union?



 The US Constitution (Article II, Section 3) requires the president to "from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union" 
 Making a speech to Congress is not required by the constitution
 The tradition of making a speech only took hold in the early 20th Century
 President Calvin Coolidge (1923) made the radio address, and Harry Truman (1947) the first televised one
 In 2002 President George W Bush made the first address to be streamed online
 Source: Encyclopaedia Britannica

 Ms Giffords, who announced on Sunday that she would resign to focus on her recovery, was embraced by Mr Obama, amid rousing cheers.
'Pro-poverty'
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, delivering the Republican Party's response to Mr Obama's speech, called it "pro-poverty".
He said: "No feature of the Obama presidency has been sadder than its constant efforts to divide us, to curry favour with some Americans by castigating others." 
The address put the political spotlight firmly back on the Democratic president, after months of focus on the Republican candidates vying to challenge him for the White House.
Earlier, one of those contenders, Mitt Romney, was forced by political pressure to release his tax returns.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Mitch Daniels gives Republican reaction



 The forms revealed the private equity tycoon earned nearly $22m in 2010 and paid an effective tax rate of about 14%, a lower rate than most other Americans pay.
On Tuesday morning, the former Massachusetts governor held his own "prebuttal" on the campaign trail in Tampa, Florida, saying that the "real state of our union" was high unemployment and record home foreclosures.
Mr Obama will promote the ideas outlined in his speech over the coming days in five states key to his re-election bid: Iowa, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Michigan.
Opinion polls show his approval numbers languishing beneath 50%, with most Americans disapproving of how he has handled the economy.
More than 13 million people are out of work and government debt stands at a record high of $15.2 trillion, up from $10.6 trillion when he took office. 
However, surveys also show that Congress is far less popular than Mr Obama, with many blaming Republicans more for the gridlock in Washington.   
Partisan warfare on Capitol Hill almost shut down the federal government three times last year.

 



More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 314       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 134.  MeOnVenus  25th January 2012 - 9:16   Why all the squabbling about the distribution of money?  In truth, it's useless stuff.  The real evil is the love of money which perverts human motivation, pushing it towards two extremes. The resultant problem is that the few get a buzz out of using money to control the mass who let themselves be controlled ... didn't hear Obama address that in the slightest.  Like most, he's still in money-mode.    Report this comment (Comment number 134) Link to this (Comment number 134)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 133.  Joe Biden  25th January 2012 - 9:12   Don't believe a word he says, besides its just rhetoric. Just look at his previous speeches, exactly the same, just a bought suit comfortably lying from his teleprompter preaching "change" and "recovery" that never happens. Its ironic he speaks of "recovery" while he has increased the Nat. debt the most in history, its almost laughable how people still cheer him on.    Report this comment (Comment number 133) Link to this (Comment number 133)                 rate this     -9      rate this     -9   Comment number 132.  farkyss  Comment number 132 is an Editors' Pick 25th January 2012 - 9:11   The devil is in the detail here - this will be spun to be a democrat fairness vs republican low tax for wealthy debate when really it isn't.If you look at the proposals put forward by all four of the republican candidates, all four have proposals that would bring the tax rates of the rich and the lower paid into line.    Report this comment (Comment number 132) Link to this (Comment number 132)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 131.  steve   25th January 2012 - 9:10   This will in current circumstances be a vote winner apart from being morally and intellectually the right policy.    Report this comment (Comment number 131) Link to this (Comment number 131)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 130.  bryhers  25th January 2012 - 9:07   Fairness in taxation is a prerequisite for reducing inequality.But its roots lies in stagnant/declining middle and lower incomes.The solution lies in giving people the skills and training to fit into a high tech high value future since we can`t compete with Asia on cost. That and investment to drive it forward.If private capital won`t do it,the state will have to    Report this comment (Comment number 130) Link to this (Comment number 130)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 129.  ravenmorpheus2k  25th January 2012 - 9:05   @119.arthur -  The 1% do not have the same as the 99% - they hold a majority of the worlds wealth, i.e. more than 51%.  And I'd like to know where your "no more than 5%" figure comes from because looking at Africa which accounts for something like 14.72% of the worlds population that claim holds about as much water as your other comments.But don't let that stop you justifying extreme greed.    Report this comment (Comment number 129) Link to this (Comment number 129)                 rate this     -13      rate this     -13   Comment number 128.  MOTBO  25th January 2012 - 9:05   Obama biggest waste of space ever, maybe he borrowed Gordon Brown's defective moral compass,  which will lead to the USA having double digit inflation by 2013, high interest rates and  gas at US$28 a gallon,    Report this comment (Comment number 128) Link to this (Comment number 128)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 127.  wellrad  25th January 2012 - 9:03   It is a rich persons civic duty to pay a fair amount/proprtion of tax in the country that gave them the oportunity or they exploited to become rich in the first place. Sides if I earned say 2 million and was taxed 50% thats still a million more than I would have had and still more than alot of people would ever hope to earn in a year. The more you earn the higher a % you can afford.    Report this comment (Comment number 127) Link to this (Comment number 127)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 126.  MeOnVenus  25th January 2012 - 9:03   There is little to choose between Democrats and Republicans, just as there is little to choose between all the public school boys in UK politics.  It’s a sham contest in which Mr Average is always the loser.  It’s pathetic how many people are taken in by the hollow words of politicians.  However, you cannot blame them alone when the foolish public continue to hand power to them on a plate.    Report this comment (Comment number 126) Link to this (Comment number 126)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 125.  JB  25th January 2012 - 9:03   So where do we go from here? Implement the 'Warren Buffet rule' where the wealthiest pay at least 30-35% of their earnings in tax and stop hiding behind the so called unearned income and off shore accounts. Mr Romney has no idea how the poorest people in the US lives and yet he wants to be the next president. How can he connect with the voters when he is a millionaire?    Report this comment (Comment number 125) Link to this (Comment number 125)                 rate this     -10      rate this     -10   Comment number 124.  Frank Kirkton  25th January 2012 - 9:03   When last I looked Obama was an American politician. His sayings have import to Americans,they are not headlines for the UK. The sycophantic following by the BBC of this man has reached a point where one expects to read a BBC "breaking news" that he has walked on water.    Report this comment (Comment number 124) Link to this (Comment number 124)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 123.  ship-of-fools  25th January 2012 - 9:00   "And the wealthy shall pay much lower taxes, if any at all, than the rest of the citizens of the United States of America"Can't seem to find that one in the "Bill of Rights" or the Constitution.I wonder what the Founding Fathers would make of today's America?    Report this comment (Comment number 123) Link to this (Comment number 123)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 122.  ilovedawkins  25th January 2012 - 8:58   As a relatively human rights oriented, university educated, social-democracy loving twenty something you might think that I would prefer that Obama was president, but right now, given the internet crisis, I find myself in favour of the libertarian republicans and tea party. Interesting times.    Report this comment (Comment number 122) Link to this (Comment number 122)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 121.  abaxter  25th January 2012 - 8:58   @113. ship-of-foolswhat i meant is that i dont understand how people can act like they know everything about the rich, no hard work involved and no tax, which is a complete lie considering 1% pay 28% of income tax total. from this ignorant belief, that the rich contribute and do nothing, people's envy flares up that they have so much more money then them when they supposedly didn't work for it.    Report this comment (Comment number 121) Link to this (Comment number 121)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 120.  bettyrubble  25th January 2012 - 8:56   Here we go again - The U.S. elects its first Black president, and just because some people don't endorse his brand of politics, or choose not to kiss his backside, they get labeled as racist.  Always the race card - truly tiresome.    Report this comment (Comment number 120) Link to this (Comment number 120)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 119.  arthur  25th January 2012 - 8:54   65. ravenmorpheus2k        1% = 99% wealth comparison. If 1% of people have the same what 99% do, it does not mean that 99% are poor. No more than 5% are getting by. If all people start to drive BMW 7-series, this luxury car will begin to consider as Nissan Tida and you'll dream about jet...    Report this comment (Comment number 119) Link to this (Comment number 119)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 118.  simonthepieman  25th January 2012 - 8:54   He inherited huge social and economic inequality, collapsing productivity, haemorrhaging sovereign debt, a bloated public sector and a manufacturing industry disappearing before his very eyes. Sound familiar? So how do you fix one of these never mind ALL of them? while hamstrung by a political system that constrains any type of reform - very hard times ahead for USA. My advice: move to Denmark.    Report this comment (Comment number 118) Link to this (Comment number 118)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 117.  Steven Goh  25th January 2012 - 8:53   Americans, especially Republicans, must try to understand this:  economic fairness is integral to a renewing of a nation's unity, spirit &  self-belief.  Taxing the rich more will not erase the deficit but it will help reset America on a positive virtuous cycle.  People need to believe that the system will work for all Americans, not just the rich.   To the GOP - show us what you got.    Report this comment (Comment number 117) Link to this (Comment number 117)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 116.  swpottery  25th January 2012 - 8:51   There is some confusion about the president's comments concerning millionaires paying 30% income tax.   Most middle class Americans pay 30% or even more...so he is saying that millionaires should too!  It's that simple.   He's not saying they should pay MORE than anyone else ....but currently they are paying less than HALF of what the middle class pays.    Report this comment (Comment number 116) Link to this (Comment number 116)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 115.  swaqik  25th January 2012 - 8:52   So sad that the GOP have no reasonable alternative. Huntsman would have given the General Election some meaningful discussion. But choose Gingrich or Santorum and it'll be like Barry Goldwater in '64, Paul is just a ballot splitter and Romney...well if you've been campaigning for 6 years and you're still stuck at 30%!  November = awful choice between impotent idealist and redneck crazies.    Report this comment (Comment number 115) Link to this (Comment number 115)         Page 10 of 16    Newer 1 ... 8 9 10 11 12 ... 16 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest US sniper is shot dead

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



6: Mars rover hammers down into rock



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Malala recovering after operation



9: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



10: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



6: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



9: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





