BBC News - Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Europe







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















24 August 2012
Last updated at 12:32 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Anders Breivik: "I cannot legitimise Oslo district court by accepting the sentence"




Continue reading the main story


Norway Attacks


Norwegians react to verdict


Breivik trial: Day by day


How attacks happened


The victims



 A Norwegian court has found that mass killer Anders Behring Breivik is sane and sentenced him to 21 years in jail.
Breivik, who admitted killing 77 people when he bombed central Oslo and then opened fire at an island youth camp, told the court he would not appeal.
He insisted he was sane and refused to plead guilty, saying last year's attacks were necessary to stop the "Islamisation" of Norway.
Prosecutors had called for him to be considered insane.
Breivik was convicted of terrorism and premeditated murder, and given the maximum sentence of 21 years' imprisonment. 
However, that can be prolonged at a later date if he is deemed to remain a danger to society. 
Planned attack

Continue reading the main story At the scene



Lars  Bevanger
BBC News, Oslo



Many relatives and survivors reacted with relief as Judge Wenche Arntzen declared Anders Breivik to be sane, sentencing him to at least 21 years in prison. 
The mother of one 16-year-old girl who Breivik shot dead on Utoeya island said she felt "a little happiness" at the fact he was found to be sane. 
Still, she said, she had wished he could have been sentenced to 21 years in prison for each of the 77 lives he took. 
Others said Breivik the man had for some time now been irrelevant to them, and that the outcome of the trial could never bring their loved ones back. 


Survivors’ relief over sentence

 Delivering the verdict, Judge Wenche Elisabeth Arntzen said that the court considered Breivik to be suffering from "narcissistic personality characteristics" but not psychosis.
She imposed a sentence of "preventive detention", a special prison term for criminals considered dangerous to society.
She set the minimum length of imprisonment to 10 years.
Afterwards Breivik said he did not recognise the court, which he contended had "sided with the multicultural majority in parliament", but said he would not appeal as this would legitimise the proceedings.
Prosecutors - who had argued the defendant was insane - also said they would not challenge the verdict.
Some of the survivors and relatives of his victims welcomed the verdict and the end of the trial. 
"Now we can have peace and quiet," Per Balch Soerensen, whose daughter was among those killed in the shootings on on Utoeya island, told Denmark's TV2. 
"He doesn't mean anything to me; he is just air."
Court-appointed psychiatrists disagreed on Breivik's sanity. A first team which examined him declared him to be a paranoid schizophrenic, but the second found he was sane. 

Continue reading the main story Norway 2011 attacks 






 8 people killed and 209 injured by bomb in Oslo
 69 people killed on Utoeya island, of them 34 aged between 14 and 17
 33 injured on Utoeya
 Nearly 900 people affected by attacks



Breivik verdict: Norwegians react
Norway attacks: The victims
How the attacks unfolded

 Before the verdict, Breivik said psychiatric care would be "worse than death".
He will serve his sentence at Oslo's high-security Ila Prison, where he has been held in isolation for most of the time since his arrest. 
Initially he will be kept isolated from casual contact with other prisoners.
Breivik, 33, carried out the meticulously planned attack on 22 July 2011, wearing a fake police uniform, and methodically hunted down his victims.
He accused the governing Labour Party of promoting multiculturalism and endangering Norway's identity.
Some victims at the Labour Party youth camp on Utoeya island were shot in the head at point-blank range. 
Ahead of the verdict, security barriers were put up outside the district court in Oslo. 
A glass partition separated Breivik from relatives of victims in a courtroom custom-built for the trial.
Remote-controlled cameras filmed the proceedings, sending the images to courtrooms around Norway where other relatives could watch the hearing live.
Breivik's trial, which began in March and lasted for 10 weeks, heard graphic testimony from some of the survivors of his attacks. 
Mohamad Hadi Hamed, 21, who is now in a wheelchair, told the court how his left arm and his left leg were amputated after he was shot by Breivik.
Another survivor, Einar Bardal, 17, described how he was trying to escape when he heard a loud bang, followed by a loud noise in his head.
Experts in far-right ideology told the trial Breivik's ideas should not be seen as the ramblings of a madman.
Breivik's attacks ignited a debate about the nature of tolerance and democracy in Norway. 

 



More on This Story


Norway Attacks
	      



News and analysis



Norwegians react to verdict




Breivik trial: Day by day




How attacks happened




The victims




Reclaiming Utoeya




Survivor: I did my duty




Massacre texts







Background



Breivik profile




Profile of Breivik's prison




Utoeya: Memories of teenage idyll




Manifesto details Norway attacks




Utoeya eyewitnesses




Oslo eyewitnesses




Attacks as they happened




Your pictures







Video/Audio



Breivik pleads not guilty Watch




Breivik appears on camera Watch




Victims 'screamed with fear' Watch




PM wants more democracy Listen




Breivik's father 'so shocked'  Watch




Norwegian Muslims' views Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 572                  rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 550.  tht13  24th August 2012 - 22:57   As a Brit born raised and living in norway, I can say this is the result everyone wanted, although others may think its too mild, chances are the review system will be used.Also the norwegian penal system is about rehab not punishment, which has also leant itself to the low level of crime and even lower level or repeat offending.I couldn't be happier than to have been raised around these values.    Report this comment (Comment number 550) Link to this (Comment number 550)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 504.  roland  24th August 2012 - 21:55   I hope now that this narcissistic and psychotic individual will now not receive publicity and we focus on the dignity and courage of survivors, family and friends. the worst punishment he could receive apart from incarceration would be to know of the contempt and scorn in which he is held and how pathetic and unimaginative his so called opinions really are.    Report this comment (Comment number 504) Link to this (Comment number 504)                 rate this     +18      rate this     +18   Comment number 254.  theoddgoal  24th August 2012 - 17:30   The article states that the time in prison may be extended past the maximum of 21 years if he is still considered a threat to society. I would imagine that in crafting sentences, Norway never considered there would be a crime of this magnitude. I doubt whether this monster will ever get out. How could anyone justify his release at any time after such premeditated barbarity?    Report this comment (Comment number 254) Link to this (Comment number 254)                 rate this     +17      rate this     +17   Comment number 203.  MattOb1  24th August 2012 - 16:47   The reason the jail-time is so low is because Norway has the lowest amount of prison population in the world, on top of the highest peace rate. Norway has never had a problem with people like these so they've never known what the correct jail time should be. It definitely should be increased but you cannot blame the system in this case because Norway has been successful at keeping the peace.    Report this comment (Comment number 203) Link to this (Comment number 203)                 rate this     +28      rate this     +28   Comment number 159.  lizE  24th August 2012 - 16:23   As a Brit who grew up in Norway and as someone who lost one of my childhood friends in the shooting, I understand the frustration around his scentence. But I also understand the Norwegian justice system. It's a picture of how Norwegians think. Although no one will ever forgive him, death penalty is the "easy" way out and it would be sinking to his level. Let's instead be happy he's locked away!    Report this comment (Comment number 159) Link to this (Comment number 159)                 rate this     +57      rate this     +57   Comment number 122.  No_to_Murdoch  24th August 2012 - 16:06   I'm amazed at some of the arrogance shown here at criticizing the Norwegian penal system. The judges have heard the evidence in court, and passed their sentence. The dignity of the survivors and the victims’ families is remarkable. I haven't heard any of those calling for a death sentence. They don’t want to allow this murderer to dictate their penal system or change their society.    Report this comment (Comment number 122) Link to this (Comment number 122)                 rate this     +95      rate this     +95   Comment number 70.  Little Plum  24th August 2012 - 15:40   Norway and it's people have conducted themselves throughout with what seems like a quite dignity and a belief in their legal system. Collectively they seem to focus more on memories and the future than retribution and hatred. I don't know much about Norway or it's culture but I'd love to be able to learn about their mindset.    Report this comment (Comment number 70) Link to this (Comment number 70)                 rate this     -10      rate this     -10   Comment number 69.  flipmode  24th August 2012 - 15:40   21 years , although it's the maximum sentence that can be given it must be an insult to the family and friends of the people he murdered .It relates to just under 3 months imprisonment for each persons life he took.I think Norway needs to seriously reconsider the maximum sentence that can be imposed.    Report this comment (Comment number 69) Link to this (Comment number 69)                 rate this     +83      rate this     +83   Comment number 45.  BPMKent  24th August 2012 - 15:30   I have to take my hat off to Norway.  Lots of innocent people and their families have suffered a terrible, almost unimaginable thing, and yet the press coverage, general calmness and what the families are quoted to have said seems so mature and reasonable in the face of horror.I deeply feel for their loss, but I hope they are proud of how they have dealt with it.    Report this comment (Comment number 45) Link to this (Comment number 45)                 rate this     +58      rate this     +58   Comment number 12.  Colchie  24th August 2012 - 15:16   21 years is the maximum sentence available under Norwegian law, but they have powers to extend this if the criminal poses a threat to society, which he does.  Don't expect to ever see him released from prison.    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)         Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Europe stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Spanish protests after PM speech




Putin lauds Stalingrad 'heroes' 












Top stories



Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ


Two Philippines hostages released


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Obama shooting picture released









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



5: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



6: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Why did men stop wearing high heels?



9: Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ



10: Google glasses exposed in FCC report



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



3: Manhattan, unchained: Fighting 7-Eleven Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Owl turns its head 270 degrees Watch



7: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: The art looking death in the face Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





