BBC News - Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Europe







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















24 August 2012
Last updated at 12:32 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Anders Breivik: "I cannot legitimise Oslo district court by accepting the sentence"




Continue reading the main story


Norway Attacks


Norwegians react to verdict


Breivik trial: Day by day


How attacks happened


The victims



 A Norwegian court has found that mass killer Anders Behring Breivik is sane and sentenced him to 21 years in jail.
Breivik, who admitted killing 77 people when he bombed central Oslo and then opened fire at an island youth camp, told the court he would not appeal.
He insisted he was sane and refused to plead guilty, saying last year's attacks were necessary to stop the "Islamisation" of Norway.
Prosecutors had called for him to be considered insane.
Breivik was convicted of terrorism and premeditated murder, and given the maximum sentence of 21 years' imprisonment. 
However, that can be prolonged at a later date if he is deemed to remain a danger to society. 
Planned attack

Continue reading the main story At the scene



Lars  Bevanger
BBC News, Oslo



Many relatives and survivors reacted with relief as Judge Wenche Arntzen declared Anders Breivik to be sane, sentencing him to at least 21 years in prison. 
The mother of one 16-year-old girl who Breivik shot dead on Utoeya island said she felt "a little happiness" at the fact he was found to be sane. 
Still, she said, she had wished he could have been sentenced to 21 years in prison for each of the 77 lives he took. 
Others said Breivik the man had for some time now been irrelevant to them, and that the outcome of the trial could never bring their loved ones back. 


Survivors’ relief over sentence

 Delivering the verdict, Judge Wenche Elisabeth Arntzen said that the court considered Breivik to be suffering from "narcissistic personality characteristics" but not psychosis.
She imposed a sentence of "preventive detention", a special prison term for criminals considered dangerous to society.
She set the minimum length of imprisonment to 10 years.
Afterwards Breivik said he did not recognise the court, which he contended had "sided with the multicultural majority in parliament", but said he would not appeal as this would legitimise the proceedings.
Prosecutors - who had argued the defendant was insane - also said they would not challenge the verdict.
Some of the survivors and relatives of his victims welcomed the verdict and the end of the trial. 
"Now we can have peace and quiet," Per Balch Soerensen, whose daughter was among those killed in the shootings on on Utoeya island, told Denmark's TV2. 
"He doesn't mean anything to me; he is just air."
Court-appointed psychiatrists disagreed on Breivik's sanity. A first team which examined him declared him to be a paranoid schizophrenic, but the second found he was sane. 

Continue reading the main story Norway 2011 attacks 






 8 people killed and 209 injured by bomb in Oslo
 69 people killed on Utoeya island, of them 34 aged between 14 and 17
 33 injured on Utoeya
 Nearly 900 people affected by attacks



Breivik verdict: Norwegians react
Norway attacks: The victims
How the attacks unfolded

 Before the verdict, Breivik said psychiatric care would be "worse than death".
He will serve his sentence at Oslo's high-security Ila Prison, where he has been held in isolation for most of the time since his arrest. 
Initially he will be kept isolated from casual contact with other prisoners.
Breivik, 33, carried out the meticulously planned attack on 22 July 2011, wearing a fake police uniform, and methodically hunted down his victims.
He accused the governing Labour Party of promoting multiculturalism and endangering Norway's identity.
Some victims at the Labour Party youth camp on Utoeya island were shot in the head at point-blank range. 
Ahead of the verdict, security barriers were put up outside the district court in Oslo. 
A glass partition separated Breivik from relatives of victims in a courtroom custom-built for the trial.
Remote-controlled cameras filmed the proceedings, sending the images to courtrooms around Norway where other relatives could watch the hearing live.
Breivik's trial, which began in March and lasted for 10 weeks, heard graphic testimony from some of the survivors of his attacks. 
Mohamad Hadi Hamed, 21, who is now in a wheelchair, told the court how his left arm and his left leg were amputated after he was shot by Breivik.
Another survivor, Einar Bardal, 17, described how he was trying to escape when he heard a loud bang, followed by a loud noise in his head.
Experts in far-right ideology told the trial Breivik's ideas should not be seen as the ramblings of a madman.
Breivik's attacks ignited a debate about the nature of tolerance and democracy in Norway. 

 



More on This Story


Norway Attacks
	      



News and analysis



Norwegians react to verdict




Breivik trial: Day by day




How attacks happened




The victims




Reclaiming Utoeya




Survivor: I did my duty




Massacre texts







Background



Breivik profile




Profile of Breivik's prison




Utoeya: Memories of teenage idyll




Manifesto details Norway attacks




Utoeya eyewitnesses




Oslo eyewitnesses




Attacks as they happened




Your pictures







Video/Audio



Breivik pleads not guilty Watch




Breivik appears on camera Watch




Victims 'screamed with fear' Watch




PM wants more democracy Listen




Breivik's father 'so shocked'  Watch




Norwegian Muslims' views Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 572       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 572.  Moha  25th August 2012 - 0:59   We didnot expect that the lifes of 77 is so cheap that this animal "the killer" is given smooth trial only 21 yrs prison max. this situation is nasty for the parents who have lost thier loved ones    Report this comment (Comment number 572) Link to this (Comment number 572)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 571.  Nonad  25th August 2012 - 0:54   Those who did not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. Because Breivik managed we have slightly failed in helping everyone learn the fact that one person is only different from another if that person wants it to be so.    Report this comment (Comment number 571) Link to this (Comment number 571)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 570.  TaraMcT  25th August 2012 - 0:13   I find the view that people are only sane if they think/act like ‘us’ fairly obsolete. It's the antithesis of helpful debate & reasoning. History shows the world has always been full of extreme religious & political views - millions of deaths have occurred because of this. Only by acknowledging that will you come up with ideas/strategies to deal with it.    Report this comment (Comment number 570) Link to this (Comment number 570)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 569.  FJ  24th August 2012 - 23:56   Before blaming the norweigan legal system, know that their is an oppertunity - which is practiced - called "detention" ('foervaring' in norweigan). This allows them to prolong the sentence with 5 years at a time, if their is serious concern that the fellon will commit further crime. In this case, and at this movement is very unlikely that Breivik would acctually becomes a free man ever again.    Report this comment (Comment number 569) Link to this (Comment number 569)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 568.  yowatusay  24th August 2012 - 23:54   Everything is nothing but good in Noway, air is good, milk is good, court is good, a warm gun is good, shooting is good, life is good, jail is good, 21 years is good and to be a star on TV for a killing is priceless.And #564, you say it like it is.A feel good Alice in Nowayland story for the sane.    Report this comment (Comment number 568) Link to this (Comment number 568)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 567.  The Rockabilly Red  24th August 2012 - 23:50   The unpalletable fact remains that, regardless of anything else, the refusal to even discuss some people's fears of multiculturism, is what gave rise to Breivik's actions. I don't judge if their fears are valid or not, but refusing to allow even discussion to take place, gives rise to such paranoia. This is something BBC moderators should perhaps ponder, rather than deleting so many comments.    Report this comment (Comment number 567) Link to this (Comment number 567)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 566.  usedtobeBill  24th August 2012 - 23:49   564. Without Bias -I Peter Sutcliffe,  the judge ruled that he was not insane, only for it to be found a few years later that, in fact, he was.-----------------Think it's blindingly obvious to the sane population that any mass murderer is not of sound mind.Now, how do we teach the professionals?    Report this comment (Comment number 566) Link to this (Comment number 566)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 565.  TaraMcT  24th August 2012 - 23:43   @551 Can’t dismiss as ‘deluded/physiologically damaged’. It's denial to say ‘he’s a crazy little man, ignore him & he’ll go away’. Islamic fundamentalists are deemed political terrorists not crazy little men. They are driven by religious beliefs. Extreme right-wingers are driven by political/religious beliefs. You can’t dismiss belief systems. Ignore them and they won’t go away.    Report this comment (Comment number 565) Link to this (Comment number 565)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 564.  Without Bias  24th August 2012 - 23:40   I wonder if this is a similar situation to that involving Peter Sutcliffe, the so-called "Yorkshire ripper". In that case the judge ruled that he was not insane, only for it to be found a few years later that, in fact, he was.    Report this comment (Comment number 564) Link to this (Comment number 564)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 563.  lau  24th August 2012 - 23:32   this is current verdict only showed the weakness of Europe's legal system in the world. i dont understand to give such minor sentence to a monster of massacre could show the world that the Norway has advanced civilization or something??? To be weak as a sheep could not lead to a perfect society. This is ridiculous to give a sentence of 21 for a killer of 77.    Report this comment (Comment number 563) Link to this (Comment number 563)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 562.  Britainsnotpleased  24th August 2012 - 23:38   BBC are so predictable they have removed my comment for saying the that terrorist act commtted in Norway and the terrorism that was committed by Nelson Mandela are the same but so how one set of murders are acceptable. I bit like you can punish airman and solders but accuse an officier of bring the army into disrepute is not acceptable when they are a member of the royal family. The BBC bans you    Report this comment (Comment number 562) Link to this (Comment number 562)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 561.  Mike  24th August 2012 - 23:37   It seems clear that prison frightens the life out of most people on here, appears to them as a suitable deterrent and effective punishment.But you need to try to understand to some people it means none of the above.    Report this comment (Comment number 561) Link to this (Comment number 561)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 560.  usedtobeBill  24th August 2012 - 23:35   556. Britainsnotpleased re the post ending: Muslims have abused children in West Yorks.----------------------Could have also mentioned the cases involving religious, teaching, child care and numerous other members of society that have recently been reported - but you chose not to.Stating a whole section of GB society is pretty damning. Why not the other examples? Stupid question on my part.    Report this comment (Comment number 560) Link to this (Comment number 560)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 559.  yowatusay  24th August 2012 - 23:34   Sane?From a country that gives Obama a NPP to go after people with drone attacks the west don't like and kill all in it's way.So sane, what?    Report this comment (Comment number 559) Link to this (Comment number 559)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 558.  Soothseeker  24th August 2012 - 23:26   It's fascinating to look through this entire thread and see what happens whenever a post mentions the dangers of suppressing genuine debate about the pros and cons of multiculturalism. You'll see the mark downs appear with total predictability. Clearly the thought police that so infuriated Breivik are here too. But ironically their actions prove precisely the very point these posts are making.    Report this comment (Comment number 558) Link to this (Comment number 558)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 557.  Mike  24th August 2012 - 23:25   229. HELEN_of_TROY Don’t you dare insinuate that a parent of a child, who they have loving brought up and was then cruelly taken away from them. is even in the same league as such a Monster as Brevic, For simply wanting the perpetrator punished above that of him being incasarated for a long period of time, where he can get use to his looked after life in a western prison.    Report this comment (Comment number 557) Link to this (Comment number 557)     Comment number 556.  Britainsnotpleased  24th August 2012 - 23:23    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 556) Link to this (Comment number 556)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 555.  usedtobeBill  24th August 2012 - 23:19   547. inqa Sorry, but possibly badly proposed by myself. I wasn't actually promoting anyone receiving intervention in preventing them taking their own life..hence the just let them do it, an action and freedom  I believe should be free to do if wanted.    Report this comment (Comment number 555) Link to this (Comment number 555)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 554.  Eddy from Waring  24th August 2012 - 23:15   It gives us hope to see justice pursued by calm reason and clear thought.Norway deserves the highest commendation.This defines "sane" only in a criminal context, for the purposes of appropriate sentencing, and everyone understands that.Their system provides for detaining him further to protect the public, and I believe that facility will be used correctly.    Report this comment (Comment number 554) Link to this (Comment number 554)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 553.  JamesStGeorge  24th August 2012 - 23:15   Has anyone explained how or why Norway permits children to go to 'camps' run for and by political parties? Indoctrination of the young? Are there age restrictions?  Always sounded very sinister.    Report this comment (Comment number 553) Link to this (Comment number 553)         Page 1 of 29    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 29 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Europe stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Spanish protests after PM speech




Putin lauds Stalingrad 'heroes' 












Top stories



Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ


Two Philippines hostages released


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Obama shooting picture released









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



5: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



6: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Why did men stop wearing high heels?



9: Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ



10: Google glasses exposed in FCC report



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



3: Manhattan, unchained: Fighting 7-Eleven Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Owl turns its head 270 degrees Watch



7: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: The art looking death in the face Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





