BBC News - Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Europe







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















24 August 2012
Last updated at 12:32 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Anders Behring Breivik: Norway court finds him sane
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Anders Breivik: "I cannot legitimise Oslo district court by accepting the sentence"




Continue reading the main story


Norway Attacks


Norwegians react to verdict


Breivik trial: Day by day


How attacks happened


The victims



 A Norwegian court has found that mass killer Anders Behring Breivik is sane and sentenced him to 21 years in jail.
Breivik, who admitted killing 77 people when he bombed central Oslo and then opened fire at an island youth camp, told the court he would not appeal.
He insisted he was sane and refused to plead guilty, saying last year's attacks were necessary to stop the "Islamisation" of Norway.
Prosecutors had called for him to be considered insane.
Breivik was convicted of terrorism and premeditated murder, and given the maximum sentence of 21 years' imprisonment. 
However, that can be prolonged at a later date if he is deemed to remain a danger to society. 
Planned attack

Continue reading the main story At the scene



Lars  Bevanger
BBC News, Oslo



Many relatives and survivors reacted with relief as Judge Wenche Arntzen declared Anders Breivik to be sane, sentencing him to at least 21 years in prison. 
The mother of one 16-year-old girl who Breivik shot dead on Utoeya island said she felt "a little happiness" at the fact he was found to be sane. 
Still, she said, she had wished he could have been sentenced to 21 years in prison for each of the 77 lives he took. 
Others said Breivik the man had for some time now been irrelevant to them, and that the outcome of the trial could never bring their loved ones back. 


Survivors’ relief over sentence

 Delivering the verdict, Judge Wenche Elisabeth Arntzen said that the court considered Breivik to be suffering from "narcissistic personality characteristics" but not psychosis.
She imposed a sentence of "preventive detention", a special prison term for criminals considered dangerous to society.
She set the minimum length of imprisonment to 10 years.
Afterwards Breivik said he did not recognise the court, which he contended had "sided with the multicultural majority in parliament", but said he would not appeal as this would legitimise the proceedings.
Prosecutors - who had argued the defendant was insane - also said they would not challenge the verdict.
Some of the survivors and relatives of his victims welcomed the verdict and the end of the trial. 
"Now we can have peace and quiet," Per Balch Soerensen, whose daughter was among those killed in the shootings on on Utoeya island, told Denmark's TV2. 
"He doesn't mean anything to me; he is just air."
Court-appointed psychiatrists disagreed on Breivik's sanity. A first team which examined him declared him to be a paranoid schizophrenic, but the second found he was sane. 

Continue reading the main story Norway 2011 attacks 






 8 people killed and 209 injured by bomb in Oslo
 69 people killed on Utoeya island, of them 34 aged between 14 and 17
 33 injured on Utoeya
 Nearly 900 people affected by attacks



Breivik verdict: Norwegians react
Norway attacks: The victims
How the attacks unfolded

 Before the verdict, Breivik said psychiatric care would be "worse than death".
He will serve his sentence at Oslo's high-security Ila Prison, where he has been held in isolation for most of the time since his arrest. 
Initially he will be kept isolated from casual contact with other prisoners.
Breivik, 33, carried out the meticulously planned attack on 22 July 2011, wearing a fake police uniform, and methodically hunted down his victims.
He accused the governing Labour Party of promoting multiculturalism and endangering Norway's identity.
Some victims at the Labour Party youth camp on Utoeya island were shot in the head at point-blank range. 
Ahead of the verdict, security barriers were put up outside the district court in Oslo. 
A glass partition separated Breivik from relatives of victims in a courtroom custom-built for the trial.
Remote-controlled cameras filmed the proceedings, sending the images to courtrooms around Norway where other relatives could watch the hearing live.
Breivik's trial, which began in March and lasted for 10 weeks, heard graphic testimony from some of the survivors of his attacks. 
Mohamad Hadi Hamed, 21, who is now in a wheelchair, told the court how his left arm and his left leg were amputated after he was shot by Breivik.
Another survivor, Einar Bardal, 17, described how he was trying to escape when he heard a loud bang, followed by a loud noise in his head.
Experts in far-right ideology told the trial Breivik's ideas should not be seen as the ramblings of a madman.
Breivik's attacks ignited a debate about the nature of tolerance and democracy in Norway. 

 



More on This Story


Norway Attacks
	      



News and analysis



Norwegians react to verdict




Breivik trial: Day by day




How attacks happened




The victims




Reclaiming Utoeya




Survivor: I did my duty




Massacre texts







Background



Breivik profile




Profile of Breivik's prison




Utoeya: Memories of teenage idyll




Manifesto details Norway attacks




Utoeya eyewitnesses




Oslo eyewitnesses




Attacks as they happened




Your pictures







Video/Audio



Breivik pleads not guilty Watch




Breivik appears on camera Watch




Victims 'screamed with fear' Watch




PM wants more democracy Listen




Breivik's father 'so shocked'  Watch




Norwegian Muslims' views Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 572       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 212.  timmystwin  24th August 2012 - 16:56   69. Flipmode21 years , although it's the maximum sentence that can be given it must be an insult to the family and friends of the people he murdered .-------That is the maximum sentence that can be given out in one go, but the Norwegians have a system that allows that sentence to be extended by another 21 years on completion, effectively making it a life sentence.    Report this comment (Comment number 212) Link to this (Comment number 212)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 211.  Bridge59  24th August 2012 - 16:55   Re:198. FlorianitaSanMartin It is not much different here, except that you can get a "whole of life " sentence in certain cases, which means from the outset that he will never be released.As it is, similar to England and Wales,( could be different in Scotland) he will still have to prove that he presents little risk of reoffending before any chance of release.Unlikely, I would think.    Report this comment (Comment number 211) Link to this (Comment number 211)                 rate this     -20      rate this     -20   Comment number 210.  krokodil  24th August 2012 - 16:54   Wow the disgusting liberals are out in force....A guy killed 77 in cold blood....and gets 21 years....and you think that punishment fits the crime? You sad sad little liberals.... Go write him a sympathy letter.    Report this comment (Comment number 210) Link to this (Comment number 210)                 rate this     -9      rate this     -9   Comment number 209.  Baron Brick  24th August 2012 - 16:53   Judging by the fact that my last comment, questioning the minute sentance he got, was disapproved. I can only assume we have a country full of muslim haters. Fair do. Just remember to air you greivances to your local MP.    Report this comment (Comment number 209) Link to this (Comment number 209)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 208.  The_Squirrel  24th August 2012 - 16:53   Suddenly the world is an expert on Norway, Norwegian law and Norwegian society. Perhaps we should get our own houses in order first?    Report this comment (Comment number 208) Link to this (Comment number 208)     Comment number 207.  Removed  24th August 2012 - 16:52    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 207) Link to this (Comment number 207)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 206.  WebNewsReader  24th August 2012 - 16:52   Noway has demonstrated it is more civilised country than many during this trial. People complaing about the sentence need to re-read the judgement again.The important thing is that the trial is over and he will be locked up and not on TV. The victims, survivors and families can take another step forward on the path of getting on with their lives.    Report this comment (Comment number 206) Link to this (Comment number 206)                 rate this     -39      rate this     -39   Comment number 205.  powermeerkat  24th August 2012 - 16:51   "As you raised it, no, the USA doesn't look good in this context does it?"No, to Socialists and "useful idiots" (to use V. I. Lenin's expression) it most certainly doesn't.Not that most Americans are exactly losing sleep over some decadent European countries simply begging for becoming Sharia-ruled caliphates.Just next time abused US cavalry will not come to your rescue.    Report this comment (Comment number 205) Link to this (Comment number 205)                 rate this     +15      rate this     +15   Comment number 204.  Faff  24th August 2012 - 16:51   Norway's calm response to this horrifying atrocity is an inspiration.  In the face of appalling terrorism they haven't meddled with their own legal apparatus at all.  When you think of the hysterical responses to terrorism found here and on the other side of the Atlantic (restrictions of civil liberties, military tribunals, closed courts, Guantanamo Bay), I think there's a lot to learn from Norway    Report this comment (Comment number 204) Link to this (Comment number 204)                 rate this     +17      rate this     +17   Comment number 203.  MattOb1  Comment number 203 is an Editors' Pick 24th August 2012 - 16:47   The reason the jail-time is so low is because Norway has the lowest amount of prison population in the world, on top of the highest peace rate. Norway has never had a problem with people like these so they've never known what the correct jail time should be. It definitely should be increased but you cannot blame the system in this case because Norway has been successful at keeping the peace.    Report this comment (Comment number 203) Link to this (Comment number 203)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 202.  Pricklyghost  24th August 2012 - 16:50   I get the impression that his mind will never change & he seems to have a very warped sense of the world & the people around him. A very sad case altogether for the victims & their families, sadly I think there'll be more of this kind of thing in the future, but I really do hope not! I too don't think he's insane & that is the really scary part!    Report this comment (Comment number 202) Link to this (Comment number 202)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 201.  Z1A900  24th August 2012 - 16:49   The baddest thing you can do is murder someone and then to do that 76 times more is that even badder. Of course it is but there seems to be nothing humanly possible to re-dress thisPrison rest of his life could be easy for him, how long before you get a ‘Jackie Powell’ type feeling sympathy for him.An eye for an eye I say and be done with it.    Report this comment (Comment number 201) Link to this (Comment number 201)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 200.  Osalo  24th August 2012 - 16:47   Breivik is evil but he is not insane.   To be insane he would have to have difficulty comprehending the enormity of his crimes.   Breivik was entirely aware of what he was doing and what would happen.   If criminals were labeled "insane" just by their lack of empathy, the world would have more asylums then prisons.    Report this comment (Comment number 200) Link to this (Comment number 200)                 rate this     -8      rate this     -8   Comment number 199.  Free_Speech  24th August 2012 - 16:47   Killed 77 people and wounding more than 240 people, this barbaric killer got away so easily. because of Prosecutors had called for him to be considered insane. It seems like not him, this country Norway is completely insane. Can anyone imagine, if he was a outsider, forget about that man?    Report this comment (Comment number 199) Link to this (Comment number 199)                 rate this     -13      rate this     -13   Comment number 198.  FlorianitaSanMartin  24th August 2012 - 16:47   Frankly, if I were to become a mass murderer I'd go to Norway. All you have to do is kill a hundred people and then, after a few weeks of trial, you are sentenced to some 20 years in luxurious prison. Dear God, isn't that amazing? No, it isn't. Norway has just become a laugingstock of the entire world were you receive life sentence for killing just one person. Unbelievable...    Report this comment (Comment number 198) Link to this (Comment number 198)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 197.  Jon N  24th August 2012 - 16:46   Breivik may be smiling now, but let him rot in prison forever, without being able to share his extremist views with anyone. He will soon go mad.He is nobody, his life is worthless. He should not be remembered.Shame about the 77 people that could have made an enormous difference to the world.    Report this comment (Comment number 197) Link to this (Comment number 197)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 196.  Norwegian girl  24th August 2012 - 16:45   He received 21 years in prison with "custody".It means he`s not necessarily a free man in 21 years, but after 21 years he`ll be evaluated. If he still then is a danger to society, he will still be in jail. After 21 years he`ll be evaluated every 5th year. Its quite possible he wil be in prison for life.Norwegian legal system has 21 years as max punishment but sentens with custody can be for life.    Report this comment (Comment number 196) Link to this (Comment number 196)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 195.  Eshet  24th August 2012 - 16:41   It is also a surprise that He will be impreason with three rooms  and also computer will be given to him, while many refugee are living with a single room for two and three suffering horrible treat! This is what we call it justice in Norway!    Report this comment (Comment number 195) Link to this (Comment number 195)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 194.  GaryJ  24th August 2012 - 16:46   @9Shows your general lack of understanding.  If you read anything about his motives you will see he hates Nazis and Hitler specifically for irresponsibly spreading their beliefs in the wrong way and causing Europe to retrench to the PC, liberal place it now is    Report this comment (Comment number 194) Link to this (Comment number 194)     Comment number 193.  Funeral Addict  24th August 2012 - 16:46    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 193) Link to this (Comment number 193)         Page 19 of 29    Newer 1 ... 17 18 19 20 21 ... 29 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Europe stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Spanish protests after PM speech




Putin lauds Stalingrad 'heroes' 












Top stories



Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ


Two Philippines hostages released


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Obama shooting picture released









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



5: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



6: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Why did men stop wearing high heels?



9: Suicide attack on Iraq police HQ



10: Google glasses exposed in FCC report



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



3: Manhattan, unchained: Fighting 7-Eleven Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Owl turns its head 270 degrees Watch



7: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: The art looking death in the face Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





