BBC News - Diamond Jubilee v Republican Britain


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















27 May 2012
Last updated at 01:24 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Diamond Jubilee v Republican Britain
 

By Holly Wallis
BBC News



Republic described the monarchy's decision to invite the Crown Prince of Bahrain to Jubilee events at Buckingham Palace as "deeply offensive"


Continue reading the main story


The Diamond Jubilee


Royals end Australia Jubilee trip


Camilla's hug with orphaned joey


Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea


Duchess makes first speech abroad



 As much of the UK gears up to celebrate the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, not everyone is happy. Republicans are stepping up their protest over the weekend - but who are they, and what exactly do they want?
A group of volunteers is spending a long evening organising campaign material - stapling big white placards to wooden poles.
The signs read: "Power to the People" and "Citizen Not Subject" in large black lettering.
One placard asks: "9,560 Nurses or 1 Queen?" The answer, for members of Republic, is a no-brainer.
They are preparing for 3 June, when the country will be celebrating Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee - marking her 60 years on the throne, and the first in the UK since Queen Victoria's in 1897.
Thousands of onlookers are expected to flock to the Thames to catch a glimpse of their monarch forming the floating centrepiece of her own Jubilee River Pageant, a grand spectacle boasting seven-and-a-half miles of regal flotilla - just one of the main events in an extravagant four-day bank holiday weekend.
One might be forgiven for believing that Britain was barmy for royalty.

Continue reading the main story Key Republic protests



 18 May: Buckingham palace protest against Prince of Bahrain's invitation to Jubilee
 3 June: Jubilee protest at the River Pageant
 5 June: Jubilee protests at St Paul's Cathedral and Westminster
 2-6 July: Republic Scotland protests


 But just along from London's Tower Bridge on the south side of the river, Republic's protest, what they describe as "the biggest and boldest in modern times", will be floating a different idea. And this will be no riverside gala. 
"We're there to make a point," says Emily Robinson, 31, an academic from Hull who joined Republic in 2006.
"For too long we've had a reputation for being a bit polite, but we also want to be firm and serious."
After years as a low-key movement, Republic re-launched itself in 2006 as an official pressure group.
In 2010 it had 9,000 members, but since the royal wedding announcement that year, they say registered supporters have increased to 21,000. 
"We're really getting our message out, considering our size," adds New Zealander Paula Feehan, an aid worker who settled in Britain 16 years ago.
"We have one-and-a-half paid employees so we're definitely punching above our weight."
'Enormously wasteful'


Republic is preparing for what they hope will be their biggest protest yet

Republic wants to stir up some lively political debate.
The mission is simple, says chief executive Graham Smith. "We want to get rid of the monarchy and have a republican constitution with an elected head of state."
Republicans want a referendum because, for them, the monarchy is undemocratic.
"It's not chosen by the people, doesn't represent the people, and as an institution it isn't fit for purpose," says Mr Smith.
Just look at the "enormously wasteful" Jubilee, he points out.
So who are the people behind the politics?
"Republic has changed over the last few years", says James Gray, a 31-year-old writer from Essex.
"It's younger, more evenly split between genders, and more diverse in terms of professions. We're ordinary people."
So no Sex Pistols or punk-era vitriol then?
"Punk anti-royalism wasn't really founded on principle", says James.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Our methods aren't controversial, but we're not afraid of getting into scraps - not literally”
End Quote
James Gray 
Writer and campaigner
 "Our methods aren't controversial, but we're not afraid of getting into scraps. Not literally."
Mr Smith believes Republic's first hurdle is public opinion, because political opinion will follow.
Recent polls haven't provided him with good news here. One published by Ipsos Mori in May suggested 13% of Britons wanted a republic. 
But Mr Smith dismisses the accuracy of that. "It's clearly a blip because every other poll before and after shows about 20-25%." 
Mori has previously reported those favouring a republic averaged just under 20%, a slightly lower figure, but one that has remained consistent for 18 years between 1993-2011. 
Another poll this week by ICM for the Guardian suggests 22% of people believe the country would be better off without a monarchy, with 69% saying it would be worse off.
Even after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997, support for republicanism remained steady.
"That stability", says Mr Smith, "shows that the issue hasn't been sufficiently engaged with in the past."
And Republic's chief executive believes opinion is shifting: "The other 75% of the population aren't all monarchists", he says. 
Many are stuck in "default position" and "don't know how to change it".


Republic says its Not The Royal Wedding street party in 2011 attracted thousands 

But does even half-baked tolerance mean Britain is ready for revolution?
Royal commentator and Stirling University's professor of communications, Neil Blain, says criticism of the British monarchy is mainly found on social media. 
"Grumbling seldom finds a public voice," he says.
"Republic is pretty much the only force for debate about the monarchy in Britain. And for this reason it's actually rather important."
Its impact is another matter.
"Republic is building political alliances, which it needs," adds Professor Blain. "Without this there's a danger it could look, not like a lost cause, but a becalmed cause.
"Historically, there are periods when the monarchy was quite unpopular. Even in the 90s, broadsheets seriously discussed its future. 

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
There's still a fear in Britain of openly criticising the Queen. We need to be trailblazers.”
End Quote
Andrew Child
Director, Republic
 "We've settled into a period of acceptance. People like spectacle and tradition; it's hard to upstage a royal wedding with micro-blogging.
"The major challenge facing Republic is how do you market republicanism? But they're tackling this in an organised, strategic way, so I'd absolutely not write them off." 
Republic's real frustration is, as they see it, unbalanced, unfettered royal press coverage. They complain in particular about the balance of BBC reporting.
By Ipsos Mori's previous reckonings, there could be as many as 10 million people in the UK who sympathise with Republic's view.
"You just wouldn't know that from the print media," says the group's director and "full-time republican" Andrew Child.
But not all anti-royalists share their position, among them author and former Labour minister Roy Hattersley.
"I'm a staunch republican, but I think many of the ways that Republic promotes the position are silly.


Republic want anti-monarchy views to be reflected in royal press coverage 

"They complain the media spends too much time reporting on Jubilee celebrations, but what else are they supposed to do?
"There's a very substantial case for a republic, but unfortunately the organisation Republic trivialises it."
But Mr Child believes in Republic's approach.
"There's still a fear in Britain of openly criticising the Queen. We need to be trailblazers. If we get a proportionate slice of royal coverage, our numbers will go absolutely gangbusters."
Back to the volunteers - in an office that cannot be named "because it's not relevant". 
How can "firm, serious" Republic fire debate if most people are fine, even happy, with the status quo?
"It's about asking questions, getting people thinking, working from a premise of fairness and equality," says Paula Feehan. "And showing how a republic would affect a normal person in the street."
"Republic isn't radical or scary. We're not counter-culture. We are culture."
Republic is ready for the Jubilee. The challenge for them is convincing the UK to listen.

 



More on This Story


The Diamond Jubilee
	      



Latest news



Royals end Australia Jubilee trip




Camilla's hug with orphaned joey




Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea




Duchess makes first speech abroad




Prince wishes for 'two children'




Charles and Camilla visit Jersey







In pictures and video



In Pictures: Royal diamonds




McGuinness used 'bloodstained hand' Watch




Queen's 1953 NI visit in colour Watch




God Save the Queen sung Watch




In pictures: Jubilee concert




See how the UK celebrated







Features



NI jubilee: 1977 versus now




A final flourish




A day at the pageant




In pictures: Millennium artists at the Jubilee pageant




Diamond Jubilee: Avoiding the hype




France switches on to Jubilee








Related Stories


Jamaica debates republic option
05 MARCH 2012,    
                                                LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN


Calls for anti-monarchy lessons
23 FEBRUARY 2012,    
                                                ENGLAND


The royal wedding naysayers
07 MARCH 2011,    
                                                MAGAZINE






Related Internet links


Republic 


The Queen's Diamond Jubilee



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1235       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 795.  Dr_Ads  27th May 2012 - 15:40   "They are the ones who fought for this country and are now starving and freezing to death in winter."Quite right, and they did so as they were/are true patriots who did so for King and country. Would they of made the same sacrifices for president & United States of Europe?We ALL know that answer to that!    Report this comment (Comment number 795) Link to this (Comment number 795)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 794.  Skywatchman  27th May 2012 - 15:40   768.EddieBT "Does anybody here seriously think we would all be better off had the monarchy not existed? It would be preferrable to debate a democratically elected head of state, but instead we have the Queen. How in the year 2012 with so much unemployment / reduced living standards can an unelected head of state open parliament wearing the crown jewels 'bling', comes over a tad uncaring.    Report this comment (Comment number 794) Link to this (Comment number 794)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 793.  annieavatar  27th May 2012 - 15:40   The queen is queen of England - not relevent to other UK countruies - so why not have a vote - keep the RF or not.  Woudl be cheap to pension them off and give their wealth to the poor.  They can still have a good salary and be used to promote England.    Report this comment (Comment number 793) Link to this (Comment number 793)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 792.  Laputa  27th May 2012 - 15:40   784. Madbrit 1 MINUTE AGOAnyone complaining about the "cost" of the monarchy should take the time to consider how much they contribute before spouting off.How many £bn would be lost from tourism.Why don't you tell us exactly how many billions (!) would be lost from tourism if we didn't have a royal family, and how you arrived at the figure? Then I'll go away and carefully consider it.    Report this comment (Comment number 792) Link to this (Comment number 792)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 791.  commandersamvimes  27th May 2012 - 15:40   May I just point out that security is provided for the Queen by the Guards regiments who also fight in modern combat zones abroad, so only spend a proportion of their time on ceremonial duty. The entire pay bill for the regiments (Coldstream, Grenadier, Scots, Irish and Welsh) cannot be added in its entirety to the cost of the monarchy, as most of the time their are on exercise or deployed abroad.    Report this comment (Comment number 791) Link to this (Comment number 791)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 790.  Republican  27th May 2012 - 15:38   I was interested to read Roy Hattersley's comments in which he criticized the way Republic operates and also claimed there is a case to be made for a republic. Why doesn't he make the case then? Can't be bothered I suppose. In the comfort zone maybe.    Report this comment (Comment number 790) Link to this (Comment number 790)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 789.  clovisguy  27th May 2012 - 15:37   the Royal family are an anachronism,is this day and age. They are unelected, spoilt, overpaid, and would not survive in normal life. I have nothing against Liz the queen, it is all the other hangers on that rieally rile me.    Report this comment (Comment number 789) Link to this (Comment number 789)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 788.  RememberScarborough  27th May 2012 - 15:37   The monarchy is a useful business tool to promote our sales of exports. Many from overseas view the United Kingdom's positive qualities (honesty, reliability etc) from their perception of the Queen especially. Republicans may not like it but their jobs could be at risk without this perception. Also, I bet many countries could pay a fortune to "buy" the monarchy off us.    Report this comment (Comment number 788) Link to this (Comment number 788)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 787.  tomjol  27th May 2012 - 15:37   "It was a US president who started the deregulation that led to the recession. Note- "president""And here is an example of the problem. The American model is NOT the only presidential system - look around Europe even, for crying out loud!How can we possibly have a debate with so little understanding among the public at large?    Report this comment (Comment number 787) Link to this (Comment number 787)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 786.  Ronbo  27th May 2012 - 15:36   Thinking about it, why don't we have Sooty as President (with Soo as First Lady, of course)? Then we could all take it in turns to stick our hands up..........................maybe not :-)Come on, folks. You may hold your beliefs. That's your democratic right. However, it's not going to happen, so why not find a cause you can do something about.........    Report this comment (Comment number 786) Link to this (Comment number 786)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 785.  allan  27th May 2012 - 15:35   I would turn all the palaces into homes for the aged and spend all the money that is wasted on monarchy and hangers on keeping the old uns warm and well fed and entertained . They are the ones who fought for this country and are now starving and freezing to death in winter.    Report this comment (Comment number 785) Link to this (Comment number 785)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 784.  Madbrit  27th May 2012 - 15:35   Anyone complaining about the "cost" of the monarchy should take the time to consider how much they contribute before spouting off.How many £bn would be lost from tourism.How many business opportunities unfulfilled that would have been during a tour by members of the royal family?How much income tax because the royal family pays theirs, whilst many of the rich avoid paying almost all theirs?    Report this comment (Comment number 784) Link to this (Comment number 784)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 783.  empiredown  27th May 2012 - 15:34   I used to be a anti-royalist but now I'm apathetic about the question deep down.  A Royal Jubilee or the spectacle of a Royal going to the gullitine would leave the same people in power behind the curtains, and the class structure intact as ever.  So I don't give a monkeys either way these days.    Report this comment (Comment number 783) Link to this (Comment number 783)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 782.  gdiddy25  27th May 2012 - 15:31   This describes how I feel about this subject.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PYEKSOBRtM    Report this comment (Comment number 782) Link to this (Comment number 782)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 781.  Petisa  27th May 2012 - 15:32   JRobson @751Do you think they(the Royal Family) even know which charities they patronise?Do you have evidence to support this question, please?Thank you.    Report this comment (Comment number 781) Link to this (Comment number 781)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 780.  SONICBOOMER  27th May 2012 - 15:32   630, again, are Sweden, Norway, Denmark Holland, Spain, Japan not mature democracies then? Will Republicans ever answer this? If not, why not?624, a few have managed to escape from N.Korea, be great if you could ever get to tell them that we are living in the same sort of country. Reckon you could post on line your views there?    Report this comment (Comment number 780) Link to this (Comment number 780)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 779.  fuzzy  27th May 2012 - 15:31   770.norsk1Lets all demonstrate AGAINST RepublicThey are a very sad bunch of libetarian mischief makers!!with nothing better to do..this country is a real mess,it`s politicians are mostly to blame for Britains decline Not the Royal family.==Literacy's not too good either.    Report this comment (Comment number 779) Link to this (Comment number 779)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 778.  rogerzac  27th May 2012 - 15:30   I think that the issue of the monarchy has the unfortunate affect of stirring sycophantic sympathies in certain individuals.  They appear to believe that by supporting the monarchy this some how elevates their own status and importance. The next generation will increasingly find the monarchy an irrelevance. We may then have a republic that can compete likes of the USA, Germany, China etc.    Report this comment (Comment number 778) Link to this (Comment number 778)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 777.  AlphonseEnorme  27th May 2012 - 15:30   One factor is patriotism. To argue for the democratic sovereignty of ALL people is far more patriotic that worshipping one socially-removed family of multi-millionaires who reek of white, upper-class, Anglican values. Who do they represent in this plural society, but a white, ethnocentric myth of 'Englishness'. We have been programmed for our entire lives to follow and accept, not participate.    Report this comment (Comment number 777) Link to this (Comment number 777)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 776.  jim272  27th May 2012 - 15:30   @769 - You are regularly reminded of the damage inflicted by the aristocracy of the british empire? Do you ever point out that very few people from that time are actually alive? Or that morality that judges you on the actions of your ancestors rather than your own actions which you have the power to influence is flawed?    Report this comment (Comment number 776) Link to this (Comment number 776)         Page 23 of 62    Newer 1 ... 21 22 23 24 25 ... 62 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Mars rover hammers down into rock



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Why Mali's nomads are lying low



9: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



10: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



5: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



6: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: Blair: Cameron playing 'a risky game' Watch



10: Twitter passwords stolen by hackers Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





