BBC News - Why does the UK love the monarchy?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education

















28 May 2012
Last updated at 21:45 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Mark Easton

Home editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



Why does the UK love the monarchy?
 






More from Mark


Should we pick up other people's litter?


Time to think


DNA and individual freedom v crime prevention


Benefit changes may cause evictions, says housing federation



 I have recently been accused on Twitter of being both a royalist "uber-Toady" and the author of "the most anti-monarchist report you could want to view".
Both tweets related to the same item, a report for the BBC News at Ten that tried to answer a straightforward question: why does a country that has become so cynical about other institutions (Parliament, the City, the press, the police) remain so loyal to the monarchy?
Whatever republicans might wish, less than a fifth of the Queen's subjects in the UK say they want to get rid of the Royal Family - a proportion that has barely changed across decades.  
According to polling data from Ipsos Mori, support for a republic was 18% in 1969, 18% in 1993, 19% in 2002 and 18% last year. Three-quarters of the population want Britain to remain a monarchy - a finding that has been described by pollsters as "probably the most stable trend we have ever measured". 
Given the enormous social change there has been since the current Queen assumed the throne 60 years ago, it might seem surprising that a system of inherited privilege and power should have retained its popularity.  







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Mark gauges the mood during a royal visit to Lancashire



 But reading some of the comments on Twitter, it seems that even to raise a quizzical eyebrow at the approval ratings of the Windsors is regarded by some monarchists as tantamount to treason.
Republicans, on the other hand, believe that to highlight the conspicuous lack of progress they have had in winning the nation to their cause is evidence of obsequious knee-bending.
I recently re-acquainted myself with the work of two seminal figures in the long-running debate between republican and monarchist thinkers in Britain - Thomas Paine and Walter Bagehot. 
I was searching for an answer to the same question: "What is it about our country that we retain such affection for a system which appears at odds with the meritocratic principles of a modern liberal democracy?"
In January 1776, Paine's pamphlet Common Sense began to be passed around among the population of the colonies of the New World, a manifesto for American independence and republicanism. 

Who was Thomas Paine?


"Possibly the most influential writer in modern human history" - that's the billing Thomas Paine got from one of his biographers. 
Yet few people know much about him at all. Brendan O'Neill looks at Paine's life and legacy. 


Read full BBC Magazine article from 2009 

 "There is something exceedingly ridiculous in the composition of Monarchy," Paine declared. "One of the strongest natural proofs of the folly of the hereditary right in kings, is, that nature disapproves it, otherwise she would not so frequently turn it into ridicule by giving mankind an ass for a lion."  
He contrasted the common sense of his pamphlet's title with the absurdity and superstition that inspired the "prejudice of Englishmen" for monarchy, arising "as much or more from national pride than reason".
To this day, British republicans refer to Paine's Common Sense almost as the sacred text. But monarchists have their own sacred text, written almost exactly a century afterwards. Walter Bagehot's English Constitution was a belated response to the revolutionary arguments of the New World republicans.  
"We catch the Americans smiling at our Queen with her secret mystery," he wrote, with a suggestion that Paine and his kind were prisoners of their own "literalness". Bagehot didn't try to justify monarchy as rational (indeed he accepted many of Paine's criticisms), but his point was that an "old and complicated society" like England required more than mundane, dreary logic. 


Walter Bagehot wrote about the "mystic reverence" essential to "true monarchy"

"The mystic reverence, the religious allegiance, which are essential to a true monarchy, are imaginative sentiments that no legislature can manufacture in any people," he wrote. "You might as well adopt a father as make a monarchy."
Bagehot had identified a developing national characteristic. As colonial power and the riches of empire declined, there was an increasing desire to define greatness as something other than wealth and territory. Britain wanted to believe it was, intrinsically, special. "People yield a deference to what we may call the theatrical show of society," he wrote. "The climax of the play is the Queen."
Wind the clock forward to 1952 and plans were being made for the Coronation of the new Elizabeth II. Despite post-war austerity, it was decided the event should be a fabulous, flamboyant, extravagant affair with all the pomp and pageantry they could muster. There would be feathers and fur, gold and jewels, anthems and trumpets. 
It was a giant gamble. Britain was re-evaluating many of the traditional power structures that had shaped society in the 1930s. How would a population still subject to food rationing react to a ceremony that almost rubbed its nose in the wealth and privilege of the hereditary monarch?  
Two sociologists, Michael Young and Ed Shils, had joined the crowds in the East End of London, dropping in on street parties to find out. Their thesis, entitled The Meaning of the Coronation, accepted that there were some who had dismissed the whole affair as a ridiculous waste of money.   


Street parties for the Coronation were judged "a great act of national communion"

But overall, they concluded: "The Coronation provided at one time and for practically the entire society such an intensive contact with the sacred that we believe we are justified in interpreting it as we have done in this essay, as a great act of national communion."
Britain - battered, bruised and broke - appeared determined to embrace its monarchy and hang the cost. The paradox is that austerity was positively comfortable with ostentation; institutional challenge spawned a passion for hereditary authority.
It wasn't just that Britain wanted a distraction from hardship and uncertainty. Enthusiastic support for monarchy seemed to run counter to the new liberalism which was guiding the politics of post-war Britain.
The explanation, I think, is that the 1950s were also a period in which the country was anxious about how global, institutional and social change might threaten its identity.  
The impact of Americanisation as well as colonial and European immigration upon British life were a source of great concern. Despite winning the war, it appeared that national power and influence were being lost. Institutional authority was being questioned.

Your life in the '50s





Transport yourself back to the decade in which the Queen came to throne - use our tool to find out what your life would have been like in early 1950s Britain


Diamond Jubilee: You in '52
BBC News - The Diamond Jubilee

 There were fears, too, that the values and traditions which underpinned family and community life were also changing rapidly. War and financial hardship had combined to shake up and challenge ancient orthodoxies. 
Monarchy represented a bulwark against rapid and scary change. 
Sixty years after our Queen assumed the throne, many of those same anxieties remain. Concerns about how globalisation and immigration are changing Britain continue to trouble us. Respect for institutions has declined as the global financial crisis has ushered in a new era of austerity.
In Accrington earlier this month, I watched a down-to-earth, no-nonsense town go slightly mad for the Queen. Thousands lined the streets, hung out of windows, climbed lamp-posts to catch a glimpse of their monarch.
They stood for hours in a chilly wind wearing daft hats - a metaphor for the attitude of their country. Times are tough, the challenges are great and we respond by cheering an aspect of our culture that, for all its irrationality, is uniquely ours.
The British have always chosen the quirks of our history against foreign rationalism. The Romans brought us straight roads and decimalisation. As soon as they left, we reverted to impossibly complicated Imperial measures and winding country lanes.  

“Start Quote
In trying to explain the unlikely success of the monarchy, we shouldn't expect the answer to be based on reason  ”
End Quote
 The Normans commissioned the Domesday Book to try and impose order on bureaucratic chaos but had to compromise at every turn. That is how we ended up with something called Worcestershire - a place that foreigners find impossible to pronounce, never mind spell.  
The British don't like straight lines. When we look at those maps of the United States with ruler-straight state boundaries, we feel pity. Walter Bagehot understood that our identity is found in the twists and turns of a rural B-road, not in the pragmatism of a highway.
It is the same with our system of governance. Logic is not the most important factor. We are happy to accept eccentricity and quirkiness because they reflect an important part of our national character.  
So in trying to explain the unlikely success of the monarchy, we shouldn't expect the answer to be based on reason.  
It is not a pocket-book calculation of profit and loss - how much does the Queen cost compared to what she brings in for the tourist trade? 
It is not a question of prevailing political attitudes - how can a liberal democracy justify power and privilege based on an accident of birth?
The British monarchy is valued because it is the British monarchy. We are an old and complicated society that yields a deference to the theatrical show of society.   

 





Article written by Mark Easton
Mark Easton

Home editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



@BBCMarkEaston via Twitter
Heathens? Leeds Heavy Metalists? Manchester Animists? Cornwall Scientologists? Mid Sussex #census2011







More on This Story


More from Mark
	      






Should we pick up other people's litter?




Time to think




DNA and individual freedom v crime prevention




Benefit changes may cause evictions, says housing federation




The vandals are in their bedrooms




Drug policy must change, urges police chief




How will Savile affect future abuse cases?




Businessmen, lawyers and justice




Alone at the seaside














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 592       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 572.  Expat  30th May 2012 - 2:57   Dear Karina,No I have been expatriated for a very long time dear, I have experienced governemts in the Americas(class system), Africa (Definite class system) Asia (you better believe class system) and all have less freedom than blighty. You still have not answered my question? No class system elsewhere? If the UK and class system is so bad why go back? I guess your an NGO worker of some kind...    Report this comment (Comment number 572) Link to this (Comment number 572)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 571.  Expat  30th May 2012 - 2:46   Colin the Truth - Why such Anger? Why such bitterness... I live outside the uK as you do and fully support the monarchy as a Great British institution... Seriously did you miss out on hugs as a child? I am no sheep, I do as I want when I want - unlike subjects or President Assad, Mugabe etc... Let go of the Anger and be proud to be British.. or renounce your citizenship - I know you won't!    Report this comment (Comment number 571) Link to this (Comment number 571)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 570.  Karina2  30th May 2012 - 2:37   @Expat No, I`ve actually spent over 40 years outside of the UK. It`s when I go back home I notice that the class system sticks out like a sore thumb.  You know nothing about my life and your comments are infantile Are you a new `expat` because you certainly sound like one.    Report this comment (Comment number 570) Link to this (Comment number 570)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 569.  Expat  30th May 2012 - 2:35   Englishmaninvegas I am an expat (Go figure) , As a UK Citizen I am entitled to an opinion and happy to give one. As an expat I suppose I have a less insular view of things .. Oh how some many countries envy the UK and its Royal Family....God Save the Queen- and your taxes pay for police, hospitals etc... so some benifit I am sure    Report this comment (Comment number 569) Link to this (Comment number 569)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 568.  Expat  30th May 2012 - 2:24   Karina 2 why does everyone keep going on about the different class system.. do you seriously think in a republis there will be no working class, no Middle or upper class?  You seem very young ... I guess you may be going through your teenage communism years... as soon as you start earning money and moving UP the class system you will not be so against it... Should we all be Jeremy Kyle wasters?    Report this comment (Comment number 568) Link to this (Comment number 568)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 567.  Karina2  30th May 2012 - 2:15   As long as this institution remains, in its present form, the class system in Britain will prevail. The privileged well connected minority have been running the country for far too long and it is definitely time for a change. I truly believe that Charles III will prove to be a disaster and this will rock the foundation which really isn`t as strong as it may seem    Report this comment (Comment number 567) Link to this (Comment number 567)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 566.  HoraceSpatula  30th May 2012 - 2:04   In an age where we all have (arguably) more choice than previous generations, is it fair to trap anyone in a certain life because of an accident of their birth? Charles is a  tragic figure. I wouldn't swap places with him for all his wealth. He may never do the one job that his whole life has been in preparation for. Rich people are people too. I propose a republic on humanitarian grounds.    Report this comment (Comment number 566) Link to this (Comment number 566)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 565.  Tim  30th May 2012 - 1:59   336. schneetagAnd of course we have a modern republican alternative of Mr Medvedev and Mr Putin showing us exactly how a president can stop a prime minister from working the system to his advantage.I'm fairly agnostic about monarchy but feel the long view is probably better catered for by our current system with politicians having enough power, but not quite able to operate with impunity.    Report this comment (Comment number 565) Link to this (Comment number 565)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 564.  Yankee_Poodle  30th May 2012 - 0:24   I wonder if the queen, or other members of the royal family are reading this blog... I'd want to know if my subjects were revolting.    Report this comment (Comment number 564) Link to this (Comment number 564)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 563.  therightsofman  30th May 2012 - 0:15   These days nobody in their right mind would agree that hereditary peers should be sitting in the Lords so why do people keep on trying to defend a hereditary monarchy?  Absolutely the same indefensible principle.  Royalists, enjoy it while you can because when loud mouth Charles takes over then we'll see those poll figures change ...    Report this comment (Comment number 563) Link to this (Comment number 563)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 562.  Yankee_Poodle  30th May 2012 - 0:05   #518  As an expat I carry a British Passport & I have just as much say in British Politics as you do. If I give up my citizenship, then I give up my right. An advantage to living overseas and also mixing with other expats is that you here a number of unbridled alternative views, not just the local mantra. I say an expat's view is valuable. Lets hold a referendum on the future of the monarchy.    Report this comment (Comment number 562) Link to this (Comment number 562)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 561.  Paul C  29th May 2012 - 23:32   The solution is quite simple.  Hold a presidential election in which the current monarch would, of course and if she so wished, be entitled to stand.  In all liklihood she would win hands-down and at least we would then have voted for our head of state.  Once her term in office expires the current next in line to the throne may like a try ... with what would likely be a very different outcome.    Report this comment (Comment number 561) Link to this (Comment number 561)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 560.  Colin The Truth  29th May 2012 - 23:33   Tunguska" I love reading comments about getting ride of them, without them Double UK debt"This is frankly just ludicrous. You have proven my point.    Report this comment (Comment number 560) Link to this (Comment number 560)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 559.  M Von Walter  29th May 2012 - 23:16   Maybe they just need an austerity plan? Price list for the royal European families: 1. England ($67 million) 2. The Netherlands ($57 million) 3. Norway ($40 million) 4. Belgium ($19.6 million) 5. Denmark ($18 million) 6. Sweden ($17.5 million) 7. Spain ($12.7 million) 8. Luxembourg ($12.6 million) - Oslo University    Report this comment (Comment number 559) Link to this (Comment number 559)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 558.  In Distress  29th May 2012 - 23:14   Flag's upside down.    Report this comment (Comment number 558) Link to this (Comment number 558)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 557.  Zoe  29th May 2012 - 23:07   Although I appreciate the argument that people like the idea of a monarchy as something inherently British, this articles neglects to mention the bias towards the monarchy in the media (especially the BBC) which fawns over the entire institution and in schools. I am in sixth form college: the representation of the Queen is very one-sided which differs from our study of say politics or the police.    Report this comment (Comment number 557) Link to this (Comment number 557)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 556.  Surely not  29th May 2012 - 22:44   555Hmm.  So if all Buck house and it's garden was open to the public all year, you wouldn't go ?Profits go to charity ? Silly idea I know.    Report this comment (Comment number 556) Link to this (Comment number 556)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 555.  Tunguska  29th May 2012 - 22:10   I left the UK, but I admire the UK for having the Royal Family! Look at the tourists who flock to London to see the Palace, look at the Thousands who come to watch the Jubilee. The Monarchy brings more tourism income than any other British Attraction! I love reading comments about getting ride of them, without them Double UK debt!! Visiting last week, Buckingham Palace was flooded with Tourists.    Report this comment (Comment number 555) Link to this (Comment number 555)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 554.  angela thompson-hill  29th May 2012 - 21:59   Keep Britian British and our Flags flying as we do at Corogate Cafe in N.Z. We're proud of Our Queen, the history and the future, and for this to change would be unthinkable.Our English theme attracts people from around the world celebrating with us the Queens Official B/day  and are in awe of the 3000 items we proudly show each year, The Diamond Jubilee is no exception, www.corogate.com shows all    Report this comment (Comment number 554) Link to this (Comment number 554)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 553.  Robert Ball  29th May 2012 - 21:58   Also the media, not least the beeb, is very selective about what surveys it chooses to report. For example just before last years royal wedding MORI conducted a poll  showing 81% of people  werent interested -  media didnt report it.  The wrong questions are asked. I would like  results of a poll which asked 'Should UK residents have the right to choose who represents them as head of state'    Report this comment (Comment number 553) Link to this (Comment number 553)         Page 2 of 30    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 30 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



7: Mars rover hammers down into rock



8: Where did Richard III go wrong?



9: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



5: Apology over police beating footage Watch



6: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



7: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



8: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



9: Farewell to murdered band in Mexico Watch



10: Last day for Hillary Clinton Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





