Obama Campaign Shifts Gears in Wisconsin Strategy - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Politics
			> Political Punch

Political Punch


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousPresident Obama Slams House GOP Over Unfinished Business
NextObama Camp Blasts Romney for ‘Magic Wand’ Strategy

 

 By Devin Dwyer@devindwyerFollow on Twitter  
Sep 22, 2012 12:48pm

Obama Campaign Shifts Gears in Wisconsin Strategy





 
			
Email

37
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




Jacquelyn Martin/AP Photo
MILWAUKEE — It’s been 220 days since President Obama last visited Wisconsin. He avoided involvement in the state’s high-stakes gubernatorial recall earlier this year, has not campaigned for re-election here, and has spent little cash on TV ads, all largely because he hasn’t had to. Until now.
Locked in a tight match-up against Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, Obama today makes his first 2012 campaign stop in the Badger State for an outdoor rally and pair of fundraisers all aimed at shoring up his base amid an intensifying fight for the state’s 10 electoral votes.
Wisconsin was supposed to be a reliable foothold for Obama, who won it by 14 points over Sen. John McCain in 2008. Democratic candidates for president have carried the state in every election since 1984. Now it’s a battleground.
“We’ve always thought Wisconsin would be harder for us this year than it was four years ago,” said Obama campaign spokeswoman Jen Psaki.
“We’re going to run here, like in any battleground states, like we’re five points behind until Election Day,” she said. “Today is about energizing our supporters.”
Buffeted by the recession, Wisconsin’s politics have swung to the right, with voters in 2010 electing Republican Gov. Scott Walker and in June rejecting a Democrat-led crusade to unseat him in protest of a crackdown on labor unions and collective bargaining rights.
The Romney campaign says the fight of Walker continues to energize state conservatives, yielding the most robust grassroots operation in Wisconsin in a generation. Millions of voter contacts made during the recall campaign have been rolled over to the general election, officials said.
Republican strategists say the dynamic creates an opportunity for Romney to expand the electoral map and potentially counter a lackluster performance to date in other swing states that has cramped his pathway to 270 electoral votes.
Romney has held 15 events in Wisconsin since Obama’s most recent visit in February, an official stop in Milwaukee to promote his manufacturing agenda. He has been in state seven days, according to his campaign, to Obama’s one.
Republicans credit the attention and Romney’s selection of Janesville native Rep. Paul Ryan for vice presidential running mate with boosting Romney in the polls here, and prompting Democrats to rethink their strategy. The Obama campaign began running TV ads in the state for the first time this campaign 10 days ago and has stepped up appearances by Obama surrogates across the state.
Vice President Joe Biden’s two visits this year — to Eau Claire and Green Bay — have come in the past three weeks. First lady Michelle Obama held her single Wisconsin rally of the campaign in Milwaukee in late August and later met with victims of the Sikh temple shooting in Oak Creek. Former President Bill Clinton appeared in Wisconsin in June.
All have emphasized Obama’s manufacturing agenda and the bailout of American automakers GM and Chrysler, which have factories in the state and rely on parts suppliers there.
Democrats have also assembled an aggressive grassroots organizing operation for voter registration and turnout that Obama aides regularly cite as one of their greatest assets in Wisconsin ahead of Election Day. The Obama campaign has 54 field offices in Wisconsin compared to Romney’s 25 so-called “Victory Centers” across the state.
The president’s campaign aides have shrugged off a narrowing of the race in Wisconsin as only temporary, telling reporters late last month that the new dynamic was merely a bounce from the Ryan pick.
“Democrats have carried Wisconsin for five consecutive elections,” one senior campaign official said. “Let’s get a few weeks down past the Ryan pick to see where Wisconsin is in this whole thing.”
The latest polling may show that the Democrats’ predictions are right. A series of independent surveys on Wisconsin released in the last week show Obama holding anywhere between a five and 14-point lead over Romney. The Real Clear Politics polling average for the state gives Obama the edge by a 51.2 percent to 44.2 percent margin.
Both Democratic and Republican strategists privately concede in interviews that the state will be one of the toughest for Romney to win on Nov. 6. Still, few are ready to call Wisconsin for the president, much less rate it as “lean Democratic.”
ABC News’ political team rates Wisconsin as a toss-up in its latest race ratings. 
Obama’s visit, coming exactly one month before in-person early voting in Wisconsin begins, suggests he’s leaving nothing to chance.
UPDATE:  Obama campaign manager Jim Messina conceded today in a briefing with reporters here that Romney has a robust Wisconsin ground game  thanks in large part to the Gov. Scott Walker recall election.
“This is one where …  because of the recall election, they test drove their car whereas in other states they haven’t,” he said. “It would make sense they’re strong here, as are we. They are stronger than McCain was in ’08, no question, on the ground. But we continue to have a strategic advantage” because of more field offices and infrastructure.
As for the slew of recent polling showing a tight race nationally, Messina said the Obama campaign continues to see “all our pathways” open to an electoral victory through the battleground states.
“We’re either tied or in the lead in every battleground state 45 days out. I think you will see a tightening in the national polls going forward. What I care way more about it Ohio, Colorado, Virginia, Wisconsin, etc,” he said. “In those states, I feel our pathways to victory are there. There are two different campaigns, one in the battlegrounds and one everywhere else. That’s why the national polls aren’t relevant to this campaign.”
This post has been updated.  

SHOWS: World News





 
			
Email

37
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print














Related Videos


														Geraldo Rivera Considers Senate Run in NJ						



														Chuck Hagel Defends His Record Before Former Senate Colleagues						


 
 
 
 


PreviousPresident Obama Slams House GOP Over Unfinished Business
NextObama Camp Blasts Romney for ‘Magic Wand’ Strategy






 

User Comments



The latest major foreign policy disaster by Obama on Lybia, failed stimulus plans, constant unemployment of over 8%, reckless energy policy and gasoline prices at $4.00 a gallon are things that Americans take seriously.  Don’t believe the liberal media or the polls – remember the huge lead they gave Carter before Reagan won the White House.  Wisconsonian’s, like the rest of Americans, have had it with Obama, and November will bring REAL change…ROMNEY 2012




			Posted by: VoteRomney | September 22, 2012, 3:14 pm 3:14 pm		



The latest major foreign policy disaster by Obama on Lybia
Posted by: VoteRomney | September 22, 2012, 3:14 pm 3:14 pm
How excellent to see Libyan people rise up to drive out radical extremists. This is a very, very good sign out of our support for the Libyan people. Congratulations President Obama!




			Posted by: Sally | September 22, 2012, 3:15 pm 3:15 pm		



gasoline prices at $4.00 a gallon
 Posted by: VoteRomney | September 22, 2012, 3:14 pm 3:14 pm 
Current national average if $3.82 per gallon – below the highs it hit under Bush over 4 years ago!




			Posted by: Sally | September 22, 2012, 3:17 pm 3:17 pm		



Although I know Romney was a terrible tax cheat ,I thought Ryan was worst than Romney with his extreme ideology , but after watching that tape with Romney criticizing the poor and needy I had nothing but tears in my eyes. What a shame , Romney has no love , not even for his dog that he put on his the roof of his car. I am still wondering what has happened to that poor dog Seamous .I would not let Romney near my dogs , so therefore I would not vote for him to run the country , he has no love for humans and no love for animals . Does he even love himself? He seems as if he is having some internal conflicts with himself . Am I the first to notice this? Would love to hear from others on this subject.




			Posted by: curly locks | September 22, 2012, 3:33 pm 3:33 pm		



“Current national average if $3.82 per gallon – below the highs it hit under Bush over 4 years ago!”  
Do yourself a favor and look at the gas price in the US for the past several years Sally.  GasBuddy is a good resource.  After gas hit $4.12 under Bush and he opened more areas for drilling, they PLUMMETED.  Less than 6 months later they stood at  $1.61 per gallon!
Gas prices have remained chronicly high under Obama – even thruout this never-ending recession!




			Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 3:52 pm 3:52 pm		



Curly — ‘Love’ your post -… for comic relief!




			Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 3:54 pm 3:54 pm		



Sure logics, it had to do with the areas opened to drilling (which are still in the process of development with no drilling completed) and nothing to do with the worldwide recession and the huge drop in demand.  You’re arguments are getting really weak…..so is your candidate.




			Posted by: 40acres | September 22, 2012, 4:13 pm 4:13 pm		



Do yourself a favor and look at the gas price in the US for the past several years Sally. GasBuddy is a good resource. After gas hit $4.12 under Bush and he opened more areas for drilling, they PLUMMETED. Less than 6 months later they stood at $1.61 per gallon!
Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 3:52 pm 3:52 pm 
Actually what Bush did was watch the economy collapse and 8.5 million of people lose their jobs. Gas prices collapsed along with the banks and financial institutions, along with the housing market, along with the stock market and along the economy in 2008. 
Real smart Republican way to get low gas prices.




			Posted by: Sally | September 22, 2012, 4:29 pm 4:29 pm		



Posted by: Milt | September 22, 2012, 4:32 pm 4:32 pm 
You think any of that might have anything to do with the largest economic collapse since the Great Depression under the previous REPUBLICAN president?
I love it how after doubling the national debt and plunging the country into a major economic collapse, the Republicans start lecturing the Democrats on fiscal responsibility and good business practices. Priceless.




			Posted by: Sally | September 22, 2012, 4:37 pm 4:37 pm		



SALLY: I think you have forgotten who spent over $6 trillion with nothing to show for it.
Posted by: Freedom | September 22, 2012, 4:50 pm 4:50 pm 
That’s just plain lying . .. “nothing to show for it” . . . B.S! Learn how to speak truth.
I love it how after doubling the national debt and plunging the country into a major economic collapse, the Republicans start lecturing the Democrats on fiscal responsibility and good business practices. Priceless.




			Posted by: Sally | September 22, 2012, 4:53 pm 4:53 pm		



Marquette University of Wisconsin poll has Obama out in front by 14 points. Every other poll has him with a comfortable lead. Three other polls show him up by 5 or more. Even Rasmussen, house pollster for Faux News, which always gives Romeny an extra few points, has Obama up by three.
Slow news day? Write this the week Ryan got picked? Or is this a feint by Obama to get Mittens to blow money in a state he can’t win?




			Posted by: minkepants | September 22, 2012, 6:05 pm 6:05 pm		



“Sure logics, it had to do with the areas opened to drilling (which are still in the process of development with no drilling completed) and nothing to do with the worldwide recession and the huge drop in demand.”  —  posted by 40Acres
______________________________________________________________________________
Bush lifting the drilling moratorium sent the markets a clear signal that the US was serious about increasing the oil supply and the markets respoded with lower prices.
By the way 40 Acres – WE ARE STILL IN A WORLDWIDE RECESSION AND DEMAND IS DOWN!!!  So why the $4 per gallon price???  
Talk about a weak argument.  Good grief.




			Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 6:21 pm 6:21 pm		



Sally,  The way someones treats animals indicates much about his personality.  In high-school Romney had his friends hold a gay down, a boy with long bleached hair, and then Romney hacked the kid’s hair off.  Confronted with that act this spring Romney did not dispute it.  He merely said he “can’t remember” doing it.  As a prank, Romney deliberately closed a door so that a blind teacher would bump into it. The prank made Romney’s friends laugh, apparently.  This is the kind of man Romney is.  He’s a bully not withstanding his smiles and shallow laughs and cultivated religiosity.




			Posted by: Bill | September 22, 2012, 6:23 pm 6:23 pm		



Obama is addicted to adulation. His campaigning is feeding his huge ego, necessarily, so he doesn’t have to face his abysmal record and his failures. His hand-picked crowds and orchestrated press releases are meant to bolster this dangerous neophyte who, after almost four years displayed what he is made of when four Americans were massacred in Libya on the anniversary of 9/11. He took his bows, his photo-ops, but could not deny how unprepared he had been.  His lock-speak faithfuls had his lame excuse at the ready, repeating it for over a week, looking like pathetic, idiotic fools. They had fooled no one. They did show that Obama can’t lead, can’t unify and cannot keep Americans safe. He can campaign. He can work a crowd filled w/BFF. He can smile for the camera. He just couldn’t do his job. No WH REDUX here.  He has earned a one term presidency.




			Posted by: cj brockton | September 22, 2012, 6:29 pm 6:29 pm		



“Actually what Bush did was watch the economy collapse and 8.5 million of people lose their jobs. Gas prices collapsed along with the banks and financial institutions, along with the housing market, along with the stock market and along the economy in 2008.”
_________________________________________________________________________________
Could’ve done more if the Dems reined in Freddie and Fannie as the Repubs wanted.  But of course everyone deserves a house…  And wasn’t Oblamer in the Dem-controlled Congress at the time?
Seems Bush handled his recession in ’01 rather well, despite the dotcom bubble burst, 9-11 and Enron…
(Bush did spend too much, and I will not defend him for that.)
Again Obama cannot even get a handle on high gas prices, even during a worldwide recession!!  And this clown couldn’t even approve Keystone.  If only speeches could lower the price of a gallon of gas…  Cluelessness isn’t working.




			Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 6:38 pm 6:38 pm		



Bill – If only we could get some insight into his grade school and kindergarden years as well…




			Posted by: Logicsgood | September 22, 2012, 6:40 pm 6:40 pm		



“How excellent to see Libyan people rise up to drive out radical extremists. This is a very, very good sign out of our support for the Libyan people. Congratulations President Obama!”======= Hummmmm? I wonder what our Ambassador was thinking while he was being slaughtered by his little darling “pets” during that seven hour siege upon his own Consultant? I’m thinking he’d probably disagree with you since all but about 20 of the “Libyan people” were to busy cowering in their homes to come save his life.These people have decided to “rise up” now for one reason and one reason only—–they’re afraid that ONE BILLION dollar check Obama promised won’t be coming in the mail if they don’t! But that’s OK right Sally and friends? One Billion dollars should be nothing to people like you! After all, we borrow that much about every six hours or so! You won’t be needing SS or Medicare, will you? LOL!




			Posted by: Whatever | September 22, 2012, 6:56 pm 6:56 pm		



Sally:  Let me see if I have your thinking correct…..Bush Bush Bush Republicans Republicans Republicans Bush Bush Bush………BAAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!  Listen little know-it-all genius!genius! This country is 16 TRILLION dollars in DEBT! We BORROW 4 BILLION dollars WITH INTEREST every single day—every day of the week! We will reach that stupid debt ceiling AGAIN in just THREE months! Our children and grandchildren will be SLAVES to this debt. The majority of their paychecks will be taken just to pay the interest! There’s a train wreck headed right to us and you and your friends are too stupid to realize it! Take every penny from Mitt Romney—-ALL OF IT and it’ll give this country about a TWO HOUR break from having to borrow money! That’s it! Go ahead…..hide under your bed, keep your eyes closed shut, and hold your hands over your little ears—–pretend like it’s not happening! But….it is coming! All of us—-Rich, middle class, and poor are going to feel some real pain by the time this is over. There’s no escaping it. The gravy train is coming to a stop and you better prepare and accept it now. Personally, I hope the Boomers are still around when the bottom fall out from under us all so they can see for themselves what their shortsighted, selfish policies have done to this country! Keep cheerleading for you’re leader! Honestly….you all deserve exactly what’s coming!




			Posted by: Whatever | September 22, 2012, 7:00 pm 7:00 pm		



Boehner just frantically pulled 3.2 million out of support for Romney to defend the weak hold he sees on keeping the House. The Republicans are on vacation, again, after spending 17% of their time renaming post offices, attempting to pass, over 30 times, ant abortion bills they knew would not pass a veto, they just filibustered a bill that would help the 25,000 vets get a job, and Republican legislators have eliminated a million public jobs. President Obama and the Democrats, in just 46 working days, added 4.7 million jobs, saved the auto industry, 30 months of consecutive economic.job growth all economic indicators are up. It could be no clearer, the Republicans have got to go.




			Posted by: James L. | September 22, 2012, 7:00 pm 7:00 pm		



How can Christians vote for Obama when Obama is antiBible. he is for infantacide and supports same sex marriage .Univision did the country a big favor by asking the questions that the MSM couldn’t, good for them! I never understood why Obama thought the Hispanic votes were a given, afterall many Hispanics left nations run by dictators, why would he think they would support one in the U.S.? I never understood how women could vote for Obama when he said he didn’t want Sasha or Malia burdened with a baby, most women think their children are wonderful and a gift, why does he think the majority of females don’t want children? Why is it under Obamacare i have to let HHS Kathleen Sebelius be aware of my health problems, age, sexual orientation, and race? isn’t that racist and exclusionary?




			Posted by: Jo | September 22, 2012, 7:09 pm 7:09 pm		



James:  Yep!  The democrats are going to save you!  I bet they’ve been shut up in their office now 24/7 for months and months trying to save your union job! So…..should be put a couple of billion away now for the shrine you’ll want to build in their honor……or should we just follow the status quo and put it on the kids bill?




			Posted by: Whatever | September 22, 2012, 7:11 pm 7:11 pm		



@Whatever ,  Need I remind you of who closed the session at the House ? Maybe a name like Reid might ring a bell? Republicans on vacation? I forgot, there’s no democrats there. Would you like a glass of Kool Aid chap?




			Posted by: obamadonelost | September 22, 2012, 9:33 pm 9:33 pm		



@James L.,    My respect to you sir, for standing up for what is right and moral. This country is so filled with demons. Speak out against them, and maybe even Obama himself might contact you ,for being “Unpatriotic .” God bless America !




			Posted by: obamadonelost | September 22, 2012, 9:40 pm 9:40 pm		



Obamadonelost……Ummmm  You’re funny! .I was responding to James L . 7pm post in a “sarcastic” manner.  JEEZ!  Perhaps you should try reading back a few before posting such “mean” things. LOL!




			Posted by: Whatever | September 22, 2012, 9:44 pm 9:44 pm		



All the lies in romney’s ads. All the lies about Libya. All the lies about what he did as Gov. All the jobs he sent overseas.The fake tan on only his face, while meeting with latino’s. And no matter what the republicans say, all anybody needs to do is factcheck. Then they see romney lying AGAIN! You republicans keep saying the same garbage, day aftyer day, week after week, and what has that gotten you? Falling farther and farther behind! Your lies aren’t working. Now romney’s staff is leaving the sinking ship. And he’s not getting the monetary support he was getting. The game is almost over, and romney’s terrible campaign is killing republicans down the ticket! The DEMOCRATS look to win both houses of congress as well as the Presidency!




			Posted by: Scott | September 22, 2012, 11:36 pm 11:36 pm		



Living in very Blue Maryland, I’m at least spared being inundated with ads for or against Obama and Romney.




			Posted by: The_Mick | September 23, 2012, 2:44 am 2:44 am		



“First lady Michelle Obama held her single Wisconsin rally of the campaign in Milwaukee in late August…”—-Bet that really ticked Michelle off that she couldn’t take her annual million dollar taxpayer vacation and entourage of friends to Italy or France.




			Posted by: jonnie | September 23, 2012, 5:20 am 5:20 am		



Curly Locks: “Although I know Romney was a terrible tax cheat…Have you informed the IRS?   This guy must be in hiding!   Such a dumb uninformed statement.  You might also want to have your dog’s intelligence tested.   It might be smarter than you.




			Posted by: jonnie | September 23, 2012, 5:53 am 5:53 am		



Wisconsin has taken their state back for the good of all people. I don’t think they will be deceived now by the rhetoric and constant spinning of the facts by Obama anymore.




			Posted by: Freedom | September 23, 2012, 8:55 am 8:55 am		



Speaking as a middle class worker from India, I believe Romney would be the best choice for US president.




			Posted by: Sharesh | September 23, 2012, 10:37 am 10:37 am		



Speaking as a middle class worker from India, I believe Romney would be the best choice for US president.
———–
Hey look David Axelrod is now an Asian…..lol




			Posted by: Marc | September 23, 2012, 10:43 am 10:43 am		



When President Obama changes tactics it is called “shifting gears” while  but when Mitt Romney changes tactics it is called hitting the “reset”!  If President Obama “shifts” gears lets hope (for the sake of the country) that  he shifts from forward (off the financial cliff) to reverse (back to policies which have worked for much of the last 70 years)!




			Posted by: Obama Zombie | September 23, 2012, 12:25 pm 12:25 pm		



Obama shifted gears?  Did he finally take the nation out of “reverse”?  I see with his foreign policy he’s put it into “neutral”.  While the world is on fire and his total lack of leadership has left him not just voting “present”, but left has become “vacant”.  He has no time for meeting with Israel, but plenty of time to meet comedians, DJs, and party his ass off.  The punk will be voted out of office in November.




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | September 23, 2012, 2:18 pm 2:18 pm		



Obamdonelost, Reid is in charge of the  Senate, not the House. Boehnor, is in charge of the House, as the head of the Republican majority there. Boehnor and other House Republicans have blocked lots of good jobs bills this last two years. You should read about that!




			Posted by: Librarian53 | September 23, 2012, 2:31 pm 2:31 pm		



Librarian53, I am bitter about the damage he’s done to the nation.  I do not respect his policies nor agenda.  I shouldn’t be required to.  If you think it is immature, that’s a personal problem of yours to get over.  If you get bitter about something, you have your right to do so.  Obama’s a great huckster and a great community agitator, but he never even accomplished anything in Chicago and now that level of failure is on a global scale.  If you don’t like what I post, too bad.  You are not required to.  If you want to refer to my posts as monkeyspank and call me immature, fine.  Am I going to cry and whine over it?  Nope.  Have at it.  If you want to know why I believe what I know to be true, then we can discuss that.  Would you care to do that instead?  I’ve all my facts organized.  Here’s oen thing I can definitely thank Obama for…  I have to give him thanks for making me think and find out the truth.  For forcing me to educate myself about the nation and what made it great.  I had to find out what socialism and Marxism really is.  I had to learn about Frank marshal Davis and others Obama chose to surround himself with and what they believe.  I had to learn about liberation theology, Kenya, Indonesia, modern Communism and Socialism in the USA.  The New Party, the Shadow Party, anti-Colonialism, the Constitution and the Federalist Papers and why our Founding Fathers came up with the ideas and notions and how they establish our government.  I had to study Cloward & Piven, SDS, The Weather Underground, and then consider why Obama spent his life choosing to be around these people.  We can clean this out of our government and should and guard our nation from this in the future, don’t you think or do you support those causes?




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | September 23, 2012, 2:56 pm 2:56 pm		



The people is Wisconsin are definitely better off than they were four years ago.




			Posted by: Obama2012 | September 23, 2012, 4:48 pm 4:48 pm		



Obama2012, Yep, thanks to Walker, Wisconsin Ranger!




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | September 23, 2012, 5:20 pm 5:20 pm		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About Political PunchPolitical coverage and musings on pop culture from ABC News Senior White House Correspondent Jake Tapper and the ABC News White House team.  
ABC News Broadcasts 
20/20

Good Morning America

Nightline

This Week

What Would You Do

World News

World News Now

World News with Diane Sawyer




  


 




 






















