Ann Coulter: Democrats ‘Dropping the Blacks and Moving on to the Hispanics’ - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Politics
			> George Stephanopoulos

George Stephanopoulos


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousBottom Line: Can Debates Move the Needle for Romney?
NextReince Priebus: Last Week Was ‘Good’ For GOP

 

 By George Stephanopoulos@GStephanopoulosFind on FacebookFollow on Twitter  
Sep 23, 2012 12:33pm

Ann Coulter: Democrats ‘Dropping the Blacks and Moving on to the Hispanics’





 
			
Email

203
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




ABC
During the “This Week” roundtable’s discussion of the politics of immigration reform and the Latino vote, conservative commentator Ann Coulter made the provocative claim that “Democrats are dropping the blacks and moving on to the Hispanics,” while arguing that immigrant rights should not be considered civil rights.
Coulter’s comments came as President Barack Obama and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney continue vying for the critical Latino vote, with both participating in town hall interviews on Univision last week focused on issues important to the Hispanic community.
Former Clinton Labor secretary Robert Reich argued that Romney has failed to appeal to Latinos on key immigration issues, from calling for self-deportation to threatening to veto the DREAM Act.
“We have Governor Romney who is basically taking a position that is anti a large and the fastest growing segment of the electorate,” Reich said on the “This Week” roundtable.
While criticizing President Obama for failing to aggressively pursue immigration reform in his first term, Univision anchor Jorge Ramos said that “if Republicans don’t do something with immigration … they’re going to lose not only this election, they might lose the White House for a generation.”
Coulter quickly interjected, “That’s why the Democrats are dropping the blacks and moving on to the Hispanics, because they’re a larger group of Hispanics now” — seeming to claim that Democrats are more aggressively courting the growing Latino population than the African American vote, which polls show is firmly behind President Obama.
Coulter, author of the new book “Mugged: Racial Demagoguery From the Seventies to Obama,” also argued that groups on the left, from feminists to gay rights groups to those defending immigrants, have commandeered the black civil rights experience.
“I think what — the way liberals have treated blacks like children and many of their policies have been harmful to blacks, at least they got the beneficiary group right,” Coulter said. “There is the legacy of slavery and Jim Crow laws. We don’t owe the homeless. We don’t owe feminists. We don’t owe women who are desirous of having abortions, but that’s — or — or gays who want to get married to one another. That’s what civil rights has become for much of the left.”
When asked whether immigrant rights were not civil rights, Coulter responded, “No. I think civil rights are for blacks… What have we done to the immigrants? We owe black people something. We have a legacy of slavery. Immigrants haven’t even been in this country.”
Former Obama domestic policy adviser Melody Barnes disputed Coulter’s contention, saying that immigrants have faced discrimination that required the same protections sought by those who fought for civil rights.
“I think you misunderstand the history of what’s happened to immigrants and the history of discrimination against immigrants in this country,” Barnes said, citing the work of the late Massachusetts Sen. Ted Kennedy, who Barnes said worked to “deal with the fact that we were trying to keep people from coming in this country in the most discriminatory of manner, in a way that doesn’t lead to and build on the fact that we are a nation of immigrants.”
Coulter is responding to viewer reaction to her comments on Twitter today, at @AnnCoulter.
Watch the roundtable’s exchange here:
 

SHOWS: This Week





 
			
Email

203
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print














Related Videos


														Geraldo Rivera Considers Senate Run in NJ						



														Chuck Hagel Defends His Record Before Former Senate Colleagues						


 
 
 
 


PreviousBottom Line: Can Debates Move the Needle for Romney?
NextReince Priebus: Last Week Was ‘Good’ For GOP






 

User Comments



Sorry George, when I see this dipstick and hear that screeching voice, off goes the program.  A class act, she is not.




			Posted by: nomayo2 | September 23, 2012, 12:54 pm 12:54 pm		



I see you had the witch back.  I can only be grateful I missed it.




			Posted by: rainbows-end | September 23, 2012, 12:55 pm 12:55 pm		



What are her credentials that she should get a national bullhorn to spout off her idiotic sentiments ? She wrote some trash books ? Shes a goon / dolt and anyone who believes her self serving selfish  Ayn Rand bred tripe is nothing more than a dumb  gullible  lackey lemming .




			Posted by: davem | September 23, 2012, 12:56 pm 12:56 pm		



I cannot abide Ann Coulter.  She says things only to be provactive; she is shrill and impolite to other guests.  When I see her, I turn to another channel.  There are many conservative commetators who make incredibly good points, who are not rude.  George, use them.  I like your show, but I won’t watch a woman who thinks more about her own “brand” than the public good.




			Posted by: Carl Shepherd | September 23, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



What is it that attracts psycho females to the GOP – Bachmann, Palin and Coulter – they just compound the naivete of the GOP as to the fact they are not only going to not me President but are going to have work with a MINORITY in both houses.




			Posted by: David jennings | September 23, 2012, 1:12 pm 1:12 pm		



Another great job Ann! Listen to all the whiners and cry while keeping their had stuck in the sand. Most of them wouldn’t understand the truth if it hit them square in the face…..which you so brilliantly do. Thank you for bringing a bit of common sense to ABC (All Obama Channel), they need it terriblly.




			Posted by: Joe | September 23, 2012, 1:15 pm 1:15 pm		



This ‘individual’ is one of the most negative, fear mongering, divisive, demagogue partisan hacks in our political arena. She really deserves no mention at all when comes to the relevancy of current politcs. Just like Palin she means to be ‘inflammatory’ and only panders to the dumbed down element of the conservative base. She is really not worthy of mention…to any voter with an educated, rational, functioning brain.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 23, 2012, 1:18 pm 1:18 pm		



Yet more remarks from a narrow minded individual.




			Posted by: GP | September 23, 2012, 1:19 pm 1:19 pm		



As though there hasn’t been any proof of this prior, but this women represents the very worse in ignorance on the right wing.   And displaying one’s ignorance is hardly ‘provocative’.   Who do you think it harms when she talks about ‘dropping the blacks’?  Did she imagine democrats ever had any particular black agenda?    Democrats simply represent the idea that everyone should get a shot.  IF they are willing to get good grades, work hard, they should have a shot at education, college, hard fields that pay well.   That is a message that rings with anyone who comes from humble background but is willing to work hard.  That message is not getting dropped, it’s resonating, in fact.  It’s your own hatred of blacks that leads you believe they ever asked for handouts in the first place.   You only expose yourself, but you’ve done that quite enough so we’ve already got your ticket.   Stupid stupid women.




			Posted by: Truth Matters | September 23, 2012, 1:20 pm 1:20 pm		



No. I think civil rights are for blacks…——– well, there is a nutshell, is the racism of the republican party.   civil rights 
plural noun ( often initial capital letters )
1.
rights to personal liberty established by the 13th and 14th Amendments to the U.S. constitution and certain Congressional acts, especially as applied to an individual or a minority group. ———   It is the acknowledgement that although you are different, a different color, a different race, a different religion, you are still a human being.  The same freedoms and experiences that the majority of humans have, you should have as well.   Period.  yes, racist white southerners denied civil rights to the blacks.  But clearly, if given the opportunity, they would be just as discriminatory to many many many others.  To women, to gays, to hispanics, to anyone they could who is not white, male and evangelical christian.




			Posted by: PeaceOnEarth | September 23, 2012, 1:28 pm 1:28 pm		



There you have it folks, right from the mouth of the a hole of the universe.




			Posted by: frankblour | September 23, 2012, 1:30 pm 1:30 pm		



As much as I admire George S., I will no longer be watching the Sunday show when the ignorant hate filled  bomb throwing book pedler Ann Coulter is part of the panel.




			Posted by: Tim Monaghan | September 23, 2012, 1:31 pm 1:31 pm		



Just keep having her on, she does no service to Romney or the GOP, keep her talking.  Her, Bachman, Palin.  They complain about the feminists, but where would they be without the groundwork the feministe movement laid when these women were mere children?




			Posted by: LC | September 23, 2012, 1:31 pm 1:31 pm		



Ann Coulter is awesome!




			Posted by: Billy Clinton | September 23, 2012, 1:31 pm 1:31 pm		



Ann Coulter…telling the truth!




			Posted by: dawner | September 23, 2012, 1:33 pm 1:33 pm		



She is ABSOLUTELY 100% CORRECT !!!  The Democrats enslaved the blacks of America through government entitlements and created them to be a dependent class who can only survive through Democrat government handouts, thereby securing their votes. Now here we have a whole NEW pool of guaranteed votes with the opportunity being presented to enslave another entire ethnic group by using the exact same tactics !  And NEITHER ethic group is intelligent enough to see what they are having done to them. Thats the really sad part. There is no slave like a WILLING slave !  And who supports both groups financially? The same MIDDLE CLASS that Obama claims to be working so hard for. They’re even more stupid than the blacks or hispanics. because they drag themselves to work every day until they die to pay for it all, and aren’t even smart enough to know that THEY ARE SLAVES AS WELL.  And even WORSE slaves than the blacks or hispanics, because they don’t have to go work everyday in order to make the money to pay for their lives. Its handed from the stupid worker bees to them free of charge!  And no one love the new slaves more than the rich and the businessmen, who hire them for their own personal slaves, such as nannies, housekeepers, gardeners, and handymen; and the businessmen who hire them for cheap labor and don’t have to pay them union wage or any benefits whatsoever!  Its no wonder we have 12 million illegals. America WANTS them here and America is going to KEEP them here no matter what it takes. WHO BENEFITS?  The illegals, the Democrat politicians, the riich fat cats, and the employers !  Everyone except the morons who have to pay the bill for all of them !!!  Pathetic morons!  And then these mindless worker bee slaves actually go to the polls and CONTINUE VOTING FOR THEIR DEMOCRAT SLAVEMASTERS !!!  Amreica’s middle class are the true morons in all of this !




			Posted by: Big Ed | September 23, 2012, 1:34 pm 1:34 pm		



This woman needs a man…




			Posted by: sergio | September 23, 2012, 1:38 pm 1:38 pm		



Ann Coulter is a tool, nice try. Those of us that go to sea, have a saying: you always step up into a liferaft, never down unless there is a fire and Ann, the fire the Bush started was extinguished by Obama.




			Posted by: Joe T. | September 23, 2012, 1:40 pm 1:40 pm		



.
Hideous. She’s just sumply – hideous and I refuse to watch or listen to her.
.




			Posted by: Joe Mahma | September 23, 2012, 1:40 pm 1:40 pm		



The Democrats enslaved the blacks of America through government entitlements and created them to be a dependent class —–southern racism enslaved black, literally, for a hundred years after they were ‘free’.   No good schools, they couldn’t even drink out of a water fountain.   Blacks are extremely hardly people who survived slavery by adapting to whatever was handed them, no matter how cruel, how unfair, how evil.   They take abuse.  That’s how they survive.   Fatalism, it is called.  The ability to just deal with a horrible hand that is dealt you. And when you have so many generation passing on this fatalism, it is hard to be finally told “ok, you are free, now you can do anything, we will let you.  oh yes, I know we didn’t let you before, but yeah yeah, trust us, we will now”.     President Obama being elected president opened the eyes to black that anything is possible.  Did you know that one miniority group, in this country, had HUGE advanced in their grades over the past three years.  What group?  blacks.   The glass case of fatalism may be shattered the day they saw a black man elected president.   But can blacks really get to college?   Are there loans out there for them or any poor kid?  are colleges affordable?   are their public schools good enough?   is any poor kids?   What democrats are for is opportunity, a path you can take if you work hard, to a better place.  I can not for the life of me understand how thick skulled you must be to find fault with that.




			Posted by: Mom of three | September 23, 2012, 1:41 pm 1:41 pm		



does any one feel this woman has no influence on anyone ,,,,,why she gets a forum any where other than fox news is a big question,,,,i think she offers these men sexual favors TO GET EXPOSURE




			Posted by: william poirier md | September 23, 2012, 1:43 pm 1:43 pm		



When she is discussing things with the other side ,she laughs when they catch her in foolishness-she laughs a lot…




			Posted by: babooph | September 23, 2012, 1:43 pm 1:43 pm		



Sergio, makes you think she isn’t a man?  I will give her credit for dressing appropriately.  Gone is the “walk of shame” look she normally sports – at least for today.




			Posted by: cynda p. | September 23, 2012, 1:45 pm 1:45 pm		



Ann Coulter is  a perfect example of the de-education of our country.  Has she even opened, let alone read a history book??   This country is a country of immigrants.  Her white ancestors are immigrants.  She and everyone who hates immigrants, should go back to the country of their ancestors and leave all of us real Americans here in America to welcome and help the other immigrants who are supposed to be coming here.  This woman needs to be deported to her northern European country of origin and write her blogs from there.  We don’t need her here in our country of immigrants.  My ancestors have been here since 1670 and they PURCHASED land from the natives.  I am a real American.  Real Americans are those who welcome immigrants and practice universal benevolence.  If this “woman” read books instead of opening her mouth, she would know that.




			Posted by: Tyler Bond | September 23, 2012, 1:45 pm 1:45 pm		



Most of the time she speaks she is right on.No difference here.




			Posted by: Richard | September 23, 2012, 1:47 pm 1:47 pm		



She looked like a mental midget compared to the rest of the panel.  What in God’s name was she doing there?   “Civil rights are for the black”…???     Shall we invite my grammar school boy to the next American Society of Physicist conference between he noticed an apple falling?  She is far too ignorant of history, law, dear Lord, everything, to be on such a panel.  Very badly done, George.   Today was a clown show.  When the entire panel needs to explain simple ideas to one panelists so she can keep up…….




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 1:51 pm 1:51 pm		



After reading comments from Democrats here, after knowing what sleazy Democrats do to women staffers under the table, after reading and watching what Democrats do on SNL, in Hollywood movies, and on Bill Maher show – clearly I understand now that Democrats do wage War on Women!
And after Culture of disrespect, sleaze, degradation, and of no morals these Democrats had been peddling in this country for decades (under auspices of freedom of expression) – they then fight for aborting rights for them..  Wow!  How sensitive of them!  
First peddle culture that disrespects disenfranchise and rape women – them peddle women’s access to abortion!  Yes vote Democrats!   Obozo/Biden 2012 & ½!




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 1:51 pm 1:51 pm		



Coulter is a tea party confederate bigot who hates minorties.. she mentioned blacks and slavery more times in 10 minutes than I’ve heard in ten years…




			Posted by: RobertMIII | September 23, 2012, 1:53 pm 1:53 pm		



Most of the time she speaks she is right on.—she talks about what she ‘feels’ .   She ‘feels’ liberals are this, or that, and that blacks are this or that.  She doesn’t know anyone with a liberal viewpoint, obviously, and neither do you.   You obviously have no idea what liberals feel or think, it’s just your feelings about them.    She doesn’t know what blacks think or feel. She’s not black, obviously she’s never taken the time to interview any.  It’s simply how she feels about them.   She basically spends all her time talking about how she hates these large groups of people she knows nothing about, and you agree.    Well, doesn’t that say alot about you!




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 1:54 pm 1:54 pm		



Hussein has to do nothing to get knee-grow votes.  He’ll get 100% of their vote out of racial solidarity.  All Whites should vote for Romney.    After decades marxist multiCULTuralism and massive third world immigration, your race IS your political party now.




			Posted by: Racist Rebel Republican | September 23, 2012, 1:55 pm 1:55 pm		



Good job Ann!  Loved hearing someone speak the truth on This Week! You always can tell how effective a guest in on this show when you log on to see so many whiny immature liberals throw a temper tantrum in the comments section.  Keep up the good work Ann, and keep speaking truth to power!  We love you!




			Posted by: Won't be fooled again | September 23, 2012, 1:57 pm 1:57 pm		



– clearly I understand now that Democrats do wage War on Women!—yes, of course, because those silly fickle women, they dont know what is best for themselves?    Again, how sexist.   Women like that democrats want to protect their freedoms.  Freedom to do what they want with their body.  DO they want to have a baby or not?   Thier choice.  Do they want to take birth control to suppress ovulation so they will not get horrendous cramps and heavy bleeding one out of every four weeks?  Their choice.   Do they want to get equal pay for equal work.  How silly. Of course.     Women want to be free.   They have value.    Yes, even if they have sex, they still have value and the right to be free.  That is a concept that just blows the minds of conservatives!  I watched SNL last night and my wife laughed pretty hardily about the GOP tampon ‘commercial’.  That skit, you know, was written by a women!    Take the hint. THat is how ridiculous you look when saying what you think is best for women.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 2:00 pm 2:00 pm		



What sort of cold-hearted staffer chose to seat Reich next to Coulter this morning?  George?




			Posted by: Joseph Urban | September 23, 2012, 2:01 pm 2:01 pm		



“All Whites should vote for Romney”—HA!   aaannnnd with that, all the reasonable educated whites all take a step away……




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 2:02 pm 2:02 pm		



“yes, of course, because those silly fickle women, they dont know what is best for themselves?”
Excuse me but you sir look like the ultimate hypocrite.  In your world, the only views that are valid on “women’s issues” are from liberal democrat women.  You snidely dismiss any opinion from a conservative woman because it does not fit neatly into the little box that you have decided women fit into.
In my world, women have the same issues that men have and those are American issues.  Your side wants to divide us up into little groups separated by race, religion, and gender – with each group having their own little issues and that’s all they care about.  For women its the right to have an abortion, for blacks its perpetuating the myth that in 2012 they still do not have equality, for Hispanics is (illegal) immigration.  
Is your mind able to comprehend that these are people with the same concerns and desires as all other people?  Especially all other American people?  My guess is probably not.




			Posted by: Won't be fooled again | September 23, 2012, 2:06 pm 2:06 pm		



The new hip Democratic Party!
Peddle culture of disrespect, sleaze, degradation, porn, and of no morals – then fight for aborting rights!
It’s all so funny, we all laugh how silly these Conservatives are..
Free abortion pills, free anti- conception, free abortions!   Let’s party!  (while the country burns..)
Hip-Hop USA!
Yes, vote Democrats! Obozo/Biden 2012 & ½!




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 2:10 pm 2:10 pm		



Proof of how out of touch the ultra right wing republicans are.




			Posted by: Nabun | September 23, 2012, 2:10 pm 2:10 pm		



She is an idiot………..I don’t see Dems writing off blacks, but I do see Repubs writing off Blacks, Hispanics, women’s health, gays, the poor, immigrates, muslims — lets make this easy — they write off everyone except the wealthy and their corporate war lords.




			Posted by: BlackHispanic | September 23, 2012, 2:12 pm 2:12 pm		



Anyone who actually thinks Ann Coulter is capable of telling the honest truth needs to get mental health help.
From what she’s saying in this interview it’s clear that she’s both twisting facts out of recognition AND grabbing hold of right wing fantasies and combining it into her narrative.
She’s a complete nutter and has no regard for honest facts.




			Posted by: FormerMarineSgt | September 23, 2012, 2:13 pm 2:13 pm		



I love how the self-indulgent liberals fight over minorities under the pretense that they actually care, rather it makes good politics and ensures continued enslavement to the state.  I wonder if they’re so delusional to tihink that when they drive by bus stops of poor minorities or broken down cars full of laborers in their volvos, bmw’s and mercedes going to gov’t jobs that any incompetent being can fill, do they really believe that these people like them or even think that they’re better off because of their rantings?  A rather delusional and hypocritical way to live.




			Posted by: tslate | September 23, 2012, 2:13 pm 2:13 pm		



If you continue to have someone like Ann Coulter who has nothing valuable to add ever….just tries to say the most outlandish, divisive, untrue things she can think of….I will no longer watch this program….period!




			Posted by: Sally McLafferty | September 23, 2012, 2:15 pm 2:15 pm		



I wonder if this person has come to terms with the fact that only red state yokels speak up for her. This, folks, is the payoff for pathological chastity.




			Posted by: jonnyooh | September 23, 2012, 2:16 pm 2:16 pm		



Ryan was “courting” the Miami Cuban vote [as if this hasn't been the refrain and tune for decades] in the GOP bid to increase inroads into the Hispanic community.  For decades – repeat decades – the blacks have looked to the Democrat party for inclusion – can hardly say that about the radical and intentional movement by the Republicans to disenfranchise as many as possible.  Ms. Coulter of course does not want to remember poll tax in her ignorance of trying to cast aspirtions.  Black voters in this nation do not have short memories nor try to rewrite history – Latino voters are the same.  Immigration reform was all but impossible for Obama fighting the entrenched “…we will do everything possible to make sure this is a one term President and oppose any legislation the Administration puts forth…” Mitch McConnell (R-Ky).  Reform – with all its decades long battles and pigeon holes by the GOP in Committee, fought so intensely by Senator Kennedy to have the GOP smear him as less than American  – is a piece of legislation difficult to conceive, write and implement: something the Republicans have no interest in and have had no interest in.  Certainly President Obama and the Democrats are focused on the Latinos, just as they have on the Blacks, just as they have on the Middle-class and just as they have on all America – a level playing field.  A level playing field to the Republican party is first about money, first about money and power, first about money, power and obstructionism, first about money, power, obstructionism and disenfranchisement, first about money, power, obstructionism, disenfranchisement and did I mention money.?




			Posted by: FromMyFrontPorch | September 23, 2012, 2:21 pm 2:21 pm		



People do not understand the distinction Coulter makes when she says that immigration in not a civil right. The Democrats have changed the meaning of the immigrant to include illegal aliens, and then proclaim that Republicans are anti-immigrant. Republicans are opposed to illegal aliens getting citizenship ahead of people who do the right thing and immigrate legally. Illegal aliens are not a civil right. Coulter is 100% correct. Democrats are now the party of lies immorality. Call murder a woman’
s right to choose, sexual perversion is now gay marriage, and illegal aliens are not immigrants. The Democrats are the new Bolsheviks. Yes, history is repeating itself.




			Posted by: Otaycec | September 23, 2012, 2:21 pm 2:21 pm		



under the pretense that they actually care—who is better capable of saying why they do something?   I am a fiscal conservative but liberal in my social views.  I absolutely do care about fair treatment of human being.  I absolutely care, to the point where I am willing to pay more for, opportunity for those less advantage than I.   I dont like welfare, but I care deeply that minorities and all poor, including rural poor hateful republicans, have good schools, so that their kids have a chance to get out.  If they choose not to, so be it.  But, what if they do?  There is only one way out of poverty – education.    Schools being affordable.   healthcare, the right to be healthy, to be able to get antibiotic, not pneumonia, is just being decent.  You dont know liberals.   This hateful women obviously does not.    But to think you know what we think  is arrogance unbounded.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 2:26 pm 2:26 pm		



Ann, Ann, Ann…your conservative yellow streak is showing. The rantings of a desperate and faltering politicle party lashing out blindly. Why not offer solutions rather than more hate and division? I guess you all have no solutions. Just more of the same dead end prehistoric policies.




			Posted by: Randy | September 23, 2012, 2:27 pm 2:27 pm		



Ann Coulter is a nut case.
Just take a glance at the conventions.
The republicans presented a picture of a sea of lily white faces with a strategically placed person of color here and there. A look of a country that ceased to exist years ago.A wish to return to the past divisions and power.
The democratic convention showed  the diversity of the country as it exists today. The reality of a country of patriotic whites, blacks, Latinos,Asians etc working in unity.
Ann is a hater and divided who main purpose in life is to sell her books




			Posted by: Lar 5 | September 23, 2012, 2:28 pm 2:28 pm		



You snidely dismiss any opinion from a conservative woman ———– No.l I say women should remain free. If a conservative women wants to have a baby she is not capable of supporting, then she can, can’t she?  Happens all the time.   Which is why we have so much welfare, isn’t it?   Red states are plump fat with welfare to unwed women having babies they cannot afford to take care of themselves.   I do think if a women so chooses, she can do so on her own.  I would not mind getting rid of welfare.   But I would never deny her that choice. I might think, it is wrong, but it is her choice to have the baby.    It is also her choice not to.   Hence, the word ‘choose’.  If I were to TRULY not respect a conservative women’s opinion then I would advocate the government forcing her to either give up the baby for adoption or forced abortion unless she can prove she can afford to raise the baby.  But I’m not, am I?  Though conservatives want the government to force a women to maintain a pregnancy and give birth against their will.    I mean, that is just so insupportable it’s laughable in its Draconian backwards women hating attitude.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 2:32 pm 2:32 pm		



women have the same issues that men have and those are American issues—really? Where is the moral equivalent to forcing a women to develop a baby and birth it against her will for the man?   Where is your republican platform that all boys upon reaching the age of 13 be forced to give blood and catalog their DNA and each unwed mother’s baby is then compared to that catalog, and that boy, from that day forward, by the government, will be forced to have that baby either 4 or 3 days out of the week. If he’s supposed to work, or go to school, too bad.  His problem.  The government will drop that baby on his door step and if anything happens to that baby he is personally responsible for it.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 2:36 pm 2:36 pm		



100% true.. .. I’ve noticed it for some time now. At the conventions, everybody is all Kumbaya, and United as brothers (against their common enemy, the Republicans) …. But after the show – everybody goes their separate ways, each group looking out for It’s Own! ….. and the one thing they share is a common is a (thinly veiled) contempt for blacks as a group, who they know they don’t need so much any more. ….. I’m surprised that blacks haven’t (publicly) picked up on it yet.
But it’s just a matter of time.




			Posted by: KC | September 23, 2012, 2:36 pm 2:36 pm		



Best line from acceptance speech by next President of the United States, Mitt Romney:
“In 2008, candidate Obozo promised to lower the sea levels, promised to heal the planet..”
– pause –
“I promise to help you and to your family..”
I love moments of truth like this.
Democrats just spin and (think they) sound good – but destroy whole segments of population by making them addicted to entitlement culture.




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 2:39 pm 2:39 pm		



Wow!  The name-calling being spewed forth here is amazing.  Try disagreeing with someone based on facts!  And if you really don’t like them as vehemently as you say, then change the channel!  You don’t do Obama any service with your words!




			Posted by: Kathy M. | September 23, 2012, 2:54 pm 2:54 pm		



women have the same issues that men have– Men ovulate?  Men get pregnant?  Men give birth?   Men who have sex are being forced into being fathers?  —- reality check:  Male sexual performance drugs are covered by health insurance coverage but conservatives employers dont want to cover birth control pills, which many women take to stop ovulation –  the cramps, the heavy bleeding, the headaches.   No, not for sex, for relief from pain, mostly.   yet men can get drugs to help them have sex and nobody is even wondering if they’re married.




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 2:57 pm 2:57 pm		



“Civil rights are for Blacks”????? Like most of what she says and writes, that’s simply FALSE, in a very literal sense.
The definition of “civil rights” is:
1. (Law) the personal rights of the individual citizen, in most countries upheld by law, as in the US
2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) (modifier) of, relating to, or promoting equality in social, economic, and political rights
EVERYONE has civil rights in the U.S., even immigrants who are not citizens. Laws prohibiting discrimination based on sex, age, race, creed, national origin, religion, etc…extend to ALL, as does the “equal protection under the law” established by the Constitution.
She goes on, “…We don’t owe the homeless. We don’t owe feminists. We don’t owe women who are desirous of having abortions, but that’s — or — or gays who want to get married to one another. That’s what civil rights has become for much of the left.”
Um, yes, we DO “owe” the homeless the same basic civil rights as everyone else! They cannot be summarily rounded up and imprisoned without due process or denied the right to vote. “Feminists” and “women who are desirous of having abortions” are, first and foremost, WOMEN with the same civil rights (including the right to privacy wrt abortion establish by the Supreme Court in Roe V Wade) as ANYONE ELSE. Ditto gays who want to marry, IMO.
This person is a wing-nut of the worst variety, sowing hatred and division for personal profit. And amusing that she slams “feminists” when she herself is an unmarried, working, presumably voting  woman enjoying the fruits of the labor (and deaths) of the “feminists” who fought to claim those CIVIL RIGHTS for their sex.
What a hypocrite.




			Posted by: Raven | September 23, 2012, 2:58 pm 2:58 pm		



“Former Obama domestic policy adviser Melody Barnes disputed Coulter’s contention, saying that immigrants have faced discrimination that required the same protections sought by those who fought for civil rights….”
Uh, there’s a SLIGHT difference between what private citizens think, and official government policy.




			Posted by: Thomas Collins | September 23, 2012, 3:00 pm 3:00 pm		



It is always enjoyable to watch the other “powerhouse roundtable”‘s eyes roll when Ms. Coulter speaks. Such an ignoramus, her comments about blacks and hispanics are sarcastic and provocative. Wasn’t this the woman who said that if Mitt Romney were nominated, the GOP would lose the WH? Of course, George will neglect to bring that up because she is great for ratings as people love to hate her.




			Posted by: wayneasa | September 23, 2012, 3:00 pm 3:00 pm		



Kathy M. “Wow! The name-calling being spewed forth here is amazing.”
Have you ever read any of her books? Or listened to her speak?
Her last book was entitled “Demonic” and in it she argued that “liberals” were the root of all evil in the world and, LITERALLY, demonic.
I have fact-checked her books and found them virtually DEVOID of “facts”, FTR, relying on heavily biased sources and opinion rather than objective FACTS to support her arguments.
The hatred she spews forth knows no bounds. It is RICH for anyone to defend her by criticizing the “name-calling” of her critics, lol.




			Posted by: Raven | September 23, 2012, 3:04 pm 3:04 pm		



She goes on, “…We don’t owe the homeless. We don’t owe feminists. ——She obviously did not belong on the panel.   George sort of looked at her stunned when she said that, the whole panel did.    Hello??? The Civil Rights Act??    14th Amendment, 15th Amendment.     When the entire panel must step back and explain a 50 year old landmark legislation which caused the mass exodus of democrats from the party, an act any first year law student would know, well, then you know she’s really not qualified to be there.




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:04 pm 3:04 pm		



in election year,you court the people that are relevant.the blacks will forever vote for obama while the latinos need to be giving some re-assurance.its like asking romney to go campaign in texas or alabama.




			Posted by: jude | September 23, 2012, 3:04 pm 3:04 pm		



When is this has been ever going to realize that she IS A HAS BEEN!!!!!!




			Posted by: ablots | September 23, 2012, 3:05 pm 3:05 pm		



The name-calling —oh, this women reaps what she sows.




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:05 pm 3:05 pm		



Ann Coulter  Yeah! I notice she a big problem with saying BLACK PEOPLE. Instead of The Blacks or Those People may have been just a little easier for  her to say. hmm




			Posted by: Pedro | September 23, 2012, 3:07 pm 3:07 pm		



saying that immigrants have faced discrimination that required the same protections sought by those who fought for civil rights—Which is why there IS a Civil Rights act, not a “Blacks Rights” act.    The writers of the legislation are quite specific that you cannot be discriminated against for race, religion, sex, etc.   The Americans with Disability Act was predicated on the Civil Rights Legislation that you cannot be discriminated against because you are disabled as one of the conditions to be added to the Civil Rights Act.   I do think when George picks a panel he is required to pick representatives of opinions that at least, know the laws and a tiny sliver of US history.    we should not be going back like high school history teachers to say “no, no, silly little women, the civil right act covered minority populations that may be discriminated against based on race, religion…etc”.    Really,  Shouldn’t all panelists have passed high school civics?




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:10 pm 3:10 pm		



A bunch of bigots and raciest are always ready to blog when it comes to what you feel Afircan American’s are and represent. Next to your race, we and the Hispanics are the next largest groups. You need us to help you get in even if you have to pay us to attend a function. I am tired of lowering myself to the likes and standards of a few on the blogs today. Contrary to your very limited thought process, African Americans are educated with Master’s and PhD’s. They work as doctors, attorneys, board members, CEO’s business owners judges, teachers, firemen, police officers, home owners, business owners and the like. We do not nmes over billion and millionaires. Why do we need you from the 30, 40, 50, and 60s to define who we are or what we can become? I have an MBA and have worked for State governent for 30 years! What can Mitt Romney do for me? NOTHING! He is out of touch with main streem American managing to hang on with corporate and wall street. What can he honestly do for anyone except, OLDER WHITE MEN who feel thans to all of us minority people we have taken jobs from them, not anyone else but the Afrian American’s in this country?  It is not so much President Obama can do or won’t do for me, I was in graduate school before he was elected. I was raised to go after what I want in life by a military officer and an teacher who are millionaries themselves, fromthe south and not white!  Why do you people always feel we need you to define who we are an can become? A bunch of illiterate, uneducated, 12th graders who stopped becoming educated. Don’t write back with an evern nastier comment please. I heard your friend Ann Coulter this morning and her very large, screaming, uneducated mouth said it all. If I screech loud enough they will listen. Right. I missed that segement, by turning down the television. Who ever put that woman on television are the ones like Donald Trump, Arnold Swartsnegger, and so many others. With you idiots running your mouth who needs an enemy. Next time, find a candidate who knows the facts and doesn’t have to follow those making America a racial battleground. I do not need you to tell me anything.




			Posted by: Dehlia | September 23, 2012, 3:16 pm 3:16 pm		



Here are some real world numbers of the past 3.5 years that the president can’t spin:
•	Women in poverty has skyrocketed to 17,000,000, up 800,000
•	7,500,000 women are in extreme poverty,
•	25% of Hispanic women are in poverty
•	2,500,000 women over 65 are in poverty
•	Most of the job losses under Obama have been women (780,000), who have now left the workforce
•	Official black unemployment rates are 14.4 (actually much higher)
•	Official black youth unemployment rates are 40%
•	Official Hispanic unemployment rates are 11 (actually much higher)
American Blacks and Hispanics have been led down a dangerous path by the Pied Pipers of the left. Their only hope for a brighter future is to reject the new plantation bosses of the Democratic Party and to move to traditional American values and politics, which provide personal liberty and economic freedom for all.




			Posted by: Milt | September 23, 2012, 3:20 pm 3:20 pm		



She is simply one of the best examples of the ignorant base populist element that is tearing the GOP apart. And that is ‘one story’ that just has never received the type of media attention….that it deserves. And this ‘element’ just keeps driviing the educated swing voter away to the other side.  Keep up the great work…Coulter.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 23, 2012, 3:21 pm 3:21 pm		



The new Democratic Party!
Vote for us! We want to help you – you poor souls.
Our plan is to have 150 million people on Food Stamps by 2014!
So far we got 50 million!
Vote for us.  We want to provide free car, free iPhone, free iPad, and free contraceptives!
Yes, vote Democrats!   Obozo/Biden 2012 & ½!




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 3:22 pm 3:22 pm		



She is so unknowingly hysterically funny as a Romney apologist, but I like her better as the screeching pit bull she usually imitates




			Posted by: natFrankie | September 23, 2012, 3:25 pm 3:25 pm		



Please post Jorge Ramos’ response to Coulter’s last statement on civil rights.  Facts always tend to shut off ill-guided disconnected people like Coulter.




			Posted by: Romnav | September 23, 2012, 3:27 pm 3:27 pm		



I was taken aback. Civil rights is about paying blacks back for slavery? I’m a middle-aged white guy and I remember life before the Civil Rights Act, and I’m pretty sure it was about trying to have a fair playing field for everyone.




			Posted by: Greggw | September 23, 2012, 3:28 pm 3:28 pm		



Why do you people always feel we need you to define who we are an can become?—I am sorry you have to hear such things.   I cringed when I heard her say “we do owe blacks something. THere was slavery.”  Wasn’t this the same women who said no black today was ever a slave?  We owe them nothing?     And was that all? Were blacks given freedom after slavery to pursue their dreams and desires?!   no!    For another 100 years they were oppressed and killed and beaten routinely and the laws of the land helped with the violence and oppression.  And what i have always found astounding, when those things have been lifted, as when they were freed, they never wanted revenge.    Southern whites were scared if blacks were emancipated due to the overwhelming number of them, whites would be mass slaughtered.  Yet all blacks wanted was to be free.    Same with the Civil Rights movement.   I think how little blacks have asked for is astounding. Much of the super wealthy now, were slave owners 150 years ago.  Go back in the history books and find the ancestors of Forbes etc, invested in slavery.  profiting from it.  I never hear blacks saying the Forbes family now should pay restitution, and I do not know how the Forbes family can live with themselves.     They make no endowments for blacks for college.    How?  How can you know your money is compounded from that sin and atone for it?    There is an evil streak that runs through the republican party.  It very sad that such evil is in this country.    There is some original sin that this country started with that I feel forever curses us until it is atoned for it.  And this women, she only adds fuel to that evil fire.   It’s so ugly.




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:31 pm 3:31 pm		



Shouldn’t all panelists have passed high school civics?  Your standards, George, really.  Was this your Fox ‘news’ moment?




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:33 pm 3:33 pm		



And ABC…provocative?    really??   Provocative means thought worthy.   She was ignorant as to our basic landmark legislation. That’s not provocative. That’s just willful ignorance.




			Posted by: Womens Vote | September 23, 2012, 3:34 pm 3:34 pm		



Race baiting, with a twist… Ann Coulter is certainly twisted… how long will the networks continue to give this woman airtime…. why not just put on the KKK or maybe a Hamas spokesman…




			Posted by: Happyfrenchman | September 23, 2012, 3:36 pm 3:36 pm		



The new Democratic Party!
Vote for us! Our plan is to turn this country into 3rd world country by 2025!
We promise no documents will be needed to enter.  No documents will be needed to vote!
Minorities will be the Majority!
No English is required.  We provide government workers that will translate all to your native language!
Please don’t bother with Social Security number and Taxes!  (Hey even our Prez has shaky SS#.. LOL)
It’s party time in the USA!
Yes, vote Democrats! Obozo/Biden 2012 & ½!




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 3:37 pm 3:37 pm		



Another thing; she proposes that the Democrats are courting the votes of “the Blacks” and “the Latinos” (bet she wouldn’t add a “the” if she were speaking of WHITES;) as if that means they are NOT courting the votes of others, including Whites like myself.
Not the case…they are courting the votes of as many “groups” (PEOPLE) as they can, and their appeal is INFINITLY broader than that of the Republicans.
Romney has apparently given up on getting the votes of any group/demographic EXCEPT for the “angry White far Right male” and his millionaire/billionaire cronies.
That is why he re-affirmed his offensive and erroneous comments re’ the “47%”…that was a tactical move to improve his approval rating with the ONE demographic he still stands a chance of winning. 
Likewise why he spoke before the NAACP and why Ryan spoke before the AARP (both getting chilly receptions)…
the ONLY group they are pandering to is the far-Right Whites/Tea Party/Fox Republicans who have been less than enthusiastic about their ticket but who might view it more favorably if those groups (which they consider “socialist/Democratic”) hate it. 
What next? A speech before the unionized auto workers? LOL.
The GOP has already defamed and/or alienated just about everyone else. They may think that between voter suppression efforts nationwide and sweeping the “Right-White” vote, they can win this thing. But I suspect they already know they are deadin the water and just flailing desperately.




			Posted by: Raven | September 23, 2012, 3:38 pm 3:38 pm		



Ann Coulter is sort of like Bill Maher on the Democratic side.  She seems cooky much of the time but she has these “bites” that can make Democrats go, ‘ouch”!  I like the fact that she doesn’t mince words.  Wish our politicians were more like that.  Somehow I bet there’s a real woman behind Ann Coulter; sadly I don’t care if I ever get to know who she is.




			Posted by: 2DPointAtlanta | September 23, 2012, 3:38 pm 3:38 pm		



Coulter could make more in a strip bar than what she does on her tea party books… I wouldn’t doubt if she was a member of the christian brotherhood…




			Posted by: RobertMIII | September 23, 2012, 3:39 pm 3:39 pm		



Ann Coulter is sort of like Bill Maher on the Democratic side.—oh she is NOT!   Bill Maher is intelligent.  he is knowledgable as to our laws, and he makes very pointed observations as to hypocracy and he INVESTIGATES the right. He sends out reporters to ask questions, see how they feel, sometimes he films it and plays it back.   Coulter lives in a bubble of ignorance.    Maher sometimes has a potty mouth, he swears, he makes sexual inuendo jokes, he’s a comedian!   Let us not forget that!   Is this women a comedian?   no!  The jokes he makes gets him in trouble.   His political satyr is CORRECT.   He doesn’t say ignorant things that expose large gaps of knowledge of our laws!  in fact his jokes shine light on how much research he does on matters.   This women is not a comedian!    When she says stupid things, it’s not a joke..   She actually believes their true, as opposed to Maher’s stand up which is are his jokes.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 3:43 pm 3:43 pm		



Civil rights has always been routed in immigration. It’s like you say sir, history repeats itself, and thus it is again repeating because immigration has come once again a’ knocking on our front door. The blacks immigrated, forcefully. The Irish, the Polish, the Italians, the Egyptians, they all came here for a reason: a better life. To say that Civil Rights does not concern immigration is a flagrant mistake on Coulter’s part. These people are here now, they form the lower tier of the working class and to say that they should be gone is wrong and inhumane.




			Posted by: Karol Sobolewski | September 23, 2012, 3:45 pm 3:45 pm		



@ DAWNER | SEPTEMBER 23, 2012, 1:33 PM 1:33 PM
I agree with the vast majority of your statement; however, it’s not only the Democrats who want the Latinos here, the Republicans want them for the same reasons. Exactly, and I mean give concrete examples of how you expect the middle class to throw off the chains of political prostitutes and corporate whores. AND get rid of illegals who are pushing Americans into poverty?????




			Posted by: Caren | September 23, 2012, 3:48 pm 3:48 pm		



reading some pretty fetched BS from the left here…. I guess Wasserman would be labeled a brilliant and eloquent spokesperson for the left?  Ann Coulter makes fun of the leftwing socialist dimwits better than most anyone.  The fact that she is a woman drives leftwingers over the edge… hilarious she can get you koolaid drinking dimwits torn up… LOL




			Posted by: GlennM | September 23, 2012, 3:48 pm 3:48 pm		



KAROL, exactly. Her argument that “civil rights” only apply to Blacks is idiotic (“argument” is actually too strong a word). The “Civil Rights Act” was, of course, aimed at Blacks…aimed at granting THEM the SAME civil rights EVERYONE ELSE had! 
The term “civil rights” was not invented to apply to Blacks and their struggle to GAIN civil rights commensurrate with those of Whites….it was APPLIED to that movement because it described something which already existed for non-Black Americans and which Black Americans were seeking.
Likewise, the “feminist/suffragist” movement, the gay rights movement, and other movements aimed at securing and protecting the CIVIL RIGHTS of immigrants and other “minority” groups.
As easy as it is to label her an idiot, I don’t think she is one. 
I think she is an intelligent person who KNOWS what she writes and says is B.S. and who wrotes and says it anyway to inflame and MAKE MONEY. 
Far WORSE, imo, than being an idiot.




			Posted by: Raven | September 23, 2012, 3:55 pm 3:55 pm		



The new Democratic Party!  Vote for us!
We are the Party of Intelligent Bill Maher!
We all know that we evolved from monkeys!  We all came from Big Bang!  There was no time before Big Bang – but we believe it anyway..
We are atheists!  We are so smarter than anybody else!  All matter in Universe was is one little ball – then Poof – Big Bang – and all dispersed into today’s World!
And all the intelligent Bill Mahers developed from little Baboons!
We don’t understand how that matter got into that little ball – but we believe it anyway..  It’s a good THEORY!
It’s a good Religion of Big Bang!  LOL
We like big bangs..!  WE are Democrats!
Yes, vote Democrats! Obozo/Biden 2012 & ½!




			Posted by: BPepik | September 23, 2012, 3:58 pm 3:58 pm		



As usual, Coulter’s brain is affected by all that peroxide. Ann still has not figured out even that Amanda Knox was crudely framed by a madman and a cadre of corrupt and vengeful cops. If she cannot see through the simplest of corrupt frame-ups, how can she possibly discern political issues that exceed her tiny worldview “box”???
Coulter is a willfully-blind “guide” obsessed with her own crystal vision – staring into her master’s hat in the dark and proclaiming smoke.




			Posted by: JLS1950C | September 23, 2012, 4:04 pm 4:04 pm		



What a ditz.




			Posted by: sameagain | September 23, 2012, 4:05 pm 4:05 pm		



Looks as if George gets good response when Coulters is on his show. So for those threatening not to watch as she somehow upsets you…..aw shucks…..adios!
I see perfectly what she was saying and that is the left always makes victims out of a group and then makes the case for this group or that being ‘victims of those darn hate mongering republicans’. While we all need to respect each other a person who makes the choice to be here illegally does not have the same civil rights as do citizens. Certainly the descendants of slaves deserved all the rights as any other citizen yet were hampered by the democrats at every step of the way which then brought about civil rights laws. Unfortunately once these rights were won the democrats used the tactics akin to ‘keeping them barefoot and pregnant’ to insure they kept them in line and dependent on them for their monetary support.
When a 31 year old law student can make the claim that her rights are being trampled upon solely due to not being able to get an abortion or birth control at the taxpayers expense then we know just how extreme democrats have become.




			Posted by: david | September 23, 2012, 4:09 pm 4:09 pm		



Adam’s Apple.




			Posted by: ML | September 23, 2012, 4:15 pm 4:15 pm		



When a Conservative speaks truth to Obama lies, the Lib/Dem haters come out of the woodwork.




			Posted by: JuanV | September 23, 2012, 4:16 pm 4:16 pm		



Sing Along!  (To the melody of the Soviet National Anthem.)
All hail the messiah
 Obama, Obama
 The path to the new socialist motherland
 Our savior, our savior
 Obama, Obama
 The leader more famous than Lindsay Lohan
 Bow down and praise the one
 Give him your money and your guns
 Give us a country
 That makes your wife proud
 Lord Barry heal the bitter ones
 White and Clinging to faith and to guns
 Hope for the change of the hope of the change!




			Posted by: JuanV | September 23, 2012, 4:18 pm 4:18 pm		



What a slime ball thing to say, upper middle class trash Ann Culter.




			Posted by: MR-Dana-59 | September 23, 2012, 4:41 pm 4:41 pm		



This girl is dumber than the typical blonde I wonder he the heck she sells her books? There must be a lot equally dumb sheep she has for followers!




			Posted by: Frank | September 23, 2012, 4:41 pm 4:41 pm		



The dumb blonde with the republican flavored kool-aid. We were wanting to hear what she said just like we want someone to shoot us in the knee caps. Drink up right & Annie will be cheering you in h-. No one on the right looks good any more. Pathetic! Reset after you lose! Until then shut up!




			Posted by: Libertyinfinite | September 23, 2012, 4:49 pm 4:49 pm		



ABC and George…Why in the world are you allowing this vile slanderer to have time on your network…….please explain to all of us




			Posted by: eric | September 23, 2012, 5:04 pm 5:04 pm		



George–do not have this nut case on again.  She does not deserve a forum so she can spew her hate.  She panders to the fears of the uneducated.




			Posted by: Janet | September 23, 2012, 5:05 pm 5:05 pm		



Ann Coulter’s claim that 40% of hispanics voted in 1994 for California’s Proposition 187 to reign in illegal immigration is belied by he LA Times exit poll that indicated the it was nearly half her claim at 23%.




			Posted by: Dorian Dale | September 23, 2012, 5:06 pm 5:06 pm		



Just another “Face and Voice” of the Republican party.




			Posted by: FREEDOM | September 23, 2012, 5:06 pm 5:06 pm		



We need Ann Coulter to provide us an example of what not to say.




			Posted by: GAW | September 23, 2012, 5:06 pm 5:06 pm		



If Ann Coulter thinks civil rights are just for black people, she’s never taken Intro to American Government. Why am I not surprised?




			Posted by: Diane | September 23, 2012, 5:19 pm 5:19 pm		



Who gives an ever lovin’ crap what racist Robert Reich thinks.
He’s the guy who insisted that “any new construction jobs should not go to skilled white males.”
The media sure shut that comment up quickly.
Ann Coulter is correct.  Black America – with the rest of us – has been sold down the river already.  Like all demographics, we’re all poorer after four years of Obama trauma.
Recently, Obama deliberately avoided answering Latinos as to what he would do for them –  saying “it wasn’t important now,” putting it off until if and when he is elected again.
No doubt he will make more big lies errr, I mean promises to get their votes, then sell them down the river like he has done with the rest of us.  Lies are cheap.
Be real folks.  Obama doesn’t deliver and everything keeps getting worse.
He went from grass roots donations in 2008 to $25,000 a plate dinners in 2012.  That says it all.
Wonder how many Latinos were there at $25,000 a plate.




			Posted by: GetReal | September 23, 2012, 5:29 pm 5:29 pm		



Ann Coulter is beyond shameful. In my book, she makes Rush Limbaugh look half-way sane sometimes. Two bigots beyond redemption—people, know this. These people spewing this type of divide and conquer mentality could care less about any minority group. Heck, I do believe that they do not care about any group—would throw their own mammas under the bus. November is speedily approaching…I have seen enough blatant racism and hatred to last me a lifetime, and this is not just about our President. It is a deep-rooted, pitiful level of disdain for any group that is different. We must all vote to our hearts convictions. We MUST vote. Do not allow anyone to take away this right.




			Posted by: Ann | September 23, 2012, 5:34 pm 5:34 pm		



Who gives an ever lovin’ crap what racist Robert Reich thinks.
He’s the guy who insisted that “any new construction jobs should not go to skilled white males.”
Yep, he was also the one that admitted that socialized healthcare will lead to rationing care (i.e. the death panels) that the left insisted could never happen.
Search “Robert Reich: What An Honest President Would Say About Health Reform” on You Tube.




			Posted by: Won't be fooled again | September 23, 2012, 5:36 pm 5:36 pm		



I see a lot of dismissive criticisms on here about Ann Coulter’s statements but did you even really bother to read her arguments. She has a really good point about courting voters. Obama has really in the past 6 months changed his appeals from all minority groups and special interest groups to the Hispanics. This is the fact. Obama really sells and I mean sells to get votes. I wish more of his campaign was about actually geared towards America’s future versus what can artificially hold off the fiscal cliff until he gets a second term.




			Posted by: Nick | September 23, 2012, 5:41 pm 5:41 pm		



Stephanopoulos seems to be going shock value.  Having people like this lowers the respect level for the show.  Too bad for the program.




			Posted by: Fizz | September 23, 2012, 5:52 pm 5:52 pm		



It’s not surprising Coutler makes statements that is devoid of facts but more of opinion that Jorge had to refute her statement.  It is a wonder she’s on the panel.  She’s more equivalent of Lynne Cheney being on the show.




			Posted by: James | September 23, 2012, 6:02 pm 6:02 pm		



The posters on  George’s program reflect the bias of ABC network.. all liberal.  If a conservative on the program criticizes the Pres policy they jump all over them.  We had no coverage of the Libya terrorist attack & the outright coverup by the Obama team even when foreign media called it what it was… A terrorist attack… Not the results of the small video..No network has covered how poorly the admin handled it..even misrepresenting it to the nation to shift the blame on anything but the Obama admin.. He’s became very skilled at that.. trouble is the nation does not believe him on anything he says.




			Posted by: L Nelson | September 23, 2012, 6:07 pm 6:07 pm		



Annie  old gurl is trying that old true and tried “Divide and Conquer” the RePULSIVEcants have become so famous for. They’ve all become nauseating.




			Posted by: theyDIVIDE | September 23, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm		



“I see a lot of dismissive criticisms on here about Ann Coulter’s statements but did you even really bother to read her arguments”
Nick, don’t expect it from the posters on this site.  Its all liberal, all hate, all the time.  God forbid a smart women that happens to be conservative go on This Week and speak the truth.  That’s the sort of thing that drives liberals over the edge.  The comments on this board are proof positivie.




			Posted by: Won't be fooled again | September 23, 2012, 6:12 pm 6:12 pm		



Her goal is to restore her debauched people to power. She uses HATE SPEACH as a weapon to attack the “legitimate” people in power, and ultimately destroy them for within. Fundamentally, this conflict is all about MONEY (= POWER). This group uses an abnormal person(s) that is seriously mentally ill to create a remorseless EVIL weapon. In the past, any ordinary “kook” this egregious was locked up in a mental facility or even killed for the greater good of society. If “her people” return to power, they will quickly discard her because she will ultimately turn on them.  We can stop this for happening by remaining rational, vigilant and VOTE.




			Posted by: Madden | September 23, 2012, 6:15 pm 6:15 pm		



Sorry, George, I won’t be tuning in to “This Week” for a while since you’ve decided to give a forum for a hate-monger like Ann Coulter.  This Week used to be a well-respected news/commentary program, but Ann Coulter, who labels her opponents “demonic”?!  There’s already a whole network devoted to the likes of her–it’s called FoxNews.  If you don’t have any better journalistic judgment to distinguish real journalists and serious political commentators from political hacks and hate-mongers like Coulter, then I can’t take your program seriously anymore.




			Posted by: Steve | September 23, 2012, 6:18 pm 6:18 pm		



Liberals, let’s get some leadership in the White House this fall so the 47% can find a job, and start paying for their own health care, food, housing, contraception and abortions.   Now that’s a novel idea!




			Posted by: Craig | September 23, 2012, 6:23 pm 6:23 pm		



How can ABC news stoop to have Coulter on your show George.  She is an idiot, bigoted book seller who capitalizes on Tea party fanaticism.  It’s hard to stomach her… And what a contrast to the brilliant Robert Reich.  Keep Keep Coulter on Fox News where I don’t have to watch her.




			Posted by: Dean | September 23, 2012, 6:25 pm 6:25 pm		



I’d pop her if she shut up for awhile.




			Posted by: Jim Bob jr. | September 23, 2012, 6:26 pm 6:26 pm		



And Romnye is dropping the rich and speaking to to the poor! This women is an attention seeking moron!




			Posted by: tom | September 23, 2012, 6:57 pm 6:57 pm		



She is a symbol of what’s wrong with the GOP today and what will be its demise.  She is NOT a smart woman.  She is a provocateur instilling unnecessary emotionality to the thoughtless right wing nut jobs.  No on criticizes Noonan or Wills as valid, intellectual GOP commentators.  It’s fools like Coulter, Bachmann and Palin that dims the GOP light bulb.  ABC is scraping the bottom with her.




			Posted by: Fizz | September 23, 2012, 6:58 pm 6:58 pm		



Anybody with a big right wing mouth (and a few face lifts) can be big on Murdoch TV and rightie radio – the followers can’t get enough. Personally, I think personalities like this do more to inflame (and motivate) the opposition -and alienate moderates.




			Posted by: FREEDOM | September 23, 2012, 7:01 pm 7:01 pm		



I don’t understand why Hispanics would vote for democrats anymore than I understand why Blacks do. OK, I do understand how effective the democrats message of “fear republicans” can be, but I expect both Blacks and Hispanics expect some promises to be kept; however, that obviously is not the case.




			Posted by: ztarbod | September 23, 2012, 7:03 pm 7:03 pm		



Oh my, a smart witty woman states clearly the facts.  The bots don’t like her stating the truth………so once again what they do when a woman dares challenge them….more empty sexist name calling..she’s ugly, she needs a man, she is a ditz.   As a woman, I am fed up with the bots constant belittling and sexist name calling that the dems insist on using to try to silence women.




			Posted by: sticktogluey | September 23, 2012, 7:11 pm 7:11 pm		



Why are people so blind when someone says it like it is? George, you and your Obama supporters make light of the truth. Obama doesn’t care about the 95% of blacks that are going to vote for him because he is black. Oh, that’s right, the black always vote Democratic – can’t afford to give up the government share the wealth money….




			Posted by: Patrick Fargo | September 23, 2012, 7:15 pm 7:15 pm		



As I have asked in the past, please stop giving this woman a platform to further drag political discourse from the gutter to the latrine.  I am sure you get ratings when she’s on, but how is her technique debate?  She talks AT people.  What purpose does that serve other than her own?




			Posted by: Zac | September 23, 2012, 7:17 pm 7:17 pm		



All I can say is WOW! Some of the comments here are laughable if not utterly sad.It is disappointing BUT necessary to realize that in this 2012 the racist beliefs of many is so close to the surface. To read that someone thinks–NO BLACKS have figured out how to move past dependency and are now being “dumped” for the next best thing, demonstrates that actually little is known about the progression of Blacks in America. And proudly spoken by a non-Black female I often am amazed at the number of Black women who have out-paced me in education and career progression. And I stand in possession of a decent education. I think it is because of the demographics of many areas, maybe unseen in the mid-west or south but come to the east coast and witness how far down the totum pole most of you would be catergorized. To even be discussing this is embarrassing and of course Annie has a motive. So George maybe now it’s your responsibility to start dispelling some of these myths. I think White America would hide in shame when we actually realize we are not the smartest, not the most clever and still speaking off of 1975 data. I leave you with this–the resemblence is equivilant to Honey Boo Boo.




			Posted by: TG | September 23, 2012, 7:22 pm 7:22 pm		



Ann screeching Coulter is not an expert on anything but lying and accusing others of what the GOP has always been guilty of.  President Obama has most groups of people who want this country to keep improving. President Obama has most people who are tired of the wealthy only agenda of the GOP.  President Obama has the intelligent people who want honesty and fairness restored to our country.




			Posted by: Vicki | September 23, 2012, 7:28 pm 7:28 pm		



Really, she is not credible, to put it kindly- except for making the Republicans look bad(der).  Maybe she is a Democratic plant, a mole, ya know?  Right, book her some more!




			Posted by: Razbo | September 23, 2012, 7:43 pm 7:43 pm		



Love Ann, the liberals hate to hear the truth, and they whine like a bunch of babies!  It is about time we shove down thier throat, since they have been shoving down the American peoples forever.  Thanks Ann for telling the truth that the liberal news just hates.




			Posted by: Michelle | September 23, 2012, 7:48 pm 7:48 pm		



Are you serious Michelle? Coulter spreds lies, talks mostly of hate and frankly is an evil person… don’t be fooled by movie star looks..she’s evil.




			Posted by: RobertMIII | September 23, 2012, 7:57 pm 7:57 pm		



People are generally not too bright. Coulter is smart enough to use this fact to make a career for herself. Her detestable right wing caricature that sells books and makes paid appearances on television and the speech circuits is just an act people. She is making a killing of of your gullibility. If you hate her you are actually on her side as much as the extremists who worship her. The solution to inane content such as hers is to not watch it. But that won’t happen… see my first sentence.




			Posted by: Michael | September 23, 2012, 8:03 pm 8:03 pm		



Love Ann, the liberals hate to hear the truth, and they whine like a bunch of babies! It is about time we shove down thier throat, since they have been shoving down the American peoples forever. Thanks Ann for telling the truth that the liberal news just hates.
Posted by: Michelle | September 23, 2012, 7:48 pm 7:48 pm
Is that you Bachmann?




			Posted by: Jim Bob jr. | September 23, 2012, 8:10 pm 8:10 pm		



Eeew
Why do people in the media still give the Scum Queen a platform to spout her hate from?




			Posted by: LingerGalthrope | September 23, 2012, 8:16 pm 8:16 pm		



omg I can’t believe people are even congratulation Ann for being “honest”…? are you kidding me? Do any of you know the meaning of “civil rights”… Also, do any of you are from this century? What is going on in the world? Why do people want to go backwards?




			Posted by: zst | September 23, 2012, 8:32 pm 8:32 pm		



The more her words inflame the more she makes.




			Posted by: lexingtonlady | September 23, 2012, 8:45 pm 8:45 pm		



Why are networks still giving this idiot a voice?




			Posted by: Jack Smothers | September 23, 2012, 8:48 pm 8:48 pm		



Ann Coulter needs to be put in her place and prevented from interrupting the other guests.  If she is not, the discussion becomes unwatchable.  The discussion is the most important part of the show.  While I am a Dem., I enjoy hearing the Rep. side of the story, but not if it means that someone is going to dry to talk over the other guests.  If she can’t control herself, and you can’t/won’t control her, then don’t have her back.  I don’t mind if she wants to promote crazy viewpoints.  I do mind that she dominates.  Rude and lacking in grace.




			Posted by: AndMor | September 23, 2012, 9:00 pm 9:00 pm		



I despise this woman and every other idiotic female the GOP trots out (apparently, no normal intelligent female wants to be associated with the GOP, yet they can’t seem to clue in to that fact).  That said, it has crossed my mind that if I were a young black individual whose ancestors were brought here without choice, discriminated against for a more than a century—even still, today—and my parents are legal, tax-paying citizens without the means to send me to college, I’d be pretty pissed about the Dream Act.




			Posted by: LagunaTriMom | September 23, 2012, 9:01 pm 9:01 pm		



not watching with her on




			Posted by: LP | September 23, 2012, 9:08 pm 9:08 pm		



Coulter is wrong.  The Supreme Court has held that illegal immigrants have civil rights since at least the 1886 case of Yick Wo v. Hopkins.




			Posted by: Pete | September 23, 2012, 9:08 pm 9:08 pm		



Rush Limbaugh with boobs.  She is nothing more than an entertainer, and makes money off those she offends.  I agree.  She would go away if people gave her no air time.  People who make money by trying to divide this country are not worth the time of day.  She has no political agenda but to make money through pitting Americans against each other.  
Our forefathers were serious people and would probably turn over in their graves if they knew that people spout political opinions for no other reason that to line their pockets through inciting hate among Americans.  She is laughing all the way to the bank,  George, don’t give her any more air time for any reason.




			Posted by: profm2 | September 23, 2012, 9:09 pm 9:09 pm		



She has zero credentials = to her IQ.  Really scraping the bottom of the barrel for guests ABC????
Swtiching to NBC/CBS when this woman shows up.




			Posted by: Julie | September 23, 2012, 9:09 pm 9:09 pm		



“Nothing in all the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and
conscientious stupidity” Rev Dr. Martin Luther King.  She is a confused racists, just spouting out hate speech for anybody to listen and fo make money, period.  ‘It is better than to be thought of as a fool than to open your mouth and cancel all doubt.” Benjamin Franklin…..Words to live by Ms. Coulter…




			Posted by: James E. Davis | September 23, 2012, 9:19 pm 9:19 pm		



I cant help but see many things in what she says and her facial expressions/appearances.
Greed,Unjustified Gloating,{she sh*ts like everyone one on this planet}Damn RIGHT out lying.
and that is just the tip of the ice berg.
sometime,somewhere,at some point in her life she feels she was the “victim”of what the hell I have no idea of ,but it made annie who and what she is today.
I personally would hate to have to go to bed at night with myself  if I were her




			Posted by: john | September 23, 2012, 9:26 pm 9:26 pm		



But Ann… the president is black… explain this?




			Posted by: Truth | September 23, 2012, 9:26 pm 9:26 pm		



Since both President Obama anr Romney both had huge spots on Latino TV this past week, both canidates prepared and spoke about issues that effect Latino voters, since those were the questions being asked.  So why would she say Obama has abandend the black vote, did Romney abanded the white vote because he did the same show Obama did.  Next this lady knows nothing about history because Civil Rights were to protect ALL people from being short changed because of race, gender, religion, sexual preference etc.  Fact is the Civil Rights movement helped white women more than any other group of people.  So since white people will soon be the minority those Civil Rights will one day protect white people from facing set backs due to not holding the majority.




			Posted by: jrpryor1 | September 23, 2012, 9:31 pm 9:31 pm		



“But Ann… the president is black… explain this?”———What she means is that blacks are in the bag for obama. No matter how much obama ignores them, their much higher unemployment rate, record poverty levels. Obama treats them like pawns. Now obama wants to move on to other groups. Use them and then dump them!




			Posted by: real_hope_and_change | September 23, 2012, 9:36 pm 9:36 pm		



Just goes to prove you can’t quit crazy.  I listen to Ann Coulter because she’s pure entertainment and nothing but a help to the left.  I say give her all the air time she wants.




			Posted by: Debbie | September 23, 2012, 9:44 pm 9:44 pm		



“I’m happy to learn that after I speak you’re going to hear from Ann Coulter. That’s a good thing. I think it’s important to get the views of moderates.” – Mitt Romney




			Posted by: Maxwell | September 23, 2012, 9:51 pm 9:51 pm		



she should be barred from appearing on any media outlet other than Fox. She is moron and way out form main stream.




			Posted by: chris | September 23, 2012, 9:52 pm 9:52 pm		



Why does anyone care to explain anything to the nutcase. It’s obvious she never has her facts straight, she’s simplified reality into only black and white shades, she’s biased and a bigot. Please don’t both inviting her into conversations as though she’s anyone to recon with. It’s like trying to  explain ethics or morals to a dog or a three year old. It just won’t happen. Ann is sick….really scary sick!




			Posted by: Wandering Dervish | September 23, 2012, 10:15 pm 10:15 pm		



Why does anyone care to explain anything to the nutcase. It’s obvious she never has her facts straight, she’s simplified reality into only black and white shades, she’s biased and a bigot. Please don’t bother inviting her into conversations as though she’s anyone to recon with. It’s like trying to  explain ethics or morals to a dog or a three year old. It just won’t happen. Ann is sick….really scary sick!




			Posted by: Wandering Dervish | September 23, 2012, 10:17 pm 10:17 pm		



A true nutcase.




			Posted by: Indyswimmer66 | September 23, 2012, 10:21 pm 10:21 pm		



Anybody else catch this nut complaining about Obama invading Egypt?  This woman is a complete hack, and at some point, we in this country are going to have to demand accountability towards people like this that lie on a continual basis.  These people are why this country has become so toxic, and why smart countries like Canada and Australia gave them the boot.




			Posted by: D | September 23, 2012, 10:25 pm 10:25 pm		



I just want to know who is in charge of booking political individual(s), because they need to make better choose of who, they having as a guess. This toothpick of Ann Coulter need to go back or get some history lesson on who was here first.




			Posted by: adan | September 23, 2012, 10:29 pm 10:29 pm		



I had stopped watching your show because the last time I did Ann Coulter was on it, even though I love George Stephanoploulos. I turned it on for the first time today and there she was again. This is supposed to be an intelligent, thoughtful program. The only reason I can think of that you booked her is because someone else dropped out at the last minute. Please don’t do it again. She lowers the quality and intelligence of the discussion, is distractingly shrill, and her stock-and-trade is crude, insulting comments, particularly about minorities. You can and should do better.




			Posted by: acemama3 | September 23, 2012, 10:29 pm 10:29 pm		



This lady needs to read a history book.  Before african-americans, who was in California, Texas, New Mexico?  Please lady, Mexico!!!!!!!  Yes, lady the land belonged to MEXICO, so, por favor, stop saying blonde things and go back to school, prepare yourself before you open your mouth and believe me, even if you blondes do not welcome hispanics, we have been here before your time and we will stay here in our land.




			Posted by: Patricia | September 23, 2012, 10:35 pm 10:35 pm		



Real-Hope: “What she means is that blacks are in the bag for obama. No matter how much obama ignores them, their much higher unemployment rate, record poverty levels. Obama treats them like pawns. Now obama wants to move on to other groups. Use them and then dump them!” Sounds like Romney tossing 47% of his boys in the solid red down south under the bus..




			Posted by: RobertMiii | September 23, 2012, 10:40 pm 10:40 pm		



Ann likes to dispense bitterness.  It is her gift to the world and she is so good at it.  The lonely cross she will bear is that she will remain single all her days….no man will love her because she has no love for anyone else.




			Posted by: Nobland | September 23, 2012, 10:51 pm 10:51 pm		



Why would any serious journalist have someone with a combined IQ of a stalk of celery (Annhole) on his/her show? Ugh! She neither does anything for the right wing and the left wing pretty much ignores her too. Please brings guests with substance and useful data, not verbal diarrhea!!!!




			Posted by: Sam | September 23, 2012, 10:53 pm 10:53 pm		



Why do you continue to have Ann Coulter on This Week and any other show?  She is the most nauseating woman that ever was on the face of the earth.  Her screeching voice is like having fingernails go down a blackboard.  She doesn’t contribute a thing, only trying to sell her “right wing “books (which I wouldn’t waste my money on).  There are many more Republican women who you could choose from, who aren’t as bad as she is.  I hope her appearance this time will be the last.




			Posted by: Barb Beck | September 23, 2012, 10:58 pm 10:58 pm		



Coulter is the political version of a young-Earth creationist, searching desperately for evidence that man once hunted dinosaurs, for geological evidence that the latter perished in the Flood just 5,000 years ago – and declaiming that God once allowed light to travel at extraluminal speed just so that we (and she) could see stars billions of light-years distant. She makes herself a “true believer” of her chosen political fantasies and declaims such with straight-faced earnestness despite all evidence against her. Coulter could plausibly sell electric freezers to Eskimos even while declaiming that climate change is a “Liberal myth”.




			Posted by: JLS1950C | September 23, 2012, 11:06 pm 11:06 pm		



Can’t Understand Normal Thinking!




			Posted by: Jagmanxke | September 23, 2012, 11:17 pm 11:17 pm		



Does any serious minded person take Ann Coulter seriously?




			Posted by: William Fillmore | September 23, 2012, 11:24 pm 11:24 pm		



George.  You need to take a class from Tom Leykis 101.  I think Wierd Al Yankovic would make a better interviewer.  If not Al, then Howard Stern.




			Posted by: Jagmanxke | September 23, 2012, 11:28 pm 11:28 pm		



I agreed with LEGAL immigration not ILLEGAL.
Why the media is having a hard time to say ILLEGAL!




			Posted by: LEGAL IMMIGRANT | September 23, 2012, 11:31 pm 11:31 pm		



Wow….Civil rights are only for blacks? Lets see…”Civil and political rights are a class of rights based upon birthright into a polity or designation otherwise of human rights. Civil rights include the ensuring of peoples’ physical and mental integrity, life and safety; protection from discrimination on grounds such as physical or mental disability, gender, religion, race, national origin, age, status as a member of the uniformed services, sexual orientation, or gender identity and individual rights such as privacy, the freedoms of thought and conscience, speech and expression, religion, the press, and movement.The phrase “civil rights” is a translation of Latin ius civis (rights of citizens). Roman citizens could be either free (libertas) or servile (servitus), but they all had rights in law.[5] After the Edict of the Milan in 313, these rights included the freedom of religion.[6] Roman legal doctrine was lost during the Middle Ages” Nope doesn’t say ” Just for Blacks “in there anywere




			Posted by: The black dude | September 23, 2012, 11:31 pm 11:31 pm		



Ann is one of the smartest Scam Artists of our time.  She has learned to take advantage of her fairly attractive appearance and understanding of  “the politics of fear” and channel it into a thriving business.  Watching her is like porn for right-wingers.  Just like any good salesperson, she packages her product to meet the needs of her niche market (which is getting smaller).
 Go girl!  Though I don’t agree with anything you say, I applaud you for taking advantage of the situation and making  a profit :”There’s one born every minute”.




			Posted by: PT Barnum | September 23, 2012, 11:43 pm 11:43 pm		



did you even really bother to read her arguments”—sort of stopped short at “no.  Civil rights were for the blacks”.    Sort of…oh…she’s THAT dumb, huh?     no need to hear anymore.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 11:44 pm 11:44 pm		



I”m sort of shocked she’d be so dumb as to not be familiar with the landmark legislation that caused the mass exodus of white southerners from the democratic party.  The Civil Rights Act.    How can you not know what that was?   Its the reason her kind hate democrats.  Their idea that all humans have civil rights undeniable with race, religion, ethnicity or sex.  It’s not the ‘blacks rights” act.




			Posted by: Not UR Average Joe | September 23, 2012, 11:48 pm 11:48 pm		



How can someone so pretty have a voice that wants to make you run like blazes and say things so ignorant you want to throw your mouse at your computer screen?  She has got to be doing it for the $ and the publicity, because one would hope she is not that ignorant (in the literal sense) or that biased, um, bigoted in the year of our Lord 2012.




			Posted by: LTC Joe Cruz (USAR, ret.) | September 23, 2012, 11:50 pm 11:50 pm		



It appears that most of those vile comments about Ann Coulter are coming from people who didn’t get past the 6th grade….since most wouldn’t even mention her name.  Ann is well educated, married, and has children.  I have been listening to her for years and value her opinion.  I also value the opinion of liberals such as Bob Beckel and others.  Both help give me a balance to my political ideas about what is best for our country.  It appears, though, that the nastier, insulting, and childish comments come exclusively from the left (far left if you will).  I trust that George will continue booking people of different political views so that his viewers will get both sides of the issue.  I particularly enjoy Ann’s input.




			Posted by: Bob Lewis | September 24, 2012, 12:42 am 12:42 am		



Yes she says some shocking things but she says some true things people want to say but are afraid to say for fear of being labeled if they say it.  Democratic politicians are aware that the vast majority of blacks will vote democratic so they’re trying to widen their voting base by focusing on the largest potential minority group – Hispanics.  Can you blame them?  It’s called strategy.  Let’s face it, politics is all just a game.  And neither side wants to lose.  Power is at stake.




			Posted by: Tom | September 24, 2012, 12:49 am 12:49 am		



Are you trying to be Fox “News?”  Why would you put this ridiculous hatchet faced tranny on your show and website?  What are we doing here, ABC?




			Posted by: Nick | September 24, 2012, 1:20 am 1:20 am		



” Ann is well educated, married, and has children.” hello, bob lewis…ms. coulter has NEVER been married, and has NO children. if you’re going to insult people who are making negative comments about the woman, you should at least make sure you get your facts straight. just sayin’…




			Posted by: justsane | September 24, 2012, 1:28 am 1:28 am		



Does Ann Coulter wear a mask? She looks scary




			Posted by: RomneyWillLose | September 24, 2012, 1:51 am 1:51 am		



Sorry George and all you viewers. Ann is correct. Guess what I love Obama voted for him and I am a brother too, but he is over his head with problems he can’t fix. We went through pure hell to get this far in life because of civil right and yes they have been high-jacked by other causes. We need to get away from dependencies on the social system it has torn the black family apart. The country needs a jobs bill that would get rid of entitlements; give able people jobs who are soaking the welfare system first dib’s on jobs and then help those who really need help. Hate to say it but the Republicans are trying to make everybody more responsible and accountable.




			Posted by: Lynn | September 24, 2012, 2:16 am 2:16 am		



I can see very clearly. The background says “ABC…This Week.” Someone needs do “drop” some pigmentation on this woman…girl…Prayin’ Mantiss.




			Posted by: redthatsmyname | September 24, 2012, 2:47 am 2:47 am		



@lynn. How are the republicans trying to make everybody more responsible?




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 24, 2012, 3:48 am 3:48 am		



Ann Coulter is not very bright. And all she is just selling her book. Period.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 24, 2012, 3:52 am 3:52 am		



Ann coulter is just promoting her book no need for any one to get excited.




			Posted by: abraham lincoln1 | September 24, 2012, 3:53 am 3:53 am		



What Coulter is basically saying is that the Democrats want to take over America, and establish a socialist dictatorship, and they will pander to any group that will vote their way to make that happen. 
America, then, will NO LONGER be America. It will NO LONGER be free. It will NO LONGER be for ALL. It will simply be the Democratic Party……..dictators in America!




			Posted by: Rick McDaniel | September 24, 2012, 8:06 am 8:06 am		



Rick McDaniel, thank you for Cliffs notes, brother., Your professionalism within this bogs stands out and above the norm. I like it.




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 24, 2012, 9:11 am 9:11 am		



BTW,ABC has two posts about the same Ann Coulter’s book on the same Monday morning . Is it ABC’s ploy to play race card ?  People, please watch Univision’s “Meet the candidate” interviewed Obama ,you will be in  for a treat.




			Posted by: acdc2012 | September 24, 2012, 9:22 am 9:22 am		



LOL…that 8:06 post of this morning….and the 9:11 reply are perfect examples of not only what has happened to the GOP…they are perfect examples of why people of above average intelligence and an educated worldly outlook…have opted ‘out of that ideology’. That type of ‘thinking/mentality’…has destroyed the relevancy of that Party.




			Posted by: CND FOX | September 24, 2012, 9:27 am 9:27 am		



Why in the world does this program invite a racist and nutcase like Coulter on this show?!?  Why is she on ANY show?!?  She is simply a Limbaugh-esque sideshow shilling a book of absurd claims to racists and crazies.  This show gave her a platform to sell the snake oil.  
There are SO many worthwhile guests.  Why this absurd nutcase??




			Posted by: ktrav | September 24, 2012, 10:11 am 10:11 am		



If beauty is skin deep…there goes your proof.




			Posted by: ebg | September 24, 2012, 10:41 am 10:41 am		



I am so  tired of all this foolishness.  I have been in the working poor category divorced with three kids to raise worked two jobs paid payroll taxes on both jobs. Did not pay income taxes following guidelines set our federal government and no I did not feel like a victim.  I am now 57 disabled and yes I receive help from the government-a programs that is set in place to help a person survive in times of need with housing, food and medical. For some strange reason I still don’t feel like a victim – call it optimism, call it hope for a better future, I still don’t feel like a victim I feel blessed that I live in a country that is there to help if needed.
We need a President that has my needs as well as every person’s needs thought of be it rich, poor, Black, white, Latino -whoever  a President that don’t have just a handful of people’s needs to worry about or represent.  We need someone who is concerned with everyone’s fairness, health or wealth and the security in this country regardless of party affiliation – this is my entitlement this is my truth, this is my belief.
So please stop with the foolishness adults – only 47%, and dropping blacks for Latino’s this is just sicking for you to not think of everyone in these United State Of America, so disappointing and yes I am Black




			Posted by: Vivian | September 24, 2012, 11:31 am 11:31 am		



racist nutcase? perhaps but the truth hurts. obama could care less about the black vote as he has treated it as a given. look at the black unemployment rate ….how anyone in that group could vote for obama defies logic.




			Posted by: catman | September 24, 2012, 11:34 am 11:34 am		



That is, to a point, true.
Hispanics outnumber blacks in America, thanks to the flood of illegal immigration over the last 50 yrs. Now they are a much larger voting block, and the only thing the Democratic party wants, is a socialist dictatorship, so they will put less emphasis on blacks in the future, and they will increase hand outs to Hispanic, to buy their votes, to build a base that cannot be defeated. 
To Democrats, being in control of the country is the entire goal, and they will stop at nothing, legal or illegal, to accomplish that!




			Posted by: Rick McDaniel | September 24, 2012, 11:41 am 11:41 am		



Dear George,
Why do you debase your show and this entire news organization by inviting this bomb-throwing, nasty, vile, mean, ugly human being on your program? She adds NOTHING to the national debate, except hatred and vitriol. You can and should do better by the American viewing public.




			Posted by: cc423 | September 24, 2012, 11:52 am 11:52 am		



I’m no fan of Ann the Man, but the democrats only keep leading blacks on and string them along for votes.  Many blacks are beginning to notice this.  What Ann’s saying isn’t new.  I still don’t understand why the Jews keep their noses firmly implanted in the party’s rear now that the party really has rejected them now when I ran is this close to having a nuclear weapon and promising to wipe Israel off the planet.  Talk about self loathing…  Seriously, but you’d think a few would draw the line somewhere.




			Posted by: TexBork_2012 | September 24, 2012, 12:06 pm 12:06 pm		



I am beginning to believe they must have some kind of contract with her as they keep having her back. I cannot stand to hear her hateful voice and turn it immediately. She belongs on Rush Limbaugh! George you are better than this!




			Posted by: leopbjs | September 24, 2012, 12:59 pm 12:59 pm		



George,
I have watched your show for years and years.  I enjoy the mix of liberal and conservative folks discussing issues.  BUT Ann Coulter is a bad choice for this forum.  She talks too loud, shouts, talks over others, interrupts and is generally unpleasant.  Please don’t have her ever again!  If you do, I may not enjoy your show in the future.




			Posted by: Dave | September 24, 2012, 2:50 pm 2:50 pm		



Ms. Coulter, have you forgotten this poem, or did you never know it?  I’ll reprint it here for you and the others who think America was founded of, for, and by bigoted rich white men:
“Send me your tired, your poor,
your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
the wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me;
I lift my lamp beside the golden door.”
Well, Angry Annie, how do you think your ancestors, and all our ancestors, got here? THe Statue of Liberty was not erected to welcome capitalists and millionaires.




			Posted by: LadyRider | September 24, 2012, 4:10 pm 4:10 pm		



Lets all work harder and pay more taxes so that the illegal, undocumented aliens can have free healthcare and free welfare. They came here illegally not like our forefathers who went about it the right way and earned it. This country is going down the tubes fast!




			Posted by: John Harvard | September 24, 2012, 7:17 pm 7:17 pm		



George- Time to decide whether you want to host a civil exchange of ideas or a sideshow.
Last week was a joke.
I’ll tune back in when you decide.




			Posted by: mike | September 24, 2012, 11:45 pm 11:45 pm		



jesus christ joe,
If you are going to make an inane supposed-to-be-funny acronym out of ABC, at least make the letters match (eg: All Barack Channel as opposed to All Obama Channel). Get it? ABC vs AOC?
As for Ann Coulter, she is a hideous reptile in female garb, like many here I just cannot STAND her presence and her views are late medieval at best.. Which is too bad, because she slanders both women in politics and the republican party, which should have a place in the public debate but really doesn’t because it has gotten hijacked by wingnuts like her. sheesh.




			Posted by: sam | September 26, 2012, 5:02 pm 5:02 pm		



Is Aaron (oops, Ann) is he still around??




			Posted by: kocolate | September 26, 2012, 7:19 pm 7:19 pm		



I am a LONG TIME This Week viewer but I refuse to watch when that know-nothing nightmare of a human being, Ann Coulter, is on. If ABC wants to have a conservative voice on the program that’s fine BUT not some shrill, hateful, vulgar, vile, vicious, vacuous, dirtbag, dog-faced MORON like Ann Coulter.
ABC – you CAN do better. and until you do, you’ve lost a viewer!




			Posted by: Jackson | September 27, 2012, 8:15 pm 8:15 pm		



This witch simply makes outrageous statements to get publicity and keep her name in the public eye. It’s all a marketing ploy to sell her books.  She’s a publicity whore!!!




			Posted by: Frank D. Colantuono | September 28, 2012, 9:22 am 9:22 am		



That said, it has crossed my mind that if I were a young black individual whose ancestors were brought here without choice, discriminated against for a more than a century—even still, today—and my parents are legal, tax-paying citizens without the means to send me to college, I’d be pretty pissed about the Dream Act.  _______________ Lagunatrimom, I’m African-American.  The reason I belong to the Democratic party and call myself liberal, is exactly because the party is OPEN and ACCEPTING of anyone.  I totally applaud the DREAM Act, and in its abscense, the Executive Order the President signed into law.  WHat you suggest is DIVISIVENESS.  It is precisely because African-Americans went through what they did in this country, that we are empathetic to what Hispanics, who were ALLOWED and given AMNESTY by Republican Presidents, are going through now with the “self-deportation” laws of the Republican Party.   So, no there is NO resentment against Hispanics by Black people.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 28, 2012, 12:03 pm 12:03 pm		



What she means is that blacks are in the bag for obama. No matter how much obama ignores them, their much higher unemployment rate, record poverty levels. Obama treats them like pawns. Now obama wants to move on to other groups. Use them and then dump them!  ______________You really need to move on from your faux concern about Black people.  The President is working on behalf of ALL people and that’s just fine  with Black folk!  The Right-LESS is all about DIVISION.  It’s not working any more.  In case you didn’t know, I’m Black, so I’m a higher authority on the issue than you are.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 28, 2012, 1:30 pm 1:30 pm		



Can’t Understand Normal Thinking! _________________ Ooooooo.  Sneaky!




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 28, 2012, 2:05 pm 2:05 pm		



racist nutcase? perhaps but the truth hurts. obama could care less about the black vote as he has treated it as a given. look at the black unemployment rate ….how anyone in that group could vote for obama defies logic. _____________ Catman, got news for you.  Whenever this country sneezes, Black folks get pneumonia!  It has ALWAYS been worse, economically, for Black people whenever there’s been a depression or a recession.  President Obama is trying to ensure some economic safety for ALL Americans — especially the middle class, the working poor and the poor.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 28, 2012, 2:53 pm 2:53 pm		



They came here illegally not like our forefathers who went about it the right way and earned it. __________ Rethink this and then get back to us.  Do you even know who existed on this continent before Chris Columbo arrived?  Do you know what effect that had on the indigenous people here?   Wow.  And. Wow.




			Posted by: MsT-Mac | September 28, 2012, 3:01 pm 3:01 pm		



Ann Coulter is a racist. Period




			Posted by: Henry | October 6, 2012, 8:41 pm 8:41 pm		



Someone really needs to converse with her doctor, so they can tweak the dosage’s of all the med’s she is obviously on.




			Posted by: steven | November 8, 2012, 12:27 pm 12:27 pm		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About George StephanopoulosGeorge Stephanopoulos is anchor of ABC's "Good Morning America" and "This Week." He is also the network's chief political correspondent, reporting on political and policy stories for all ABC News broadcasts and platforms. 
Categories 
George Stephanopoulos

Legal

National Security

OTUS

Political Punch

Polls

Power Players

The Note


  Recent Politics Posts 
Obama Talks Football, Gender Issues, Taxes Before Super Bowl
Former SEAL’s Shooting Will Shadow Obama Gun Control Speech
Jorge Ramos: Republicans ‘Finally Getting It’ on Immigration
Paul Krugman: ‘NRA Is Now Revealed as an Insane Organization’
Michelle Rhee: ‘Probably’ Shouldn’t Have Fired School Principal on National TV

  RSS
Top Blogs on ABCNews.com 

Technology - Today 9:42pm
Super Bowl Power Outage: Social Media Reacts to Blackout


Entertainment - Today 9:12pm
Super Bowl Halftime: Beyonce Sings Biggest Hits; Surprise Destiny's Child Reunion


Business - Today 9:07pm
Controversial Volkswagen Super Bowl Ad Gets Viewer Approval


Politics - Today 7:24pm
Obama Talks Football, Gender Issues, Taxes Before Super Bowl


Headlines - 2/3/13 6:00pm
Super Bowl XLVII Live: Score, Commercials and More


Lifestyle - 2/3/13 6:01am
Delta to Debut First-Ever Outdoor Airport Terraces 


Extras - 2/2/13 10:09pm
Instant Index: Phil Does Not See His Shadow and Two NFL Coaches Making History


Health - 2/2/13 7:00am
Super Bowl Indulgence? Start Walking


Million Moms Challenge - 5/12/12 9:00am
A Mother's Day to Remember: Winner Gets Portrait By Anne Geddes


Top News on ABCNews.comRavens Defeat 49ers in Historic, Unusual Super BowlTurkish Police: American Killed by Blow to HeadAla. Hostage Standoff: Boy Being Made 'As Comfortable As Possible'Kyle's Killing Puts Spotlight on PTSD'American Sniper' Was Mentor of Murder Suspect, Cops SaySubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 




 






















