BBC News - US gun debate: Obama unveils gun control proposals


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















16 January 2013
Last updated at 15:42 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





US gun debate: Obama unveils gun control proposals
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























President Obama: "To make a real and lasting difference, Congress must act"




Continue reading the main story


US gun debate


Viewpoints: US gun laws


In statistics: Guns in the US


Could Obama's plan work?


Newtown parents relive agony Watch



 US President Barack Obama has unveiled the most sweeping gun control proposals in two decades, setting up a showdown with firearms rights advocates. 
He called for a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines and wider background checks on gun buyers.
The Democratic president also signed 23 executive actions, which do not require congressional approval.
A month after the school massacre in Connecticut, he said gun-control reforms could wait no longer.
Mr Obama unveiled the proposals at the White House on Wednesday, flanked by children who wrote him letters after December's Newtown shooting, which left 20 children and six teachers dead.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
It is hard to see how the ban on assault rifles will get past Republican (and indeed some Democratic) opposition in Congress”
End Quote



Mark Mardell North America editor





Read more from Mark

 Mr Obama said: "If there is even one thing we can do to reduce this violence, if there is even one life that can be saved, then we've got an obligation to try."
The top US gun lobbying group, the powerful National Rifle Association (NRA), said the proposals were "not a solution to the crisis we face as a nation".
"Only honest, law-abiding gun owners will be affected and our children will remain vulnerable to the inevitability of more tragedy," the group said in a statement. 
 The president urged Congress:

 to reintroduce an expired ban on new purchases of "military-style" assault weapons, such as those used in several recent mass shootings
 limit ammunition magazines to 10 rounds and pass a ban on possession and sale of armour-piercing bullets
 introduce background checks on all gun sales; currently private purchases and some transactions at gun shows are exempt
 introduce harsher penalties for gun-traffickers, especially unlicensed dealers who buy arms for criminals
 finally approve the appointment of the head of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
 Mr Obama also signed 23 unilateral orders, including an end to a ban on gun-violence research by a prominent federal agency, and a measure promoting responsible gun ownership.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























The parents of Dylan Hockley, killed at Sandy Hook, spoke to the BBC



 But he acknowledged his legislative push would encounter stiff opposition in Congress.
"This will be difficult," he said. 
"There will be pundits and politicians and special interest lobbyists publicly warning of a tyrannical, all-out assault on liberty -- not because that's true, but because they want to gin up fear or higher ratings or revenue for themselves. 
"And behind the scenes, they'll do everything they can to block any common-sense reform and make sure nothing changes whatsoever."
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus dismissed Obama's measures.
"He paid lip service to our fundamental constitutional rights," Mr Priebus said of the president, "but took actions that disregard the second amendment and the legislative process."
'Repugnant and cowardly'
The US has one of the highest rates of civilian gun ownership in the world. The second amendment of the US constitution states that "the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed".
Although the meaning of the full clause is still debated, many gun-rights advocates read it absolutely and oppose the idea of any curbs on access to weapons.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Can a movement that calls for more guns in the US be effective at saving lives?



 The White House proposals follow meetings between a task force led by Vice-President Joe Biden and groups from across the political spectrum. 
Mr Biden met gun control and firearms rights advocates, entertainment and video game industry figures, parents of shooting victims and law enforcement officials.
The task force also consulted the NRA, which says it has signed up more than 100,000 members since the Newtown massacre.
Earlier, the NRA released a web advert attacking Mr Obama as "an elitist hypocrite" for allowing Secret Service agents to protect his daughters, while not committing to back armed guards in all US schools.
The White House said the ad was "repugnant and cowardly". 
On Wednesday, Mr Obama also proposed freeing up law enforcement funds for schools to hire 1,000 new armed police, school psychologists, social workers or other staff trained to prevent violence.

 



More on This Story


US gun debate
	      






Viewpoints: US gun laws

The debate begins over US gun control




In statistics: Guns in the US




Could Obama's plan work?







Watch/Listen



Newtown parents relive agony Watch




Would more guns save lives? Watch




Sales up for US gun shops Watch




How Australia did it Watch







Features and analysis



Viewpoint: Evil and forgiveness




Lessons from Dunblane

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 815       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 695.  Ticky  17th January 2013 - 1:52   686.Robbie Do you really think that all the pilots and tankies only come from the wealthy middle class american families like Obama ? Or do they in fact come from the 100m gun toting americans who value their freedom and their right to express those freedoms. Military personnel in all countrys come from the poor working class populations of said country. Try engaging your brain before typing.    Report this comment (Comment number 695) Link to this (Comment number 695)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 694.  kevthebrit  17th January 2013 - 1:52   The message should be "I'M DONE WITH THE GUN"! BUT! This is a country where people are frightened by their own shadow and so MUST have a BIG gun with LOTS of ammo to shoot at these scary shadows! It's the rest of the world that is LUCKY not to have such nasty things following them 24/7 and SO do not need to be armed! I feel so sorry for these poor suckers!    Report this comment (Comment number 694) Link to this (Comment number 694)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 693.  Paul  Comment number 693 is an Editors' Pick 17th January 2013 - 1:52   When the US first ordered car manufacturers to install seat belts, many argued there were so many cars on the road without seat belts the new law would have no effect. Decades later, the law has had a profound effect. Similarly, banning assault weapons would not have an immediate effect... but wait a few decades and you will be able to see how many lives such a law will surely end up saving.    Report this comment (Comment number 693) Link to this (Comment number 693)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 692.  penguin337  17th January 2013 - 1:52   But you left thinking robots leave my constitution and freedoms alone.---I'm a leftieI'm a socialistI used to live in a free countryPost WW2 BritainUsed to be a great place to liveNow I live in in a liberalised fascist dictatorship which is part of the EUSSRHang on to your constitution, they're after your freedom to be a human beingLeft OR right, they want your right to be free    Report this comment (Comment number 692) Link to this (Comment number 692)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 691.  Zikalify  17th January 2013 - 1:49   No guns means less deaths? No. The UK has 2000 violent crimes per 100,000 people compared to USA 466 violent crimes per 100,000 people.I'm not saying that guns are good and it's not my place to decide whether the US should keep them or not but in the UK you can't even carry pepper spray to defend yourself with, that doesn't kill anyone so why can't I legally carry it to protect myself if need be?    Report this comment (Comment number 691) Link to this (Comment number 691)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 690.  bkbill  17th January 2013 - 1:47   all hail king Obama    Report this comment (Comment number 690) Link to this (Comment number 690)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 689.  mikeacbarnes  17th January 2013 - 1:46   I live in the US and people here tend think that if you take guns out of peoples hands the government will suddenly take control of the country. It would take a heck of a lot more than removing guns from society for that to happen. If you think guns would stop the government from doing something negative its citizens; did we forget about nuclear weapons? Those are pretty easy to aim at the public.    Report this comment (Comment number 689) Link to this (Comment number 689)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 688.  All for All  17th January 2013 - 1:47   penguin @634"I'm a Brit"But fortunately not blindly pro-Britishpenguin @650Against "anywhere like (18C) Britain"But blind to (21C) UK & US tyranny?penguin @664Despairing of "irrational"But trusting God's 'investment' in the people of AmericaAs against rest of Creation?Despairing of 'government' without address of structure"How long will it be…" for US to find peace?    Report this comment (Comment number 688) Link to this (Comment number 688)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 687.  Koyomi  17th January 2013 - 1:47   The 2nd Amendment was put in place when the general population and size of towns and cities was far less numerous then in the modern USA. The most powerful weapon was a single shot rifle and the threat from external causes was subsantially greater then in the modern USA. It is outdated and has fed an obsession and paranoia with these weapons that has and will continue to claim innocent lives.    Report this comment (Comment number 687) Link to this (Comment number 687)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 686.  Robbie  17th January 2013 - 1:47   666.BlaeceAelf 100 million gun owners in the US and there are only 1.5 million soldiers.-You think you would win against 1.5 million troops, tanks, fighter jets, drones, propaganda, media control? As I said in my last post, delusional!This is a fantasy from the paranoid right wing. Oh, and Bush signed the Patriot Act, where were all the "wannabe hero" Americans stopping oppressive gov then?    Report this comment (Comment number 686) Link to this (Comment number 686)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 685.  oldrottenhead  17th January 2013 - 1:46   a song about guns, inspired by the shooting of an elected representative, nothings changed much since then so song still relevant http://songcrafters.org/community/index.php?topic=9916.0    Report this comment (Comment number 685) Link to this (Comment number 685)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 684.  BlaeceAelf  17th January 2013 - 1:46   Very few people can afford actual assault rifle. An actual assault rifle is fully automatic and those have been illegal except under extremely strict control in the US for a very long time. A semi-automatic magazine fed weapon which is what you are referring to when you think of assault rifle is commonly used for hunting, self defense, target shooting, etc...    Report this comment (Comment number 684) Link to this (Comment number 684)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 683.  Aziz Merchant  17th January 2013 - 1:44   Control of gun license should be strictly monitored. I agree with my President. No amount of solace is sufficient for the little Olivers  who were massacred by a demoniac in Newtown, Connecticut. As a person of Indian origin, I may say that in India it is well-nigh impossible to avail of a gun license. Violence should stop at this.    Report this comment (Comment number 683) Link to this (Comment number 683)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 682.  George C  17th January 2013 - 1:44   US Military Spending vs The World 2008 Pie Chart http://www.forexpipbroker.com/charts-2/us-economy/350-us-military-spending-vs-world    Report this comment (Comment number 682) Link to this (Comment number 682)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 681.  arcaneradio  17th January 2013 - 1:43   I see a lot of comments giving the indication those of you in the UK don't think you should defend yourselves if attacked by someone. Even if it is a knife wielding maniac. Are you that confident in your police force?You should read the recent crime statistics report put out by your Home Office.It may scare you a little.    Report this comment (Comment number 681) Link to this (Comment number 681)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 680.  USSilentMajority  17th January 2013 - 1:42   663 Benjy Personally I'm not interested in changing yours or anyone elses mind about my right to gun ownership! I don't have or care to have (unless I go down along the Mexican boarder) an AK or what you term an assault rifle. But you left thinking robots leave my constitution and freedoms alone.    Report this comment (Comment number 680) Link to this (Comment number 680)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 679.  chiwheels  17th January 2013 - 1:42   Bill:   I'm sure that US private gun ownership had the Russians quivering in their boots during the cold war - good grief - smell the coffee.    Report this comment (Comment number 679) Link to this (Comment number 679)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 678.  penguin337  17th January 2013 - 1:41   You know, I thought the purpose of a democracy is that you can control the government with the ballot box ? ---Like an EU vote for the British people???We've been waiting OVER 40 YEARS for a vote on the EUBurma has the same level of democracy as Britain as far as the EU is concernedAmerica wrote its own constitution because our "democracy" was so rubbishWe were the warningNever again    Report this comment (Comment number 678) Link to this (Comment number 678)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 677.  Leigh Oats  17th January 2013 - 1:41   The territory that exists mostly between Canada’s southern border and Mexico’s northern border is supposed to be one nation, but the truth is that it’s two: the USA, and that anachronistic locked-in-the-eighteenth-century survivalist cabal of antisocial superannuated children the NRA.    Report this comment (Comment number 677) Link to this (Comment number 677)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 676.  enzo11  17th January 2013 - 1:40   Chiwheels:If things ever got to the point over here that an armed insurrection started, do you really believe that the military would obey order to fire on civilians?Unfortunately, you can only control the government through the ballot box IF you have an informed public, AND honest politicians. It seems that we have little of either over here - hence Obama, Reid, and Pelosi being reelected.    Report this comment (Comment number 676) Link to this (Comment number 676)         Page 7 of 41    Newer 1 ... 5 6 7 8 9 ... 41 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Obama shooting picture released

The White House tweets a picture of Barack Obama skeet-shooting - seemingly to settle a row about whether the president had fired a gun before.



US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey




Google boss labels China 'IT menace'












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Two Philippines hostages released









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



2: Obama shooting picture released



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: French MPs endorse gay marriage



5: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



Read




1: Mars rover hammers down into rock



2: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



5: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



6: Car park dug up around parked car



7: Affleck wins Directors Guild award



8: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



9: Obama shooting picture released



10: A certificate for holiness in India



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: The art looking death in the face Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



4: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



5: African migrants who call America's whitest state home Watch



6: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



7: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



8: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: El Salvador's gangland truce Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





