Putin Will Sign Ban on Adoptions to United States - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Headlines
			> World

World


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousNelson Mandela Returns Home from Hospital
NextVideo Shows Giant Chinese Shark Tank Exploding

 

 By Kirit Radia@KiritRadia_ABCFollow on Twitter  
Dec 27, 2012 9:11am

Putin Will Sign Ban on Adoptions to United States





 
			
Email

50
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




Activists protest against a bill banning U.S. adoptions of Russian children in St.Petersburg, Russia, Dec. 26, 2012. Dmitry Lovetsky/AP Photo
MOSCOW – Russian President Vladimir Putin has said he will sign a controversial ban on adoptions to the United States, defying domestic and international criticism that the move is playing politics with the lives of orphans.
The ban was added last week to a broader bill retaliating for a set of human rights sanctions that President Obama signed into law earlier this month. Putin also pledged to improve the lives of children in Russia’s notoriously under-resourced orphanages.
“I intend to sign the law you have just mentioned as well as a presidential decree changing the procedure of helping orphaned children, children left without parental care, and especially children who are in a disadvantageous situation due to their health problems,” Putin said, according to the Russian Interfax news agency, when asked about the ban during a meeting of the Russian State Council on Thursday.
Putin added that higher living standards overseas are no reason to allow children to be adopted by foreigners.
The Life of Putin
“There is one more reason of which I haven’t spoken yet, but which I would mention now. Probably there are quite a lot of places in the world where living standards are somewhat better than we have. And so what? Will we send all our children there? Perhaps we will move there ourselves?” he said.
Putin did not say when he would sign the bill into law, but if it is done immediately it would go into force on January 1.
At stake are the cases of 46 Russian children whose adoptions would be frozen if the bill becomes law, according to Russia’s children’s rights commissioner Pavel Astakhav. He said those children would receive priority to be adopted by Russian families.
American families who were preparing to welcome their newly adopted children home are instead bracing themselves for the possibility of never seeing them again.
“It’s a heartbreaking process because we’ve already started preparing our home. Not remodeling, or painting, or buying furniture or anything, but just preparing the emotional state of our home, of ourselves and of our children for the change that is going to occur,” Patrick Griffin told ABC affiliate KCUA. He and his wife Jan are just two months into adopting a child from Russia.
“You hope that it is not a door shut but just, you know, that it is simply an obstacle, a delay. But we do not know. It’s the fear of the unknown,” Griffin said.
The proposed ban has split Russian society. At least seven people were detained while protesting the bill on Wednesday as the upper house of parliament vote to approve the measure, according to RIA Novosti. Human rights advocates have urged Russian authorities not to move forward with the ban, saying it denies Russian orphans a home with a family.
It has also caused a rare division among the Russian government.
Several top officials, including Russia’s foreign minister and education minister have come out against the ban. A leaked memo from another top official suggested its passage would cause Russia to breach several international treaties, including a recently enacted adoption agreement between the United States and Russia.
Others, like Astakhav, have supported the measure, saying that Russian children should remain in Russia.
A recent poll by the Public Opinion Foundation found a majority of Russians supported the ban, while a quarter opposed it and another quarter expressed no opinion.
Russia is the third most-popular place for Americans to adopt children. According to the State Department, over 45,000 Russian children have been adopted by American families since 1999.
Russian officials, however, have pointed to the cases of 19 Russian adopted children who have been killed in the United States as evidence of broader mistreatment of Russian children by their adopted parents. The adoption ban bill was named after Dima Yakovlev, who died in 2008 after his adoptive father left him in a car in a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C. The bill also slaps sanctions on Americans accused of abusing Russian children and judges deemed to have provided them with lenient sentences.
 

SHOWS: World News





 
			
Email

50
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print













 
 
 


PreviousNelson Mandela Returns Home from Hospital
NextVideo Shows Giant Chinese Shark Tank Exploding






 

User Comments



We praise and thank God for healing Nelson Mandela, who is great Statesman in Africa and the world over. We pray that God who has began this process of healing, will perfect it. Our God is not a God of failure. Jeremiah 32:27.
We wish Nelson Mandela a happy and prosperous New Year 2013,and God increase  his life  for more years to come. Thank You Jesus and remain blessed.




			Posted by: Rev. Shalom Muwanguzi NYenje | December 27, 2012, 9:45 am 9:45 am		



Reacting on the issue of the  bill to be signed by Putin, to stop the Americans to adopt the Russian President. Well  I do not see any problem when the American people who have proved their generosity take on to adopt Russian children. The world has become one village and why shouldn’t the American people  extend their love to whoever needs it? Did you expect the Americans to say we won’t help you because you are from Russia or China or North Korea? Gone are the days of the dark ages where the duty bearers as governments failed in their responsibility and just try to  hang on the power over to suppress good intended interventions of adopting the children for good intentions.. 1 John 4:18-20 says what does a man benefit if he says he loves God and does not love his neighbor. The Americans are just expressing the Godly  Love  by adopting the Russian Children.
On the other hand the Russians are turning the issue into political  center stage, just to divert their population for the growing neglect of the children by the Russian government who are the duty bearers in this case. America is just extending a hand of friendship,not with bad faith.. We pray that governments in the world who are failing to take care of their own will learn from the American people, to be generous to their own people before outsiders come in. Thank you and remain blessed. Long live all well intentioned people who take a step to care for the  vulnerable children in the world. Regards
 Rev. Shalom Muwanguzi Nyenje




			Posted by: Rev. Shalom Muwanguzi NYenje | December 27, 2012, 10:03 am 10:03 am		



Is it just me or does it sound like Putin’s rational for doing this makes him sound like an idiot?




			Posted by: newcountryman | December 27, 2012, 10:05 am 10:05 am		



If you want to care for Russian children, move to Russia.




			Posted by: John | December 27, 2012, 10:20 am 10:20 am		



Mr. Putin now has to either sign up, or shut up. For years, usually by election years, he took a rigid stance against foreign adoptions. He and Mr. Medvedev have proposed many a legislation, but none of it worked to improve the Russian orphan system.  So, hopefully this time Mr. Putin doesn’t feel like he HAS to sign the bill to show stregth to his people. Hopefully he will show his people that by allowing adoptions to the USA, he has the good-will towards Russian children in mind. It is a small percentage of Russian orphans being adopted by American families these past few years, which REALLY make no dent into the pool of available children to Russian families who can adopt.




			Posted by: Jiji Moran | December 27, 2012, 10:34 am 10:34 am		



45,000 children adopted and 19 died?  More of them would have died if they had remained in Russia. What are those numbers? How many die in orphanages in a year in Russia? More than 19 A year? This 19 was fom 1999. Childen in Russian orphanages face a tough life.




			Posted by: Jovina | December 27, 2012, 10:35 am 10:35 am		



Whatever Putin does, he does to further his political career. The children come second.




			Posted by: mobredthree | December 27, 2012, 10:41 am 10:41 am		



There is Putin again trying to ensure Russia are in the news. Im a Brit and I dont give a monkeys about Russia. It is a backwards has been country, just look @ how their soccer supports throw bananas at anyone who isnt milky white. Not all are liek that but who cares abt Russia!




			Posted by: steve | December 27, 2012, 10:53 am 10:53 am		



So sad for Russian children, but on the other hand, why not adopt AMERICAN children?  If the only reason to adopt a Russian child is to be assured of bringing home a white infant, maybe prospective parents need to re-evaluate their reasons for wanting to adopt.  According to the Alexandria, Virginia-based National Council for Adoption, 20,000 or more U.S.-born infants are placed for adoption every year. That’s more than the 19,000 or so international adoptions annually.  I know my comment won’t be popular, I’ll patiently await the throwing of rotten tomatoes. . .




			Posted by: Tumbletee | December 27, 2012, 10:54 am 10:54 am		



Russia remains an unnecessary adversary of the US.  This is just a sad pathetic reminder of the billions this adversarial relationship requires be spent on weapons never used and on tactics and capabilities never to be unleashed.  Imagine the world of good we would do for each other if this form of kleptocratic paranoia could be dispensed with and investments made for the better good of mankind.  Instead, we find something to fight over.  So keep your children, and train them to man the cannons you will never fire at our children.




			Posted by: Harley Bernese | December 27, 2012, 10:54 am 10:54 am		



Tumbletee 10:54 am – OK you want rotten tomatoes, here they come! You know, it is the choice of adoptive parents to adopt from wherever they want to adopt from. You should be glad they are adopting at all rather than belabor them for their geographical choice of WHERE they adopt. Live and let live and try and have a Happy New Year ….




			Posted by: wolves_eat_sheep | December 27, 2012, 11:09 am 11:09 am		



I am thrilled Putin will sign this bill. If American couples want a baby let them adopt one of our own.




			Posted by: sandalwood1191 | December 27, 2012, 11:11 am 11:11 am		



@ Steve….its much harder to adopt an American child than it is to proceed with an international adoption. The chance of the American adoption falling through is much greater.




			Posted by: Tanya | December 27, 2012, 11:19 am 11:19 am		



Oops…that was meant for TUMBLETEE. Sorry Steve!




			Posted by: Tanya | December 27, 2012, 11:25 am 11:25 am		



This is a very good move for the Russian children.  Russian children no matter what their present state is are so far above present day American children.  I think it is because of the difference in Russian boundaries on how a child is taught, Russian stresses the basics, and how to live their life. Americans stress no boundaries so let an infant/young adult decide what their boundaries are with guild lines from the ACLU et al. Russian children are far more intellectual than the adopting parent.  Russia is different in so many ways, latest generations of American children are just different.  American parents don’t deserve these great children.




			Posted by: ableme11110 | December 27, 2012, 11:31 am 11:31 am		



The tragic thing is there are lots of kids in the US that need adopting but Americans are forced to adopt from other countries due to discrimination and hate using age, race and orientation.  Not by who can truly take care of the child.  America could fix this.  There are many foster parents and communities that use adoptions for money and to be paid income under the state and federal government roles just to prevent adoptions here.  It is a very broken system. Sad for the kids.  When there are so many truly good people out there who want to adopt but can’t.




			Posted by: Steve | December 27, 2012, 11:58 am 11:58 am		



Ableme, are you out of your mind?




			Posted by: Brian | December 27, 2012, 11:59 am 11:59 am		



Pretty sad for children who have no hope of a family to love them.  Also, for any children with siblings the parents want to adopt.




			Posted by: Jenna | December 27, 2012, 12:25 pm 12:25 pm		



Well, there are many children that are available in the US, but the majority are older.  Adoptive paretns want BABIES, which they can more easily get from other countries.  here’s the reason why:  the US health and social services has implemented a plan of REUNIFICATION for families that are disrupted.  These tries at reunification can go on for YEARS, resulting in a child that becomes “too old to be adopted.”  A change in the American system of adoption is needed, just ask any foster parent.  The parents are given too many chances to get their child back — when they should just given visitation.




			Posted by: AK Girl | December 27, 2012, 12:32 pm 12:32 pm		



I love Russia…it’s a huge, beautiful country similar to our Alaska with tough, but nice people. I know why Americans want to adopt Russian children, because it’s easier than dealing with our rediculous bureaucratic system and their children are beautiful and gracious unlike many children in the US that think they are entitled to something. Just because the US might be more modernized than Russia does not mean it is a better place to raise children…on the contrary I would rather have children grow up in the wonderful wild nature of Russia.




			Posted by: Sman | December 27, 2012, 12:33 pm 12:33 pm		



yes, if u wanna to care for Russians , move there, hah?why r u abandoning them from their homeland? do u hate their gene and wanna to clean them from the face of the earth?
-there are milllllion American poor kids or orphan rite here…why the bastard dont care for their own blood and land and spend the $$$to bring them from outside?
-cud b torturing and killing Russians brings pleasure to some sick, so they bring em here to abuse and torture and behave them ther way? just read news how some sick ppl abuse and torture poor Russian kids and kick them out to their homeland after messing them up for real!
good job president Putin….seems he real cares for his nation.




			Posted by: j | December 27, 2012, 12:36 pm 12:36 pm		



@J
Have you ever been to Russia or lived there? You clearly don’t know much about it or its people. Putin is no friend of most Russians, and he clearly doesn’t love his country. Maybe you should research about half the things that he has done to and for his country. My brother lived in Yekaritenburg, Russia. I lived in Warszawa, Poland (ex-state of the USSR) Both peoples are very similar.




			Posted by: is'adna | December 27, 2012, 12:58 pm 12:58 pm		



I can’t blame them.  Why would I want to expose my Nationality to the perverse culture of the USA.




			Posted by: Pravda | December 27, 2012, 1:08 pm 1:08 pm		



I am not understanding why would they ban U.S parents from adopting….The children in Russia are not being cared for….so why not have parents who want and can take of their kids adopt? Oh oh I see now….its because it looks like Russia isn’t taking care of their kids. So you figure not get embarressement you should ban U.S adpotions….yea, putin good looking out for the kids! How about you fix the orphanage system first or find out why so many of these kids are going into the system….then you can work on the problem and maybe there won’t be as many U.S adoptions!




			Posted by: Dawneei | December 27, 2012, 1:13 pm 1:13 pm		



Dmitry Yakovlev law – despite corporate media tries to sell it as anti-adoption law – most of the law designed to stop US hidden financing of Russian “opposition”. Adoptions are only small part of this law.
Dmitry Yakovlev – adopted 21-months old toddler whom american father left in a a parked car for 9 hours and who died as a result. US justice failed to prosecute the father. 
What’s in the law: 
1) NGOs involved in politics cannot get financing from foreign countries, especially US. 
2) NGOs involved in politics cannot be run by Russian citizens who also have US citizenship.
3) Visa and Economic sanctions against those involved in crimes against Russian citizens abroad or who facilitates such crimes: arrest bank accounts, ban on real-estate dealings and investment operations.
4) Visa and Economic sanctions against those involved in human rights violations in general. In particular – those involved in Guantanamo bay tortures fall under sanctions too. 
5) Ban foreign adoptions (only from US).
P.S any Visa and Economic sanctions only apply to countries doing the same to Russia, so basically just US.




			Posted by: VEP | December 27, 2012, 1:16 pm 1:16 pm		



Good.. it really pisses me off there are a lot of orphaned children in this country that no one seems to have love for… if it isn’t a baby, no one wants them.




			Posted by: dbase1986 | December 27, 2012, 1:17 pm 1:17 pm		



No Brian just more informed than the obvious.




			Posted by: ableme11110 | December 27, 2012, 1:18 pm 1:18 pm		



Some of you guys are sick and pathetic.  Do you have any idea how expensive it is to adopt internationally?  Let me tell you from first hand experience…about $35,000.  And, Russia is even more expensive because they sometimes require more visits to the country.  My wife and I, who have two biological children of our own (including our biological 2 year old daughter with Down syndrome), just got back last week from an eastern European country for the adoption of our second daughter, also with Down syndrome.  We are going back on January 4 to pick her up from her orphanage, finish getting her visa and passport, and bring her back to the United States to be with our family forever.  Why do we do this you ask?  Because we love her just the way she is.  If you think that we, or any other adoptive family, would go through almost a year of huge piles of paperwork, background checks, 8 home studies, and everything else under the sun, including spending $35,000, just to adopt a child internationally and torture him/her, you are sick and out of your mind.  Adoptive families make these sacrifices and put in these huge amounts of work because they love these children, even though most of the time they have never even met them.
After my wife and I had our biological daughter with Down syndrome, we began to learn how children in some parts of the world who are born with Down syndrome are abused, neglected, not cared for, locked in a room/crib, killed, and placed in mental institutions with adults when they are very young children, we decided that we could offer a much better life and a loving family to one of these children.  It has taken huge sacrifices and expense on our part, and it is a lifelong commitment of sacrifices/expenses to care for a special needs child and adult, but we are doing it because we love her and because we know that we can care for her better than she would be cared for in an orphanage or mental institution with no family.  So, it is highly offensive to me that some of you would say that my wife and I are adopting her for other reasons.  
It would be much easier and cheaper to not adopt her, but we are doing it out of total love and care for her.  Nothing more and nothing less.  We feel that she deserves a loving family.  She cannot help that she was born with Down syndrome or where in the world she was born.  She is God’s child, and he has called my wife and I to adopt her and love and care for her.  Thankfully, we will be able to complete our adoption of her and we cannot wait to get her home and love/care for her and she has so many family members and friends who cannot wait to do the same.  However, there are about 36 families who are currently adopting from Russia who have even gone and visited the child, which is one of the final steps in the process, and who have spent tens of thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours of time to get to this point in the adoption process, and now their adoptions are being stopped in their tracks because of this irresponsible Russian legislation.  The Russian Legislators and President are using these children as pawns for their selfish desires.  That is what is sick, along with some of you.  
So, I understand that international adoptions might not be for everyone.  Not everyone is willing to accept the sacrifices, tens of thousands of dollars in cost, hundreds of hours of time, extensive/intrusive background/medical checks, etc. that is takes to adopt a child internationally, and the lifelong commitment to caring for a child.  I don’t fault those who are not willing to go this route.  However, I would request that you don’t fault those of us who are willing to go that route, because we only do it out of love and care for a child that is innocent and that we know we can provide a loving, caring, and nurturing home to.  
And, yes, domestic adoptions are also great as well.  However, it really doesn’t matter where the child is born, God calls for us to care for all children.  The children cannot help where they were born.  People do not adopt out of selfishness.  After going through the process, I can guarantee you that.




			Posted by: Danny McDonald | December 27, 2012, 1:18 pm 1:18 pm		



People: NOTHING happens in Russia that Vladimir Putin doesn’t know about. IF there is something that Putin doesn’t know, he will order his subordinates to find out and eventually Mr. Putin will KNOW. 
A journalist reported on the embezzlement of hundreds of millions of tax rubbles (for whom  the Magnitsky Act was named) and he was imprisoned. He eventually (whether of natural causes or by beating) died while in jail.
Now, does anyone believe that Mr. Putin would hear about someone in his government stealing 300 or 400 millions of rubbles and not investigate? Would Mr. Putin not want to punish those who stole millions from the tax coffers? Doesn’t he have a right to the people to bring those who stole this money to justice?
Now, with his threatening of banning US adoptions, everyone in Russia has put the embezzlement case in the back burned, everyone has forgotten about it. 
So, who is benefitting from this adoption ban mess?
OBVIOUSLY, those who stole the millions of rubbles of the Russian people’s tax money. So, we have to wonder who first proposed banning adoptions in retaliation for the Magnitsky Act, and whether there were ulterior motives – mainly responding in a grand way that would erase the embezzlement claims from everyone’s mind.
There is NOTHING that happens in Russia that Mr. Putin doesn’t know about. He has to know who stole the tax money, so why is he not going after these people? What has Mr. Putin done to answer the claims of the huge theft? Why isn’t he mad at the embezzlers, and he rather hurt the Russian orphans instead?
Answer this, and you would probably understand what’s going on.




			Posted by: Jiji Moran | December 27, 2012, 1:18 pm 1:18 pm		



It’s really sad that those orphans will have to pay the price for his tantrums.  He is no better than Hitler.




			Posted by: Carla | December 27, 2012, 1:29 pm 1:29 pm		



I can’t blame them. Why would I want to expose my Nationality to the perverse culture of the USA.
POSTED BY: PRAVDA
_____________
Since the US has such a “perverse” culture and Russia has such a wonderful “clean” culture, why don’t you hitch a flight to that country and become a Russian citizen? 
Do you honestly think if you ever DARE say about the the Russian culture what you just said about the US culture, you would be allowed to live? You might actually enjoy slow torture and death.




			Posted by: spike | December 27, 2012, 1:33 pm 1:33 pm		



Small typo: the ABC Affiliate you quoted is mis-spelled. It is actually KCAU




			Posted by: Maria | December 27, 2012, 2:13 pm 2:13 pm		



We have plenty here to adopt…but adopting from other countries make people feel better and more powerful…Look how great we are we took this poor little baby out of Russia now we can turn it into a spoiled american….




			Posted by: jacksays | December 27, 2012, 3:30 pm 3:30 pm		



Actually when 50% of Russian support banning these adoptions, and only 25% support continuing them, with 25% having no opinion – that is a 2 to 1 majority favoring the ban.
When you live in a Democracy, the people decide.
So, call it spite.  Call it ignorant.   But just don’t forget in a Democracy sometimes the people get to decide, and – unfortunately for those that want to believe it’s spite and ignorance, this is a decision made by the Russian government,t hat fully reflects the overwhelming sentiment of the Russian people.
It costs about $49K to adopt a child from Russia, but only $29k to adopt a child from China or Ethiopia.
Why the difference?  White babies cost more to purchase, that’s why.  Let’s stop pretending that this isn’t the sale and traffic of human beings – it’s true these kids are going to families.   I’m not saying the motives are as sinister as selling slaves – but there is definitely racism involved here.
On both sides, America wants white babies – badly.   On the other hand, Russia wants the Russian-speaking, culturally Russian slavic population to increase.
So you have these two racist motivations fighting each other – in this case the slavics won, and the white baby trade lost some supply.
Ultimately, what’s best, is what’s best for the chidlren, and Putin is right – going to live in wealth, is not any kind of reason to allow an adoption.   But going to live with a family, as opposed to living in an orphanage, is certainly a valid reason.  So, it is up to Russia now to make sure that these kids are, in fact, placed with Russian families.
As for stopping the sale of white babies – I think ending that trade is a good idea.




			Posted by: RockoT | December 27, 2012, 3:34 pm 3:34 pm		



AK GIRL hit it right on the nose




			Posted by: mm1970 | December 27, 2012, 3:48 pm 3:48 pm		



Better living standards? Well I would like to tell Mr Putin sure we have better living standards BUT it is about children having a FAMILY!!!! Every Child deserves a family and loving parents.
When we were visiting our daughters in their orphanages one of the little boys came up to me. I asked the translator what he asked….. He said “He wants to know if you have a family for him”. A FAMILY that is what these children want.




			Posted by: Britt | December 27, 2012, 3:51 pm 3:51 pm		



Good. They can keep their children. We have plenty here in the US that need adoption.




			Posted by: Ted | December 27, 2012, 4:15 pm 4:15 pm		



For some odd reason Mr. Putin consider’s this a retaliation.  How dumb can you possibly be, there are children to be adopted all over this world, better for them.  It’s a sad day for the orphans of Russia, for your leaders are only hurting their own.




			Posted by: Timothy | December 27, 2012, 4:28 pm 4:28 pm		



A small clarification:
This bill bans not all foreign adoptions (regrettably), but only from US families.
Russian families are adopting about 82% of the Russian kids during all of these years based on statistics from Human Rights organizations.  US families are adopting about 2.7% of Russian orphans.  There is a dozen of European countries where families are waiting to adopt kids from Russia.
I just cannot understand, why this is such a big deal for regular Americans…




			Posted by: VEP | December 27, 2012, 5:12 pm 5:12 pm		



These children should remain in Russia. Its only the right thing to do. Regardless of putrified Putin’s intent with this ban, one fact always remains…Russia needs to man up and take responsibility for their own! 
Those who wish to adopt should really help children who are in desperate need of home here in the US!




			Posted by: Carol | December 27, 2012, 5:47 pm 5:47 pm		



Why can’t American parents adopt American kids?  I can’t say I blame Putin, why send Russian children to the country that is the most dangerous for children outside of war zones?  We have children here that need homes…




			Posted by: Jimmie | December 27, 2012, 6:03 pm 6:03 pm		



I guess this is the way we bring in more illegal aliens into the US and and call it legal…  Must we a sneaky white way to repopulate the US with the ever declining white population




			Posted by: Joe C | December 27, 2012, 6:47 pm 6:47 pm		



I feel sorry for the adoptions that have already started, but I am also curious as to why so many children in this country need a home, but no one is willing to adopt children in our own country first.  I think our government should put a stop to all adoptions outside of our country until all our children have a home.  Then we can look to other countries.
All the talk this week has been about made in America products and supporting Americans, yet we don’t have the same attitude when it comes to the homeless children in America that need homes.    Why do we ignore our own children who need homes?




			Posted by: Sue C | December 27, 2012, 6:53 pm 6:53 pm		



I think it is awesome that people want to adopt children, but please look local to adopt.  There are many children in the US that need loving families.  We thought about adopting overseas, but then we checked into adopting a child out of foster care.  We adopted our 5 year old son this year and it was one of the best things we have ever done.  We have a 9 year old biological son and now a 5 year old.  Many people may think that kids out of foster care have problems but so do children from overseas.  Please save yourself the pain of spending a fortune to adopt internationally and stay in the US.  There are thousands of kids in the US that need a loving family too.




			Posted by: Dustin S | December 27, 2012, 6:58 pm 6:58 pm		



I can understand why this law came about — not so sure it is a swipe at the USA — there are so many children in America looking for homes, mostly in the Foster Care system and many with disabilities.  They need love and parents as well.  All children deserve love and caring parents.  If Russia has plans for their own people to adopt, support, and love these children, then the rest of us should respect the decision.  Children should never be mistreated anywhere.




			Posted by: Sarah | December 27, 2012, 8:23 pm 8:23 pm		



Before asking why adopt from Eastern Europe do a little search and check their orphanages. Life their is cruel, cold, emotionally desolate. Check the statistics of orphans who “age out.” Aging out is when children don’t get adopted and turn 18, they are set out to a world that is not kind to them. 
The statistics are horrible, depending on who quotes them and in which year. Sixty percent turn to crime, prostitution, drugs. Forty percent will live life in jail, bouncing in and out in order to continue the institutionalization that they know. Suicide runs between ten and twenty percent, some quotes say it’s thirty percent. Only fifteen to twenty percent make it into regular lives, but with lingering issues resulting from their life in orphanages.
Children raised in institutions here in the USA get educated, participate in sports and outdoor activities, they get excellent food and medical care, they even are paid for college if they want, and have medical coverage, food stamps, and housing allowances after they turn 18 if they don’t have a job. 
Living a life in an orphanage in Russia is a living hell, so that’s a reason why many people from our country prefer a child from there to one here in the US. It is not always because they want a white child, as many children in Russia adopted by US parents are of Roma (dark skinned with black eyes and hair) origin or with Asian features. 
I know parents who have spent $60,000 for adopting a child who has no legs, or for children with Downs syndrome, or chldren in need extensive medical care. Is that is not love, I don’t know what is. Yes, they could’ve adopted an American orphan, but the need in those poor countries is DIRE.




			Posted by: Jiji Moran | December 27, 2012, 11:42 pm 11:42 pm		



I can see why they would do that, The US is not the “Happily ever after” destination it used to be. Actually send a thank you note to your congressman and the President for making the US the laughingstock of the world. That goes for both major parties.




			Posted by: Phil in Oregon | December 28, 2012, 10:18 am 10:18 am		



I would do a little farther research into what you think happens to american kids in foster care . Medical? yes. The minimum. Sports? Only if your foster family takes it out of their pocket.( which i Never had a family that did) Education?
only because children are required to go to school. Paid college and housing allowances? YEAH RIGHT!!!!!!!!!!!!! I was raised in foster homes myself and saw A LOT of physical emotional and sexual abuse. dont be fooled into thinking our kids are well taken care of because they are in A “foster home” versus an “orphanage”.  Children want families….. Especially when they suffer at the hands of the people that are supposed to be ” taking care of them”.




			Posted by: amy | December 28, 2012, 5:02 pm 5:02 pm		



I am so saddened by the ignorant comments made by people that have absolutely NO friggin idea of what they are talking about.  Why not just adopt children in the US??!! Are you kidding me?? We tried and tried. We are white, tried to adopt a black child only to have the birth mother, who was a prostitute, drug addicted and HIV infected. She abandoned the child. Only to claim “her rights” when we were close to adopting him. We tried two more times, only to fail each time. One’s heart can not handle bonding with a child only to have it fall through. We adopted a little girl from Russia with CP. She would have had NO chance there. She was on her way to a place that literally translated to “laying down home”. And that’s exactly what they did. Lay in beds all day with little to no interaction. So before you idiots want to make stupid statements like that, at least know WHAT you are talking about. It’s not just about white babies. Oh, and BTW, you are not “guaranteed” a “white” baby. Many of the children in the orphanages are Asian and Gypsies, which the Russians hate. So those children received even less than the coveted blond haired, blue eyed white children.  Those of you that look down on those of us that have adopted internationally – I’d love to know how many children you have that are adopted. Russians simply do not adopt. At least not anywhere near enough to reduce the numbers in the orphanages. The orphanages are dismal places to live. Not nearly enough caregivers to take care of the children.  I despise Putin for doing this to those children.  And you nutcases that think it’s better to live in Russia. GO. And see if you can get away with saying what I just said. I DARE you.




			Posted by: Casey | January 3, 2013, 5:50 pm 5:50 pm		



I THINtK MR.PUTIN,SHOULD WAIT TILL THE CHILDREN THAT ARE ALREADY SIGNED UP TO BE ADOPTED BY AMERICANS, IS DONE. S tart with a clean slate,so no pne is hurt unnecessarilly,especially the children!




			Posted by: kat mccarthy | January 10, 2013, 6:39 pm 6:39 pm		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About WorldThe latest international news and original reporting from ABC News following coverage around the world. Categories 
Crimes Against Christmas

Investigative

Middle East

Nation

Olympics

Picture This: ABC News

Press Release

Religion

Standing Up for Heroes

World


  Top Posts 
Super Bowl XLVII Live: Score, Commercials and More
British Police Arrest, Taser Man Outside Buckingham Palace
Florida Boy’s 911 Call Helps Police Nab Burglars
JetBlue Flight Makes Landing in Denver Because of ‘Unruly Customer’
Today in Pictures: Marion Cotillard, Tear Gas Cloud, The Shard

Top Stories on ABC NewsRavens Defeat 49ers in Historic, Unusual Super BowlTurkish Police: American Killed by Blow to HeadAla. Hostage Standoff: Boy Being Made 'As Comfortable As Possible'Kyle's Killing Puts Spotlight on PTSD'American Sniper' Was Mentor of Murder Suspect, Cops SaySubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 




 






















