RT










VERSIONS:
روسيا اليوم
NOTICIAS
FREEVIDEO
РУССКИЙ
RTД
RTДРУ
RUPTLY
RSS



			Welcome back,   (log out?)
			


LOG IN
SIGN UP










RT

live






Schedule
Where to Watch








News

Today
Sci-Tech
Features


Top Videos
Programs


Schedule
Keiser Report
The Truthseeker
Why you should care!
Crosstalk


Prime Time Russia
News
Spotlight
Capital Account
Interview with Sophie
Technology Update
Documentary
Breaking the Set


The Big Picture
On the Money
On Air promos

The Alyona Show (archive)
In Context (archive)
IMHO (archive)
Wayfarer (archive)
Adam vs. The Man (archive)
Russia Close-Up
Moscow out
Venice of the North
Golden Ring



Politics





Columns
Official word


USA

News
Podcasts
Blogs
Columns


Business

News
Indexes and rates
Top Russian Companies


Sport

Football
Hockey
Tennis
Basketball
Boxing
Motorsports



Blogs


Art&Culture

News




All about Russia



Russiapedia

Basic facts about Russia

Prominent Russians
Of Russian origin
Russian literature
History
Russian cuisine
Main dishes
Salads and snacks
Soups
Sweets
Vodka
Caviar
Russian films
Drama
Comedy
Action
Science fiction


Panoramas
Landscapes
Monasteries
Buildings
Events
Sites
GoRussia
Russian Visa
Emergency Help
Currency and paying
Russia in pictures
Airports and Railstations
Russian Women Guide
Volunteering





Learn Russian



Community

Follow RT
YouTube
Facebook
Twitter
Blogs
Columns
Forums
Free wallpapers and ringtones




Online Exclusive

RT Cartoon
Picture galleries
RT apps
Upload your video
Mariinsky Theater
U.S. election up-close
The Julian Assange show
St. Petersburg Economic Forum 2012
Presidential election 2012
20 years post-Soviet
War Witness – WWII victory tribute
RT partner hotels

50 years of man in space





breakingnews



Follow RT on

facebook
twitter
YouTube
Google+



RSSRT News Line


04:26
7 injured in Vancouver mass stabbing


03:36
US Secret Service Chief retires 


01:55
Clinton ends her tenure as chief US diplomat


01:29
At least 6 Pakistanis killed by Afghan shelling


00:37
Google and France reach agreement over news-linking dispute








Apple
Window
Android








RT Apps for iOS








RT Apps for Windows








RT Apps for Android











mostpopular

MOST POPULAR

Shared
Read



North Korea imposes martial law, orders troops to ‘be ready for war’ - report
Syria files UN complaint over Israeli airstrike, Iran warns of ‘serious consequences’
Teenager shot in head, teacher wounded in Atlanta school shooting
Poorest Americans could be fined under Obamacare
32 dead, scores injured as blast rocks Mexican state oil company's HQ (VIDEO, PHOTOS)




Israeli warplanes bomb research center near Damascus - Syrian military
One dead in Arizona mass shooting, suspect at large
Syria files UN complaint over Israeli airstrike, Iran warns of ‘serious consequences’
Israel must remove all Jewish settlers from occupied West Bank - UN inquiry
Al-Qaeda threatens US and Europe, promises 'earth-shattering' attack






blogs_rc

BLOGS





The last Vietnam War ambassador
 With another White House contender saddled with the State Department as a...





Northern Gripes
 If we look at the common man’s gripes we can get a picture of what his country...





The Festive Festival
 With the English Premier League now paused and braced for the annual FA Cup...





columns_rc

COLUMNS




Space investment: Russian program gets facelift
 ­Russia occupies the leading position in space research and exploration. Now...




Why Russia wants to crash the gay parade
 At a time when half of Hollywood, not to mention the US Army, is coming out of...




The enigma of Chuck Hagel
 ­President Obama’s pick of former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel as the new US...








rt_ask_rc

RT Asks
 Defense secretary nominee Chuck Hagel’s more hawkish stance on Iran:




 Shows a genuine change in position based on the available intelligence 
 Is a ploy to counter criticism that he isn’t sufficiently pro-Israel
 Makes no difference! He will have no real say on US policy towards Iran 
 Proves his own claim that no one in Washington will stand up to the “Jewish Lobby”


View answers without voting





rt_quiz_rc






bannertopleft





























mainpromo_news

 
Iranian Oops: US may have broken own sanctions by buying Tehran’s oilThere is a high probability that US sanctions against Iran have been violated by its own army. Part of the $1.55 billion in fuel the US bought from Turkmenistan for the Afghan army in the last five years may have originated in Iran.
1


At least one killed as Cairo police disperse protesters, beating anyone they can catch - reportsSporadic clashes continue near Cairo’s presidential palace with police dispersing petrol bomb-throwing protesters with teargas and birdshot. At least one person has been killed in the violence, with dozens injured and arrested across the country.
2


'US a police state, Obama consciously allows torture' – CIA veteran John KiriakouTen years ago, the idea of the US government spying on its citizens, intercepting their emails or killing them with drones was unthinkable. But now it’s business as usual, says John Kiriakou, a former CIA agent and torture whistleblower.
3


Heavily armed child soldiers fighting in Mali conflict – reportsMalian child soldiers are fighting in the country’s conflict, journalists on the ground have reported. While French troops have boasted of the successful retaking of northern Mali from Islamist fighters, sectarian violence is worsening.
4


First-ever dive into mysterious 'Russian Loch Ness' in one of Earth’s Poles of Cold (PHOTOS)Russian researchers have reached the bottom of Labynkyr, one of the coldest lakes on Earth, popularly known as the Russian Loch Ness for the legend of it being inhabited by a cryptozoological monster. Guinness World Records took note of unique dive.
5









promo_news
promo_business
promo_politics
promo_usa
promo_art
promo_sport


more
				Art & culture
			




		01.02, 13:04


2 comments


Thaw time: Myanmar hosting its first international literary festival
Dozens of authors from around the world, including Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Burmese dissident Aung San Suu Kyi, are in Yangon to take part in Myanmar's first international literary festival. 





		01.02, 14:03


8 comments


150 skulls from human sacrifice discovered in Mexico, stunning experts
The skulls of around 150 human sacrifice victims have been unearthed in a field in central Mexico. It's one of the first times such a large discovery has been made outside a major pyramid or temple complex.





		31.01, 12:12


6 comments


Old school record: Botticelli's Madonna sold for over $10 million 
A Madonna and Child painting by the Italian master Sandro Botticelli has fetched $10.4 million at Christie’s Renaissance sale in New York, setting a record for the artist at auction. The masterpiece sold for twice its original estimate.





		31.01, 19:01


5 comments


UNESCO concerned by theft risk to Mali’s cultural heritage
UNESCO has urged the countries neighbouring Mali, as well as Interpol, the World Customs Organization and those involved in the art market, to be vigilant over the illicit export and trafficking of cultural artefacts from the country.


More



more
				Sport
			




		Today: 00:24


2 comments


Willian’s transfer to Anzhi makes Russian Top 3 
The transfer of Shakhtar Donetsk attacking midfielder Willian to Anzhi Makhachkala has become the third most expensive in the history of Russian football. 






		01.02, 17:20


                            
	

Caterham door shut on Petrov 
Caterham F1 has dropped Russian driver Vitaly Petrov and signed Dutchman Giedo van der Garde for the remaining spot on the team for the 2013 season. 





		01.02, 02:01


3 comments


Beckham to give PSG salary away to kids in need 
Football’s star-veteran, David Beckham, will forward all the money he’ll receive at his new club Paris Saint-Germain to charity. 





		01.02, 00:24


1 comment


Pluschenko’s spinal surgery successful
Two-time Olympic champion, Evgeny Pluschenko, has undergone successful surgery on his spine in an Israeli clinic, with the figure skater getting an intervertebral disc replaced. 


More



more
				Politics
			




		01.02, 15:41


23 comments


Obama’s Russia visit unlikely before September - Pushkov
Alexei Pushkov, the head of the State Duma committee on international affairs, believes US President Barack Obama will delay his trip to Russia until later in the year.

Missile defense shield





		01.02, 13:57


14 comments


Death penalty for murdering journalists eyed in Russia
MPs in the South Russian Region of Kabardino-Balkaria have suggested the federal parliament re-introduce the death penalty for those convicted of killing reporters.





		01.02, 17:46


14 comments


Russian Foreign Ministry denies Syrian talks
Moscow has officially denied reports claiming that talks are being organized at the Munich Security Conference between Russia, the United States, the UN/Arab league and the Syrian opposition.
Syria unrest





		01.02, 14:46


18 comments


Russian rights watchdog accuses police of provocations during anti-Putin rally - report
Russia’s Presidential Council for Human Rights has urged the release of protesters arrested during last year’s protest clashes in Moscow’s Bolotnaya Square, and blamed the police for provoking the unrest.  


More



more
				News
			




		01.02, 22:51


17 comments


Argentina rejects UK proposal to discuss Falklands with islanders 
A fresh diplomatic spat has blown up over the Falkland Islands as the Argentine foreign minister declined to take part in talks with his UK counterpart William Hague, after Britain’s insistence that the islanders take part in the meeting. 





		01.02, 15:31


85 comments


Suicide bomber strikes US Embassy in Ankara, two killed
A suicide bomber has attacked the US Embassy in Ankara. At least one security guard working at the embassy was killed in the blast, as well as the bomber, who has been identified as the member of a banned leftist group.





		Today: 02:43


11 comments


Captured Islamists say Malian military tortured them
Three suspected Jihadists who were arrested in the liberation of Timbuktu have said they were tortured by Malian soldiers who used a method similar to waterboarding. There are also reports of child soldiers being used by the Malian army. 





		01.02, 15:39


23 comments


Super-zeppelin: Revolutionary airship may become cargo-carrying champion (VIDEO)
A functioning prototype of revolutionary airship is undergoing tests south of Los Angeles. A US company is developing a series of gigantic heavy-payload dirigibles with an innovative ballast system that mimics that of a submarine. 


More



more
				USA
			




		01.02, 21:38


11 comments


US unemployment rises in another indication of weak economy
The US unemployment rate is on the rise again, with 12,3 million Americans with no job even according to the official statistics, bringing the unemployment rate to 7.9 percent.





		Today: 00:40


3 comments


Senator Menendez accused of soliciting underage prostitutes
A letter allegedly written by a Dominican woman claims that Sen. Bob Menendez had sexual relations with prostitutes, attended sex parties, and may have even slept with minors. 





		01.02, 22:50


8 comments


Convicted murderer on the run after being released from prison by mistake
A convicted murderer who was supposed to be imprisoned until 2029 was mistakenly freed from a US prison last week and is now on the loose.





		Today: 01:28


4 comments


'I give God 10%, why do you get 18?' - pastor's message to waitress  goes viral 
The American chain restaurant Applebee’s has fired a waitress who posted a note on the Internet from a pastor that refused to tip her, which said “I give God 10%, why do you get 18?”


More



more
				Business
			




		01.02, 17:56


                            
	

Global manufacturing is on the rise in January, but optimism muted
Manufactures in key world economies including Russia have enjoyed an improved start of the year, says an HSBC report. However, market experts remain restrained about the results, seeking further evidence a turnaround is here.





		01.02, 15:21


2 comments


Glencore to become key Russian oil trader 
Rosneft ‘deal of the century’ could turn the world biggest commodity trader Glencore into one of the top suppliers of Russian oil. This would be a major breakthrough for an outsider to become a Russian market heavyweight.





		01.02, 13:03


3 comments


Swiss tax haven is over
Switzerland will now assist international tax authorities in disclosing information on bank accounts held by foreigners who avoid taxation at home. 





		31.01, 16:29


3 comments


Facebook profits drop 79% but mobile ad revenue takes off
Social network Facebook has reported earnings and revenue higher than expectations but with sharp drop in profit. 


More







bestvideos

TOP RATED VIDEOS



←

→





Snow slab hits fireman saving baby (VIDEO)





Helicopter smashes skyscraper crane in central London, 2 dead (PHOTOS, VIDEO)





Need for speed: Swedish cleaning lady steals train, crashes into house (PHOTO, VIDEO)





Zorb gone wrong: 2 Russian tourists carried 1km in creek, 1 killed (VIDEO)





Air pollution in Beijing surpasses 'health hazard' levels (VIDEO, PHOTOS)





Brazilian cat caught in prison break plot doesn't rat on accomplices (VIDEO)





Mexican authorities destroy thousands of toy guns in anti-crime bid (VIDEO)









cartoons

CARTOONS



←

→




Cartoons




Cartoons




Cartoons




Cartoons




Cartoons




Cartoons




Cartoons









photo_of_the_day

PHOTO OF THE DAY



←

→




Brazil mourns victims of Kiss club fire




Presidential Inauguration 2013: Obama kicks off second term




Frozen Epiphany: Orthodox Russians take the holy plunge




Thousands rally for funeral of slain Kurdish activists




Alternative inauguration for hospitalized President Chavez




Holy Ganges washes sins away




An Orthodox Christmas










episodes_sm

ON AIR PROGRAMS




Unforgetting Iraq

				 Even after the US occupation, Iraq continues to witness external intervention on an enormous scale. Is this what is driving the country towards becoming a failed state? Is the Maliki government contributing to Iraq’s... 
			





Episode 400

				 In this episode of the Keiser Report, Max Keiser and Stacy Herbert for their 400th episode discuss Obeelzebub and Jamie Demon as the inevitable outcome of collateral faking, zombie banking and paper printing. They also... 
			











On Air Talent
Corporate profile
Job opportunities
Partners
Закупки
Press releases
Advertise with RT
All RT sites


Legal disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Feedback
Contact us
© Autonomous Nonprofit Organization “TV-Novosti”, 2005–2012. All rights reserved.






















