BBC News - Riot report reveals '500,000 forgotten families'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















27 March 2012
Last updated at 14:00 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Riot report reveals '500,000 forgotten families'
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Panel chairman Darra Singh: "Where people feel there's no consequences to their actions, they'll go out and damage, loot, and wreak havoc"




Continue reading the main story


England riots


English riots one year on


Who's been prosecuted?


Convictions: How tough are they?


Map with video and timeline



 A lack of support and opportunity for young people contributed to the outbreak of riots in England last summer, an independent report says. 
The Riots, Communities and Victims Panel, set up last year, highlights "500,000 forgotten families".
Poor parenting, an inability to prevent reoffending, and a lack of confidence in the police were also cited.
Schools which fail to teach pupils to read and write should be fined, it said.
The report is just one of several investigating the causes of the riots - which spread after the death of Mark Duggan in Tottenham on 4 August.
The panel published its interim report last November which said the initial riots had been triggered by the police's handling of Mr Duggan's death.
This second stage of the report was due to be published on Wednesday, but was leaked early.
'Poor parenting'
It said: "Families aren't getting the support they need."
It supported an existing programme to help troubled families, but found overlap with those involved in the riots was limited.

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Buckler
BBC News



Last summer's days of disturbances followed a fatal shooting by police in London.
But the trouble spread to several other parts of England and this report says the roots of the riots lie in problems shared between those cities.
There are young people on the streets of Salford, Manchester, Birmingham and beyond who will all tell you that unemployment is a trap they can't escape.
However, there are people in those neighbourhoods who insist that those same young people aren't doing enough to help themselves.
The owner of a Manchester shop badly damaged in the riots pointed to the long criminal records of many convicted of involvement in the rioting.
"Crime is their job," he told me.
He pointed at long sentences being the best deterrent, although he accepted finding ways of properly rehabilitating those involved was important.
However, practically helping families to leave what the panel calls 'the bottom of society' will take a great deal of work and resources from public services already facing cuts.

 "Government and local public services should develop a strategy incorporating the principles of the Troubled Families Programme to help 500,000 'forgotten families' turn their lives around," it said.
Up to 15,000 people were believed to have taken part in the riots - with the majority of those aged under 24 and with poor academic records, the report said.
The communities the panel spoke to blamed the riots on poor parenting.
Complex reasons
The panel's chairman Darra Singh said: "We must give everyone a stake in society.  There are people 'bumping along the bottom', unable to change their lives. When people don't feel they have a reason to stay out of trouble, the consequences for communities can be devastating.
"The causes of the riots were complex and there is not one thing that will prevent them from happening again."
The wide-ranging report called for the criminal justice system to not only punish those who committed offences but also to make sure they do not do it again.
The panel recommended schools which fail to raise pupils' literacy rates to the required minimum standard for their age should face a financial penalty.
It also said they should demonstrate how they are building pupils' characters, and give careers advice to each child.
It made dozens of recommendations including:

 Local authorities should flag up young people from the age of 11 who are at risk of becoming unemployed
 Government should appoint an "independent champion" to manage conversations between big brands and the government about how to protect children from excessive marketing
 Young offenders to be offered a mentor when they finish their prison sentences
 Police services should do more to "debunk myths" on issues that affect how people view their integrity, especially on the issue of deaths of black men in police custody.
 Police services to review their complaints procedures
 It also urged the government to play a bigger role and "provide a job guarantee for all young people who have been out of work for two years or more".
The Met Police were urged to be more transparent about how and why they use their stop and search powers. 
The panel said: "In our view, by improving the quality of minor encounters, the Met can dramatically improve their relationships with communities."
Advertising pressure
The panel said it had surveyed local neighbourhoods in London, Manchester, Birmingham, Newcastle and Luton and found 85% of those questioned felt "advertising puts pressure on young people to own the latest products".

Continue reading the main story Panel members



 Darra Singh, the former JobCentre Plus chief executive.
 Simon Marcus, a youth leader in Tottenham, who was also the Conservative candidate in Barking, east London, in 2010.
 Heather Rabbatts, a barrister, has served as chief executive of Merton and Lambeth councils in London, and is also a former governor of the BBC.
 Maeve Sherlock is a life peer who has served as head of the National Council for One Parent Families and the Refugee Council.


 A spokesman for the Department for Communities and Local Government refused to comment because the report has not been officially published yet.
He said: "We do not comment on leaked documents."
David Lammy, Labour MP for Tottenham said the report's focus on the role of schools was "a bit unfair" but he needed to see the report.
"Of course there are issues in our schools, but it is so easy when things go wrong to point to a big institution and say the schools should do more.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
I would place more emphasis on family life, on parents and on community”
End Quote
David Lammy 
Labour MP

 Looking back at the English riots
 Schools 'should build character'

 "I would place more emphasis on family life, on parents and on community."
The shadow higher education minister stressed a significant proportion of those rioting were not school age.
"They were adults, they were men, they were people into their 30s and 40s who did not feel they had a sufficient stake in society and were certainly prepared to stick two fingers up at society as a whole."
Children's Society policy director Enver Solomon said: "We know from our work that there is a significant link between a child's material deprivation and their overall life satisfaction."
Panel chairman Darra Singh said he was unhappy the report was leaked: "We are disappointed that Sky News has leaked contents from a near-final version of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel's final report, which is due to be published tomorrow and is still being finalised.
"Our remit was to give a voice to the communities and victims of the August riots. This leak has impacted on our ability to ensure they receive the widest possible audience," he said.

 



More on This Story


England riots
	      



Features and Analysis



English riots one year on

One year on from last year's riots, BBC News talks to some of those caught up in the unrest and asks them to reflect on their experiences.




Who's been prosecuted?




Convictions: How tough are they?




Map with video and timeline







Latest News - one year on



Riot problems persist, Mayor says




Rioters jailed for 1,800 years




Service held for Duggan shooting




Plan to rebuild riot-struck area







In Pictures



In pictures: Aftermath of latest riots




In pictures: Rioting spreads




UK riots: Before-and-after




The morning after







Video and Audio



Parents 'not to blame' for riots Watch




Riots: 'Young people need a voice' Watch




'We will mend our broken society' Watch




Birmingham victims mourned Watch








Related Stories


Looking back at the England riots
27 MARCH 2012,    
                                                UK


Duggan inquest 'may not be held'
26 MARCH 2012,    
                                                ENGLAND


Work plan for 'troubled families'
03 JANUARY 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS


A photographer's baptism of fire
01 NOVEMBER 2011,    
                                                MAGAZINE


How the riots spread 
11 AUGUST 2011,    
                                                UK






Related Internet links


Riots Victims and Community Panel


The Children's Society


Troubled families - Communities and neighbourhoods - Department for Communities and Local Government




Around the BBC


BBC News - England riots



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 161       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 141.  rubyiplayer_14  28th March 2012 - 8:08   I am a dyslexia specialist teacher, The government needs to make the process of special intervention easier for parents to afford or it needs to make sure the expertise exists in school. During a recent visit to a primary school with one of my charges the teacher told me he had 30 in his class and of these 11 were on the special needs register and 6 on School Action +. Not a good ratio I suggest    Report this comment (Comment number 141) Link to this (Comment number 141)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 140.  SR from EG  28th March 2012 - 8:03   It's interesting that the youth workers in some of these areas didn't come out and say it's because of social deprivation that the riots took place. Now we are getting the weak kneed lilly livered liberals trying to enforce their take on the situation. I tend to listen to those who work with the youth and they were saying that it became an exciting distraction from the mundane lives their living.    Report this comment (Comment number 140) Link to this (Comment number 140)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 139.  Proletarian Revolutionary  28th March 2012 - 7:54   So much for Theresa May's promise she mad back then.    Report this comment (Comment number 139) Link to this (Comment number 139)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 138.  solomondogs  28th March 2012 - 7:53   Forgotten families? Perhaps if those individuals and families behaved a bit better towards everyone else they wouldn't be forgotten? Perhaps if they didn't swagger round with their little gangsta limp thinking they can just take what they want when they want society might think a little better of them?  If they got rid of the chip on their shoulder they may see the contempt in which they are held    Report this comment (Comment number 138) Link to this (Comment number 138)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 137.  mrcynict4  28th March 2012 - 7:36   I'd give them "forgotten families". What a load of rubbish.    Report this comment (Comment number 137) Link to this (Comment number 137)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 136.  redrobb  28th March 2012 - 7:27   Yes indeed the lack of good role models, aka parents, politicians,police, media,rich & powerful, sports stars, entertainment stars, etc etc....Scary thing is all it takes is ONE ROLE MODEL in times of need, the GERMANS found their's in the 1930's....    Report this comment (Comment number 136) Link to this (Comment number 136)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 135.  captainswing1  28th March 2012 - 7:19   Another load of excuses and sociological psychobabble.  This was sheer criminality pure and simple.  In India if you do this sort of thing you get a lathi round the ear and you don't do it again.    Report this comment (Comment number 135) Link to this (Comment number 135)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 134.  David2016  28th March 2012 - 7:10   I am a serving police officer who comes from a working class background.My parents would never have tolerated looting, stealing and general bad behaviour.The first people who need to sort themselves out are the parents.It starts when the children are about six and you just watch them disappear into a life of crime and asb while the moms (no dads) watch Jeremy Kyle.    Report this comment (Comment number 134) Link to this (Comment number 134)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 133.  Total Mass Retain  28th March 2012 - 7:02   A few months back it was reported that there were 120,000 families where an average of £75K per year was spent intervening (and with poor outcomes!). That was £9B of our money each year. If another 380,000 (or is it another 500,000) need intervention and support to that sort of level that would be over £30B a year. Where would that money come from and would it merely be going down the drain?    Report this comment (Comment number 133) Link to this (Comment number 133)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 132.  chrislabiff  28th March 2012 - 7:01   "44.Ady 6 Hours ago We never had these problems when everyone had a jobOur politicians have failed Britain bigtime, serving the interests of a few to the detriment of millionsRoll on the Independence vote...and a future for our kids"That's because everyone was too clapped-out to bother about the criminal uberclass. As has been said - there's scum and there's scum.    Report this comment (Comment number 132) Link to this (Comment number 132)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 131.  chrislabiff  28th March 2012 - 6:51   Yep - they should have been out there voting ;)    Report this comment (Comment number 131) Link to this (Comment number 131)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 130.  anneque2  28th March 2012 - 6:32   The riots resulted because the police shot Mr Duggan, lied, then refused to meet his family. There have been far too many similar cases of police misconduct and cover-ups, eg Blair Peach, Jean de Menezes, Mark Saunders, Ian Tomlinson. Armed police are trigger-happy and unaccountable; when have they actually used their arms to prevent crimes?    Report this comment (Comment number 130) Link to this (Comment number 130)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 129.  U14568146  28th March 2012 - 6:12   don't give me the hog wash that society let the families down,no they let society downthey chose that path they leadbenefit dependent avaricious and uninspiring lawbreakers is a polite way of describing those that were involved"NOT VICTIMS"the victims were the ones who were perpetrated against by the rioterssociety is the victim to those families    Report this comment (Comment number 129) Link to this (Comment number 129)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 128.  Andy The Thinker  28th March 2012 - 6:00   The hand-wringing bleeding-heart liberals are out again.What about people accepting responsibility for their actions?Its utter tosh to say that this kind of behaviour is anything but criminal. The vast majority of people do not riot - and as we have seen some oif those who did were wealthy or employed. It;s about Choice.Call it what it is - criminal behaviour! NO excuses.    Report this comment (Comment number 128) Link to this (Comment number 128)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 127.  angry_of_garston  28th March 2012 - 5:57   In the world of the liberals nobody is to blame for their own behaviour.    Report this comment (Comment number 127) Link to this (Comment number 127)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 126.  the_international  Comment number 126 is an Editors' Pick 28th March 2012 - 5:31   It takes two to tango. Neither the citizens nor the society is completely to blame for anything. (Usually), There are roots in the environment that set about a start of such thing and individuals who too weak to resist the opportunity to do something bad. Consider it a perfect storm, where all the conditions meet just in the right place and all share responsibility.    Report this comment (Comment number 126) Link to this (Comment number 126)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 125.  LostID  28th March 2012 - 5:00   Sure. 2 black people speak for all people involved. You're an idiot and i have no more time to play with idiots or trolls. Some of us have to try find work or think of a brand new business venture in the morning.    Report this comment (Comment number 125) Link to this (Comment number 125)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 124.  Karl Flavell  28th March 2012 - 4:52   I've just watched Newsnight. 2 black interviewees.Labour MP commentson the workless(unemployed) and blaming advertising of consumer goods for the riots then blabbing on about how Totenham youths get the best exam results. The black lady , down to earth, stopped short of calling the rioters thieves/scum..They were all just opportunist thieves and no respect for property or people.It's that simple.    Report this comment (Comment number 124) Link to this (Comment number 124)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 123.  LostID  28th March 2012 - 4:24   Can't help but agree. But to lose hope isn't very British now is it? We do like to moan but we expect things will be better. And if they aren't we make it happen. One way or the other.    Report this comment (Comment number 123) Link to this (Comment number 123)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 122.  Pdibbs  28th March 2012 - 4:18   @121 LostIDTo be honest, as I hinted at in comment 106, I think there is a dwindling of hope in the UK, it's most noticeable among the younger people, because they are more likely to physically express their frustration, but not limited to them. The thing is, the Government has to cater to the 'Daily Mail' contingent of voters as well, so there will be give AND take involved in any response.    Report this comment (Comment number 122) Link to this (Comment number 122)         Page 2 of 9    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 9 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Huhne admits speeding points lie

Former cabinet minister Chris Huhne admits perverting the course of justice over claims his ex-wife Vicky Pryce took speeding points for him a decade ago.



Car park skeleton is Richard III




Match played in England 'fixed'












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Match played in England 'fixed'


Charges over US sniper's murder









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Richard III dig skull image shown



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Charges over US sniper's murder



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Arctic oil spill plan 'useless'



6: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



7: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



8: French target Mali rebel bases



9: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



10: Tuberculosis vaccine hopes dashed



Video/Audio




1: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



4: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



5: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch



6: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



7: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



8: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



9: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



10: One-minute World News Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





