BBC News - Riot report reveals '500,000 forgotten families'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















27 March 2012
Last updated at 14:00 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Riot report reveals '500,000 forgotten families'
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Panel chairman Darra Singh: "Where people feel there's no consequences to their actions, they'll go out and damage, loot, and wreak havoc"




Continue reading the main story


England riots


English riots one year on


Who's been prosecuted?


Convictions: How tough are they?


Map with video and timeline



 A lack of support and opportunity for young people contributed to the outbreak of riots in England last summer, an independent report says. 
The Riots, Communities and Victims Panel, set up last year, highlights "500,000 forgotten families".
Poor parenting, an inability to prevent reoffending, and a lack of confidence in the police were also cited.
Schools which fail to teach pupils to read and write should be fined, it said.
The report is just one of several investigating the causes of the riots - which spread after the death of Mark Duggan in Tottenham on 4 August.
The panel published its interim report last November which said the initial riots had been triggered by the police's handling of Mr Duggan's death.
This second stage of the report was due to be published on Wednesday, but was leaked early.
'Poor parenting'
It said: "Families aren't getting the support they need."
It supported an existing programme to help troubled families, but found overlap with those involved in the riots was limited.

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Chris Buckler
BBC News



Last summer's days of disturbances followed a fatal shooting by police in London.
But the trouble spread to several other parts of England and this report says the roots of the riots lie in problems shared between those cities.
There are young people on the streets of Salford, Manchester, Birmingham and beyond who will all tell you that unemployment is a trap they can't escape.
However, there are people in those neighbourhoods who insist that those same young people aren't doing enough to help themselves.
The owner of a Manchester shop badly damaged in the riots pointed to the long criminal records of many convicted of involvement in the rioting.
"Crime is their job," he told me.
He pointed at long sentences being the best deterrent, although he accepted finding ways of properly rehabilitating those involved was important.
However, practically helping families to leave what the panel calls 'the bottom of society' will take a great deal of work and resources from public services already facing cuts.

 "Government and local public services should develop a strategy incorporating the principles of the Troubled Families Programme to help 500,000 'forgotten families' turn their lives around," it said.
Up to 15,000 people were believed to have taken part in the riots - with the majority of those aged under 24 and with poor academic records, the report said.
The communities the panel spoke to blamed the riots on poor parenting.
Complex reasons
The panel's chairman Darra Singh said: "We must give everyone a stake in society.  There are people 'bumping along the bottom', unable to change their lives. When people don't feel they have a reason to stay out of trouble, the consequences for communities can be devastating.
"The causes of the riots were complex and there is not one thing that will prevent them from happening again."
The wide-ranging report called for the criminal justice system to not only punish those who committed offences but also to make sure they do not do it again.
The panel recommended schools which fail to raise pupils' literacy rates to the required minimum standard for their age should face a financial penalty.
It also said they should demonstrate how they are building pupils' characters, and give careers advice to each child.
It made dozens of recommendations including:

 Local authorities should flag up young people from the age of 11 who are at risk of becoming unemployed
 Government should appoint an "independent champion" to manage conversations between big brands and the government about how to protect children from excessive marketing
 Young offenders to be offered a mentor when they finish their prison sentences
 Police services should do more to "debunk myths" on issues that affect how people view their integrity, especially on the issue of deaths of black men in police custody.
 Police services to review their complaints procedures
 It also urged the government to play a bigger role and "provide a job guarantee for all young people who have been out of work for two years or more".
The Met Police were urged to be more transparent about how and why they use their stop and search powers. 
The panel said: "In our view, by improving the quality of minor encounters, the Met can dramatically improve their relationships with communities."
Advertising pressure
The panel said it had surveyed local neighbourhoods in London, Manchester, Birmingham, Newcastle and Luton and found 85% of those questioned felt "advertising puts pressure on young people to own the latest products".

Continue reading the main story Panel members



 Darra Singh, the former JobCentre Plus chief executive.
 Simon Marcus, a youth leader in Tottenham, who was also the Conservative candidate in Barking, east London, in 2010.
 Heather Rabbatts, a barrister, has served as chief executive of Merton and Lambeth councils in London, and is also a former governor of the BBC.
 Maeve Sherlock is a life peer who has served as head of the National Council for One Parent Families and the Refugee Council.


 A spokesman for the Department for Communities and Local Government refused to comment because the report has not been officially published yet.
He said: "We do not comment on leaked documents."
David Lammy, Labour MP for Tottenham said the report's focus on the role of schools was "a bit unfair" but he needed to see the report.
"Of course there are issues in our schools, but it is so easy when things go wrong to point to a big institution and say the schools should do more.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
I would place more emphasis on family life, on parents and on community”
End Quote
David Lammy 
Labour MP

 Looking back at the English riots
 Schools 'should build character'

 "I would place more emphasis on family life, on parents and on community."
The shadow higher education minister stressed a significant proportion of those rioting were not school age.
"They were adults, they were men, they were people into their 30s and 40s who did not feel they had a sufficient stake in society and were certainly prepared to stick two fingers up at society as a whole."
Children's Society policy director Enver Solomon said: "We know from our work that there is a significant link between a child's material deprivation and their overall life satisfaction."
Panel chairman Darra Singh said he was unhappy the report was leaked: "We are disappointed that Sky News has leaked contents from a near-final version of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel's final report, which is due to be published tomorrow and is still being finalised.
"Our remit was to give a voice to the communities and victims of the August riots. This leak has impacted on our ability to ensure they receive the widest possible audience," he said.

 



More on This Story


England riots
	      



Features and Analysis



English riots one year on

One year on from last year's riots, BBC News talks to some of those caught up in the unrest and asks them to reflect on their experiences.




Who's been prosecuted?




Convictions: How tough are they?




Map with video and timeline







Latest News - one year on



Riot problems persist, Mayor says




Rioters jailed for 1,800 years




Service held for Duggan shooting




Plan to rebuild riot-struck area







In Pictures



In pictures: Aftermath of latest riots




In pictures: Rioting spreads




UK riots: Before-and-after




The morning after







Video and Audio



Parents 'not to blame' for riots Watch




Riots: 'Young people need a voice' Watch




'We will mend our broken society' Watch




Birmingham victims mourned Watch








Related Stories


Looking back at the England riots
27 MARCH 2012,    
                                                UK


Duggan inquest 'may not be held'
26 MARCH 2012,    
                                                ENGLAND


Work plan for 'troubled families'
03 JANUARY 2012,    
                                                UK POLITICS


A photographer's baptism of fire
01 NOVEMBER 2011,    
                                                MAGAZINE


How the riots spread 
11 AUGUST 2011,    
                                                UK






Related Internet links


Riots Victims and Community Panel


The Children's Society


Troubled families - Communities and neighbourhoods - Department for Communities and Local Government




Around the BBC


BBC News - England riots



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 161       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 61.  L A Odicean  28th March 2012 - 0:45   #53 Typical !!Someone HAS to make this a party-political matter. It's got nothing to do with whoever is, or was, in power. It's the high cost of trainer shoes and anoraks that we should be looking at. It is obvious that if they were much cheaper there'd have been absolutely no NEED to riot. You don't need to be Eisenstein to work THAT out.    Report this comment (Comment number 61) Link to this (Comment number 61)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 60.  danish  28th March 2012 - 0:38   well i agree to the fact that kids have been let off to easy and this is coming from someone whose just turned 23. I come from a normal family but i didnt go around smashing things. So i believe that kids should be punished if they do something wrong a slap now and then helps...    Report this comment (Comment number 60) Link to this (Comment number 60)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 59.  jambon909  28th March 2012 - 0:41   @ 55. GT1973You come from an era in which trade unionism was rife and the drive was for full employment. May I alsoremind you that riots where pretty common under the previous tory government too....    Report this comment (Comment number 59) Link to this (Comment number 59)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 58.  Rodders AKA Dave  28th March 2012 - 0:39   47.marzena ___I think recent times have proven the police are the LAST in the line of people 'fit' to even look at a firearm, let alone be allowed to touch one!Far too twitchy with those fingers!For evidence, look at how the first riot started, and what's being said now (evidence is too revealing for a proper enquiry on how the police deal with an unarmed uk resident...)    Report this comment (Comment number 58) Link to this (Comment number 58)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 57.  U14334741  28th March 2012 - 0:38   At least we're finally scratching beneath the surface and addressing the real underlying problems in our society today rather than just writing it all off as delinquency and solving nothing.The riots were sort of thing that's been going on for 15-20 years in our towns and cities every weekend finally reaching their climax.    Report this comment (Comment number 57) Link to this (Comment number 57)                 rate this     +14      rate this     +14   Comment number 56.  rememberdurruti  28th March 2012 - 0:35   @22.shep7023  I wonder whatever happened to the concept of accepting responsibility for your actions....Yes, I wondered that when the financial sector went down the pan. But then of course we had to pick up the tab for that fiasco for the next 4 decades. More damage was done during that little disaster than the riot and we'll be suffering for much longer. A pair of trainers vs £945 billion?    Report this comment (Comment number 56) Link to this (Comment number 56)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 55.  GT1973  Comment number 55 is an Editors' Pick 28th March 2012 - 0:35   The reason for the riots was pure criminality. Many generations in this country have grown up with  the same problems listed in the report. Too many people now want to be "rich" or "famous", if they cannot be that they are content to be "criminals". There should be no excuse for smashing shop windows, stealing items, starting fires,etc.    Report this comment (Comment number 55) Link to this (Comment number 55)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 54.  Paul J Weighell  28th March 2012 - 0:35   What seems to have contributed is an embedded sense of entitlement to "support and opportunity" somehow to be provided by someone else. There is no such entitlement.    Report this comment (Comment number 54) Link to this (Comment number 54)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 53.  L A Odicean  28th March 2012 - 0:35   There's a terrible lack of resposn  responslibility amongst many young people today and I blame the parents and Gordon Brown because the Labour party had 13 YEARS to get rid of the problem and they did NOTHING.    Report this comment (Comment number 53) Link to this (Comment number 53)     Comment number 52.  penguin337  28th March 2012 - 0:35    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 52) Link to this (Comment number 52)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 51.  jambon909  28th March 2012 - 0:31   @38. Dickie D. Labour have been just as bad, if not worse then the Tories (and this is coming from a "lefty" social work student).Also, @ 36. Chomnatelli between the Bulger case in 1993 and 2008 the number of 16 and 17 year olds given custodial sentences increased 300%, yet the problem of "youth crime" continues. Sort of rubbishes everything you have said    Report this comment (Comment number 51) Link to this (Comment number 51)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 50.  e14teacher  28th March 2012 - 0:29   So schools are to be held responsible for the way kids turn out, but not their parents? I am fed up with government, and others, choosing the easy target and insisting that schools must do better. The fact is that thousands of kids being very badly let down by their parent(s)/families, and successive governments just haven't have the guts to say that that is where the real problem lies.    Report this comment (Comment number 50) Link to this (Comment number 50)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 49.  Loki  28th March 2012 - 0:33   Watch for any energy to go onto all things except generating effective deterrence or punishment for miscreants and parent(s). "Local authorities should flag up young people from the age of 11 who are at risk of becoming unemployed." These will be those who have the literary skills of a 5 year old when they are 13, when even more money will be thrown at educating those who won't learn.    Report this comment (Comment number 49) Link to this (Comment number 49)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 48.  jambon909  Comment number 48 is an Editors' Pick 28th March 2012 - 0:20   Sigh, the usual triads of "they're all scum", "back in my day there was never  any problems", "harsher penalties" and so forth. None of this deals with the problem however and just further condems people and excludes them further. It's very easy to criticise from middle class or upper working class pedistools what the "underclass" should be doing, when most no better, just labeled differently.    Report this comment (Comment number 48) Link to this (Comment number 48)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 47.  marzena  28th March 2012 - 0:14   oh yes give more money for doing nothing! so they can breed and we will have more rioters. This country was to generous for to many years, this is the problems. Many families were brought up in thinking that they don't have to work cause the government will give them more anyway, and the more kids they have the better. Enough is enough! maybe they ll stop breeding at least! And give Police guns!    Report this comment (Comment number 47) Link to this (Comment number 47)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 46.  Rodders AKA Dave  28th March 2012 - 0:29   38.Dicky D ___It is the fault of the Tories. It is the fault of New Labour. Our political system being 'bought' via party donation has led to an all time lack of corporate and political responsibility. It has filtered through society so now we have folk who don't even know what responsibility is, and these folk run companies, claim political expenses, and riot.It's ALL about the money.    Report this comment (Comment number 46) Link to this (Comment number 46)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 45.  Miss T Fied  Comment number 45 is an Editors' Pick 28th March 2012 - 0:27   Yes, materialistic values predominate because government relies on over consumption to provide jobs and tax revenues.An artificially high value is placed on some commodities. Politicians talk of sustainable economic growth but that is impossible given finite world resources, a growing population and an economy which depends on consumption. Are we safeguarding the needs of future generations?    Report this comment (Comment number 45) Link to this (Comment number 45)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 44.  penguin337  28th March 2012 - 0:25   We never had these problems when everyone had a jobOur politicians have failed Britain bigtime, serving the interests of a few to the detriment of millionsRoll on the Independence vote...and a future for our kids    Report this comment (Comment number 44) Link to this (Comment number 44)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 43.  L A Odicean  28th March 2012 - 0:24   #32You are ridicullous to blaime the riots on the high price of trainers. People should not steel just because they cant afford to buy something.    Report this comment (Comment number 43) Link to this (Comment number 43)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 42.  Violet Mildred  28th March 2012 - 0:23   Society can create unfairness and this will lead to people feeling rejected. The youths involved in the riots seemed to act in a new way, jumping onto the street encouraged by social networking, a new phenomenon. I think this was a show of the frustration they feel from rejection, and an effort to do something dramatic and wrong in the belief they would be in large numbers and not get caught.    Report this comment (Comment number 42) Link to this (Comment number 42)         Page 6 of 9    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 ... 9 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Huhne admits speeding points lie

Former cabinet minister Chris Huhne admits perverting the course of justice over claims his ex-wife Vicky Pryce took speeding points for him a decade ago.



Car park skeleton is Richard III




Match played in England 'fixed'












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Match played in England 'fixed'


Charges over US sniper's murder









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Richard III dig skull image shown



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Charges over US sniper's murder



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



6: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



7: Arctic oil spill plan 'useless'



8: French target Mali rebel bases



9: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



10: Tuberculosis vaccine hopes dashed



Video/Audio




1: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



4: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



5: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch



6: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



7: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



8: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



9: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



10: One-minute World News Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





