BBC News - Warsaw Ghetto: The story of its secret archive


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports



















26 January 2013
Last updated at 19:44 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Warsaw Ghetto: The story of its secret archive

By Monica Whitlock
BBC World Service 





Continue reading the main story


In today's Magazine


Hillary Clinton's long journey


Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch


Smoke on the Water legend among those who passed


The history of the future in 10 images



 Throughout the bitter days of the Warsaw Ghetto, a clandestine group of researchers compiled a vast archive detailing every aspect of life in this prison city built and then obliterated by the Nazis. Led by a historian, Emanuel Ringelblum, the group then buried the archive for for future generations.
On the hot night of 3 August 1942, 19-year-old David Graber signed his name on a piece of paper and put it inside a metal box at 68 Nowolipki Street, in the heart of the Warsaw Ghetto. 
"I would love to see the moment in which the great treasure will be dug up and scream the truth at the world," he wrote. "May the treasure fall into good hands, may it last into better times, may it alarm and alert the world to what happened… in the 20th Century… May history be our witness."
David knew that he might have only hours, or minutes. German soldiers had arrived in the next street. Two weeks before, they had begun to drive the half-million Jewish men, women and children living in the ghetto into trains taking them to the new death camp at Treblinka. 
On 2 August, 6,276 people had been taken. On 3 August, another 6,458 were seized. 

Continue reading the main story Find out more



 Voices from the Ghetto is on BBC World Service on Saturday 27 January, at 2205 GMT
 Listen again using the link  below



BBC World Service - Voices From The Ghetto

 With David was another teenager, Nahum Grzywacz, and a teacher, Israel Lichtensztajn. The three were part of a colossal, secret attempt to record every detail of ghetto life in an archive - David's "great treasure". The codename for this project was Oyneg Shabbes (Joy of the Sabbath).
The Oyneg Shabbes collaborators had amassed tens of thousands of documents by August 1942. Some were written, in the form of diaries, essays and commissioned surveys, poetry and precise reportage in Yiddish, Polish and other European languages.
Others were gathered. Hundreds of paintings, sketches, maps, tram tickets, recipes and even photographs secretly developed in the ghetto were carefully wrapped in paper and stored.
Unearthed from the archive
Continue reading the main story





Food coupons and an official ration card - rations were limited to 189 calories a day, and a quarter of the ghetto population starved to death



Sweet wrappers such as this were collected by the Oyges Shabbes group - a ghetto workshop made caramels and artificial honey from saccharine



'Portrait of a Girl with a Ball', one of 300 watercolours by Gele Sekstajn who died in 1943 - "I think I am the last surviving Jewish painter," she wrote



'Song of the Rebbe of Radzyn', a poem by Yitzhok Katzenelson, exploring responses to death - the poet also ran an underground children's school



Concert poster - many musicans were imprisoned in the ghetto, and a symphony orchestra, choirs and chamber groups often performed

Continue reading the main story 

previous slide
next slide



 The researchers filled 10 of the metal boxes, bound them with cord and hid them inside the brick foundations of 68 Nowolipki, an old school building. 
"I only wish to be remembered," reads Lichtenstzajn's last note on behalf of himself and his wife, a well-known artist. "I wish my wife to be remembered, Gele Seksztajn. I wish my little daughter to be remembered. Margalit is 20 months old today."
The man behind the Oyneg Shabbes was a historian and social activist, Emanuel Ringelblum. 


Ringelblum with wife Yehudit and son Yuri before the war, then a teacher

He was living with his wife and young son in Warsaw when the armies of Germany advanced through Europe and into Poland - the heartland of European Jewry.

Continue reading the main story From The Telephone, by Wladyslaw Szlengel


One of the documents unearthed was The Telephone, a poem by Wladyslaw Szlengel (1924-1943): 
With heart all shattered and ailing/ With thoughts to the 'other side flown,/ I sat there, while light was failing,/ by the telephone. 
And thought: yes, I will ring someone,/ someone on that 'other side',/ when it's my turn to be minding/ the phone tonight.
I suddenly think: God Almighty -/ I know no one - have nothing to say -/ I in the year Thirty-Nine/ went a quite different way.
From What I Read to the Dead: Poems From The Depths of Hell by Wladyslaw Szlengel translated by Marcel Weyland 

 Polish Jewish families in their tens of thousands were driven into walled prison cities known as ghettos, or fled to Warsaw thinking they'd be safe in a modern capital in which every third person was Jewish. They were not. 
"The Saturday the ghetto was introduced was terrible," wrote Ringelblum in November 1940. "People in the street didn't know it was going to be a closed ghetto, so it came like a thunderbolt." 
Ringelblum began by recording each day himself. But gradually he invited more and more trusted contacts to join in. Some wrote in Polish, but most in Yiddish. 
To Ringelblum, the revival and maintenance of Yiddish was of paramount importance, in a population filled with intense debate about its identity and under pressure as never before. Each document provides a precise and personal insight into life in a community that still hoped and planned for peace.
Snatched photographs show smugglers vaulting the three-metre wall with the sacks of food which helped the majority just avoid starvation.
A recipe for frozen potatoes, an article on rotten fish cooked with saccharine and synthetic honey speak of how far those scraps of food stretched. 
Researchers logged the words to the cries of beggars, and advertisements for umpteen adult education classes from physics to paper flower making. 

Continue reading the main story Holocaust Memorial Day






 Holocaust Memorial Day (27 January) is a national event in the UK dedicated to the remembrance of Holocaust victims
 To mark it, poems written by children in the Terezin concentration camp have formed the inspiration for an art exhibition
 "I bambini della Shoah" or "Children of the Holocaust" explores the themes of childhood, freedom and, above all, hope (see link below)



BBC Religion: Art from Terezin

 "Everyone wrote," recorded Ringelblum. "Journalists and writers of course but also teachers, public men, young people - even children. A tremendous amount was written... a photograph of life."
Commissioning, writing and collecting was structured tightly. Secretaries made copies in triplicate, in case the project was uncovered, even using the typewriters and carbon paper of the Judenrat, the Jewish council set up by the Germans. No single person knew the whereabouts of all the documents, in order to create a security firewall. 
Each document reveals the sharp, bright detail of real life. We meet the poet, Wladislaw Szlengel, as he sits by his phone in the ghetto, looking through his window to the park on the other side. The phone still works - but he has no one to call in the other Warsaw beyond the wall, the one he called home before 1940.
The bitter jokes in the archive still work: "Hitler comes to the other world. Sees Jesus in Paradise. 'Hey, what's a Jew doing without an armband?' 'Let him be,' answers St Peter. 'He's the boss's son.'"
Other testimonies mark the many who died without trace. 
"Terrible case of a three-year-old refugee child," Ringelblum writes of a family sent by train to the ghetto. "The guard threw the child into the snow. Its mother jumped off the wagon and tried to save the child. The guard threatened to shoot all the Jews in the wagon. The mother arrived in Warsaw and here went out of her mind."
The concert programmes and tickets preserved give a glimpse of names once famous in what had been a sophisticated European capital. There are performances by world-class musicians from the Warsaw Radio Orchestra and the Philharmonic. 

Continue reading the main story More from the Magazine





Janina Dawidowicz was a nine-year-old girl when World War II engulfed Poland. As Jews, she and her family were soon driven into the Warsaw Ghetto, but she later escaped and remains one of its few survivors. 


Life in the Warsaw Ghetto (22 July 2012)
Witness, Life in the Warsaw Ghetto

 Staff from the Electro-Syrena record company were also confined within the ghetto. The first record label in Poland, Electro-Syrena, had been bringing out popular dance music in Polish and Yiddish since 1904, a back-list of 14,000 titles. In the long summer of 1939, weeks before the German invasion, it produced a smokey foxtrot that would be its last record.
One of the label's greatest stars, the elegant Artur Gold, was so famous to his German captors that they made him perform at Treblinka, wearing a clown suit, before they killed him.
David Graber, Nahum Grzywacz, Israel Lichtensztajn, Gele Seksztajn, 20-month-old Margalit, Emanuel Ringelblum, Yehudit Ringelblum, Uri Ringelblum, the poet Wladislaw Szlengel, the orchestras, the staff of the Electro-Syrena label, Artur Gold - none of them survived the war. 
Nor did Nowolipki Street. In 1943, after the ghetto uprising, German soldiers blasted the shabby streets still standing into rubble and ash.
But three members of the Oyneg Shabbes inner circle did come through. 
In September 1946, after weeks of planning and calculation, they estimated where the hiding place must have been and dug beneath the rubble. The 10 boxes were still there, intact, and the papers legible, bar some water damage. 


35,000 documents from the archive were unearthed in 1950

Then in 1950, labourers at one of the new post-war housing estates in what was now communist Warsaw stumbled upon two metal milk churns filled with documents. 
Around 35,000 documents were recovered in total. All efforts to find the last cache - the biggest - have failed. 
Most recently, archaeologists looked under the garden of the Chinese embassy on what was Nowolipki Street, but found nothing but the burnt scraps of a diary. 
The rest of the archive may still be under Warsaw.
You can follow the Magazine on Twitter and on Facebook




More on This Story


In today's Magazine
	      






Hillary Clinton's long journey

As Hillary Clinton leaves her job as secretary of state, Kim Ghattas asks if there is more to come from the globetrotting stateswoman.










Tweets of the week: Space monkey, Chuck Hagel and Ed Koch

For the week ending 1 February, here is a look at the news in America - all in 140 characters or fewer. 










Smoke on the Water legend among those who passed

Our regular column covering the passing of significant - but lesser-reported - people of the past month.









The history of the future in 10 images

How have visionaries and dreamers imagined the modern world?









The grown-ups with teddy bears

The historian David Cannadine considers the enduring appeal of teddy bears for both children and adults. 









Related Internet links


Jewish Historical Institute



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Clashes at Morsi's Cairo palace


Clinton says world a safer place


Dow at five-year high on jobs data


'Dozens' in Harvard exam scandal


Google settles French news dispute









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Ancient wisdom 

How Timbuktu's residents have always saved their manuscripts 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: How owls swivel their heads



2: Hijab for a day: Non-Muslim women who try the headscarf



3: Hillary Clinton's long journey



4: Plans to 3D print Moon building 



5: Bomber hits US embassy in Ankara



Read




1: 'Dozens' in Harvard exam scandal



2: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



3: Incompetent hitmen killed student



4: Clinton says world a safer place



5: Pound in big fall against euro



6: Clashes at Morsi's Cairo palace



7: Hillary Clinton's long journey



8: LA cardinal 'stripped of duties'



9: Timbuktu's art of saving its manuscripts



10: How owls swivel their heads



Video/Audio




1: Russian judge resigns over 'sleeping' video Watch



2: Mali students return to school Watch



3: Car charged by stampeding buffalo Watch



4: 'Escaped zebra' caught in zoo drill Watch



5: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



6: The science behind zombies Watch



7: New Orleans gears up for Super Bowl Watch



8: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



9: Black taxi sale to China 'symbolic' Watch



10: Laptop problems for 999 caller Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



From West to East Watch

Meet three people from across the world whose fortunes have flourished















Programmes



Click Watch

A project to map our brains and develop artificial intelligence in computers plus other tech news




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





