BBC News - Newtown shootings: Obama 'backs assault weapons ban'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















18 December 2012
Last updated at 21:14 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Newtown shootings: Obama 'backs assault weapons ban'




Latest


Victims


Gunman


Media blitz


Eulogies


Reaction


Timeline





 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























White House spokesman Jay Carney said the president supported legislation on the so-called 'gun show loophole' 




Continue reading the main story


US gun debate


Viewpoints: US gun laws


In statistics: Guns in the US


Could Obama's plan work?


Newtown parents relive agony Watch



 US President Barack Obama wants to reinstate an assault weapons ban in the wake of the mass killings in Newtown, Connecticut, his spokesman says.
Jay Carney said the president was "actively supportive" of a Democratic senator's plan to introduce a bill on the first day of the next Congress.
There could also be moves on ammunition and gun-sale loopholes, Mr Carney said.
In its first statement since Friday, the National Rifle Association said it was "heartbroken" by the attack.
The gun lobby group said it was "made up of four million moms and dads, sons and daughters - and we were shocked, saddened and heartbroken by the news of the horrific and senseless murders in Newtown.
"The NRA is prepared to offer meaningful contributions to help make sure this never happens again," the statement said, announcing a "major news conference" to be held on Friday.
Gun sales, including those of assault rifles, have risen since Friday, a sign that enthusiasts fear that new legislation is coming, the BBC's Paul Adams in Washington reports. 
At the same time, share prices of several gun manufacturers have fallen and a private equity firm has sold its stake in the company that makes the assault rifle used at Newtown, after pressure from one of its biggest investors, a California teachers retirement fund. 
Gunman Adam Lanza killed 20 children and six adults in last Friday's attack.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Newtown pastor Ruth Calver: "Reality hit: there were no survivors."



 Students in the rest of the Newtown district returned to school on Tuesday, but Sandy Hook Elementary, where the shooting took place, is still designated a crime scene.
Closing loopholes
The US president has previously stated his support for the reintroduction of an assault weapons ban, which lapsed in 2004.
But he has not backed a specific move to do so before now.
"He is actively supportive of, for example, Senator [Dianne] Feinstein's stated intent to revive a piece of legislation that would reinstate the assault weapons ban," Mr Carney said on Tuesday.
The White House press secretary added that Mr Obama was also supportive of other gun legislation, including on high-capacity ammunition clips and against a loophole that allows for gun purchases at gun shows without a background check.

Continue reading the main story US gun control timeline



 June 1968: The assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy prompts calls for federal gun control measures
 October 1968: Gun Control Act bans the sale of firearms to certain groups, including convicted felons and minors 
 March 1981: Attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan: Spokesman Jim Brady is shot in the head and paralysed for life
 1993: The Brady Bill requires background checks of anyone seeking to buy a firearm from a licensed dealer but exempts private sales - the so-called "gun show loophole"
 1994: Federal assault weapons ban is passed; critics say the ban was rife with loopholes and easily evaded
 2004: Assault weapons ban expires; congress shows little interest in renewing it
 2008: In District of Columbia v Heller ruling, the US Supreme Court finds the second amendment to the US constitution protects an individual's right to own guns for the purposes of self-defence
 2010: In McDonald v City of Chicago, the US Supreme Court holds the second amendment applies to states, potentially weakening state gun control laws



In pictures: Newtown grieves

 Senator Feinstein told reporters she would introduce the legislation when the new Congress met for the first time in January.
On Monday, the White House spokesman said that tighter gun control laws were only part of the answer to violence in the US, and that "no single action will fully address the problem".
But correspondents say that Democrats are now less reluctant to pursue gun control legislation than before, after two pro-gun senators said they supported action in the wake of the Sandy Hook shooting.
Mr Carney said the president had spoken on Tuesday to West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin, a conservative Democrat and avid hunter who made comments the day before about preventing gun violence.
During the presidential campaign, Mr Obama expressed support for the ban on assault weapons during one of three televised debates against Republican candidate Mitt Romney.
"I also share your belief that weapons that were designed for soldiers in war theatres don't belong on our streets," Mr Obama said in the second debate on 16 October.
"And so what I'm trying to do is to get a broader conversation about how do we reduce the violence generally. Part of it is seeing if we can get an assault weapons ban reintroduced." 
Return to school
Newtown's schools began their day two hours late, with grief counsellors and police present, but students said they were not expecting to get very much work done.

Continue reading the main story Murder by firearms in 2011





Rate per 100,000 people
Source: FBI Uniform Crime Reports


In statistics: Guns in the US
Viewpoints: Should gun laws change?
Mark Mardell: Twenty Christmas trees

 "Our collective strength and resilience will serve as an example to the rest of the world," Charles Dumais, Newtown High School's head teacher wrote in a blog post, entitled "The Beginning". 
One of the school's students, 17-year-old PJ Hickey, said: "We're going to be able to comfort each other and try and help each other get through this, because that's the only way we're going to do it," the Associated Press reported.
But he added: "There's going to be no joy in school. It really doesn't feel like Christmas anymore."
It was unclear how many of the town's 4,700 students would attend classes.
Funerals for the 20 children and six adults killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School continued on Tuesday, after the first victims were buried on Monday.
Services were held for James Mattioli and Jessica Rekos, both six-year-olds.
Meanwhile, investigators continue to piece together a picture of the gunman.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Some gun shops in the US have seen a rise in sales as people try to beat any new laws



 Police said they were working to recover information from a damaged computer found at Lanza's home, ABC News reported.
And Connecticut's chief medical examiner has said tests are under way to see whether the gunman had taken medicines at the time of the shooting.
Before trading began on Wall Street on Tuesday a US private equity firm said it would sell its stake in the maker of the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle, the weapon used in the Newtown school shootings.
Dick's Sporting Goods, a US chain, also announced it would suspend sales of modern sporting rifles in all stores, and remove all guns from a display at its store closest to Newtown.
Also on Tuesday, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder vetoed a bill passed on Thursday that would have allowed concealed weapons in schools, bars, places of worship and hospitals with additional training.
A group of residents who have come together as Newtown United met gun control advocates as well as families affected by other mass shootings in Washington, DC on Tuesday.
And an 11-year-old was arrested near Salt Lake City, Utah for bringing an unloaded handgun and bullets to school, saying he brought it to protect himself and his friends, the Salt Lake Tribune reported.

 



More on This Story


US gun debate
	      






Viewpoints: US gun laws

The debate begins over US gun control




In statistics: Guns in the US




Could Obama's plan work?







Watch/Listen



Newtown parents relive agony Watch




Would more guns save lives? Watch




Sales up for US gun shops Watch




How Australia did it Watch







Features and analysis



Viewpoint: Evil and forgiveness




Lessons from Dunblane
















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 901                  rate this     -73      rate this     -73   Comment number 393.  Steve  18th December 2012 - 22:06   It's a tragedy what happened in Connecticut, but  the above map shows the highest death toll by gun lies in Washington DC  which HAS a ban on guns! Obviously this isn't the problem.Thousands of children die by drunk drivers every year, yet no talk of banning alcohol.  Please!!!    Report this comment (Comment number 393) Link to this (Comment number 393)                 rate this     -128      rate this     -128   Comment number 183.  TallmanMike  18th December 2012 - 20:27   Guns are great fun when you use them properly. It's whatever is driving people in America to murder which needs to be addressed, not a harmless pass-time.If they only treat the symptoms and not the cause, the violence will just flare up somewhere else using different tools.    Report this comment (Comment number 183) Link to this (Comment number 183)                 rate this     +134      rate this     +134   Comment number 182.  Nick Gisburne  18th December 2012 - 20:27   I am sick of seeing people say 'guns are not the problem, it's the people who use them who do the killings who are the problem'. So here's a thought - take away the guns, then the 'people who use them to kill' will no longer be able to use them to kill. Countries with strong gun control have fewer gun deaths. That is beyond dispute.    Report this comment (Comment number 182) Link to this (Comment number 182)                 rate this     -13      rate this     -13   Comment number 167.  fixento  18th December 2012 - 20:21   Its not so simple to change the US constitution, it requires ratification by each state legislation and 2/3 majority. The founders of this country thought and rightly so a government should fear the people, to ensure its a government of the people and by people.    Report this comment (Comment number 167) Link to this (Comment number 167)                 rate this     +100      rate this     +100   Comment number 165.  DWB in CT  18th December 2012 - 20:21   I am a mental health professional and I agree that there are MH issues involved in this tragedy. But for those who argue that it's not a gun control issue, how do you reconcile that simplistic view with the reality that easy access to automatic weapons allowed this disturbed individual to pull a trigger and spray a room of kids in an instant? Ban the guns, then we'll deal with the MH issues.    Report this comment (Comment number 165) Link to this (Comment number 165)         Comments 5 of 8    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are pre-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest US sniper is shot dead

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Mars rover hammers down into rock



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



9: Malala recovering after operation



10: Twitter account hack affects 250,000



Video/Audio




1: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: An early masked hero lives on in reissued comics Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: Time-lapse shows Sandy strike NYC Watch



10: A female view of the Civil War Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





