Morning Joe Liberals Can’t Explain Why Joe Scarborough Is Anti-Union For Supporting ‘Right To Work’ | Mediaite





Mediaite
Gossip Cop
Geekosystem
Styleite
SportsGrid
The Mary Sue
The Jane Dough
The Braiser









WATCH: The Best 2013 Super Bowl Ads All In One Video





Dry-Humping Soccer Fans Videobomb Live Sports Report





The Biggest Cable News Fights Of The Month: January 2013





Stewart Trashes Wayne LaPierre And Female Gun Advocate Over Senate Testimony





Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus' NBC News Tenure










 




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook





 
»» Columnists





Morning Joe Liberals Can’t Explain Why Joe Scarborough Is Anti-Union For Supporting ‘Right To Work’
by Tommy Christopher | 10:42 am, December 12th, 2012
video

» 85 comments




 
















  

On Wednesday morning’s Morning Joe, host Joe Scarborough tried his damnedest to get the liberals on his panel, like former Congressman Harold Ford, Jr., to explain to him why supporting so-called “right to work” legislation is an inherently anti-union position “because I know there are a lot of hardworking union people out there that might think I’m anti-union. I’m not.”
The panel was spectacularly, head-deskingly unable to do it, so the task falls to me. Yes, Virginia, you are anti-union.
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder‘s decision to help the Republican legislature in his state to force through so-called “right to work” legislation has drawn white-hot media attention to the cause of union rights, but not in a good way. In fairness to Morning Joe‘s panel, many liberals have done a poor job of explaining “right to work,” choosing to focus on why it’s bad, instead of why it’s wrong, but this segment was the Citizen Kane of awful pushback against “right to work.”
Sample exchange:
Joe Scarborough: Harold Ford, I’ll ask you, I should be able to work where I want to work, and pay union dues if I want to pay union dues. Is that a demonstrably anti-union position, or supporting freedom?
Harold Ford, Jr.: I think it’s supporting freedom. Here’s another side.
Sorry, liberals, I should have warned you to put a pillow on your desk. Mr. Ford, if you’re reading this, everything you say after “I think it’s supporting freedom” doesn’t count.
Liberal co-host Mika Brzezinski also got in on the action, telling Scarborough, toward the end of the segment, that “I think your question’s legitimate if — especially if the unions aren’t being effective in making the pay raises good, in making the workplace better. And I think that’s a very good question today, in terms of how well people are being paid.”
What Joe Scarborough, Harold Ford, Jr., Mika Brzezinski, and the rest of the panel seem not to understand is the basic idea of what a union is. A union is a group of workers who organize into a single unit to collectively bargain with employers on behalf of workers’ interests, including wages, benefits, workplace safety, and other things. The reason unions are effective is right in their name: the workers unite in order to exert the only form of leverage they have, which is collective action. There are some who suggest that unions are somehow antithetical to the “free market,” but they’re really just companies whose product is workers, just as companies are just unions whose rank-and-file are shareholders. Unions deserve, and require, legal protections against the weakening of their product, just as surely as companies deserve, and receive, legal protections against the weakening of their products. With that in mind, here are the answers to some of Joe Scarborough’s questions.
“Is somebody anti-union for saying… ‘I should be able to work where I want to work, and pay union dues if I want to pay union dues?’ Is that a demonstrably anti-union position, or supporting freedom?”
It’s a demonstrably anti-union position. No workplace is forced to have a union, they are formed by a democratic process that is already tilted in favor of management. Once a union is certified in a workplace, Joe Scarborough is free to a. work there and pay dues, and belong to the union, while enjoying the fruits of collective bargaining, or b. work there and pay dues, and not belong to the union, while enjoying the fruits of collective bargaining, and lobby his fellow workers to decertify the union via a democratic process.
“But you can’t take that money from me if I don’t want to give it to you…you’re still taking it from my pocket and I don’t want to give it… Can I decide whether my workplace is better if I choose to go to a workplace?”
The workplace chose to have a union, and Joe decided to work there. If he doesn’t want to belong to a union, he can a. work somewhere else, or b. work there and pay dues, and not belong to the union, while enjoying the fruits of collective bargaining, and lobby his fellow workers to decertify the union via a democratic process. Freedom!
“If I’m a union guy or woman, I’d say, okay, well, let’s negotiate for union members, and union members will be put on a different — put in a different category, and we’ll give them training, higher skills, and they get the pay raise, and the nonunion people don’t get the pay raise.”
Well, if you’re a corporate shareholder, and you don’t like, say, Pepsi’s formula, aren’t you, as a part-owner of the Pepsi name, free to sell your own formulation, and label it “Pepsi,” and if people don’t like it, they won’t buy it, and if they do, then great? No, because Pepsi shareholders agree to act collectively, which protects the Pepsi brand. That’s why you can’t just take a piss in a can and call it “Pepsi” (Budweiser, maybe).
If a union can’t bargain for all workers, the workers’ only leverage, collective action, ceases to exist. That’s not just bad for workers, as liberals like former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean argued in a subsequent Morning Joe segment, it’s wrong, because that workplace voted to have a union, and that’s what a union is: workers leveraging their right to act collectively.
Harold Ford, Jr. brought up the issue of unions’ political activity, which leans heavily Democratic, but didn’t defend it:
“This is about political purposes, political purposes. So there’s a broad set of reasons that these dollars are used for. We’re making your workplace better. We’re ensuring that you are not only protected at work, but that you’re…”
Ford acts as though union political activity is somehow walled off from making the workplace better, from protecting workers, but it’s not as though unions support Democrats because they’re super-gay-friendly commie pinkos, it’s because Democrats, at the very least, don’t support destroying unions, and destroying workers’ rights. 
Forget the why for a moment, or whether you agree with it, or even whether Democrats do a great job of protecting unions. Maybe Democrats only oppose union-busting laws so they can get union money, or maybe they really believe in workers’ rights. Maybe Republicans only support “right to work” because they want money from corporations who profit from depressing workers’ wages, or maybe they really do believe that the choice is between low-wage jobs and no jobs (a choice that, in this debate, is really only created by the existence of “right to work” laws). It’s irrelevant. Unions supporting Democrats is no different than a corporate PAC supporting candidates who advance their interests. Freedom!
Mike Barnicle asked Scarborough a question that a lot of union supporters have been using to push back against “right to work,” but which ignores the fundamental problem with the law:
“Well, you choose, Joe, after being granted the right, not to throw in union dues to the larger employee contribution, would you choose not to take the pay raise that the union negotiates for you three years from now?”
This misses the point. If Joe is not required to pay dues to the union that his workplace voted to have, there won’t be a union, not for long. All management has to do is pay the non-union workers the same as they pay the union workers, and eventually, the workers will have no incentive to pay dues, and there will be no union, and no collective action. Three years from now, Joe will be taking a pay cut so the company can maintain their profits, or get fired if he doesn’t like it.
A union that you don’t have to pay dues to is not a union. It’s like saying, “Hey, I’m all in favor of having an army, I just think you should be free to ignore orders that you don’t like.”
An army, like a union, depends entirely on collective action. You’re free to join it or not, but you’ve still got to pay for it. As a citizen, there are other ways you can try to make changes, but you can’t just opt out of the army.
The “pro-union” Scarborough went on to say that “I think, by the way, unions play an absolutely critical role, especially in an era where the rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer,” and I’m going to take him at his word that this is how he truly feels, that this is not just some feigned innocence aimed at sugarcoating anti-union propaganda. If that is the case, Joe, then stop being anti-union, because that’s what “right to work” is, and that’s what you are.
Here’s the clip, from Morning Joe:

Follow Tommy Christopher (@TommyXtopher) on Twitter.
 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook


 
filed under
Harold Ford Jr., Howard Dean, joe scarborough, labor, liberals, Michigan, Mika Brzezinski, Mike Barnicle, morning joe, Protest, Rick Snyder, right to work, Union, unions







Are You Over Taylor Swift's Princess Act Too?





Has Miley Finally Gone Too Far?





5 Celebs Who Remarried Their Exes





The Clueless Cast: 17 Years Later





Is Kris Jenner Finally Ready to Leave Bruce?


 







Anonymous



“Liberals …like former Congressman Harold Ford, Jr.”
Was that for sh*ts and giggles, or just sh*ts?






freedomrocks4



Tommy sums it up just like a liberal would…..the good of the many, outweight  a individual’s freedom …spot on






Van Grungy



“Unions deserve, and require, legal protections against the weakening of
their product, just as surely as companies deserve, and receive, legal
protections against the weakening of their products.”
Think of “Right to Work” as a way for the WORKER to keep his Union HONEST and providing VALUE.
The government should NOT protect a union’s monopoly power to COMPEL workers to pay for ANYTHING beyond collective bargaining, representation and professional training
Right to Work will stop the Union Politics that WASTE Worker’s money






Van Grungy



“All management has to do is pay the non-union workers the same as they
pay the union workers, and eventually, the workers will have no
incentive to pay dues, and there will be no union, and no collective
action. Three years from now, Joe will be taking a pay cut so the
company can maintain their profits, or get fired if he doesn’t like it.”
Well, at least the company won’t be forced to crush the union through legal bankruptcy or close down forever.






Orestes Ippeau



h. o. r. s. e. p. o. o. p.
Tommy got it undiluted right. What YOU are talking about — and Snyder, and all the RTW Repoopyhead governors and legislatures — is interfering with individual and collective bargaining rights 
Tommy maybe should have singled out not just Dr. Dean and that weak little Barnicle wimper, but as well Richard Wolfe, who clearly DOES know what he’s talking about here.






Anonymous



when UAW dues are being used to own and maintain multi-million dollar golf resorts then maybe it’s time to rethink if it makes sense to force people to pay in.  I mean at some point; you’ve made enough money (tax free).






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Georgi-Tsakonis/100000671899573                            Georgi Tsakonis



harold ford is a conservadem, and basically useless.






    http://twitter.com/anfistophanes                            Anfy



Harold seems to unwittingly voice conservative positions on a routine basis. It’s like he doesn’t know he’s doing it as it’s happening. Still unsure why he’s constantly given a mouth piece or is a perceived surrogate of the Democratic Party. He’s awful at eloquently stating thoughts and towing the party line– two necessary skills of so-called surrogates.






    http://twitter.com/anfistophanes                            Anfy



You should probably learn something first.






    http://twitter.com/anfistophanes                            Anfy



Oh, cool! Purely anecdotal evidence! Anyone with two fingers and a nervous system can play this game!






Anonymous



Former member 17+ Years UAW 2244 Fremont Ca.
Black lake retreat and golf club 1000+ acre’s near ,Onaway Michigan.
Cost over 20 nillion in upkeep.
Just another waste of our dues.






    http://twitter.com/anfistophanes                            Anfy



It’s called a pragmatic analysis of the world around you. Humans like you used to do this.
Senseless ideology is the common-sense killer.






Rebeccainca



In order to form a more perfect union
This is about either respecting and protecting democratic values in this country or not
Unionizing workers is a democratic process
It is put up to a vote
Governing in America is a democratic process 
It is put up to a vote
I can’t say well I don’t like that elected person or that party so I am not going to pay my fair share to support our union 
The ONLY force I have seen for the past 8-10 years now that have shown
through their actions and deeds to be against democracy and protecting
democratic principles and processes is the GOP and very powerful and wealthy donors
If we all took a minute for those of us paying attention we should be able to feel the supression in the air
This is about Democracy…of the people, by the people, and for the people
It’s about Power…Democracy is about the balance of power
As Unions have declined the balance of power has shifted to the few
As Unions have declined the power has shifted to a select few in America
All the way to being too big to fail, too big to indict, too big to allow free competition
The power to have your voices heard
The power to protect your group and others through the democratic process
The power to push back or pull together Internationally….World Wide
The power to negotiate a contract no different then the power of a CEO or Board to negotiate contracts
It’s about Rights
The only issue is the all mighty dollar…by taking away the dues you take away their power  
Any legislation in this country that Takes Away the ability to fund an organization that is one of the truest forms of representation of people & workers should sound alarm bells from coast to coast…
We all know that if people don’t have to pay dues they won’t
We all have memberships – If I don’t pay my membership fee to say the gym I don’t get to go to that gym – Unionization of Workers is no different and right in line with our Democratic principles
American for Prosperity Michigan Director – HAGERSTROM
We fight these battles on taxes and regulation but really what we would like to see is to take the unions out at the knees so they don’t have the resources to fight these battles.
Unions are seen as an enemy against ideology
Those ideologues needs to at least be honest about their goals
Tell you there is one group in America that needs to Unionize and Organize and that is DOCTOR’s!!






Sven Johannson



Once those union employees lose the right to bargain for wages .. the corporation/business owner wins the employees lose..   no  paid healthcare no paid vacations your truly at the mercy of the boss.. do you not know the labor history ?  you think that 40 hour work weeks were just giving to employees ? you’ve got to be kidding yourself..  do some homework on labor relations in the  1920s – 1950s  and then tell me right to work is about freedom..  The answer is  Right to work is all about the individual  – union is all about all of the workers.. a work place democracy if you will . your naivete is astounding ..






johns



“The workplace chose to have a union, and Joe decided to work there. If he doesn’t want to belong to a union, he can a. work somewhere else”.  Remember when liberals wanted every restaurant to be “No Smoking”.  Conservatives argued that if workers didn’t like the smoke then they could go work elsewhere.  “THAT’S NO FAIR” shouted liberals.  But hey, if you don’t want to be union, just go work somewhere else.  Way to be consistent.






Rebeccainca



Thanks to Gov Snyder you won’t have to pay dues anymore
It’s a beautiful course that has won many awards including most affordable
Golf should be left to all those men only uber wealthy people anyway 
Wonder why there are so many women playing golf today they should be home taking care of their kids
Maybe ya’ll could rally your union to sell it?
Say to Private Equity let them loose on the land in your beautiful state






Rebeccainca



I miss smoking in restaurants those were the days…I used to love to watch my mom put her cigarrette out in her mashed potatoes…and I felt so comforted and loved when she came to me in the middle of the night with a tablespoon of peppermint schnapps to relieve my chronic bronchitis those were the days…F’ing Unions!






darladoon



Mika isn’t a liberal either






Anonymous



Every December Joe is behaving like a total jerrrk. No exception this year, apparently.






Anonymous



Harold Ford is not a liberal. Neither are Mike Barnicle and Mika B.






Someguy



One of these days at the rate the GOP is going around trying to destroy unions my guess in ten years they will try and reintroduce corporate script.






Anonymous



you’re suggesting i’m lying?  look it up for yourself.  they aren’t the only union that has used the dues to purchase some pretty high end property.  Union dues come in tax free and this is what they do with them….what if unions paid their “fair share” instead of running golf courses and resorts?






Anonymous



what in the holy hell are you blathering about?






Anonymous



My union 2244 allowed non union temps to wrok at the NUMMI auto plante, the temps would pay 53 dollers a month to the union for the right to work for 2 years and 9 dollars an hour less then Me.After 2 years they were terminated in that time they had no union representation no medical no dental.My union duse 53 dollars a month.
                                                                                                                Is’nt that the sort of parasitic and unfair business practice the union is supposed to protect the worker from?






Anonymous



What have unions done in the last half century?  Are you suggesting that unions are angelic entities free of corruption and are the only thing standing between us and slave labor conditions by evil corporations?  You buying this narrative whole hog speaks more to your astounding naivete than anyone else’s.






Anonymous



Great article Tommy. One of the best explanations of unions and how they are just as much a part of free market functioning as corporate patents that I’ve ever read. Your deconstruction of his statements completely destroyed Scarborough’s arguments. Well done.






    http://leatherpenguin.com/                            TC_LeatherPenguin



TC skips over the fact that a union can negotiate their contract as to only cover employees who are members of the union; there is nothing in the National Labor Relations Act that requires them to represent all the employees in their negotiations. The real reason unions want ALL employees to be members of the union (other than the money) is so contractually enforced “last in; first out” rules go into effect if the company announces layoffs.






Blackflon



No one is taking away the right to bargain for wages.






Blackflon



Take a look at California and Illinois government unions and you will see what has happened.






Blackflon



He’s only useless because you don’t agree with him. Pathetic.






Blackflon



That’s why unions are bad. Their members are like sheep.






Blackflon



How did that pragmatic analysis work out in the former Communist Soviet Union?






Blackflon



You’re wrong.






Blackflon



With all due respect, Tommy.  Bullfeathers!!!






Anonymous



Harold Ford, Jr is not liberal btw






    http://www.facebook.com/james.hetfield.3511041                            James Hetfield



Harold Ford is EVERYTHING that is WRONG with the Democratic party. He is spineless just like the party as a whole. I HATE republicans, but they do what they say and what they are bought and paid for to do. They finally get power in states like Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan and they immediately attack public and private unions the way they always wanted to do. The democrats take control of both houses of congress and have a democratic president and Labor, their constituent wants ONE THING, and ONE THING only, Card check or EFCA and what do they do, NOTHING. I blame the democrats more for this debacle first and foremost. They don’t even protect the people behind them.
As for Harold Ford he is a spineless weasel on a whole other level. “I think its supporting Freedom”. Oh boy, way to throw the labor movement all the way under the bus. Perhaps next time he can back up the bus and drive over the movement again? Instead of explaining why this is wrong, he agrees with them. What a spineless, gutless piece of jello.






    http://www.facebook.com/james.hetfield.3511041                            James Hetfield



If your gonna piss and moan about tax exempt entities then I say what about religion? That surely would help the fiscal cliff.






    http://www.facebook.com/james.hetfield.3511041                            James Hetfield



You guys don’t know a thing about labor union, its actually astounding to listen to you. There always was a mechanism in place to hold the union accountable, its called desertification. All this does is weaken the labor unions in place giving ALL the leverage to the employer. Don’t think for a second this was done because Snyder or republicans care about the poor individual worker that has to pay dues. Come on guys, wake up.






Anonymous



Paying dues and receiving no benefits is crooked. But without unions you too would be making 9 dollars an hour less. Republicans are only out to defund Democrats largest source of campaign funding. The law would be about forcing unions to provide equal benefits to dues paid if they were really concerned about the workers.






Anonymous



You mean no one in the michigan state legislature with this vote is taking away the right to bargain for wages because there most certainly are folks taking away the right to bargain for wages. But you are correct, it is a “right”.






    http://www.pinkpanthersblog.com/                            cowboyneok



Just goes to show you how right wing the supposedly progressive hosts of this show are.  If they were true progressives they would have no problem taking Scarborough to task.






    http://www.pinkpanthersblog.com/                            cowboyneok



Exactly.  Ford is on the wrong side of almost every progressive issue.






    http://www.imdb.com/name/nm3769949/                            thatpj



Of course they can’t. You think Joe would put intelligent liberals on his show and not milquetoast walkovers?






Anonymous



Look – get one thing straight here.  A job is NOT a democracy.  It is, and should be, a dictatorship.






Anonymous



TOYTOA  Georgrtown Ky average salary is 58.000+ same as NUMMI and the same benefits I had at NUMMI .TOYTOA is non union.
There are former NUMMI team members  at Georgrtown and they have no complaints.
Dose a doller go further in Kentucky or California(NUMMI)?






Anonymous



Mika Brezinski (I don’t give a sh!t  how it’s spelled) and Harold Ford, Jr. aren’t liberals, they’re  apologists for the interests of their corporate employers. Brezinski probably pays her domestic staff less than minimum wage.






Anonymous



While you’re correct that the Wagner Act does not expressly require unions to work on behalf of nonmembers, there are numerous subsequent court cases which DO.






Anonymous



calling harold ford jr. a liberal is as disengenuous as calling noah rothman intelligent,sane and heterosexual!






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Bill-Rambler/1513697597                            Bill Rambler



Exactly, the unions exist because management allows it, not because the majority won!






Flitzy



You listed Mika and Harold Ford Jr.
Where are the “liberals” you alluded to in the headline?
Also, Joe Scarborough *is* anti-union *because* he supports so-called ‘right to work’, which is nothing but anti-union nonsense being rammed through by an unpopular governor before the change of power shifts.






Flitzy



Harold Ford Jr is to liberal as Dick Cheney is to a smart, caring, non-evil man.






Flitzy



No, he’s useless because he is useless.






    http://leatherpenguin.com/                            TC_LeatherPenguin



I imagine those decisions would probably be along the lines of a “union shop” (as opposed to a “closed shop”); the resident union can’t discriminate again non-union workers when bargaining with management.






Anonymous



morning joe is just too focused on his dead secretary- how’s she doing joe?still dead? Do you ever sleep at night or do you lack a conscience?






    http://twitter.com/Nuktubian                            Andy



It is not anti-union as much as it is ‘pro-choice’ for the workers. You know, those workers that unions babble on about. How much they care for them and all. This latest round of union thuggery shows that they really only care for workers that will pay those nice dues that they can use to buy off the Obumbler. More money, means more DNC politicians in their pocket.
The union is always there — if you want to join it. What is the problem here? I thought all you neo-communists (read:progressives) were pro-choice. 
Or: Is it only when a woman decides that her baby in the womb is nothing but useless uteran contents – with no more worth than the mole on your neck, and can be disposed of; that a choice is sacrosanct? Looks that way, don’t it?






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



he is a wh$re for Wall Street, makes millions to shill for corporate interests
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2010/02/26/at-merrill-lynch-ford-received-at-least-2-million/






Anonymous



These are not liberals. Barnicle pretends to be a man of the people however his wife is a VP at Bank of America. He has blamed people taking out large loans for home they d=could not afford for the banking crisis. Every third statement from Harold Ford is “I don’t agree with Obama on this.” Mika is a waste of space and Willy will say whatever he thinks Joe wants to hear.  Governor Dean came on an hour later and succintly said why this policy was anti-union. The people on this panel want to make certain not to make Joe mad or he will repeat something that has nothing to do with the topic over and over again until you relent.






Anonymous



Harold please, this is the supreme anti union legislation, passed during one of the few times Joe McCarthy and the Republicans held the Legislative branch






Anonymous



the problem with the union is they bleed a company dry with high labor cost and the real reason is the illeagal worker work for chump change and are taking all the jobs






    http://twitter.com/Damon458                            Damon



http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/22/us-usa-autos-union-property-idUSTRE78L29Y20110922
http://www.hotel-online.com/News/PR2002_3rd/Sept02_Diplomat.html






Anonymous



Just wait.  Come back in 5 years and tell me how much money you now make.






Anonymous



It’s all right for the Latter Day Saints or Catholic church to buy golf courses but not a union?






Anonymous



Should unions organize and negotiate for better working conditions? Absolutely. Should unions work toward increased production and higher wages? Absolutely. 
Should unions force non-members into membership though intimidation and manipulation then demand money for dues? Absolutely not. We might as well have the mob running employment conditions.
Should unions use the force of government to handcuff business owners into complying with their demands? No way in hell. We might as well invite Fascism. 
In other words, I have no problem with unions, they have every right to try to make things better. I have a huge problem when unions become political and use the weight of government to usurp private property.






Ian Kable



No it wouldn’t.
If we taxed everyone making over $60k at 100%, it wouldn’t balance our budget.
The issue is unfunded liabilities.






Ian Kable



So long as the LDS doesn’t compel anyone to “donate”.






Ian Kable



No, she’s an idiot.
Liberals aren’t really liberals, but rather they are progressives and progressivism is a euphemism for Marxism.






Anonymous



I have a problem with non-profit groups like the one supported by the Koch Brothers buying their way into our government.  Has anyone checked to see how much money the Koch Brothers are giving the Governor for suddenly turning into a ‘union basher”?






Anonymous



Too many Christmas parties.






Anonymous



The LDS says you either contribute 10% or you are not a member.  So, tell me again what the difference is.






Anonymous



I have no clue but I’ll look into it. 
I have a big problem with money going into politics to impose force over the people and/or their property. I am no so opposed to money going into politics to ensure that politics stays out of the business of force.






Anonymous



Unions should be abolished, at least in the form they are in now. No employer should be forced to hire people based on union membership and no non-union worker who is willing to accept the terms the company is offering should be shut out of a job because they aren’t a member. 
Unions are engaging in restraint of trade and are a violation of free association rights. As an employer I should be able to hire and fire whoever I want just as a worker is free to leave anytime he wants. If the union folks believe they know better, let them start their own companies. Any company in which the management and labor operate as adversaries is destined to fail. I have watched Michigan destroy itself for decades by clinging to 19th century labor policies.






Anonymous



Decertification is one option, democracy is another.  All American unions are democratic processes.  Don’t like perceived union excess?  Work to change it.  And ask yourself, how democratic is a workplace without a union.






Anonymous



Google “duty of fair representation.”  That is the union’s legal obligation to represent all workers under a labor contract, members and non-members.  So, unions are obligated to maintain costly legal teams to enforce the contract (as well as negotiate, etc.) and Michigan now requires they do it for free.  It’s not “right to work,” it’s right to freeload.






Green Hollow



pretty ironic since joe scarborough is an aftra union member.






Anonymous



Stop imagining and do even a little bit of research.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duty_of_fair_representation






Anonymous



It’s quite clear from your comments you don’t understand right-to-work laws at all.






Anonymous



If that were true you’d have a point but it isn’t so you don’t.






Anonymous



I think Ford is a moderate.  You know, someone who has thought processes that come down on both sides, depending on the issue.  Not everyone are partisan hacks.






    http://leatherpenguin.com/                            TC_LeatherPenguin



Well, after scanning over that link you provided, it seems to me that my imagination was pretty much on the mark. Or did I miss something in that Wiki entry that invalidates my presumption?






Anonymous



“but they’re really just companies whose product is workers”….and if I cannot go to another company (union or non-union) to get the product (workers), then its a monopoly which is not a free market.






Anonymous



What would your solution be O deep thinking one?






    http://leatherpenguin.com/                            TC_LeatherPenguin



And in the future, can you do us a favor? Cite a source that cites independant sources for its determinations.






    http://twitter.com/7tomorrow                            John Locke



Love the Eddie Izzard reference, but the only court decision I can find that requires unions, by their duty of fair representation, to work on behalf of non-union workers is regarding working conditions, which is the one benefit that unions can negotiate that is not easily separable for union and non-union workers (which is why many states allow unions to charge fees to non-union workers for bettering working conditions).
And, for Penguin, here is a better source: http://stewardresources.lettercarriernetwork.info/Duty%20of%20fair_representation.pdf
Part IV, Section F on page 7 of the document references “duty of fair representation” regarding non-union workers.






G D



So if I were an anti-union company owner with a union workforce in a “right-to-work” state, I would instantly give anyone who opts out of the union a pay increase that’s greater than what union members have bargained for. 
This would cause lots of union members to want to opt out as well. Once the majority of workers decide to decertify the union, I would start laying off those over-paid workers in favor of anyone desperate enough to take a poverty-level wage, and there would be no union to answer to.
Then, in gratitude, I would take a portion of my savings and donate it to whatever Republicans made this all possible.






Anonymous



I worked for 38 yrs non union and had to pay into my retirement…living well without the burden of others to pay my way….stop the illeagels and go after companies that that hire illeagals


















 


Most Popular
Most Commented







30 Rock’s 13 Most Hilarious Political And Media Moments




Ronald Reagan’s Childhood Home To Be Bulldozed For Possible Future Home Of Obama Library




Reporter Hilariously Shames Seemingly Drunk Videobomber: ‘How Long Have You Had An STD?’




CNN Airs Video Of Snowmobile Jump That Killed X Games Competitor




Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward


 





Did The Media Blatantly Mischaracterize Video Of Newtown Father Being ‘Heckled’ By ‘Gun Nuts’?          »410






Female Gun Advocate Lays Into Democratic Senator Over Women’s Second Amendment Rights          »398






Hide Your Bibles, Hide Your Kids, Because Muslims Are Coming! Or So Suggests Fox News’ Todd Starnes          »360






Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward          »282






Fox’s The Five Goes After MSNBC For Edited Video Of Sandy Hook Father Being ‘Heckled’          »245



 






Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Pilot Season: ABC Orders Divorce Comedy Based on Israeli Series



• 

Pilot Season: CBS Orders Psychological Thriller From Homeland, CSI Executive Producers



• 

Christina Ricci Engaged to Boyfriend James Heerdegen



• 

Glee Sneak Peek: New Directions Covers a Diva and Tina Gets Called Out!



• 

Was the Iranian Space Monkey Launch a Hoax? 


 

TV Guide Listings









 
 




click here for advertising opportunities





Last Call: Calm Down, There’s No Chicken Wing Shortage, Just Like There Was No Baconpocalypse
WATCH: Emeril Lagasse Hawks Ritz Crackers As The Taste Of New Orleans







So Ronaiah Tuiasosopo Apparently Was Doing Lennay Kekua’s Voice After All And Oh Come On What The Hell We Give Up With This Crap
“Fenway Parks” Is The Name Of An Actual High School Baseball Player. He’s From Florida.







EOD Roundup: Science Thinks That Men Who Do Chores Aren’t Attractive
10 Things We Would See If Women Ran The Super Bowl







Editors’ Picks 2/1: Field Gambling Chess
Here’s an Entire Hour of Valve’s Gabe Newell on Business, Economics, and Video Games [Video]







NAACP Image Awards Red Carpet Photos!
American Idol Contestant Admits to Lying About Military Accident, Miracle Baby







StyleDish: Of Course Kanye Wore A Straitjacket During His Concert
Bar Refaeli Makes Out With A Go Daddy Geek For Her First Super Bowl Ad







We Can All Quit: Sesame Street Did A Spoof Called Upside Downton Abbey [VIDEO]
Things We Saw Today: The Princess and the Evil Queen from Disney’s Frozen






 





 




© 2013 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
	  			
 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram

















 

X


