The London story - FT.com

































ft.com
 > Life&Arts
 > 


FT Magazine

 










Search
Advanced search





Sign in
Site tour
Register
Subscribe



Welcome 
Subscribe
Your account
Site tour
Sign out






Email address



Password



Forgot password?





Remember me on this computer

Sign in


"Remember me" uses a cookie. View our Cookie Policy.











Home 


Video


Interactive


Blogs


Alphaville


beyondbrics


Portfolio


Special Reports


In depth


Today’s Newspaper



World 


Africa


Asia-Pacific

Asia-Pacific  China

 India

 Japan

 North Korea




Europe

Europe  Brussels




Latin America & Caribbean

Latin America & Caribbean  Business

 Economy

 Finance

 Politics & Policy

 Regulation

 Society




Middle East & North Africa

Middle East & North Africa  Economy

 Finance

 Politics & Society

 Gulf

 Iran




UK

UK  Business

 Economy

 UK Companies

 Politics & Policy

 UK Small Companies




US & Canada

US & Canada  Economy

 Politics & Policy

 Society

 Canada




The World Blog



Companies 


Energy

Energy  Mining

 Oil & Gas

 Utilities




Financials

Financials  Banks

 Insurance

 Property

 Financial Services




Health

Health  Health Care

 Pharmaceuticals




Industrials

Industrials  Aerospace & Defence

 Automobiles

 Basic Resources

 Chemicals

 Construction

 Industrial Goods

 Support Services




Luxury 360


Media


Retail & Consumer

Retail & Consumer  Food & Beverage

 Personal & Household Goods

 Retail

 Tobacco

 Travel & Leisure




Tech

Tech  Science

 Tech Blog




Telecoms


Transport

Transport  Airlines

 Shipping

 Rail




By Region

By Region  US Companies

 UK Companies

 European Companies

 Americas Companies

 Asia-Pacific Companies

 African Companies

 Middle Eastern Companies

 UK Small Companies





Markets 


Alphaville


FTfm

FTfm  Regulation

 ETFs

 Investment Strategy

 Pensions

 People

 Opinion

 Video




Markets Data

Markets Data  Bonds & Rates

 Commodities

 Funds

 Director Deals

 ETFs

 Companies

 Currencies

 Investor Relations

 Equity Indices

 Interactive Charting

 Data Archive

 Portfolio

 Economic Calendar




Trading Room

Trading Room  Clearing & Settlement

 Developing Markets & Asia

 Markets Regulation

 Trading Technology

 Quick View

 Carbon Markets

 Exchanges Consolidation




Equities

Equities  US

 UK

 Europe

 Asia-Pacific




Currencies


Capital Mkts


Commodities


Emerging Mkts / beyondbrics



Global Economy 


Economic Calendar


Money Supply


Americas


China


EU


India


Middle East


UK


US



Lex 


About Lex


Lex Biographies


Lex In depth


Best of Lex


Lex on Mobile


Lex by Email


Lex Video


Lexicon


Subscribe to Lex



Comment 


Columnists

Columnists  Samuel Brittan

 Christopher Caldwell

 Janan Ganesh

 John Gapper

 Chris Giles

 Brian Groom

 John Kay

 Edward Luce

 Sebastian Mallaby

 Jurek Martin

 Wolfgang Munchau

 David Pilling

 Ingram Pinn

 Gideon Rachman

 Robert Shrimsley

 Gary Silverman

 Philip Stephens

 Lawrence Summers

 Gillian Tett

 Martin Wolf




Analysis


Opinion


The A-List


Editorial


Blogs

Blogs  beyondbrics

 Brussels Blog

 Business Blog

 Economists’ Forum

 FT Alphaville

 FT Data

 FT Long Short

 Gavyn Davies

 Martin Wolf’s Exchange

 Material World

 MBA Blog

 Money Supply

 Nick Butler

 Tech Blog

 The World Blog

 Westminster Blog




Letters


Corrections


Obituaries



Management 


Business Education

Business Education  All Rankings

 MBA

 MBA Blog

 Masters in Management

 Executive MBA

 Executive Education

 Features of the Week

 Business School News

 Women at Business School




Entrepreneurship

Entrepreneurship  Business Speak

 Business Questions




Business Books

Business Books  Business Book of the Year Award




Business Travel


Recruitment


The Connected Business



Life & Arts 


Arts

Arts  Collecting

 Design & Architecture

 Film & Television

 Music

 Theatre & Dance

 Visual Arts




FT Magazine

FT Magazine  FT Magazine Slideshows




Food & Drink

Food & Drink  Jancis Robinson on Wine

 Lunch with the FT

 Restaurant reviews

 Rowley Leigh on Cookery

 Recipes




House & Home


Style


Books

Books  Essay

 Fiction

 Non-Fiction




Pursuits

Pursuits  Crossword

 Sudoku




Travel

Travel  UK

 North America

 Europe

 Asia & Australia

 Africa

 Americas

 Luxury

 Adventures

 Pink Snow

 Family

 City Breaks




Columnists


How To Spend It

Tools 
Tools 
Portfolio 

FT clippings 

Alerts hub 

Email briefings 

MBA rankings 

Newslines 

FT Lexicon 

Mobile 

Currency converter 

FT ebooks 

ePaper 

Executive jobs 

FT press cuttings 

Privilege Club 

Social Media hub 

Economic calendar 
















Share



Share this on








Clip


Reprints


Print






Last updated:
May 26, 2012 12:06 am
The London story

By Edwin Heathcote











The world’s first megacity has been reinventing itself for 2,000 years, and never more so than now

©RexVelodrome: The 6,000-seat cycling stadium will be a valuable legacy of the 2012 OlympicsTwo hundred years ago, London became the first city to surpass Rome in size and population, the first modern city to reach a million inhabitants and the world’s first global city. By 1900 it was the imperial capital of a third of the globe, the first megacity. Since then, megacities have been springing up across the world, from São Paulo to Shanghai.
Yet somehow, London has managed to maintain its status as one of the two capitals of capital (along with New York, the first city – in 1925 – to overtake it in population) and as a place where people want to be. It is a tourist city, a business city, a city of shopping and a city of eye-wateringly expensive real estate – still the default luxury choice for wealthy overseas investors.
MoreOn this story The building dividing London Dream suites Theatre takes the plunge Cook’s day off Shopping heavenOn this topic Hiring in City of London falls by a third Inquiry into collapse of HBOS to begin Technology groups snap up City officesLucy Kellaway New workers want the same things we didIN FT MagazineFirst Person Ze FrankClassic cars investing wheels of fortuneClassic cars racing past blasts Time and spaceThis year the Olympics are shining a light on the city’s extraordinary ability to reinvent itself, to build new layers and interweave them with the complex, consistently compelling layers of a 2,000-year-old centre.
The first layer of London was laid down by the Romans when they founded the city on the Thames in ad43. The river was wide enough for ships to dock but shallow enough to make it easy to bridge. It gave a supply of fish and its flooding banks made the farmland around it fertile.
The Romans established the area that is now the City of London – the square mile that is London’s financial centre. Parts of the wall they built around it still survive and the shape of the City – its sacred sites, the position of London Bridge – has remained remarkably consistent.
©AlamyLondon Wall: sections of the Roman wall can still be seen in the CityRoman London survived for about four centuries and, when they left, new settlements were established by the Anglo-Saxons around what is now Covent Garden and Aldwych, forming the beginnings of a new city that would become Westminster, the status of which was cemented when William the Conqueror invaded in 1066 and built Westminster Abbey and what would become the Palace of Westminster. This established the city’s pattern of twin centres; the City and Westminster, commerce and power respectively. To those two was added a third, Southwark, on the south side of the river, a place of docks and trade. As Protestantism and puritanism descended on London during the 16th century, Southwark became a place of theatres and brothels, servicing the seamier side of city life.
Through the Medieval and Tudor periods London grew to become a wealthy city of timber-framed houses and palaces along the river. Its thriving markets were the nexus of a growing web of global trade and, eventually, empire. The heart of this wooden city was destroyed by the Great Fire of London in 1666 and the rebuilding of the city in the wake of the fire established the physical fabric of the city we see today. Timber was replaced by brick made from London clay and, influenced by Amsterdam – which by the 17th century had become London’s principal competitor – the city expanded in rows of flat-fronted, fireproof brick terraces and squares.
©GettyParliament’s famous Clock Tower was finished in 1859. The nickname Big Ben was first given to its Great BellThe City in this era was still a crowded place of markets and slums, workshops and factories, the Thames a flowing sewer. Wealthier citizens set themselves up in the expanding west of the city, away from the smoke and stench carried on prevailing winds. Mayfair, St James’s, Soho and Bloomsbury were established as wealthy new estates, their houses grouped around private garden squares. These squares were exclusive; at first they were guarded, gated developments. Hanover, Grosvenor, Golden, Fitzroy, Bedford and Berkeley Squares have changed radically since then, but they remain London’s main contribution to town planning.
These new areas were linked by huge green spaces, former royal hunting grounds that maintained the idea of these new streets and squares as quasi-country houses. Green Park, Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens form a grassy tapestry which still makes the centre of the city one of the greenest (and least dense) anywhere.
As the city expanded it crept up hills and along rivers subsuming former villages such as Hampstead and Chelsea, once places where Londoners might have kept a country retreat. Yet these areas maintained a degree of separation so that the character of London’s constituent parts still changes from neighbourhood to neighbourhood.
©CorbisTrafalgar Square: Central London’s imperial plazaThere were few moments of radical change in the city’s fabric. Whereas in other capitals, such as Rome, Paris or Berlin, absolute monarchs or popes drove wide avenues through city centres or created new piazzas in their own names, in London the patchwork of private property made such initiatives almost impossible. The major exception was the plan by architect/developer John Nash to create a West End spine, a grand processional route from Regents Park to the river. It didn’t quite work out as he planned, but the route from the Regency villas of Regent’s Park, past the newly expanded BBC Broadcasting House, curving around Regent Street into Piccadilly Circus, through St James’s and on to the Mall remains the grandest walk in London, ending up in the imperial plaza, Trafalgar Square.
The view from here takes in the Houses of Parliament (1840-1870), a gothic extravaganza intended to establish a new British architecture differentiated from the classical style. Its construction coincided with the city’s explosion in population as the industrial, commercial and mercantile centre of the world. The railways wove themselves around the streets and facilitated a huge expansion in the suburbs, but the city remained a low-level, dense and complex web of teeming streets and alleys. During the 20th century the empire disappeared and the city suffered, in 1940, a prolonged and fierce bombing which virtually destroyed the old City.
Norman Foster’s 180m skyscraper in the City, known to all Londoners as the GherkinIn the modern age, London has once again reinvented itself. Since the financial deregulation, the Big Bang of 1986, the City of London re-established itself as one of the twin hubs of the international money markets and its high-rise architecture became a vertical expression of that wealth. The City has become a museum of architecture, its monuments each given a quirky nickname to personalise them – in contrast to the anonymity of buildings in Manhattan’s grid. There was the Gherkin (Foster & Partners) and now there is the Shard (by Italy’s Renzo Piano), at 310m western Europe’s tallest skyscraper, a new marker showing the spread of capital across the river to a reviving Southwark. It is possible to argue that, as a flat city punctuated by the spires and towers of the 50 or so churches built by Sir Christopher Wren (who also built grand-domed St Paul’s Cathedral) after the Great Fire, London has always been a city of spikes.
Now the smoke and factories have gone, the City is also spreading eastwards. The once industrial quarters of Shoreditch and Hoxton have become centres of leisure, of nightclubs, bars, restaurants and galleries, taking over the role once dominated by Soho. Farther east still is the Olympic Park. The forthcoming games have let loose a torrent of new architecture: the Iraqi-born London architect Zaha Hadid’s wonderful Aquatics Centre and Hopkins Architects’ sleek velodrome are the highlights along with the city’s biggest new park for over a century.
London’s piecemeal development, its growth unfettered by city walls, its surprising greenness, its openness to international trade and its extraordinary and historic concentration of wealth and privilege (alongside persistent deprivation) have created a unique city. It may lack the beauty of Venice, the coherence of Paris or the drama of New York but it has been the most adaptable and arguably the most successful and popular city in the world for centuries, and that success is embodied not just in its physical fabric but in its ability to absorb adaptation. It has rarely allowed beauty to hold it back, and the view from Waterloo Bridge at twilight remains one of the most impressive and dynamic of urban panoramas. London is a city that changes almost day to day so that it is always the same yet always offers something new.
Edwin Heathcote is the FT’s architecture critic

.......................................................................
Historic places to stay

43 Cloth Fair, Smithfield

The former home of the poet John Betjeman is available to rent through the Landmark Trust, the charity which preserves historic buildings, writes Matt Ponsford. The two-storey Georgian apartment overlooks the 12th-century churchyard of St Bartholomew the Great, and is next door to the oldest house in London. Betjeman lived in the house for 20 years from 1954, and allegedly entertained his mistress, Lady Elizabeth Cavendish there. Sleeps two; seven nights from £972; www.landmarktrust.org.uk.

St Pancras Chambers

Betjeman wrote of St Pancras station that it was “too beautiful and too romantic to survive” but it has, and behind the recently renovated Grade I-listed Gothic frontage there is now a hotel and several luxury apartments, one of which is available to rent by holiday-makers. The building was designed in 1865 by Sir George Gilbert Scott to celebrate the golden age of rail travel. The apartment retains many of the original features and the furnishings are a blend of vintage and contemporary.Sleeps four; from £186 per night; www.onefinestay.com. 
Fish Court, Hampton Court Palace

Fish Court, Hampton CourtHenry VIII’s grand palace on the banks of the Thames is a must for many visitors to London, but few realise it is possible to stay there. Above the great Tudor kitchen, which once provided twice-daily meals for the royal family and the monarch’s 1,000-strong court, is an apartment where Henry VIII’s pie-makers lived and toiled. Those now staying there can enjoy the gardens and courtyards in the morning and evening when closed to other visitors, and free entrance to the palace’s public rooms during the day. Sleeps six; seven nights from £1,156; www.landmarktrust.org.uk. 



Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2013. You may share using our article tools.

Please don't cut articles from FT.com and redistribute by email or post to the web.



Share


Clip


Reprints


Print














































EDITOR’S CHOICE





LIFE & ARTS




©Getty Images


How Super Bowl commercials became a cultural phenomenon

 


classic cars special




©Charlie Bibby


A guide to investing, driving, enjoying: plus an interview with James May

 

















MOST POPULAR IN LIFE & ARTS






When a man is tired of Paris …




Israel: perched between hope and fear




Lunch with the FT: Robert B Silvers




Arsène’s austerity




Lunch with the FT: David Fincher











LIFE AND ARTS ON TWITTER



Follow @FTlifeandarts


More FT Twitter  accounts



















MOST RECENT FROM LIFE & ARTS






Super Bowl Sunday: the ad zone




David Fincher




Hidden tigers




Fashion special: the shoes must go on




William Dalrymple’s ‘Return of a King’










FINANCIAL TIMES JOBS





Enter job search

Search





General Manager - Budgeting & Forecasting


Jet2.com




Chief Operating Officer (COO)


Scribol, Technology




Resources Director


CBI




Assistant Investment Manager


Family Office





Register for free to receive the latest executive jobs by email







TOOLS & SERVICES



Multimedia




Video




Blogs




Podcasts




Interactive graphics




Audio slideshows




Picture slideshows




Tools




Portfolio




FT Lexicon




FT clippings




Currency converter




MBA rankings




Newslines




Today's newspaper




FT press cuttings




FT ebooks




FT ePaper




Economic calendar




Updates




Alerts Hub




Daily briefings




FT on Facebook




FT on Twitter




FT on your mobile




Share prices on your phone


RSS feeds




Quick links




Mergermarket




How to spend it




Social Media hub




The Banker




The Banker Database




fDi Intelligence




fDi Markets




Professional Wealth Management




This is Africa




Investors Chronicle




MandateWire




FTChinese.com




Pensions Week




Services




Subscriptions




Corporate subscriptions




Education subscriptions




Syndication




FT Fine Wine Plan




Conferences




Annual reports




Executive job search




Non-Executive Directors' Club




Businesses for sale




Contracts & tenders




Analyst research




Commercial Property listings




Company announcements




FT Collection
















Help
•Contact us
•About us
•Sitemap
•Advertise with the FT
•Terms & conditions
•Privacy policy
•Copyright
•Cookie policy



© The Financial Times Ltd 2013 
FT and 'Financial Times' are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.



















Printed from:  http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/727fb0d4-9d58-11e1-9327-00144feabdc0.html
Print a single copy of this article for personal use. Contact us if you wish to print more to
distribute to others.
© The Financial Times Ltd 2013 FT
and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.

Privacy policy |
Terms |
Copyright











