BBC News - NHS 'paid £17 for gluten-free pizza base'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Health







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















24 May 2012
Last updated at 03:33 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





NHS 'paid £17 for gluten-free pizza base'
 

By Liz  MacKean
BBC Newsnight



Handling charges mean the NHS is paying four times the price for pizza bases


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


New scheme for coeliac patients 


My life with coeliac disease


Long wait for coeliac diagnosis



Two prescription gluten-free pizza bases can cost the NHS as much as £34, BBC Newsnight has learned.
The NHS spent £27m on gluten-free prescriptions in 2011, but handling and delivery charges, which can quadruple the cost, are not recorded.
Coeliac disease sufferers can develop serious illnesses if they eat gluten.
Health Secretary Andrew Lansley said prescriptions encouraged sufferers to stick to gluten-free diets but that the area was "under ongoing review".
"The aim of providing gluten-free food products on NHS prescription is to encourage patients with coeliac disease to stick to a gluten-free, nutritious diet so they do not go on to develop more serious illnesses, which can affect their quality of life as well as being much more costly for the NHS," he said in a statement.
"However, we keep this area of prescribing under ongoing review and are currently considering how we might get better value from the prescribing of gluten-free products whilst ensuring patients continue to get the products they need." 
Gluten-free bread, cake mixes and bourbon biscuits are also available to people with coeliac disease, an auto-immune disease, which is triggered by eating gluten, which is found in wheat, barley and rye. 
In an example from Rotherham, it was discovered that the NHS had been paying four times the original price for pizza bases. 

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote

This is a lifetime complaint. When you've got it there is no cure for it”
End Quote
Geoff Martin, who has coeliac disease
 The two pizza bases originally cost £8.95. But by the time manufacturing, handling and delivery fees were added on, the bill for the NHS had been driven up to nearly £34.00.
Another example comes from Dr Fayyaz Choudri, a GP who was responsible for overhauling gluten-free prescriptions in Allerdale, Cumbria. 
"We saw there were occasions where there was a bread loaf costing £2.50 and there was a handling fee of £32.00," he says. 
Dr Choudri has coeliac disease himself and knows the importance of a gluten-free diet. 
Without it, symptoms can range from digestive disorders to very serious illnesses including osteoporosis and bowel cancer. 
Geoff Martin is one of a growing number of people in the UK diagnosed with the disease. 
"This is a lifetime complaint. When you've got it there is no cure for it," he says. 
The condition is triggered by an intolerance to gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley and rye - and therefore a common ingredient in many processed foods. 


Gluten-free biscuits and cakes are currently available on NHS prescription

"The only solution to it," Geoff continues, "is eating food that is gluten free."
Living as he does in rural Oxfordshire, this is a problem. In order to guarantee a varied and balanced diet, Geoff relies on his prescriptions for gluten-free food. 
Geoff's NHS trust is one of many now reviewing its policy on gluten-free food. 
With an estimated one in 100 people affected by gluten intolerance, campaigners want the NHS to continue providing staple foods like bread and pasta.
These are increasingly available in shops, along with a wide range of gluten-free products. But they are often much more expensive than regular foods. 
Coeliac UK, which represents sufferers, worries that the hidden costs of prescriptions (which patients pay for, unless they have other conditions which qualify them for free scripts) is giving the whole system a bad name.


Coeliac disease leads to tiredness, anaemia, weight loss, diarrhoea and constipation

Newsnight contacted one of the leading manufacturers of gluten-free food, Juvela. They blamed wholesalers for adding "extra charges, sometimes adding a £20 handling charge to a £3 loaf".
This is questioned by the British Association of Pharmaceutical Wholesalers, which represents some of the biggest companies. 
They told us they would be "keen to investigate any relevant cases of alleged poor standards or distribution practice."
To try to safeguard prescriptions, Coeliac UK has drawn up guidelines for NHS trusts on what sort of items should be prescribed - recommending that biscuits and cake mixes should only be given in "exceptional circumstances."
But Newsnight has contacted five trusts which say they have not passed on the guidelines, and that cakes and biscuits are still available on prescription.
With NHS budgets under relentless pressure, these are increasingly being seen as rations the NHS cannot afford.
Watch Liz MacKean's full report on gluten-free prescriptions on Thursday 24 May at 22:30 BST on BBC Two, then afterwards on the BBC iPlayer and Newsnight website.

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



New scheme for coeliac patients 

02 APRIL 2011,    
                                                CUMBRIA



My life with coeliac disease

12 FEBRUARY 2004,    
                                                NORTHERN IRELAND



Long wait for coeliac diagnosis

07 MAY 2007,    
                                                HEALTH



Coeliac disease

06 MARCH 2003,    
                                                MEDICAL NOTES






Around the BBC


Gluten-free recipes and information



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1117       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 537.  gfchick  24th May 2012 - 12:37   How can PINCHOSALT say that bread and pasta are luxuries?  Shame on you all and lets hope for your sakes you are not suddenly diagnosed with Coeliacs disease.  I can assure you your views will change instantly when eating GF supermarket breads (it has different ingredients to the prescription loaves). Yes, stop the biscuits and cakes, but keep the staples and make the SYSTEM better.    Report this comment (Comment number 537) Link to this (Comment number 537)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 536.  Michael Hardware  24th May 2012 - 12:37   This is an appalling waste of money. Why should the tax payer pay for thios when it is available in supermarkets. I am diabetic, which is a far more serious disease, and its regulation is both diet and drug relgulated - I would not expect the tax payer to pay for my food, why should Ceoliacs! Perhaps the money saved could be spent on eye operations!    Report this comment (Comment number 536) Link to this (Comment number 536)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 535.  JPublic  24th May 2012 - 12:37   This is a general issue with public sector spending in that costs, fees & charges are not challenged or question as often as they should.I work for a company that has some dealings with the NHS and can tell you that when we get sales orders from them, they NEVER negotiate on the price yet private clinics always do.This is not new. This has been the case for decades.    Report this comment (Comment number 535) Link to this (Comment number 535)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 534.  Jules  24th May 2012 - 12:36   sorry - am I reading this right - Medically trained pharmacists are being paid to supply pizzas?This is insane.Firstly this is the job of the private sector who do this for a living. It's not hard to monitor the supermarkets & ensure they're not profiteering. Where help is needed with the extra cost, what about a simple Ceoliac benefit? We have them for other things!    Report this comment (Comment number 534) Link to this (Comment number 534)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 533.  drno  24th May 2012 - 12:36   Too many commenters here have no idea of what the lifestyle of a coeliac involves & costs. The prescription system is there to encorage compliance with the diet and thus maintain their long term health prospects. Unfortunately the GF suppliers play the NHS (like all pharmaceutical companies), and also own the supermarket GF brands: expensive to either NHS or coeliacs personally, both are loosing.    Report this comment (Comment number 533) Link to this (Comment number 533)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 532.  Rockahula  24th May 2012 - 12:35   19. David James 3 HOURS AGOTake this with a pinch of salt. The £32 loaf of bread story has been comprehensively debunked and media outlets that printed the story had to issue a correction. Don't give us FACTS, David - we want hearsay and hysteria!    Report this comment (Comment number 532) Link to this (Comment number 532)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 531.  Robbo  24th May 2012 - 12:35   ....and how much have the BBC spent finding this out? More than £34 I am guessing. (It also probably looks very cheap alongside the lunches BBC executive enjoy at our expense) What a waste of the poll tax we have to pay for our state broadcaster.    Report this comment (Comment number 531) Link to this (Comment number 531)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 530.  dds-qd  24th May 2012 - 12:35   Consider social responsibility. The firms adding the large costs are guilty of not showing any. The NHS is guilty of wasting public money by being incompetent in its dealing with contracts. The food industry which makes it more costly to buy UNproccessed food rather than processed food are also not showing social responsibility. Personal responsibility and lack of home cooking is also an issue.    Report this comment (Comment number 530) Link to this (Comment number 530)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 529.  oldmaggie  24th May 2012 - 12:34   I would like the government to tell me why the NHS has to pay the VAT on equipment but private hospitals, classed as charities, don't.Another case of companies soaking the NHS for as much as they can get.    Report this comment (Comment number 529) Link to this (Comment number 529)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 528.  SketchyBFC  24th May 2012 - 12:34   The issue here is not about Coeliacs, it's about Private sector companies charging way over the odds because the government is paying. I fully support sufferers of any illness/disease getting appropriate prescriptions, but for the NHS to be paying over the odds like this is scandalous.    Report this comment (Comment number 528) Link to this (Comment number 528)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 527.  gregw  24th May 2012 - 12:33   Any Ceoliacs should look at the paleo/primal diet. I'm type 1 diabetic (not the 'lifestyle' type) and dont touch wheat and it's easy. Humans arent evolved to eat grains, they were introudced to the diet only 10,000 years ago which is nothing in human evolution terms which is why so many people cant tolerate them and those who think they can tolerate dont know what issues it's potentially causing.    Report this comment (Comment number 527) Link to this (Comment number 527)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 526.  Peter_Sym  24th May 2012 - 12:32   From the Wikipedia page on Coeliacs disease:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coeliac_disease"Coeliac disease leads to an increased risk of both adenocarcinoma (small intestine cancer) and lymphoma of the small bowel (enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma or EATL). This risk returns to baseline with diet."RETURNS TO BASELINE WITH DIET. What costs more? £8 pizza bases or treating bowel cancer.    Report this comment (Comment number 526) Link to this (Comment number 526)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 525.  montymother  24th May 2012 - 12:24   My daughter has coeliac disease age 8. Prior to diagnosis she also has autoimmune thyroid disease. With the gluten free diet her thyroid function is now normal, her coeliac symptoms abated.Fresh bread on prescription makes her life more normal. The bread she likes is NOT available in the shops. We supplement her prescription allowance with products and ingredients from the supermarket.    Report this comment (Comment number 525) Link to this (Comment number 525)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 524.  BJosephW  24th May 2012 - 12:23   I am gluten & wheat intolerant though not ceoliac. Nowadays there are many more gluten free products available at the supermarkets than before (and it doesn't have to be expensive). I don't feel that I should have my food subsidised just because I can't eat wheat or gluten, when there are so many  healthy, viable alternatives out there. Save the money for acute and critical illnesses.    Report this comment (Comment number 524) Link to this (Comment number 524)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 523.  Tyke18  24th May 2012 - 12:19   Can I just point out people who are obese, smoke, drink to excess all life styles they have chosen, get help to treat their related conditions, so why shouldn't people with coeliacs disesase get a little help with a condition that they are born with and can do nothing about??? Albeit, the bread/cake mix on precription  makes perfectly good pizza bases and cakes, so get cooking!!!    Report this comment (Comment number 523) Link to this (Comment number 523)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 522.  Aliboon  24th May 2012 - 12:31   457.roleypoley So gluten is added to vegetables, fruit, meat, eggs, lentils, chickpeas, cheese, oats, rice, potatoes, fish etc etc etc is it?It is only found in processed foods, which we should all probably be eating less of anyway.    Report this comment (Comment number 522) Link to this (Comment number 522)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 521.  Ojiveojive  24th May 2012 - 12:31   It's absolutely boiling here in Birmingham so how about nipping down to the pub for a beer? Oh, hang on, can't have a beer cos it's made from gluten containing ingredients, and pubs don't do gluten free beer, never mind I can buy four small bottles from the supermarket for £8.50. Don't even mention minimum charging.    Report this comment (Comment number 521) Link to this (Comment number 521)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 520.  Richard Morris  24th May 2012 - 12:30   #9. RYGnotB Private companies viewing the NHS as a cash cow? Methinks this is a glimpse of the future--------------Future? Don't be daft. The public sector not worrying about overspending has been there for donkey's years. Have you seen how much we are spending on the hospitals Labour bought on HP? It would not happen in the private sector - so the public sector needs to sort itself out.    Report this comment (Comment number 520) Link to this (Comment number 520)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 519.  HofW  24th May 2012 - 12:30   Other people with other illnesses e.g. diabetes (need a low sugar diet) don't get food prescriptions. It should be the same for everyone who requires a special diet. I'm intolerant to fish - will the NHS pay for me to have a nice juicy rump steak?    Report this comment (Comment number 519) Link to this (Comment number 519)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 518.  Gezza  24th May 2012 - 12:30   404.Tartrazine"If you have a serious illness such as coeilac or diabetes then I would think that not eating certain things goes with the territory, sadly."I agree. A diabetic I get no help with food costs and don't  expect any when lifestyle changes helpI manage diet and rather than overpriced sugar free products make much of my ownSelf help seems alien to many who look to an NHS handout    Report this comment (Comment number 518) Link to this (Comment number 518)         Page 30 of 56    Newer 1 ... 28 29 30 31 32 ... 56 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Health stories
RSS




Unhappy childhood heart risk link

Emotional behaviour in childhood may be linked with heart disease in middle age, especially in women, research suggests.



Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed




Older mums should be induced early












Top stories



French jets bomb northern Mali 


Afghan talks due to begin in UK


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn


Cambodia to cremate King Sihanouk









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Wrong place, wrong time

Musicians who play for Mexico's drug gangs -  voluntarily or not 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: California bus crash kills eight



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn



6: Richard III dig skull image shown



7: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



8: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



9: Car park dug up around parked car



10: Ceremony to confirm new archbishop



Video/Audio




1: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



2: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



3: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



4: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



5: Key Mali town secured by French Watch



6: Mali students return to school Watch



7: Hundreds homeless in Dhaka slum fire Watch



8: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch













BBC Future





The week's best pictures 
Some of this week's best pictures Read more...












Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





