BBC News - Pretty pictures: Can images stop data overload?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Business







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies



















16 April 2012
Last updated at 19:01 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Pretty pictures: Can images stop data overload?
 

By Fiona Graham
Technology of business reporter, BBC News



Brain scan: Research suggests that one way to avoid being overloaded by data is by presenting it visually rather than text or numbers

Sitting at your desk in the middle of the day, yet another email notification pops up in the corner of the screen, covering the figures you're trying to digest in the complicated spreadsheet in front of you.

Continue reading the main story 






Special Report: The Technology of Business
21st Century eureka moment 
Keep the social media cowboys at bay
The ubiquitous hard drive
Who should run your IT?
Small firms and cyber crime
Small businesses and technology

 Your laptop is open on the desk next to you with another set of figures you need - meanwhile you're frantically tabbing through different documents on the main screen.
You have a meeting in 20 minutes and you suddenly feel as if you're swimming in a sea of impenetrable data, and you're starting to sink.
Welcome to the 21st Century workplace, and "data overload".
Under siege
You're not alone.
Dr Lynda Shaw is a neuroscience and psychology lecturer at Brunel University in the west of London. 
"I've been interviewing a lot of senior businesspeople lately, and they're actually hiding... because they're frightened they're going to be asked questions they can't answer, so they're delaying making really quite important decisions," she says.
"When we're inundated with emails, Twitter, Facebook, social media, search engines like Google, it's as if we're expected to know more than we actually do, and we can't retain that level of information, that bombardment. 
"When we feel overwhelmed we start to delay making decisions."


Dr Lynda Shaw: The visual brain is this incredibly flexible and adaptable design to help us see and remember and make sense of everything around us

Dr Shaw says this is a symptom of the computer age.
"We've really seen this incredible amount of information flooding us constantly. The problem with information overload is really new to the human brain."
She says this ultimately has huge implications for us both personally, and in terms of business - with obvious implications for productivity.
"When we're in a stressful situation, cortisol, the stress hormone rises. One of the jobs of cortisol is to work with the neurotransmitters. So when it is up we experience memory loss, depression, high blood pressure "
And the rate at which we are bombarded with data on a daily basis is increasing exponentially. 
According to Cisco's Visual Networking Index, average global IP traffic in 2015 will reach 245 terabytes per second, equivalent to 200m people streaming an HD movie at the same time every day. 
Within the next three years, there will be nearly 15bn network connections via devices and nearly 3bn internet users - more than 40% of the world's population.
So short of switching off the PC and going out and doing something more interesting instead, what can we do about it?
Pretty as a picture
One answer may lie with the way data is presented to us.

Continue reading the main story Data visualisation v text



 Individuals working with visual mapping techniques used on average 19% less cognitive resources
 They were 17% more productive and 4.5% better able to recall details than when using the equivalent traditional software
 Groups working together on a project used on average 10% less cognitive resources
 They were 8% more productive and recalled 6.5% more data when using visual mapping compared with traditional techniques



Source: Mindlab International

 In a lab in Sussex a group of people have had their brainwaves scanned while completing a series of tasks, individually and in groups, to see if data visualisation - presenting information visually, in this case a series of mind maps - can help.
The results showed that when tasks were presented visually rather than using traditional text-based software applications, individuals used around 20% less cognitive resources. In other words, their brains were working a lot less hard. 
As a result, they performed more efficiently, and could remember more of the information when asked later. Working in groups, they used 10% less mental resources.
The research was carried out by Mindlab International, an independent research company that specialises in neurometrics - the science of measuring patterns of brain activity through EEG, eye tracking and skin conductivity, which tracks emotions.
"The key reason we do the work that we do is that most of our decision making, yours and mine, goes on in the subconscious, or auto pilot or whatever we call it. Our cognitive brain can't actually deal with the bombardment of messages that are streamed to our bodies constantly all the time," says Duncan Smith, Mindlab International's managing director.


Individuals and groups had their brainwaves monitored as they completed tasks using visual mapping software compared with traditional applications

The research was commissioned by work management software specialists Mindjet, and used their MindManager software. All participants were familiar with both this and traditional text based word-processing software, email etc.
"We did expect that visual mapping would perform better purely and simply because this is the way the brain is wired up. We don't work as a filling cabinet, we don't work in a linear fashion," says Mr Smith.
"If you present data visually it has much more impact and the brain finds it much easier to process."


A simple mind map created with MindManager

San Francisco-based Mindjet specialises in mind maps - diagrams that present ideas, words and any other form of data grouped round a central key theme. The company says 83% of Fortune 100 companies are using its products.
Mindjet's Chris Harman says the research was commissioned following a survey the company did at the end of 2011 which found two-thirds of people felt they were "drowning" in data.
"We thought we know the problem, what difference can we actually make?"
Visually stimulating
Data visualisation is not limited to mind maps - the current vogue for infographics is another way to present information in a non-linear visual fashion. 
Data visualisation expert David McCandless's Information is Beautiful website showcases good examples of data design. 
Visual.ly gives designers a platform to upload and showcase work as well as providing tools to create your own. Google Fusion and d3.js create simple visual representations of data, Quantum GIS and OpenHeatMap use maps and data together. And there are many more.


Tableau Software lets users create data visualisations accessible from a central dashboard - like this graphic tracking oil wells

Phillipa Cardinal is post-production manager at Discovery Europe.
A large part of her job involves consolidating and analysing data. To do this she uses Tableau Software, which lets her create data visualisations accessible from a central dashboard.
"To me it's quite obvious when I'm exploring the data, things just pop out at you that you might not see if it was in a text-based environment," she says.
"Being able to consolidate all these different bits of data onto a dashboard that we use for reporting upwards to our senior management team, you're able to really tell a story with it.
"You want to make sure that the time they spend looking at the data is used effectively."

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
If we can stop feeling overwhelmed ... we can actually start enjoying this information”
End Quote
Dr Lynda Smith
 Francois Ajenstat is director of product management at Tableau Software. He says the benefits of data visualisation are obvious.
"The first is it can help you make sense of data - I think that's actually quite fundamental especially as the amount of data that is collected every single day is growing exponentially. I think we're collecting more data in the last year than has ever been created in history.
"How do you make sense of that? It's more than just getting a report, it's about being able to see it, and seeing it with your eyes and the visual element of your brain is actually very, very powerful. 
"Seeing a number bars and a line you can infer very quickly what is going on versus if you just look at numbers."
Brain function specialist Dr Lynda Shaw says by using these tools and others to minimise the overload, the growth in data can be a positive thing for all of us.
"The visual brain is this incredibly flexible and adaptable design to help us see and remember and make sense of everything around us."
"If we can stop feeling overwhelmed ... we can actually start enjoying this information, and by enjoying it we might be able to increase our brain capacity because we're using it better. "

 



More on This Story


More from Technology of Business
	      



Key stories



Monkey business

Should you be recording your phone calls?



Edible edifice




Predictive text




Getting it right




Let's sail away







Viewpoint



Start-up and up! 




Push your buttons




Come together




Make it work




May I help you?




Champagne fast lane









Related Internet links


Mindjet Data Digest


Mindlab International


Dr Lynda Shaw


Tableau Software


Visual.ly


Google Fusion Tables


Information Is Beautiful


Quantum GIS Project


d3.js


OpenHeatMap


Discovery Channel International



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 131       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 131.  Brian Hughes  17th April 2012 - 16:21   I can see a lot of this information overload problem being addressed by computers themselves.  Of course that would require programs that people have a lot of faith in, but it would at least relieve a lot of the decision making based on thorough analysis of mountains of data.    Report this comment (Comment number 131) Link to this (Comment number 131)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 130.  mikel137  17th April 2012 - 16:11   Images that help one recover from information overload (IO) have simplicity and patterns that lead toward simple organization and away from chaos.  Recovering from IO is brought by avoiding complex changing being in environments that simple, unsurprising, easy to deal with, comfortable, pleasing, calm, dignified and dignified  surroundings. Information overload is a hazard. Simplicity is beauty.    Report this comment (Comment number 130) Link to this (Comment number 130)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 129.  cheguevara  17th April 2012 - 15:54   I do not understand why this is news.  I have known this since I began learning.  Visual info is sometimes easier to absorb and recall but using ONLY visual stimuli, I believe will damage the brain's ability to cope with anything else.    Report this comment (Comment number 129) Link to this (Comment number 129)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 128.  tigersimon  17th April 2012 - 15:36   Simplify your work and life... ‘Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.’  (Antoine de Saint-Exupery,  1900 - 1944)    Report this comment (Comment number 128) Link to this (Comment number 128)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 127.  xyriach  17th April 2012 - 15:23   Data triage.  It's not hard, a quick asessment on the level of urgency something presents before absorbing any of it.  If what you're doing is your own top priority then why let anything else invade that time?If its truly urgent, they'll phone you.I work with masses of data and the way to cope is to look, asess and dismiss and if nothing else, you can still make a note to look at it later!    Report this comment (Comment number 127) Link to this (Comment number 127)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 126.  tigersimon  17th April 2012 - 15:10   …re 15.Bootgates. “.. the electronic information has not only increased  & putting pressure on people generally that I've started experiencing epileptic seizures”……….Me too, and the medicines have undesirable side effects. I am trying to de-stress. Try reading ‘The Power of Less@ by Leo Babauta. And visit http://zenhabits.net/  also http://www.fourhourworkweek.com    Report this comment (Comment number 126) Link to this (Comment number 126)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 125.  empiredown  17th April 2012 - 15:05   Some people read comics and some people read books.  The answer is to not give the comic readers too many choices and the choices they get shouldn't contain anything difficult.    Report this comment (Comment number 125) Link to this (Comment number 125)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 124.  bakewellpudding  17th April 2012 - 15:04   It's not just the workplace.  Our roads are splattered with signs giving all sorts of information..don't do this, you must do that, speed limits, white markings, yellow markings, directions, and much more. The brain seems to filter them out...how many of us are driving along and realise we have no idea what the speed limit is? Too much info can be dangerous.    Report this comment (Comment number 124) Link to this (Comment number 124)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 123.  herculep0irot  17th April 2012 - 14:30   It is no use optimising or cutting down on incoming online information if you are bombarded by the constant joking and bantering of a bunch of office muppets. Unable to resolve this with management, I was pushed to the point of resigning and now work freelance. I decide who talks to me and what information I treat. My workload and income are at a record high, my stress lower than ever. Bliss.    Report this comment (Comment number 123) Link to this (Comment number 123)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 122.  Eddy from Waring  17th April 2012 - 13:58   It's not just at work.We have to monitor constantly our interest rates on savings: energy, ISP and mobile tariffs, insurance provision etc., at home too, as the privateers constantly "discontinue our product" and revert us to a more profitable default unless we sign up to a new "product".I'm told it's all about choice, but I can't choose not to have to do this, it seems.    Report this comment (Comment number 122) Link to this (Comment number 122)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 121.  Tsunami of Logic  17th April 2012 - 13:55   Most respondents to these HYS threads can probably only cope with pictures any way.  Judging by some of the semi literate marxists rants that seem to fill the BBC's website most respondents would struggle to read the Dandy or Beano.And I think one could safely say the same thing about most BBC hacks!    Report this comment (Comment number 121) Link to this (Comment number 121)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 120.  Nakor  17th April 2012 - 13:51   Welcome to the world of coping with Dyslexia.At the core there's nothing new here that I haven't known about since school 20 years ago.Making things more presentable, visually speaking, makes life easier.    Report this comment (Comment number 120) Link to this (Comment number 120)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 119.  Skywatchman  17th April 2012 - 13:48   115.Confuciousfred "I have recently timed placing two orders with a supplier. By telephone it took under 4 minutes. On the internet 18 minutes 36 seconds. Using the internet inhibits my productivity."My experience is quite the opposite, trying to place an order via phone usually means long waits for an answer, automated call handling, options to choose from and finally getting through.    Report this comment (Comment number 119) Link to this (Comment number 119)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 118.  Paul  17th April 2012 - 13:48   This problem is caused by the 'be a multi-tasker' management fashion. This concept is promulgated to pressure workers to work at five times sensible capacity and reduce the workload of managers in distributing work. We should do one thing at a time properly and challenge the 'be a multi-tasker' management ideology which deskills workers and reduces productivity for the convenience of managers    Report this comment (Comment number 118) Link to this (Comment number 118)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 117.  ukblahblahblacksheep  17th April 2012 - 13:47   #96. labarbe 'Nothing new about perceived work overload however it is manifested. The key to managing your workload is to know what you want to do, prioritise your tasks and stand by your decisions.'Wooooo...Hard Man (or woman).... What happens when there just aren't enough hours in the day?   Standing by your decisions is fine until someone with more power than you decides they are wrong.    Report this comment (Comment number 117) Link to this (Comment number 117)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 116.  herewegoagain  17th April 2012 - 13:43   I believe that through the  constant use of computers in business and commerce that the poor human being can no longer switch off, at the beck and call of masters and other machines! Humans were not created to do this, we need time to respond. This in the main is not being allowed with the consequent health issues now arising, it will not get any better until humans control the technology better.    Report this comment (Comment number 116) Link to this (Comment number 116)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 115.  Confuciousfred  17th April 2012 - 13:37   I have recently timed placing two orders with a supplier. By telephone it took under 4 minutes. On the internet 18 minutes 36 seconds. Using the internet inhibits my productivity.    Report this comment (Comment number 115) Link to this (Comment number 115)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 114.  DrJG  17th April 2012 - 13:35   koliopp 107:"What is new here? Human beings first culture was picture one so brains of some people havent developed since then as they cant digest information written as digits or letters at the same efficiency as they do with pictured ones."But humans only progressed from the clever monkey stage once they developed language, and writing is the permanent record of this. Visual may not be best.    Report this comment (Comment number 114) Link to this (Comment number 114)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 113.  coastwalker  17th April 2012 - 13:29   Rule one. Multitasking is pointless, you just do everything badly. Rule two learn how to concentrate on one thing, resent phone calls and texts; put them on hold. Rule three don't do the same thing all the time. Result a happy and productive life. Just because we flit about doing everything at once when we are young learning stuff doesn't mean that it is the most productive way to do things.    Report this comment (Comment number 113) Link to this (Comment number 113)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 112.  Skywatchman  17th April 2012 - 13:25   Visualisation is fine if you need the 'big picture' but somebody has to collect, collate and enter all the data into a computer. Customer call centres are basically sweat shops who have to enter reams of data in order that a companies customer data base is up to date. Visualisation isn't going to help these people. The 'big picture stuff' is really only for management.    Report this comment (Comment number 112) Link to this (Comment number 112)         Page 1 of 7    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 7 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Business stories
RSS




Google boss labels China 'IT menace'

Google Chairman Eric Schmidt uses a new book to call China an Internet menace that backs cyber-crime for economic and political gain, reports say.



Iraqi mobile firm raises $1.3bn




Barclays finance chief to step down












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



8: Mars rover hammers down into rock



9: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



10: Malala recovering after operation



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



3: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



4: Apology over police beating footage Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



7: The art looking death in the face Watch



8: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



9: Digital artists inspired by the gif's resurgence Watch



10: One-minute World News Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





