Santa Maria Survivors and Mourners React to Tragic Nightclub Fire in Brazil | Fox News Latino












Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  uReport
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Login




Account


You're logged in as  

Edit Profile
Logout











Search Site
















Home
Video
News
Politics
Opinion
Entertainment
Sports
Health
Lifestyle
Community
Español




























Santa Maria Survivors and Mourners React to Tragic Nightclub Fire in Brazil


Published January 28, 2013Fox News Latino








Brazilian Nightclub Fire Shocking Photos
A fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, filling the air in seconds with flames and a thick, toxic smoke that killed more than 230 panicked partygoers, many of whom were caught in a stampede to escape.


The day following the horrific Kiss nightclub fire in Brazil, the city of Santa Maria was still reeling over the loss of so many young lives.
"It was terrible inside — it was like one of those films of the Holocaust, bodies piled atop one another," said police inspector Sandro Meinerz. "We had to use trucks to remove them. It took about six hours to take the bodies away."
Bodies of young college students were found piled up inside the entrance of the nightclub, as more than 230 people lost their lives in a cloud of toxic smoke after a blaze enveloped the crowded locale within seconds and set off a panic.
Hours later, the horrific chaos had transformed into a scene of tragic order, with row upon row of polished caskets of the dead lined up in the community gymnasium in the university city of Santa Maria. Many of the victims were under 20 years old, including some minors.
As the city in southern Brazil prepared to bury the 233 people killed in the conflagration caused by a band's pyrotechnic display, an early investigation into the tragedy revealed that security guards briefly prevented partygoers from leaving through the sole exit. And the bodies later heaped inside that doorway slowed firefighters trying to get in.
Survivors and another police inspector, Marcelo Arigony, said security guards briefly tried to block people from exiting the club. Brazilian bars routinely make patrons pay their entire tab at the end of the night before they are allowed to leave.
"It was chaotic and it doesn't seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died," he told The Associated Press.
Later, firefighters responding to the blaze initially had trouble entering the club because "there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance," Guido Pedroso Melo, commander of the city's fire department, told the O Globo newspaper.
It was terrible inside — it was like one of those films of the Holocaust, bodies piled atop one another.- Sandro Meinerz, police inspector.
Police inspectors said they think the source of the blaze was a band's small pyrotechnics show. The fire broke out sometime before 3 a.m. Sunday and the fast-moving fire and toxic smoke created by burning foam sound insulation material on the ceiling engulfed the club within seconds.

Authorities said band members who were on the stage when the fire broke out later talked with police and confirmed they used pyrotechnics during their show.
Meinerz, who coordinated the investigation at the nightclub, said one band member died after escaping because he returned inside the burning building to save his accordion. The other band members escaped alive because they were the first to notice the fire.
The fire spread so fast inside the packed club that firefighters and ambulances could do little to stop it, survivor Luana Santos Silva told the Globo TV network.
"There was so much smoke and fire, it was complete panic, and it took a long time for people to get out, there were so many dead," she said.
Most victims died from smoke inhalation rather than burns. Many of the dead, about equally split between young men and women, were also found in the club's two bathrooms, where they fled apparently because the blinding smoke caused them to believe the doors were exits.
There were questions about the club's operating license. Police said it was in the process of being renewed, but it was not clear if it was illegal for the business to be open. A single entrance area about the size of five door spaces was used both as an entrance and an exit.
Family members of those killed walked around the gym in a daze Sunday evening, shuffling between caskets or holding one another and weeping as they identified loved ones and tried to make sense of what had happened.
Elaine Marques Goncalves lost her son Deivis in the fire. Another son who attended the college party at the nightclub, Gustavo, was barely alive after suffering two cardiac arrests caused by smoke inhalation.
She learned of the blaze after the mother of her sons' friends called her early Sunday.
"My boys were not home and I had no news. I turned on the TV — the tragedy was all over the television," she said at the makeshift morgue. "All I knew was they had gone to a club, I didn't know which one. I kept saying: 'Where do I start? Where do I go?'"
Television images from the city of about 260,000 people showed black smoke billowing out of the nightclub as shirtless young men who attended a university party there joined firefighters using axes and sledgehammers to pound at the hot-pink exterior walls, trying to reach those trapped inside.
Bodies of the dead and injured were strewn in the street and panicked screams filled the air as medics tried to help. There was little to be done; officials said most of those who died were suffocated by smoke within minutes.
Within hours the community gym was a horror scene, with body after body lined up on the floor, partially covered with black plastic as family members identified kin.
Outside the gym police held up personal objects — a black purse, a blue high-heeled shoe — as people seeking information on loved ones crowded around, hoping not to recognize anything being shown them.
The gathering was a party organized by students from several academic departments from the Federal University of Santa Maria. Such organized university parties are common throughout Brazil.
Survivor Michele Pereira told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was near the stage when members of the band lit some sort of flare.
"The band that was onstage began to use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward," she said. "At that point, the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak, but in a matter of seconds it spread."
Guitarist Rodrigo Martins told Radio Gaucha that the band, Gurizada Fandangueira, started playing at 2:15 a.m. "and we had played around five songs when I looked up and noticed the roof was burning."
"It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it," he said. "When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working."
He confirmed that accordion player Danilo Jacques, 28, died, while the five other members made it out safely.
Police Maj. Cleberson Braida Bastianello said by telephone that the toll had risen to 233 with the death of a hospitalized victim. He said earlier that the death toll was likely made worse because the nightclub appeared to have just one exit through which patrons could exit.
Federal Health Minister Alexandre Padhilha told a news conference that most of the 117 people treated in hospitals had been poisoned by gases they breathed during the fire. Only a few suffered serious burns, he said.
Most of the dead apparently were asphyxiated, according to Dr. Paulo Afonso Beltrame, a professor at the medical school of the Federal University of Santa Maria who went to the city's Caridade Hospital to help victims.
"Large amounts of toxic smoke quickly filled the room, and I would say that at least 90 percent of the victims died of asphyxiation," Beltrame told the AP.
Sunday's fire appeared to be the worst at a nightclub since December 2000, when a welding accident reportedly set off a fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309.
Similar circumstances led to a 2003 nightclub fire that killed 100 people in the United States. Pyrotechnics used as a stage prop by the 1980s rock band Great White set ablaze cheap soundproofing foam on the walls and ceiling of a Rhode Island music venue.
Based on reporting by the Associated Press.
Follow us on twitter.com/foxnewslatino
Like us at facebook.com/foxnewslatino








  Print
  Email
  Share
  Comments
Recommend
Tweet



Related Video






Brazil Mourns Victims from Nightclub Fire








Beachgoers Save Dolphins in Brazil








Santa Maria Nightclub Fire: US Brazilians React








Brazil Nightclub Fire




Related Slideshow




Brazilian Mothers Rebel Against Cesarean Births






Shooting Rampage at Brazilian Elementary School






Best Pix of the Week






Deadly Riots in Brazil






Brazil Buried Under Deadly Mudslides






Transgender Models Making Splash in Brazil



Related Stories
Brazil's Christmas Convict Conundrum
Brazilian Auctions Virginity to Save Mom
Brazil Nightclub Fire Leaves 232 Dead
VIDEO: Hilarious Viral Brazilian Prank, Illegal?
Trans-Models Make Splash in Catwalk





Share This Article








Newsletter Signup




Sign up for free e-mail news alerts from FoxNews.com and FoxBusiness.com.



Newsletter Signup










View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article











Follow Fox News Latino







Advertisement



More Stories







Report: Latino Joblessness Rose, but Employers Added 157K Jobs
              







Jenni Rivera’s House Will Go Up for Sale Against her Wishes, Report Says
              







Best Pix of the Year
              







Senator Robert Menendez's Friendship with Donor Under Increasing Scrutiny
              







Anheuser-Busch Inbev Deal for Modelo Blocked by Justice Department
              







MTV's 'Washington Heights' Stars Say Show isn't About Being Dominican
              







Immigrant Uses Car Seat Disguise in Attempt to Cross Border
              







Border Patrol Offers Cash for Undocumented Immigrants, Report Says
              







Human Rights Watch: U.S. Immigration Reform Should Focus on Family Unification
              







Cardinal Roger Mahony Relieved of Duties by Successor
              







Penelope Cruz is Pregnant, Source Says
              







Jenni Rivera Linked to Drug Cartel, Witness Claims in New Report
              







Carlos Bardem Playing Manuel Noriega in Roberto Duran Biopic, ‘Hands of Stone’
              







New Details In Alex Rodriguez PED Accusation
              







As Washington Debates Immigration, Families Deal with Life After Deportation
              







Puerto Rico's Pension Problem Could Send Economy Over the Edge
              







Cinco de Mayo: Lobster Stuffed Avocado Recipe
              







"American Idol": Isabel Gonzalez Steals the Judges Hearts
              







Geraldo Rivera Outlines Reasons Why He's Mulling Senate Bid
              







5 Traditional Puerto Rican Foods I Wish My Daughter Ate
              







Geraldo Rivera Says He is Considering a Senate Run in 2014
              







Boy Scouts of America May Drop Gay Ban
              







Gun Control: Rookie Latino GOP Senator Ted Cruz Takes on Big Dems
              







Adan Canto of "The Following" on Fox's Hot New Show
              







5-Hour Energy May be Linked to Deaths, FDA Investigates
              







Alex Rodriguez Breaks Hand, King Felix Apologizes
              







Sofia Vergara Works Hard to Look Good
              







US Stem Cell Company Heads to Mexico After FDA Reprimand
              







Mexico Drug War: 49 Decapitated and Mutilated Bodies Found
              







Immigration Reform: Obama Wants It Done Within 6 Months
              







Obama Plans Single Immigration Law With Path to Citizenship
              







How to Increase Your Basal Metabolic Rate
              







San Francisco to Become First U.S. City to Cover Cost of Transgender Surgeries
              







Our American Dream: Ray Negron, From Yankees Batboy to Sports Executive
              







Meet New York Knicks Player Pablo Prigioni, The Oldest Rookie in the NBA
              







Marta Martinez: Latinos Can be Republicans
              







‘The X Factor’: Johnny Maxwell ‘Swag’ Blows Demi Lovato's Mind
              







Immigration: Mexico Stays Out of Debate
              







Carlos Slim's TracFone Under Fire in California
              







 Jenni Rivera’s Fans Banned From Visiting Singer’s Grave
              







Brazilian Auctions Her Virginity to Save Her Mother
              







Jenni Rivera, Life and Death of a Mexican American Superstar
              







Meningitis Outbreak Deaths Increases to 36
              







Mexican Officials: Sex-Slavery Cult Broken Up, Leader Claimed to be Christ
              







Dominican Barber a Hit for MLB Stars, Including A-Rod, King Felix, Reyes, & More
              







I Want to Be Eva Longoria!
              







BMI Calculator Inaccurate, Says Oxford Professor
              







Obesity in America: Can it Get Much Worse? Yes, Advocacy Group Says
              







Judge: Immigration Agents Suing Obama Can Move Forward
              







Mana to be Inducted in Hollywood’s Historic RockWalk of Fame, Report Says
              














Advertisement






Also on the web

 








		Dow Jones alcanza nivel más alto en cinco años



		EE.UU. generó más de 157 mil empleos en un mes



		Ya son 33 los muertos por explosión en Pemex 



		Casa Blanca confía en confirmación de Hagel como jefe del Pentágono



		El impacto económico de la fuerza laboral de los latinos 




  








		Chad Johnson Sued -- Head-Butt Arrest Made Our Coconuts Look Bad!



		Paris Hilton & Boyfriend River Viiperi -- The Model Relationship



		Paulina Rubio to Estranged Husband -- You're a Bad Dad ... My Private Eye Proved It!



		Jennifer Lopez -- Jenny From the BACK 



		Jennifer Lopez -- I'm Still Jenny from the Thigh High Block




  








		Cuba Wants to Exchange Alan Gross for Cuban Five, Bill Richardson Says



		GOP Immigration Hawk Rebuffs Rubio and Rivera DREAM Act Proposals



		How to fix this broken immigration system



		Border beat: Deeper deportations, rescues up, and more



		What Are Bath Salts and Why Do They Make People Go Crazy?




  








		Beckham inicia una nueva aventura



		Brasil presentó su camiseta para la Confederaciones



		NFL: Culliver se disculpa por comentarios homofóbicos



		Nombran a Boca Jrs mejor club sudamericano del Siglo XXI



		Sexygalería: Gisele Bundchen, consiente mucho a Tom Brady




  







10 under $10: The best affordable eyeliners ever


Puppies predict Super Bowl winner in adorable Jimmy Fallon contest


Latin slow cooker: Colombian meatball stew the whole family will love! (RECIPE)


Craziest dad ever lets HUGE python babysit his son!


Penelope Cruz is pregnant with baby #2!





  








		Penelope Cruz and Javier Bardem Expecting Second Child!



		Sarah Shahi Talks About Her Badass Role in 'Bullet to The Head' and More! (EXCLUSIVE)



		Hot Couple of the Week: Chellie Mejia and Rosco Rodriguez



		Telenovelas Continue to Top Latin American Television



		Jenni Rivera's Mansion Will Go Up for Sale?




  
 













Sections




Home
Video
News
Politics
Opinion
Entertainment






Sports
Health
Lifestyle
Community
Español








About



Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Internships - FNCU







Networking




  Facebook


  Twitter


  RSS












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2013 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.








