Brazil nightclub fire: 'Like a war zone' with bodies piled - CNN.com

         SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC    TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN      Sign up Log in                Home TV & Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports 




Sports




CNN Sports has a new look.
Headlines, news and analysis from Bleacher Report »





   



















Print
Email
More sharing














Brazil nightclub fire: 'Like a war zone' with bodies piled



By Shasta Darlington and Chelsea J. Carter, CNN
updated 8:24 PM EST, Tue January 29, 2013












STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: Police arrest three people in connection with the fire, state media report
The owners of the nightclub pledge to cooperate with the investigation
At least 231 people died in the fire, authorities say
Funerals are scheduled to begin Monday for those killed in the fire 




Are you there? Share your story.
Santa Maria, Brazil (CNN) -- Guitarist Rodrigo Martins was preparing to launch into the sixth song of his band's set when he saw embers fall.
The acoustic foam insulation on the ceiling of the Kiss nightclub in the southern Brazilian city of Santa Maria was on fire, and it was beginning to spread.
The hot ash fell onto the stage and dance floor.
Photos: Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire












Relatives and friends of Paraguayan student Guido Britez, 21, who died in a fire at the Kiss nightclub in Brazil, carry his coffin during the funeral in Asuncion on Tuesday, January 29. More than 230 people died and more than 120 were injured early Sunday when a fire tore through the nightclub packed with university students in southern Brazil, police said.






Guido Britez's family attends the funeral on January 29. 






Mauro Hoffman, co-owner of the Kiss nightclub, is taken into custody by police in Santa Maria, Brazil, on Monday, January 28. 






Residents of Santa Maria, Brazil, hold a march on January 28 to honor the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire and demand justice for them. 






Residents march along Rio Branco Avenue on January 28, demanding justice for and to honor the Kiss nightclub fire victims.






A violinist comforts another during the march on January 28.






Demonstrators carry candles through the streets in Santa Maria on January 28.






Soldiers carry the coffin of a victim of the nightclub blaze on January 28.






A priest celebrates Mass in a public square in the center of Santa Maria on January 28.






Mourners cry at the municipal cemetery on January 28.






The entrance to the Kiss nightclub is covered in soot on January 28.






Relatives and friends of one of the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire gather during the funeral at Santa Rita Cemetery in Santa Maria on January 28.






Firefighters stand at the burnt-out entrance of the Kiss nightclub on Sunday, January 27, in Santa Maria, Brazil.






Relatives wait to identify victims at the municipal gymnasium in Santa Maria on January 27.






Relatives of victims weep during a funeral in Santa Maria on January 27.






Relatives pray at the wake of a victim on January 27 in Santa Maria.






Relatives of a victim of a fire that broke out at the Kiss nightclub weep during the funeral in Santa Maria, Brazil, on Sunday, January 27.






A woman weeps on a coffin as relatives of the nightclub fire victims identify bodies.






People console each other during a collective wake for the victims of the nightclub fire.






A coffin decorated with a photograph and image of the Virgin Mary is surrounded by mourners.






Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, right, consoles relatives of victims of the fire.






Emergency personnel gather outside the burned-out Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria, Brazil. The nightclub is popular with young people, drawing between 2,000 and 3,000 people a night on the weekends.






A firefighter, center, carries a victim away from the blaze.






Residents look on as bodies of victims are transferred from the site of the fire to a municipal sports center.






People cry after a getting news about the deadly fire.






Firefighters work to extinguish the blaze that broke early Sunday.






Victims were dragged out of the nightclub and received preliminary medical treatment on the ground.






Firefighters, onlookers and police gather outside the burned-out club.






A grieving woman talks on her cell phone after the fire.






Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
HIDE CAPTION



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8





9





10





11





12





13





14





15





16





17





18





19





20





21





22





23





24





25





26





27





28





29


>
>>





Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire








Woman rescued from nightclub by stranger





Eerie sounds of cell phones in club





Club 1,000 people over capacity

In front of him, a sea of people who moments earlier were dancing and singing along to the country-pop sounds of his band Gurizada Fandangueira began to realize something was wrong.
Suddenly, concertgoers were stampeding toward the club's only exit, pushing and shoving each other trying to get out.
Then, according to investigators and witnesses, somebody fell in the narrow, dark hallway that led to the windowless exit.
And then another person fell.
And then another.
Eerie sounds of cell phones amid disaster adds to first-responder toll
Searching for answers
It was the last weekend of Brazil's summer break for many of the students, and the Kiss nightclub was packed early Sunday with young people, many of whom attended one of a number of universities and colleges in Santa Maria.
At least 231 people died and hundreds more were injured in the fire, which authorities believe began about 2:30 a.m. Sunday when the band's pyrotechnic show ignited insulation material.
Many apparently died from smoke inhalation. Others were trampled in the rush for the exits.
Of the dead, 101 were students at the Federal University of Santa Maria.
Another 120 remained hospitalized Monday morning, 79 in critical condition, authorities said.
About 2,000 people were inside the club when the fire broke out -- double the maximum capacity of 1,000, said Guido de Melo, a state fire official.
The roof collapsed in several parts of the building, trapping many inside. Firefighters found piles of bodies in the club's bathroom.
It looked, said state lawmaker Valderci Oliveira, "like a war zone."
Read more: How to protect yourself in a crowd
For others, escaping was complicated by the fact that guards initially stopped people from leaving, said a reporter from CNN affiliate Band News, echoing comments from the state fire official.
"Some guards thought at first that it was a fight, a huge fight that happened inside the club and closed the doors so that the people could not leave without paying their bills from the club," the reporter, Glauber Fernandes, said.
But Rodrigo Moura, a nightclub security guard, said the fire moved fast.
"All of a sudden the fire just took off and was all around us. We tried to tell people to get out," he said.
Authorities have arrested three people in connection with the fire, state-run Agencia Brasil reported on Monday.
The owners of the nightclub, meanwhile, pledged to cooperate with the investigation into the fire, according to a statement released by the law firm of Kummel & Kummel.
"We are open to all authorities and inspections," said the statement, obtained by Globo TV.
The club's license had expired in August and had not been renewed, a local fire official told Globo TV.
The owners, however, said the nightclub was properly permitted and had been inspected by the fire marshal.
'Blocked by security'
The band, Gurizada Fandangueira, was a popular attraction at Kiss in part because of its pyrotechnic show, according to Billboard.com. It played at the nightclub about once a month, and was there Sunday to promote a new album.
Martins, the guitarist, told Radio Gaucha the band had been on stage for about 20 minutes, finishing the fifth song of its set, when it set off its "sputnik" pyrotechnics -- sparkler columns that shoot up in the air.
"We used it all the time. ... We never had this problem before," he told the radio station late Sunday.
Martins said he first noticed a small ember, and then he looked up at the ceiling and saw the flames.
A backstage hand attempted to put out the blaze with a fire extinguisher. "But it didn't work," he said.
Martins said as he and the other band members got off the stage, there were 20 to 30 people in front of him who were "being blocked by security."
People started pushing and shoving, and then they tripped over one another trying to get to the door.
Martins said the band's accordion player, 28-year-old Danilo Jacques, died in the fire. "I saw him, and then I lost him in the crowd."
Deadly blazes: Nightclub tragedies in recent history
Struggling to help
Esequiel Corte Real and his friends arrived late for the show and ended up with what they thought was one of the worst locations to watch -- by the exit.
The same happened with Norton Basson and his friends, who were at the club to celebrate his 29th birthday.
They are alive, they believe, because of where they were -- making them among the first to make it out alive.
After the fire started, the dark, narrow hallway that led to the nightclub's exit was choked with smoke and people trying to find their way out.
Outside, Corte Real and his friends could hear the screams of people trying to escape.
He told Globo TV that he and his friends ran back into the club to try to help.
They pulled out one body. Then two more.
"Somebody must be alive," he said.
Basson and his friends, meanwhile, grabbed rocks, sticks and an axe they found at a nearby building and began trying to knock a hole in the side of the club to help those trapped inside. Others soon joined them with shovels and more axes.
Firefighters used the hole Basson and his friends created to get inside the club.
There, they were greeted by the eerie sounds of cell phones ringing in the pockets and purses of the dead. Many of the calls were from parents desperate to reach their children.
Opinion: We haven't learned from past mistakes
The missing
Later Sunday, family members wept as they searched for information outside a local gymnasium where bodies were taken for identification.
Inside, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff met with relatives as they waited on bleachers for word of their loved ones. She had been attending a regional summit in Chile, but cut short the trip and returned to Brazil early to deal with the aftermath of the tragedy.
"The Brazilian people are the ones who need me today," she said. "I want to tell the people of Santa Maria in this time of sadness that we are all together."
Ericmar Avila Dos Santos went from hospital to hospital Sunday, searching for his 23-year-old brother.
Hours earlier, he learned in a telephone call from a friend that his older brother was among those missing following the fire.
His family scanned lists, talked with police officials. They checked with friends, searched everywhere.
They finally found him -- among hundreds of bodies laid out on body bags at a makeshift morgue at a local gym.
"I was supposed to go with him. I didn't feel like going out. He ended up there without me," Avila Dos Santos said, openly sobbing over his brother's coffin outside the gym.
On Monday, the first of Brazil's three days of mourning, the three cemeteries in the city of 260,000 were packed with families readying to bury their dead.
Among them was Avila Dos Santos' family.
"We did everything together. We were even studying the same major," he said, remembering his brother. "Now that he's gone, I'm lost. I don't know what I'm going to do with my life."
Rhode Island victims 'can't help but watch'

Shasta Darlington reported from Santa Maria, Brazil. Chelsea J. Carter reported from Atlanta. CNN's Helena DeMoura contributed to this report.




0
Comments »












Print
Email
More sharing


















We recommend



From around the web




























Part of complete coverage on 
CNN Recommends


Richard III: The king and the car park?

updated 1:47 PM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




As experts prepare to reveal results of DNA tests on a body believed to belong to notorious King Richard III, will history be rewritten?



Experts: Chinese attacks 'widespread'

updated 6:50 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




One in three observed computer attacks comes from China. The New York Times and the WSJ claim to be victims of Chinese attacks.



Who is behind US embassy attack?

updated 8:30 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




CNN's Barbara Starr & contributor Fran Townsend on who could be behind a suicide bombing at U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey.



Looking back at Clinton's time at State

updated 9:12 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




Jill Dougherty looks at the dizzying pace of events during Hillary Clinton's time as Secretary.



Prince Harry: Once more into breach?

updated 1:02 PM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




Prince Harry's comments about Afghanistan stir up mockery, controversy -- and sympathy.



Pygmy elephants poisoned in Malaysia

updated 12:20 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




Fourteen elephants have been found dead in recent weeks in Malaysia. The World Wildlife Fund suspect they have been poisoned.



For polluted Beijing, canned air

updated 1:25 PM EST, Wed January 30, 2013




One of China's richest men is giving away fresh, canned air in polluted Beijing. CNN's Suzanne Malveaux reports.



Musical harmony in the Middle East

updated 7:48 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




Conductor and pianist Daniel Barenboim's youth orchestra joins Arabs and Israelis.



Gay rights: How U.S. leads the way

updated 5:32 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




A week before Barack Obama mention gay rights in his inauguration speech, the French had already made history on that matter.



Why Queen Elizabeth II won't abdicate

updated 1:57 PM EST, Thu January 31, 2013




Royal watcher Arianne Chernock explains why, unlike Queen Beatrix, Britain's Queen Elizabeth isn't going anywhere soon.



Unseen photos of Beatles in color





Henry Grossman spent four years photographing The Beatles as never seen before, recognizing their prominence.



Nigeria's Jews: 'Lost tribe' of Israel?

updated 6:27 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




A Shabbat service is underway at the Ghihon Hebrew Research synagogue in the Jikwoyi suburb of Nigeria's capital territory. 



Job seeker sells himself on 'Amazon'

updated 7:25 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




A French job-seeker has "sold" himself with an online résumé made to look like an Amazon page, proving that some creativity can go a long way.



Soccer: Big spend in age of austerity

updated 8:33 AM EST, Fri February 1, 2013




Paris Saint-Germain may have bagged the biggest star in David Beckham, but English clubs spent the biggest bucks in the transfer window.












NewsPulse

Most popular stories right now


Alabama hostage standoff moves into 4th day





Pearlman: I hate, hate Super Bowl parties





Embassy bomber in Turkey linked to leftists





Dow tops 14,000





Past still hounds Ray Lewis' long farewell




Explore the news with NewsPulse »


























                     Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | CNN shop | Site map    CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts |    © 2013 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help             










