Americas view archive | January 2013 | The Economist
 




  


  
 









Log in
Register
Subscribe
  



Digital & mobile
Events
Topics A-Z
Newsletters
Jobs
RSS feed
Facebook
Twitter
More social links




Google plus
Linked in
Tumblr



Offline reading 




Search this site:












World politicsUnited States
Britain
Europe
China
Asia
Americas
Middle East & Africa

Business & financeAll Business & finance
Which MBA?
Business Books Quarterly

EconomicsAll Economics
Economics by invitation
Economics A-Z
Markets & data

Science & technologyAll Science & technology
Technology Quarterly

CultureAll Culture
More Intelligent Life
Style guide
The Economist Quiz
Book reviews

BlogsLatest blog posts
Feast and famine
Analects
Free exchange
Americas view
Game theory
Babbage
Graphic detail
Banyan
Gulliver
Baobab
Johnson
Blighty
Lexington's notebook
Buttonwood's notebook
Newsbook
Cassandra
Pomegranate
Charlemagne
Prospero
Democracy in America
Schumpeter
Eastern approaches

DebateEconomist debates
What the world thinks
Economics by invitation
Letters to the editor

The World in 2013
MultimediaWorld
Business & economics
Science & technology
Culture
Events
The Economist in audio

Print editionCurrent issue
Previous issues
Special reports
Politics this week
Business this week
Leaders
KAL's cartoon
Obituaries



 
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more detailsThis site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our cookies information for more details





 
Americas view
The Americas


Blog posts from January 2013 





This week in print

Haiti's recovery, Argentine politics and polo 


Jan 3rd 2013, 21:05 by The Economist online 

 THREE years have passed since a devastating earthquake destroyed much of Haiti's capital. This week's issue of The Economist checks in on the recovery effort, and finds it has fallen short of the high hopes in the wake of the disaster. It also includes stories on the heated political climate in Argentina and on the development there of cloning technology for polo horses. 

View full post » 
Recommend (167)
Be the first to comment




Britain and Paraguay

Puppeteers or bystanders? 


Jan 4th 2013, 20:48 by D.R. | NEW YORK 

AS THE author of our Christmas special on the War of the Triple Alliance, a conflict that raged from 1865-70 between Paraguay and a coalition of Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay, I’ve paid close attention to the burgeoning comment thread regarding the piece. One theme in particular leaps out: the criticism that the article misrepresented history by ignoring the role of Britain in the war. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (297)
Comment (134)




Drunk driving in Brazil

Second round 


Jan 8th 2013, 19:10 by H.J. and N.S. | SÃO PAULO 

IN BRAZIL, locals say, some laws “stick” while others don’t. The first sort leads to real penalties for transgression, and hopefully changes behaviour. The second looks good on paper, but changes nothing. Each time an important new law passes, Brazilians ask themselves which sort this one will turn out to be.The latest guessing game concerns changes to a drunk-driving law passed in 2008. That set the maximum permissible blood-alcohol level at 60mg/100ml, and raised penalties too. At first it looked like a great success: road deaths fell by a fifth. But then canny drivers spotted a loophole. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (192)
Comment (8)




Venezuela’s presidential succession

Suspended animation 


Jan 9th 2013, 21:12 by P.G. | CARACAS 

ON JANUARY 10th a host of foreign dignitaries will gather in Caracas, including the presidents of Bolivia and Uruguay. They had intended to witness Hugo Chávez being sworn in for his third term as Venezuela’s president. But Mr Chávez himself is conspicuously absent from the list of dignitaries expected to attend. Although he regularly reassured voters during his successful re-election campaign last year that he had been completely cured of cancer, he is currently in intensive care in Cuba, following his fourth surgery in 18 months. On January 8th the government announced that he is too ill to attend. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (175)
Comment (14)




Indigenous rights in Chile

Unhappy new year 


Jan 10th 2013, 0:28 by G.L. | SANTIAGO 

 JANUARY is often a fraught month in the Araucanía, the lush, green region of southern Chile which for centuries has been home to the Mapuches, the country’s largest indigenous minority. In the first month of 2008 a young Mapuche man, Matías Catrileo, was shot dead by police while trespassing on private land he claimed had historically belonged to his ancestors. He has become something of a martyr for indigenous rights activists. Four years later, seven firefighters died while trying to extinguish a forest fire. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (150)
Comment (26)




This week in print

Venezuela's presidency, infrastructure and taxes in Brazil and Bogotá politics 


Jan 10th 2013, 21:12 by The Economist online 

 THE date of Hugo Chávez's inauguration for a third term as Venezuela's president has come and gone, and he remains in a hospital bed in Cuba. This week's issue of The Economist asks who will run the country and argues that someone else should take over the role. It also includes stories on infrastructure and taxes in Brazil and on the mayor of Bogotá. 

View full post » 
Recommend (142)
Be the first to comment




Argentina and its creditors

A languid Tango 


Jan 16th 2013, 15:14 by H.C. | BUENOS AIRES 

 THE Argentine government was caught completely off-guard last October when authorities from the Ghanaian port of Tema seized the Libertad, a frigate used for training naval cadets. The country had already spent years sparring in the courts with investors who own bonds on which it defaulted in 2001. But its officials never anticipated that one New York-based hedge fund would manage to secure an order from a Ghanaian judge to hold the vessel in port because of Argentina’s failure to pay its debts. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (162)
Comment (82)




This week in print

Canada's aborigines, the Brazilian economy, nationalisations in Bolivia and Argentine energy 


Jan 17th 2013, 18:00 by The Economist online 

 PROTESTS by indigenous groups are par for the course in Latin American countries like Bolivia and Peru. But at the northern end of the American continent, Canada's First Nations have their own gripes. This week's issue of The Economist checks in on the relationship between the country's government and its native peoples. It also includes stories on the Brazilian economy, nationalised utilities in Bolivia and Argentine energy policy. 

View full post » 
Recommend (116)
Comment (1)




Currency design

A maple mishap 


Jan 21st 2013, 21:21 by M.D. | OTTAWA 

IN ITS ultimately unsuccessful bid to avoid controversy with a new series of bank notes, Canada’s central bank consulted with a wide range of experts. Physicists, chemists and engineers helped with the security features; operators of vending machines and armoured carriers weighed in on their use and transport; the central banks of England, Australia and Mexico shared their experiences with the issuance of new bills; and representatives of the blind and general public provided input on the design. The bank did leave out one critical constituency, however: botanists.Botanists might not know much about bank notes, but they do know which leaves belong on which trees. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (111)
Comment (7)




Violence in Guatemala

Got to admit it’s getting better 


Jan 22nd 2013, 14:07 by T.W. | GUATEMALA CITY 

MURDER is an everyday tragedy in Guatemala, one of the world’s most violent countries. With around 15 killings a day, most violent deaths merit only a couple of paragraphs in the papers. But the slaying last week of two girls, aged six and 11, has shocked the country and been widely reported outside Latin America. Police are still not sure what lies behind the killing of the two children, whose bodies were found on the outskirts of Guatemala City, or whether they are linked to the murders of two women in the capital on the same day. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (116)
Comment (7)




Justice in Mexico

Florence goes free 


Jan 23rd 2013, 22:26 by T.W. | MEXICO CITY 

 NEARLY seven years after she was imprisoned in Mexico on kidnapping charges, Florence Cassez, a French citizen, is to be freed. Ms Cassez, 38, was sentenced to 96 years in jail in 2006 for her supposed role in a kidnapping gang called the Zodiacs. (The sentence was later reduced to 60 years.) On January 23rd Mexico’s Supreme Court ruled that she should be released immediately, on the basis that the authorities had violated her legal rights. She is expected to fly back to France immediately.On December 9th, 2005, gripped television viewers watched live footage of a raid on a ranch just outside Mexico City. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (103)
Comment (54)




This week in print

Guatemala's comeback, impunity in Venezuela, Colombian guerrillas, Cuban politics and gambling in the Bahamas 


Jan 24th 2013, 17:47 by The Economist online 

 JUST a few years ago Guatemala was seen by many as verging on a failed state. Today, led by Otto Pérez Molina, the country is showing signs of coming back from the brink. This week's issue of The Economist reports on the progress made so far during his presidency. It also includes stories on a Venezuelan family repeatedly targeted for murder, the violent strategy of Colombia's second-biggest guerrilla group, Cuba's stagnant political leadership and a referendum to legalise gambling in Bahamian internet cafes. 

View full post » 
Recommend (67)
Be the first to comment




Brazil's nightclub fire

A night of tragedy 


Jan 27th 2013, 21:30 by H.J. | SÃO PAULO 

 THE death toll from a fire that broke out in the early hours of January 27th in a Brazilian nightclub has already reached 232, with more than 100 injured, many severely. Almost all the victims were young; the nightclub, Kiss, in the university town of Santa Maria in the far southern Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul, was popular with students. Most of the deaths were from smoke inhalation and asphyxiation.Some survivors were flown to neighbouring cities, including the state capital, Porto Alegre, for treatment. A sports centre in Santa Maria was hastily turned into a makeshift morgue. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (94)
Comment (70)




Colombian headgear

Vueltiao to sender 


Jan 29th 2013, 21:12 by S.B. | BOGOTÁ 

 THERE are few things quite so Colombian as the sombrero vueltiao. The black and white hats, woven from dried cane leaves, and whose name can be loosely translated as “turned hat”, are worn proudly on the Caribbean coast by cowhands, professors, merchants, cumbia dancers, politicians and visiting dignitaries. Pride in the elaborately made hats drove politicians to declare them a national cultural symbol.The price of a hat depends on how many pairs of tightly braided strands of dried cane leaf are used to make it. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (65)
Comment (14)




Argentine-Iranian relations

A pact with the devil? 


Jan 29th 2013, 23:42 by H.C. | BUENOS AIRES 

ARGENTINA’S foreign policy has grown increasingly combative in recent months. In addition to turning up the heat in its longstanding dispute with Britain over control of the Falkland Islands, the government of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner also nationalised a Spanish-controlled oil company without providing a penny of compensation and sparred with Ghana over the impoundment of a naval frigate.This week Argentina added Israel to its list of burnt bridges. On January 27th its foreign ministry announced the country would collaborate with Iran to form a joint truth commission that will investigate the 1994 car bomb attack at AMIA, a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires. 

Continue reading » 
Recommend (64)
Comment (75)





1
2
next ›
last »

 
 



Advertisement  


  



Latest blog posts  - All times are GMT





Recommended economics writing: Link exchange

Free exchange
 1 hrs 14 mins ago






Closing hospitals: Head, sand

Blighty
 3 hrs 20 mins ago






Arctic politics: Many voices at the table

Feast and famine
 February 1st, 20:01






Arts and antiques in New York: Quite a zoo

Prospero
 February 1st, 17:10






Focus: Metals

Graphic detail
 February 1st, 17:10






British politics: The paradox of Euroscepticism

Blighty
 February 1st, 17:05






America's jobs report: Hanging in

Free exchange
 February 1st, 16:19





More from our blogs »





Most popular

Recommended
Commented


Recommended

1The Nordic countriesThe next supermodel2The World Economic Forum in Davos: Leaders without followers3Islam and science: The road to renewal4The World Economic Forum: A tale of two Davoses5Women in combat: See Jane shoot 
Commented

1The Nordic countriesThe next supermodel2Islam and science: The road to renewal3Egypt's revolution: Dark days4Italian politics: Gaffe or provocation?5Russian politics: The Kremlin's new Anti-Americanism 



Sponsored by
  


Advertisement  


Economist blogsAnalects | China
Americas view | The Americas
Babbage | Science and technology
Banyan | Asia
Baobab | Africa
Blighty | Britain
Buttonwood's notebook | Financial markets
Cassandra | The World in 2013
Charlemagne | European politics
Democracy in America | American politics
Eastern approaches | Ex-communist Europe
Feast and famine | Demography and development
Free exchange | Economics
Game theory | Sports
Graphic detail | Charts, maps and infographics
Gulliver | Business travel
Johnson | Language
Lexington's notebook | American politics
Newsbook | News analysis
Prospero | Books, arts and culture
Pomegranate | The Middle East
Schumpeter | Business and management
 



Products & events
Stay informed today and every day

Get e-mail newsletters
Subscribe to The Economist's free e-mail newsletters and alerts.


Follow The Economist on Twitter
Subscribe to The Economist's latest article postings on Twitter


Follow The Economist on Facebook
See a selection of The Economist's articles, events, topical videos and debates on Facebook.





Advertisement  
  
 



  


Classified ads


  


  


  


  


  


  
 



About The Economist
Media directory
Advertising info
Staff books
Career opportunities
Subscribe
Contact us
Site index
[+] Site Feedback





Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited 2013. All rights reserved.
Accessibility
Privacy policy
Cookies info
Terms of use
Help



 
 



























 