Brazil nightclub fire: More than 230 die in Brazilian nightclub fire as survivors say security guards tried to stop people leaving burning building  | Mail Online















 










Home




U.K. Home



 
 

News




Sport




U.S. Showbiz




Femail




Health




Science




Money




RightMinds




Travel




Columnists







News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board




Login






Find a Job
M&S Wine
Our Papers
Feedback


Friday, Feb 01 2013

12AM 
62°F

3AM
50°F

5-Day Forecast










More than 230 die in Brazilian nightclub fire as survivors say security guards tried to stop people leaving burning building'Security guards did not know what was happening so tried to stop people leaving', according to eyewitnessFurther claims bouncers initially tried to stop people from escaping because they could not prove they had paid their drinks billsFire started after band let off a firework on stageVideo shows dramatic scenes of people trying to rescue people from the club, using axes to smash through an outer wall



 
By 
Helen Collis, Larisa Brown and Matt Roper


PUBLISHED:

07:49 EST, 27 January 2013


| 

UPDATED:

03:33 EST, 28 January 2013







Comments (501)




 Share


















Security guards tried to stop revellers escaping from a Brazil nightclub as a fire ravaged through the building killing 232 people, it has been claimed.An eyewitness to the incident, which happened in the early hours of Saturday morning, said door staff initially did not understand what was happening and tried to stop people leaving through an exit door.It was claimed that bouncers stopped people escaping because they could not prove they had paid their drinks bills.In what appears to be the deadliest 
nightclub fire for a decade, people were reportedly screaming 'there's a
fire' but were trapped inside the burning building.SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS... 

Appalling loss of life: Firefighters work to douse a fire at the Kiss Club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, where hundreds of people died 
 

People run to safety and try to rescue others after a massive inferno tore through a Brazil nightclub in the early hours of Saturday morning killing at least 232 people. A man is seen carrying a victim, centre
Up to 2,000 people - mostly students - were in the Kiss nightclub om Santa Maria, southern Brazil, when the fire started.While
the official cause of the blaze has not been stated, local reports 
claim it was sparked by a firework set off during a band's performance.Witnesses said the club's ceiling, which contained sound insulation foam, caught fire after a pyrotechnic stunt went wrong.
 

More...

Thirty die in riots after Egyptian court sentences 21 to death for football violence which killed 74 fans
Climber, 22, dies after falling 300ft while scaling ridge on Ben Nevis
Father's tears for dead British schoolgirl, eight, as she is cremated in pink coffin after Jamaican shooting


Most of the victims died of suffocation or were trampled in a stampede for the venue's only emergency exit, police said.The nightclub was operating illegally, the fire extinguishers were not working, and many victims confused the sign for the exit with that for the toilets, where 50 were later found dead. There were also claims that bouncers initially tried to stop people from escaping by holding the doors shut because they could not prove they had paid their drinks bills.

Chaos: These were the dramatic scenes moments after the fire engulfed nightclub Kiss. People died from suffocation and after being trampled on

 

A survivor is consoled by an emergency worker after the terrible ordeal in the early hours of Saturday morning
Murilo de Toledo Tiecher, a 26-year-old medical student, told Zero Hora newspaper: 'People were screaming "there's a fire" but the security guards didn't budge and tried to keep the door shut.'Five or six people knocked over one security guard and knocked down the door. It was the only exit.'The first people to get out tried to
pull out whoever was still inside. Hands and arms appeared from the 
curtain of smoke. We pulled out various people. I pulled out a girl by 
the hair. It was chaos, the worst desperation.'
But other eyewitnesses said that once the security guards realised how serious the fire was, they tried to help people escape.

Aftermath: A view from inside the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria which was ablaze in the early hours 
Last night police said that 120 of the 232 dead were men and 112 women. Most were between 16 and 20 years old. Another 116 people were injured and seven of them were in a critical condition in hospital. Police warned that the death toll could rise as they continued searching the club for charred bodies.Dramatic TV footage showed smoke pouring from the nightclub as partygoers joined firemen in trying to break windows and walls with axes and sledgehammers to try to free those still trapped inside.  

Firefighters battle to put out the fire which tore through the Kiss Club in Santa Maria, southern Brazil
  

Emergency services say they feared at least 20 more bodies remained inside the building, and hundreds of others were injured
Others desperately tried to resuscitate their friends on the street outside while some carried horrifically burned victims away in their arms looking for help.Many family members spent the day outside demanding news of their missing loved ones. The victims’ bodies were taken to a gymnasium where they were lined up, with their ID documents and mobile phones placed on their chests ready to be officially identified.Staff told how hundreds of mobile phones have been ringing ‘without stopping’ during the day.The party had been organised for students of food technology, agriculture, veterinary medicine and agribusiness technology at the University of Santa Maria. 

Horrific: A crowd stands outside the Kiss nightclub in the early hours of Saturday morning as the nightmare unfolds
Santa Maria, at the southern tip of 
Brazil near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay, is a major 
university city with a population of around a quarter of a million. The fire is believed to have started at around 2.30am and it took firemen three hours to contain it.Initial reports suggested two champagne glass-shaped props which set off flares had caused the blaze.  But police chief Luiza Souza said 
that Marcelo, the Gurizada Fandangueira band’s singer, had said he had a
glove on his hand with ‘a sort of roman candle which sends sparks 
flying’.

Mr Souza said: ‘During the show, the band’s producer triggered the glove using a remote control. 

'The sparks hit the first layer of 
sponge on the ceiling above the stage, and from there the fire spread 
quickly to the rest of the club.’  

A victim is carried through the street outside the nightclub as emergency crews rush to the scene

Witnesses said the singer tried to put out the fire but the fire extinguisher failed. 

Survivor Luana Santos Silva, 23, said
the fire engulfed the venue in seconds. ‘We looked at the ceiling in 
front of the stage and it was on fire,’ she said. ‘Immediately we began 
to be pushed over. I fell to the floor but my sister grabbed my hand and
dragged me to the exit. 

'If it wasn’t for her I’d have been crushed to death.’ 

Santa Maria’s civil defence 
coordinator, Moises Fuchs, said the club’s licence to function had 
expired last August. Officials had not renewed it because there was only
one emergency exit.

Partygoers claimed the bouncers had 
initially barred them from leaving because they could not prove they had
paid for their drinks.  

Rescue: Emergency services filled the street outside the club's entrance as more bodies were pulled from the charred building
   

Carnage: Locals help evacuate injured victims as clubbers look on in horror following the nightclub fire
  They said the bouncers opened the doors after two minutes when they realised what was happening.

The club operated a system where customers are issued with a piece of paper and bar staff tick off what they have drunk. 

Customers then pay at the till. Before leaving they have to show the doormen proof they have paid.
Television images showed smoke 
pouring out of the Kiss nightclub as shirtless, young male partygoers 
joined firefighters in wielding axes and sledgehammers, pounding at 
windows and walls to break through to those trapped inside.  VIDEO  Inside the club. Firefighters battle the suffocating blaze...  





Play Video




Loading video...




Teenagers
sprinted from the scene desperately trying to find help - others 
carried injured and burned friends away in their arms.Michele Pereira, another survivor, 
told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was near the stage and 
that the fire broke out after band members lit flares. 


'The band that was on stage began to 
use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward.
At that point the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak but in a 
matter of seconds it spread,' Pereira said.Ingrid Goldani, 20, who had been working at the club, said two bands were playing on Saturday night.She said the fire had begun after a member of one
of the bands lit a flare about 10 minutes into
the show, setting fire to part of the stage.


Overcome: Police, ambulance staff and firefighters helped the victims receive medical assistance in a street outside the Kiss Club


Traumatised: A police officer helps a woman survivor next to the Kiss nightclub in Brazil's Santa Maria 
According to her, the fire took hold of the club in less than three minutes. 
'The band tried to put out the fire with water, but they didn't manage to,'she said.

'After this, they tried with a fire extinguisher. It was all really quick.'Club security guard, Rodrigo
Moura, said the venue was at maximum 
capacity of between 1,000 and 2,000. He said partygoers were pushing and
shoving to escape. Ezekiel
Corte Real, 23, was quoted by the paper as saying he helped people to 
escape. 'I just got out because I'm very strong,' he said.  

Similar: A firefighter inspects a club after a fire in which 194 people died on December 31, 2004 in Buenos Aires

Brazilian
President Dilma Rousseff cancelled her participation in a 
regional summit to travel back to Brazil following news of the crisis.
'I
want to say to the people of our country and to the people of Santa 
Maria that at this moment of sadness we are together, and necessarily we
will overcome,' said Ms Rousseff told reporters on the sidelines of a 
summit of Latin American and European leaders, in Chile.She was close to tears as she spoke and said that the government was 'mobilising resources' to deal with the tragedy.
'Sad Sunday', tweeted Tarso Genro yesterday, the governor of the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul. He said all possible action was being taken and that he would be in the city later in the day.  

Devastation: Relatives of victims cry in the street after news of the fire is made public
  

Grief-stricken: As news of the tragic blaze reached hundreds of relatives of the victims, they began to arrive at the scene in complete shock 
 

Tearful: Relatives of the victims of the fire console each other in their grief after more than 230 people were reported dead
As news of the tragedy was made public, relatives of the victims began to appear at the scene. Hundreds
of shocked and distraught grieving families gathered in the street, but
were kept cordoned off away from the charred Kiss club.The
fire appeared to be among the world's deadliest in a nightclub since a 
2004 fire killed 194 people at an overcrowded working-class nightclub in
Buenos Aires, Argentina. A
blaze at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, Russia, broke out in 
December, 2009, when an indoor fireworks display ignited a plastic 
ceiling, killing 152.A nightclub fire in the US state of Rhode Island in 2003 killed 100 people after pyrotechnics used as a stage prop by the 1980s rock band Great White set ablaze cheap soundproofing foam on the walls and ceiling. And a welding accident reportedly set off a December 2000, fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309. 




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
1
2
3
Next






Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and...





'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert...





EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King...





Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific...





High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself,...





'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of...





Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to...





Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last...





'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting...





Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside...






 


Share this article: 




Facebook




Twitter




Google+




Messenger




LinkedIn




Digg it




Newsvine




Fark




Nowpublic




Reddit















Print article




Email article


























Comments (501)


The comments below have been moderated in advance.





Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated



 View all




Note:  Seems that nothing good happens when you ignite pyrotechnics in a crowded bar.

Whodathunkit?
-
                                    
                                        Spoof Detector
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Vera City,
                                     28/1/2013 13:56

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            41
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


It's time to out law fireworks.  People don't kill people, fireworks kill people.
-
                                    
                                        JM
                                    ,
                                    
                                        NJ, United States,
                                     28/1/2013 13:31

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            39
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Indoor fireworks should be banned at public events.
Worldwide. 
Full stop.

-
                                    
                                        Ann
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London,
                                     28/1/2013 12:02

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            53
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Um grande e horrorosa tragédia!
O brasil está em luto!
Obrigada a todo do mundo inteiro que estão acompanhando e rezando por nossos jovens.

A great and horrific tragedy!
The Brazil is in mourning!
Thanks a lot for all people in the world who are watching and praying for our youth.
-
                                    
                                        Monique Scain
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Caxias do Sul, Brazil,
                                     28/1/2013 10:41

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            19
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


and this in a country holding the next olympics.hope health and safety has improved by then!
-
                                    
                                        tonyshep
                                    ,
                                    
                                        teesside, United Kingdom,
                                     28/1/2013 10:28

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            13
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Such a tragedy and loss of young lives that could have been avoided....rip to all those who lost their lives and prayers to the families torn apart by this tragedy.
-
                                    
                                        Jaz1992
                                    ,
                                    
                                        West midlands, United Kingdom,
                                     28/1/2013 10:13

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            18
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Horrific. Truly horrific. The photos of the shoes alone sent a chill through me :( God Bless them all. x
-
                                    
                                        Jackie 5100
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Birmingham UK,
                                     28/1/2013 10:09

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            23
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


This is the country that is hosting the World Cup next year and the Olympics in three years time.  I just hope they bring in a few safety regulations by then!
-
                                    
                                        John
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Basingstoke,
                                     28/1/2013 10:03

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            5
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


this is so sad and terrifying . looking at the relatives and how hopeless and desperate they look i cant hold back my tears . RIP young ones . may God receive you with love.and may he take away the sadness your going has caused. i cant believe u were happy having fun and gone in a split second .SAD
-
                                    
                                        Aeasha
                                    ,
                                    
                                        far far away, San Marino,
                                     28/1/2013 08:31

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            17
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


So tragic. What a waste of young lives. RIP.
-
                                    
                                        Emma
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London, UK,
                                     28/1/2013 08:26

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            16
                                        
                                    

Report abuse




                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.









Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search



















 
 
Femail Today






Is running making you fat? Tracy Anderson reveals tricks to 'problem area' weight-loss in 15-minute workout for Gwyneth Paltrow's website








Amanda Bynes moves out of New York apartment after eviction threat over 'marijuana smoke complaint from neighbors'
Branded 'disrespectful'








'Just one bite!': Pregnant Kim Kardashian gives into her junk food cravings with a trip to McDonalds
The 31-year-old tweeted a snap of her indulgence








EXCLUSIVE: The Danish beauty who may beat Miss Alabama to win Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue cover
Stunning Nina Agdal is the hot favorite








Miley Cyrus bares her body in lingerie in straight-to-DVD movie filmed BEFORE her blonde hair and weight loss makeover
Watch the trailer here








'I'm your Katniss!' Miley Cyrus gets new tattoo from Kat Von D... and it looks suspiciously like a Hunger Games tribute
Her fiancé stars in the franchise








Penelope Cruz and husband Javier Bardem 'expecting second child'
The 38-year-old actress and her husband Javier Bardem, 43, already have son Leonardo, two








Brandi Glanville used to joke that Eddie Cibrian 'raped' her on their first 'hot' night together... but poses serenely for Glamour
Has she gone too far?








Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each other'
Valeria Lukyanova, 23, and Justin Jedlica, 32








So she CAN do casual! Victoria Beckham dresses down... in skintight jeans and Christian Louboutin boots 
As David trains in Paris








 'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Crazy life of Lady Gaga laid bare as she's sued by 'slave' former assistant








Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place
'Like a bad movie'








'He delusional... fame hungry and just wants money': Khloe Kardashians slams Kris Humphries for dragging out Kim divorce
He wants an annulment








Leonardo DiCaprio's blonde bombshell ex Erin Heatherton smoulders in new fashion campaign
The 23-year-old oozes sex appeal for XOXO








The zombies will touchdown soon: Unseen trailer for Brad Pitt's new movie World War Z will air during the Super Bowl
Watch one trailer here








How does she do it? Natalie Imbruglia, 37, shows off her flawless wrinkle free skin... as she reveals a return to acting
Famed for her hit Torn








The art of overexposure: Joanna Krupa flashes a dangerous amount of sideboob in daring one sleeved mini-dress
Fashion show in Poland








'I'm just like J-Lo!' Adrienne Maloof, 51, reveals why dating Sean Stewart, 32, has made her more fashionable
Says she should NOT be called a cougar!








Guess who! Katie Holmes masters the art of disguise... on a very blustery outing in the Big Apple
Katie was well and truly a celeb undercover 








Who is Lady Mary's new pretty boy?
Downton Abbey's casting directors have auditioned scores of possible suitors, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Not another car controversy! On the same night Justin Bieber's Ferrari is pulled over... his $100K Fisker is towed away
Bad luck on the road








Jennifer Love Hewitt works her curves in tight jeans on set of The Client List... as she prepares to strip off this season
Filming in Los Angeles








Kristin Chenoweth in bitter row with American Airlines after supervisor 'left her in tears when she refused to let her dog on board'
Flew from Dallas to LA








No.1 groupie! Make-up free Jennie Garth keeps boyfriend Jeremy Salken close as she wears his band's hoodie on film set
On the set in Toronto








Pictured: Chris Brown sporting cast on hand... days after 'fight' with gay rapper Frank Ocean 'over parking space at studio'
Known for his temper 








'I disrespected my husband': Coco Austin on those steamy snaps with rapper AP.9... but says marriage to Ice-T is strong
She spoke to MailOnline








'Being part of that world made me feel cooler': Hailee Steinfeld, 16, gushes over her high fashion friends as she poses in designer photo shoot








It's in the genes! Georgia May and her brother James inject a double dose of Jagger into new denim fashion campaign
Watch the video here








Daddy's girls! Bruce Willis' daughters Rumer and Tallulah steal the show at Die Hard mural unveiling
The day was supposed to belong to their father








Pretty in prints! Carly Rae Jepsen shows off her limbs in a floral romper as she poses for colorful Seventeen photo shoot
Spring is on the horizon 








Liberty Ross poses naked for LOVE magazine as she moves on from the breakdown of her marriage to cheating Rupert Sanders








Time to visit daddy! Claire Danes takes baby Cyrus to visit Hugh Dancy on the set of his new movie
He's filming Hannibal in snowy Toronto...








Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen launch 'affordable' handbag line - that looks just like their $39,000 backpacks for The Row
Expanding their range








'I have uneven breasts': Jennifer Lawrence reveals her secret body insecurity as she steps out in a colorful teal dress 
Striking hues








He's eating her alive! Bar Refaeli kisses a geeky extra in cringe-inducing Super Bowl advert
The stunt was for internet firm Go Daddy








Be my Valentine! Bar Refaeli poses in sexy black bra and panties with red high heels for stunning new underwear campaign
Sheer black underwear 








'Shoes create a chemical reaction in women': Sam Edelman on what makes heels so irresistible as he releases racy new video starring Kate Upton








Team Beckham! David shares daughter Harper's first tiny Paris St Germain football shirt
Vowed to donate his entire $270k per-week wages to charity








Alicia Keys recruits husband Swizz Beatz and Jada Pinkett Smith for her new music video... and little Egypt comes too
Plenty of star power 








Is Michelle Obama set to front ANOTHER Vogue cover? Rumor mill in overdrive after magazine crew is spotted at White House
Four years ago 








Are you looking, LeAnn? Brandi Glanville revels in playing with HER boys while she washes the car (showing off her great pins)








Dude Looks Like A Lady! Steven Tyler returns to American Idol dressed in drag as he secretly auditions
Pepper revealed to be former judge








Fat chance! Gamine sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner supersize each other and upload pictures to Twitter
The girls transformed their slender frames








Princess in pleather: Beatrice shows off her legs in a sexy mini skirt for a date night with her long-term boyfriend Dave Clark
Royal in London








Hugh Hefner's new wife Crystal Harris puts wedding dress up for charity auction to honor Playboy secretary Mary O'Connor's death
Wed on New Year's Eve








Single girl Ashlee Simpson hits town in a little red dress as her ex-husband's girlfriend Meagan looks after her son Bronx
Needed a girls' night out








He's bringing SexyBack: Justin Timberlake set to return to 2013 BRIT Awards for a television exclusive performance in the UK
First time since 2004








Old smoothie! Kelsey Grammer gets into Kayte's good books as he looks after baby Faith while she enjoys a spa day
Some pampering time








Asexual 29-year-old who said she'd never have sex again is looking for a man... but admits a celibate relationship is hard to find








More Than A Woman! Toni Braxton defies her age in figure-hugging LBD and towering peep-toe heels
Spotted at The Grove in Los Angeles








No limo today, boys? $150m Winklevoss twins forced to take the subway after failing to find a New York taxi to pick them up
It's a hard life for them...








Her leading men! Catherine Zeta-Jones lives it up with husband Michael Douglas and co-star Jude Law at Side Effects party
The belle of the ball...








Justin Bieber's Ferrari hits headlines again after his friend is pulled over and arrested for 'driving without a license'
Incident occurred in LA








Now that's skin-tight! Melanie Griffith shows off her enviable body in optical illusion leggings and smart jacket for day at the shops
Looks fab at 55








Go faster stripes! Selma Blair and toddler Arthur wear matching patterns as they gambol around the park
Making it clear they come as a pair...








Japanese women pay hundreds of dollars to to get a snaggletooth smile in latest cosmetic craze - because it 'looks cute and childlike'
Known as 'yaeba' look








Aren't you a Countess? Real Housewives star LuAnn de Lesseps wears a leather minidress and racy tights to charity gala
Reality star in New York








Victoria's Secret begins design research on special mastectomy bras after 120,000 sign petition of frustrated breast cancer survivor
Branching out








That's what it's made for! Bikini-clad Alessandra Ambrosio is chucked in ocean after Victoria's Secret shoot
Posed in seven different stunning bikinis








What a transformation! Isabella Cruise updates her look as she ditches the red hair in favor of new lilac pixie crop
Inspired by Kelly Osbourne's color?








Kit Kat gang reunited: Liza Minnelli joins her Cabaret co-stars for 40th anniversary screening of classic musical
At The Ziegfeld Theater








That's better! Britney Spears swaps her holey leggings for Daisy Dukes on a coffee run in Beverly Hills
The newly single star went out solo
















 
 
DON'T MISS






Defeating the object: Ashley Benson enjoys cake baking class after workout session with good friend Izak Rappaport
Earned those calories








Fancy seeing you here: Real Housewife Lisa Vanderpump greets soccer star Robbie Keane as he dines at her restaurant
He's no Beckham...








What not to wear! Katie Holmes risks her cream jumper and light pink jeans as she visits a chocolate shop
Stocking up before Valentine's Day








SPOILER ALERT: It's all over! Tina Fey and her 30 Rock crew bow out with an emotional final episode of the NBC hit comedy
Watch the video here








Keeping him close: Reese Witherspoon flashes her screensaver featuring baby Tennessee during yet another gym visit
Her four-month-old son








The EX factor! One Direction's Harry Styles celebrates his 19th birthday on a night out with former flame Caroline Flack, 33
He was her toyboy








My little prince! Naomi Watts' youngest son Sammy looks regal in a pink crown as he leaves a friend's birthday party
He was with mom in Brentwood, LA








Going back to curt AGAIN? Lindsay Lohan sues her own fashion label for $1.1m over rights to trademark 6126 name
Launched it in 2008








EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'
Former Today co-host was ousted by NBC








Lena Dunham's on a roll! Girls creator working on next comedy series looking at the life of a legendary New York stylist
A Bergdorf employee








Most boys collect toy cars not real ones! Petrol head Harry Styles adds to his growing selection of motors with new classic Ford Capri
A vintage 1970s car 








'Skinny is not appealing to me': Shahs of Sunset star Mercedes Javid is curvy and proud in skimpy monokini
Proudly flaunts her substantial curves 








Baby joy! Former American Idol judge Kara DioGuardi welcomes son via surrogate
Putting years of infertility anguish behind her








Eliza who? Benji Madden moves on from Doolittle romance as he debuts new mystery girlfriend in Australia
Still loving his new life Down Under








Georgia May Jagger models the latest collection of printed jeans for Hudson
The model proudly wore Union Flag pants in honor of her country








'It's not like I'm eating donut after donut... but I HATE my upper arms!' Khloe Kardashian talks body confidence as she shows off her figure in a skintight LBD








'I've tried Botox... but never again': Nicole Kidman insists she's currently natural after giving the cosmetic procedure a go
Planning to avoid it








'I got pregnant with my boyfriend and I gave birth with my girlfriend': How a mom-to-be coped when the father of her child decided to become a woman








'Daddy once flew me to Paris for a bottle of Chanel nail polish': Confessions of a Park Avenue princess - before she got 'cut-off'
Park Avenue princess








Did you feel overdressed? Uma Thurman goes from heels to flats after Whoopi Goldberg turns up to a red carpet in CROCS








Ditching the onesie: Model Cara Delevingne cuts a chic figure in peplum top and leather trousers at exclusive Burberry show
At the London event








She is the Queen Bey! Beyoncé is only missing her crown as stunning singer poses with Miss America at Super Bowl junket
She Runs the World








A talk show pro! Beasts Of The Southern Wild Quvenzhané Wallis, 9, chats to Jay Leno... and reveals she wants to meet Beyoncé at the Oscars








Rooney Mara shows her edgy side in black leather before playing it sweet and innocent in white on the red carpet
New York premiere of Side Effect








Amy Adams goes retro at Santa Barbara Film Festival to accept award for trailblazing career
Pretty in polka dots as she receives Cinema Vanguard Award








Just like old times! Former Dancing With The Stars contestant Chaz Bono goes back to dance class
He loved strutting his stuff on the dance floor








Scared of snakes Adam? Sandler wears chaps to stave off a rattlesnake attack on hike as wife sticks to her jeans
In the Los Angeles hills








Keeping those famous curls under control: Harry Styles wears a hairband as he plays soccer ahead of his birthday night out
He's a hit on the pitch








They've still got it! Rock royalty Joan Jett and Stevie Nicks show their iconic style on the red carpet at Sound City premiere
On red carpet in LA








'Well hello there, baby bump!' Kim Kardashian gives first real glimpse of her pregnancy curves in playful photo shoot
Celebrated her new shape alongside Khloe








Time for some new clothes! Britney exposes her behind in ripped leggings at the upmarket Beverly Hills Hotel
Her bottom is visible








Don't forget my name! Sofia Vergara makes sure fans spot her with an eye-catching 'SV' mobile phone case
It must have cost a pretty penny








Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight'








Don't rain on their parade! Cat Deeley and Patrick Kielty look happy leaving the British cold weather to fly back home to Los Angeles
Spotted at the airport








We get the message! Sharon Stone, 54, and toyboy beau Martin Mica, 27, share a cuddle and a smooch... a day after split reports
Apparently still together








Even celebrities have cheat days! Jennifer Garner drops the diet to grab pizza with daughter Violet
Even she needs a cheat day now and again








Upset the stylist? Annalynne McCord and Shenae Grimes show their legs on 90210... but Jessica Stroup is stuck in trousers
Strutting along LA street








Dressed for success? You bet, says Jennifer Lawrence
She'll bring a sewing kit to the EE British Academy Film Awards, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Charlize Theron makes gym wear stylish as she heads to the dance studio in patterned top and red Toms
Working out  in Beverly Hills








Risky business: Justin Bieber ditches helmet for a muddy four-wheeler bike ride
Willing to risk serious injury to keep his hair looking good.








Al Pacino dons a huge wig as he's transformed into Phil Spector in new stills from controversial TV movie
He stars alongside Helen Mirren








'I didn't sing live for Obama, but I will at the Super Bowl': Beyoncé addresses lip-synching uproar with rendition of National Anthem
Silencing her critics








On the fringe! Christina Applegate wears festive blouse for flamenco documentary premiere
Alongside her partner Martyn LeNoble for a romantic date night








Date night dress sense: Sienna Miller wears LBD for romantic dinner with fiancé Tom Sturridge
At Lulu's restaurant in Mayfair, London








That's an interesting look! Meghan Ory dons head-to-toe red in scenes for fairytale show Once Upon a Time
Modern-day Red Riding Hood








'I basically live in a sorority house with my girlfriends now,' reveals single Eva Longoria as she kicks up her heels in photo shoot
She posed poolside








Julianne Hough shows her perfect dancers legs in a blue dress... as Ryan Seacrest admits her athletic prowess 'scares me'
The perfect couple








'We are overweight kids but want to change': Sisters aged eight and nine launch fitness program in a bid to trim down
From San Antonio, Texas








The simple things: Anne Hathaway enjoys a walk with her husband and dog as she takes a break from accepting awards
Back to normality








Stunt woman! Jennifer Love Hewitt is forced to make a run for it in a low cut halter neck frock on set of The Client List
Got to ditch her heels at least...








Sweet kisses for Marion Cotillard as she's named Harvard's Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year
Honored with a ceremonial pudding pot








A trip to a spa, a day at the seaside and being a bride for a day: The heartbreaking final wishes of the 21-year-old dying from cancer








Never too old for a telling off: Downton Abbey's Brendan Coyle reveals his mother scolded him following his foul-mouthed Twitter spat








He's just a vulture sniffing my blood, waiting for me to die: Screen goddess Gina Lollobrigida blasts toyboy over 'fake wedding'








Style Solidarity! The Saturday's Mollie King and Rochelle Humes co-ordinate colours and coats on night out with British boy band JLS
Pop stars in London








So that's why Sigourney Weaver's dress looked so bad! Actress wore Lanvin gown back-to-front at the SAG Awards
On worst dressed list








EXCLUSIVE: Girl who claimed to be Harry's Vegas lover planning 'tell all' book about parties with Tiger Woods, Jack Nicholson and Mick Jagger








'I'm over the moon!' 30 Rock star Tracy Morgan and fiancée expecting a baby
He announced his engagement to Megan, 26, in September 2011








Zayn Malik sports mystery hand injury as he attends One Direction rehearsals in bandages
No word on how the boy band member could have hurt himself








Inspired by Rainbow Brite? Isabel Lucas wears unusual Christian Dior dress to designer's store opening in Australia
Straight off the runway








Review: With juvenile humor and moronic profanity, Movie 43 might be the saddest, most pathetic film of 2013, and possibly any year
Starring Halle Berry








Meet my dog Dourtney! Courtney Stodden takes her puppy for a walk in HIGH HEELS and a BIKINI
Not even a cute puppy is allowed to steal her limelight








Watch out Posh, Becks is off to Paris for five months... on his own! And he's giving his $270,000-a-week to charity
Just moved from LA








Denzel, your Flight is a fright! Even an Oscar worthy turn from its star can't get this cliched tale off the ground
Review: Washington isn't Denzel at his best








'I don't want that for my kid': Drew Barrymore on why daughter Olive will NOT follow in her child star footsteps
She grew up in the spotlight... and rehab








Will they ever learn? Russell Brand apologizes for 'Sachsgate' before cracking tasteless jokes about Jimmy Savile sex offender scandal








It's really growing! Pregnant Lara Stone makes sure her baby is nourished with the finest food as she eats out AGAIN with husband David Walliams








'It's the saddest thing I've ever been through': Beyoncé opens up about her miscarriage for the first time
Talks about her loss in her HBO documentary








She's going to have a ball! Beyoncé is poised for kickoff in new snap released ahead of her Superbowl performance
She's going to be singing live on Sunday








Honey, I shrunk myself! Morbidly obese groom, 23, loses more than the weight of his 112lbs bride for their wedding day
From XXXL to a medium








Who needs Tom Brady when you have THESE abs to look at? Calvin Klein creates provocative first-ever Super Bowl ad
Will be a 30-second ad








Girls heartthrob Christopher Abbott makes fashion debut in romantic film for Free People (but leaves the modelling to his female co-star)








Iconic 60s designer Celia Birtwell unveils brightly printed collection for Uniqlo and says she is 'delighted'
Combines traditional style with a modern twist








A 'stressed' Zara Phillips moves home to mommy: Removal van arrives to transport the young royal's belongings 20 miles up the road to Princess Anne's estate








Doubleact: New split image show Ashton Kutcher as an older Steve Jobs with receding hairline
The upcoming biopic is set to hit theaters in April








Brandi Glanville reveals she would 'make out with girlfriends' to turn on ex-husband Eddie Cibrian
And it would work like a charm, she says...








Cheeky little number! Rose McGowan steps out to upscale Hollywood event wearing very revealing shorts
Forgot to wear her skirt








One for Instagram? Alessandra Ambrosio masters the art of taking a self portrait as she enjoys down time from swimwear shoot








One expensive joy ride! Famed Beverly Hills hotel foots the bill after Justin Bieber's expensive car is damaged by his friend
Lil Twist damaged it








Why, aged 29, I have decided I'll NEVER have sex again
LISA SMITH faces up to the fact that, since losing her virginity at 16, she has always detested sex








Broke Lindsay Lohan takes her lawyer for dinner... but did he bill her?
After the judge told her she could still face jail during her pre-trial








Forever young: Trendy Robin Wright, 46, is perfectly in sync with toyboy Ben Foster, 32, as they arrive in New York
Actress pulled off twenty-something hipster gear








These boots are made for walking! Khloe Kardashian pulls on her favorite Givenchy fold-over kicks for second day running
Paid $1,695 for them








She wears it well: Rihanna rocks her shaved head and extensions as she prepares to jet out of New York
Her Rolling Stone look








'She could die and MTV could be blamed! Network considers axing Teen Mom 2 due to Janelle Evans' shocking behavior
Rarely out of headlines








Trying to hide something? Lara Flynn Boyle covers up her puffy face and trout pout with dark glasses and cap during day at the park








'You can suck my a**': Chelsea Handler loses her cool as she bickers with Piers Morgan during TV interview
It was a clash of the talk show hosts








Bold in Berlin: Diane Kruger returns home to Germany in floral printed trousers for latest movie photocall
Her latest film is titled Un Plan Parfait








Today host Hoda Kotb told bosses 'you can't scare me' after breast cancer battle gave her the guts to ask for her dream job
Spoke on Anderson Live








Cleaning out her closet! LeAnn Rimes poses in a red bikini as she has a wardrobe makeover
Rarely seen at the top of any best-dressed lists








Saint Beckham signs for St Germain! David agrees $230k-a-week deal to play in Paris... and he's donating his ENTIRE salary to a local children's charity 








Non-stop castings, all-night fittings and three models to each bedroom: 48 hours with a top catwalk star reveals the exhausting reality of Fashion Week








'I'm the victim': Jason London shows off his bruised face as he claims unmarked hands prove he was attacked in bar brawl
Left with broken bones








They kept that quiet! Little House on the Prairie star Melissa Gilbert is engaged to Timothy Busfield
Nobody knew they were even dating








'Live fast and freely': Lana Del Rey shares her views on life and spirituality in Manga-inspired cover shoot
Posed for a Japanese fashion magazine








DWTS' Katherine Jenkins steps out in another Posh dress... despite Victoria Beckham 'removing singer from label's freebie list'








Move over Gisele! Brazilian bombshell Gracie Cavalho shows off her bikini beach body for Victoria's Secret
The brunette showed off stunning figure 








Keeping limber: Heavily pregnant Amber Rose readies herself for the big push with some yoga moves
Keeping fit before her baby arrives








'There's no place like home': Robin Roberts goes on New Orleans road trip with fellow GMA anchors
With Sam Champion and Josh Elliott











 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Marlin wins! Incredible photos show massive fish as it toppled over an entire boat and crew





Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in...





Dozens of cheating Harvard students required to withdraw after last year's scandal,many others were given...





Parents of autistic boy,11, give him medical marijuana to curb his self-destructive rages






Dan Marino kept his love child secret from CBS bosses and his agent for SEVEN YEARS - and only told his wife





Secret Service Director to resign after 30 years with agency and less than a year after Colombian...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in...





Mother-of-two loses her EYE after fungus 'caused by contact lenses' eats it away





Smile! Crow's feet make you look clever and more attractive





Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each...





Dozens of women sue 'revenge porn' websites that show half-naked photos of them posted by jilted lovers





See how a fish thinks! Incredible video that shows a thought swimming through the brain of a Zebrafish





Woman's hidden camera captures shocking footage of her room-mate 'secretly torturing her cat while she was...





Man, 25, faces life in prison for 'having sex with three-year-old girl'





Girl, 7, dies at school of asphyxiation after choking on a balloon





Sick of your colleagues? Why not work in a bubble: Fantastic French invention keeps you sealed off in the...





Jodi Arias 'received lewd photographs from her Mormon elder ex-boyfriend even though he told friends he was...





English teacher who said she 'hit the jackpot' when she got job 'had sex with student, 14, when he was in...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy...





Scientists warn fans could suffer Super Bowl withdrawal on Sunday and prescribe watching MORE football as a...





Manti Te'o hoaxer says the pain of 'being molested as a child' drove him to pull prank against Notre Dame...





The adorable foal set to be the star of Sunday's game: Budweiser debuts new Super Bowl ad showing the life...





Does Jasper the 7-year-old rescue dog have a cure for cancer? American scientists increasingly study the...





Couple lucky to be alive after pole pierces their windshield and narrowly misses them both 






'I thought it was kidney stones!' Nurse who didn’t know she was pregnant gives birth to healthy baby...





ANOTHER U.S. newspaper targeted by Chinese hackers as Washington Post reveals it was targeted by cyber spies...





Why February's a bad month for a good night's sleep... takes extra eight minutes to fall to get to sleep...





The luckiest nerd in the world: Geeky actor reveals how it took SIXTY-FIVE takes to film lingering kiss with...





Dow Jones closes above 14,000 for first time since October 2007





MORE HEADLINES







 
Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and Whoppers containing horsemeat



 
'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert reveals Columbia shuttle crew were not told of problem with re-entry as families mark 10-year anniversary



 
EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King be pushed out for political dynamo Jake Tapper? 



 
Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific Ocean 40 seconds after launch 



 
High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself, called her students JAIL BAIT and talked about getting high'



 
'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves rude note objecting to 18 per cent tip on Applebee's check... and waitress is FIRED for posting it on the internet



 
'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in underground bunker - as cops fear they may be holed up for months 



 
Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early 20th century 'wonder years' when children ran barefoot instead of playing Xbox



 
'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy life of Lady Gaga, revealed as she's sued for treating ex assistant like a 'slave'




 
'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place



 
Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last minute...and his new owner calls him Elton!



 
Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside the most notorious biker gang as man turns into undercover police agent to put a dozen Hells Angels in jail




 
EXCLUSIVE: How biological mother of Super Bowl star Colin Kaepernick gave him up for adoption after her parents' offer to help raise him... and she never even told them who his father is



 
Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in Atlanta shopping mall



 
EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'



 
Mother pleads guilty to allowing daughter, 6, to be sexually abused by different men in exchange for drugs and money



 
That's not my dead wife! Grieving widower opens casket at funeral to discover stranger inside



 
'It's a slap in the face': Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight anyway she could'



 
The 'kindly' Auschwitz commander who sent youngsters to gas chambers then went home to play hide and seek with his children



 
Students of teacher, 23, who posted semi-naked pictures of herself and called a teen 'jail bait' launch Twitter page supporting her


MOST READ IN DETAIL
















Editor's six of the best


 
The spectacular Spider-Man: Artist painstakingly captures webbing to create unique pieces of art


 
Nevada mansion with its own backyard WATER PARK makes a $3 million splash on real estate market 


 
Watch the moment two grown businessmen fight over a NYC cab 


 
A dog acts on her maternal instincts and nurses a stray kitten as if it was her own puppy 


 
Man who pretended to be blind to get sympathy and carers found dead in a ditch


 
Talk about jumping on the bandwagon! Ohio marching band joins the Gangnam craze in hilarious dance video as they stop, drop and roll to the beat














 









































 
 
Back to top


 
 
Navigation


 
 
Popular






Home




U.K. Home




News




Sport




U.S. Showbiz




Femail




Health




Science




Money




RightMinds




Travel




Columnists







Popular searches in news:







Sitemap
Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
This is London
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group



© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies










 











 
 























