Brazil Nightclub Fire Safety Becomes Focus After Deadly Blaze













 
































HuffPost's QuickRead...




Loading...

 










HuffPost's QuickRead...
















Loading...

 























Middle East Protests



iPhone app
iPad app
Android phone app
Android tablet app
More





Log in
Create Account






Notifications













Profile
Settings


                            Logout                        









 






    February  1, 2013    












Edition: U.S. 




CA Canada
                            



FR France
                            



IT Italia
                            



ES España
                            



US United States
                            



UK United Kingdom
                            









































FRONT PAGE



Politics


 


HHS Announces New Details On Contraception Rule13k


WATCH: Hagel And McCain Have Testy Exchange Over Iraq Surge20k


Christie: 'The Stupidest Thing The Republican Party Ever Did!'3k


'Accept The Facts'7k


Brown Not Running For Senate3k






Go to Politics 




More in Politics

Pollster
Politics Blog
Speculatron
Off The Bus
Election Maps

You might also like

World
Green
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Gay Voices








Business


 


Applebee's FIRES 'I Give God 10%' Tip Receipt Waitress8k


'Glitch' Excludes Poor From Obamacare Overhaul15k


Woman Claims She Was Fired For Missing Work For Cancer Treatment 814


Disgraced CEO Sentenced To 50 Years In Prison588


Justice Department Sues To Stop Big Beer Merger2k






Go to Business 




More in Business

Small Business
Money

You might also like

World
Tech
Media
Arts
Sports
Weird News
Crime








Entertainment


 


Dakota Fanning On Her First Nude Scene272


Beyonce Silences Critics By Singing National Anthem Live1k


'Star Wars' Star Didn't Get Along With George Lucas233


Justin Bieber Does It Again129


8 Awful Justin Timberlake Movies102






Go to Entertainment 




More in Entertainment

Celebrity
TV

You might also like

Comedy
Arts
Books
Food
Style
Weird News
Moviefone








Media


 


Geraldo Rivera 'Truly Contemplating' Senate Run1k


MSNBC Criticized For Editing Of Controversial Video5k


WATCH: Piers Morgan Enrages Chelsea Handler208


WATCH: Every 2013 Super Bowl Ad So Far59


WATCH: Super Bowl Reporter Asks Drunk Passerby If She Has An STD396






Go to Media 




More in Media

Eat The Press
Calderone: The Backstory

You might also like

Entertainment
TV
Comedy
Arts
Books
Religion
Moviefone








Green


 


Man Finds Smelly Whale Treasure183


How This Animal Could Make You Sick57


PHOTOS: Damage From Tornadoes In Georgia And Tennessee855


Several Dead, Many Injured As Storm Moves East30


8 Invasive Species The U.S. Gave The World15






Go to Green 




More in Green

Energy
Climate Change
Animals
Green Tech
Green Holiday

You might also like

Politics
Food
World
Science
Healthy Living








Tech


 


Woman Finds Birth Mother Through Facebook 274


Amazon Users Are Hating On This Toy350


2013 Just Might Be The Year Of The 'Playstation 4'112


5 Signs That BlackBerry Is Desperate66


Why Antivirus Software Didn't Save The New York Times From Hackers142






Go to Tech 




More in Tech

TEDWeekends
Social Media

You might also like

Small Business
Green
Science
New York
San Francisco
TechCrunch
Engadget
Joystiq








Arts


 


Calling All Nudists... This Museum Is For You33


A Very Strange Way To Honor The Dead14


LOOK: This GIF Artwork Will Blow Your Mind41


Bizarre Architectural Landscapes62


'Women Don't Paint Very Well' 107






Go to Arts 




More in Arts

Painting
Film
Design
Photography
Theater
Architecture

You might also like

Books
New York
Los Angeles








Travel


 


PHOTOS: Behind The Scenes Of Grand Central On Its 100th Birthday65


PHOTOS: New Orleans' Famed Cemeteries15


PHOTOS: The Best Hotels Ranked98


PHOTOS: London's New Landmark Doesn't Disappoint


PHOTOS: 11 Over-The-Top Valentine's Day Packages14






Go to Travel 




More in Travel

Travel Video
Destinations
Themed Guides
TSA
Airlines

You might also like

Food
Arts
World
GPS for the Soul
Recipes








Food


 


Burger King Admits Burgers Were Possibly Tainted With Horsemeat1k


Chick-Fil-A Sales Soar Despite Bad PR2k


Young People Are Crazy For Yogurt, Study Finds23


Taco Bell-Flavored Doritos?!25


How The Molten Chocolate Cake Made It To Arby's14






Go to Food 




More in Food

Chefs
Restaurants
Food Safety
Fast Food
Wine
Beer

You might also like

Taste
Travel
Green








LIVE






Now
'The Lying Game'




Next
Redefining Sexy




Coming Up
Super Bowl Stimulus?




Coming Up
Brother Outsider




Coming Up
Working Moms Speak Up



Go to HuffPost Live









ALL SECTIONS 



News


Politics
World
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News




Entertainment


Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV
Moviefone




Life & Style


Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Food
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN




Tech & Science


Tech
Science
Green
TEDWeekends
TechCrunch
Engadget
TUAW
Joystiq




Voices


Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact




Local


Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Miami
New York
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Patch.com
Mapquest





Our Mobile Apps

iPhone
iPad
HuffPost Live iPad
Android Phone
Android Tablet











World




Israel-Gaza Conflict
Foreign Affairs
Drug War
Afghanistan War
Syria
World Videos






 

























 






HuffPost Social Reading




Some error occurred




Login with Facebook to see what your friends are reading

Enable Social Reading


i

















 







Settings


Read Share Settings
Share everything I read
Share only things safe for work
Dont share what I'm reading



Read Share History
Learn More



















																				Brazil Nightclub Fire Safety Becomes Focus After Deadly Blaze
									



By BRADLEY BROOKS  
											
											01/29/13 09:52 PM ET EST											








 

reddit
stumble


























Get World Alerts:


Sign Up








Follow:



 Brazil,  Video, Brazil Nightclub Fire, Brazil Fire, Brazil Club Fire, Brazil Night Club Fire, Brazil Nightclub Fire Deaths, Brazil Nightclub Fire Injuries, Kiss Club Fire, Kiss Fire, Kiss Nightclub Brazil, Nightclub Fire In Brazil, Santa Maria Brazil, Santa Maria Fire,
									
World News







  



SANTA MARIA, Brazil — Penny-pinching by a band known for its onstage pyrotechnic displays may have cost more than 230 people their lives at a nightclub in southern Brazil, according to a police inspector leading the investigation into this weekend's deadly blaze.
Inspector Marcelo Arigony told reporters at a news conference Tuesday that members of the band knowingly purchased flares meant for outdoor use because they cost a mere $1.25 a piece, compared with the $35 price tag for an indoor flare.
"The flare lit was for outdoor use only, and the people who lit them know that," said Arigony, adding that members of the group acknowledged regularly opting for the less expensive flares. "They chose to buy those because they were cheaper than those that can be used indoors."
Arigony, whose cousin died in the fire, added: "The pyrotechnics were part of their show – the guys even wore gloves onstage so they wouldn't burn their hands."
The repercussions of the band's choice to use flares continued to send shock waves through Santa Maria, a college town of 260,000 people that's been stunned by the early Sunday morning tragedy in the Kiss nightclub.
The Rio Grande do Sul state forensics department raised the death toll Tuesday from 231 to 234 to account for three victims who did not appear on the original list of the dead. Authorities say more than 120 people remain hospitalized for smoke inhalation and burns, with dozens of them in critical condition.
The blaze began at around 2:30 am local time, during a performance by Gurizada Fandangueira, a country music band that had made the use of pyrotechnics a trademark of their shows. The band's guitarist told media that the 615 square-meter (6,650-square-foot) club was packed with an estimated 1,200 to 1,300 people. The police have said the capacity for a club of that size is under 700 people.
Police said the club's ceiling was covered with insulating foam made from a combustible material that appeared to have ignited after it came in contact with a spark from a flare lit during the performance.
After the fire extinguisher malfunctioned, the blaze spread throughout the packed club at lightning speed, emitting a thick, toxic smoke. Because Kiss apparently had neither an alarm nor a sprinkler system and only one working exit, the crowd was left to search desperately for a way out.
About 50 of the victims were found in the club's two bathrooms, where the blinding smoke caused them to believe the doors were exits.
Police investigator Arigony said people headed to the bathrooms because the only lights in the dark club were coming from there, and the patrons mistook them for exits. The foam, which emitted a toxic gas, was not proper soundproofing equipment and was likely only used to cut down on the echo inside the club, Arigony said.
He added that a full analysis of the foam was ongoing. The malfunctioning fire extinguisher was not legal, he said, and the club's operating license had expired in August.
"There were diverse irregularities," Arigony said. "Any child could have seen that this establishment should not have been open."
Outraged locals, mostly young people like those who died in the blaze, marched through Santa Maria Tuesday to demand justice for the dead, an unusual move in a country where public protests are rare. The demonstration interrupted the police news conference, even as Arigony pledged to investigate everyone involved in the tragedy – including the authorities charged with making sure such establishments are up to code, such as firefighters and city officials.
"There could have been an administrative failure in the mayor's office or with the firefighters," he said. "We have no proof, but we will investigate, we will look into everything."
No charges have been filed. Under Brazilian law, prosecutors can only file charges after police complete their investigation, which in this case could take 30 days. Prosecutors have said manslaughter charges could be filed.
The fire inspired nationwide action, and several mayors said they would crack down on nightclubs and other venues in their cities.
The government of the country's biggest city, Sao Paulo, promised tougher security regulations for nightclubs and other places where many people gather. The mayor of the city of Americana, Sao Paulo state, ordered the temporary shutdown of 10 of the city's nightclubs. Mayor Diego de Nadai suspended the operating permits of the nightclubs pending inspections into the fire and accident prevention measures in place, local media reported.
The Folha de S. Paulo newspaper reported that in Manaus, nightclubs with empty fire extinguishers and unmarked emergency exits have been shut down and fined. And in Rio de Janeiro, a consumer complaint hotline has received more than 60 calls since Sunday's tragedy denouncing hazardous conditions at night spots, theaters, supermarkets, schools, hospitals and shopping malls around the state. Blocked emergency exits and nonexistent fire alarms and extinguishers top the list of most common complaints.
Brazil's O Globo newspaper reported on its website that the mayor's office in Santa Maria ordered all nightclubs closed for 30 days while inspections are carried out. In Brasilia, the nation's capital, lawmakers in the lower house worked on a proposal that would require federal safety minimum standards across Brazil – now, states individually create such laws.
Investigator Arigony said police searched two other Santa Maria nightspots owned by Mauro Hoffmann, one of the partners of the Kiss nightclub, for evidence that could help shed light on the investigation.
Police said earlier that computers that had stored footage from security cameras inside the club were missing – but Arigony said police had found them at a computer repair shop, where they were dropped off a week ago, meaning images from the disaster would not be on them. Owners of the club told police the security cameras hadn't worked in months.
Both owners of the club were provisionally detained, along with two of the band members. A judge froze the assets of the club's owners, pending the investigation.
The fire appeared to mark a possible turning point for a country that has long turned a blind eye to safety and infrastructure concerns. The disaster, the worst fire of its kind in more than a decade, has also raised questions of whether Brazilian authorities are up to the task of ensuring safety in such venues as the country prepares to host next year's World Cup and the 2016 Olympics.
O Globo published an editorial Tuesday saying it was time for action.
"The tragedy in Santa Maria forces us to seriously reflect over our national culture of leniency, contempt and corruption," it said. "We must start from the principle that the mea culpa belongs to us all: public servants, owners of establishments that disregard safety regulations, and regular citizens who flout them."
Soccer legend Pele, too, urged the Brazilian government to "make safety and security a priority in this country."
"So many young people are no longer with us, they had entire lives ahead of them. I ask God to protect them and take care of their families," he wrote on Twitter.
According to state safety codes here, clubs should have one fire extinguisher every 1,500 square feet as well as multiple emergency exits. Limits on the number of people admitted are to be strictly respected. None of that appears to have happened at the Santa Maria nightclub.
Rodrigo Martins, a guitarist for the group playing that night, told Globo TV network in an interview Monday that the flames broke out minutes after the employment of a pyrotechnic machine that fans out colored sparks.
"I thought I was going to die there," Martins said. "There was nothing I could do, with the fire spreading and people screaming in front."
Most of the dead were college students 18 to 21 years old, but they also included some minors. Almost all died from smoke inhalation rather than burns.
The blaze was the deadliest in Brazil since at least 1961, when a fire that swept through a circus killed 503 people in Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro.
Sunday's fire also appeared to be the worst at a nightclub anywhere in the world since December 2000, when a welding accident reportedly set off a fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309 people.
___
Associated Press writers Marco Sibaja and Juliana Barbassa contributed to this report from Santa Maria, Stan Lehman contributed from Sao Paulo and Jenny Barchfield contributed from Rio de Janeiro.


Loading Slideshow
Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)People run away as firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)A victim of a fire in a club is carried in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Deivid Dutra/Agencia Freelancer)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)A man carries an injured victim of a fire at the Kiss club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013.  (AP Photo/Agencia RBS)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims cry after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims embrace as they wait for information after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims cry after a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012.  (LAURO ALVES/AFP/Getty Images)Firefighters try to put out a fire at a nightclub in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 27, 2012. (Germano Roratto/AFP/Getty Images)Relativies prays in the wake of a victim of the Kiss night club fire at the local cementery on January 27, 2013 in Santa Maria.(JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of victims react in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Evandro Sturm)Family members and friends stand around coffins containing the remains of victims after the bodies were identified at a gymnasium in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Nabor Goulart)A woman cries over the coffin of her boyfriend at a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Nabor Goulart)Relatives of a victim of the Kiss nightclub blaze mourn him during a wake held at the chapel of the cemetery on January 28, 2013 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Soldiers carry the coffin of a victim of a nightclub blaze in Santa Maria, 550 Km from Porto Alegre, southern Brazil on January 28, 2013, where more than 230 people died and 116 more were injured. (JEFFERSON BERNARDES/AFP/Getty Images)Relativies and friends of Heitor de Oliveira, one of the victims of the Kiss night club fire, gather around his coffin during the funeral at Santa Rita cementery in Santa Maria, on January 28, 2013. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Livia Oliveira, mother of Heitor, one of the victims of the Kiss night club fire, kisses his coffin during his funeral at Santa Rita cementery in Santa Maria, on January 28, 2013. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives and friends carry the coffins of two brothers, Pedro and Marcelo Salla, who died in a nightclub fire, as they prepare to bury them at a cemetery in Santa Maria, Brazil, Monday, Jan. 28, 2013. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana)Relatives of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve cry at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve cry at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Relatives and friends attend the funeral of Juan Calegaro, one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve, at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)Friends of one of the victims of the blaze in a disco on the eve put flowers on his grave, at the municipal cementery on January 28, 2012 in Santa Maria, southern Brazil. (ANTONIO SCORZA/AFP/Getty Images)






















 






  		Contribute to this Story:  	  

Send us a tip


Send us a photo or video


Suggest a correction






		FOLLOW WORLD  	







Like



71k












 






 Get Alerts








  






Most Popular


Video


Brazil




				SANTA MARIA, Brazil &mdash; Penny-pinching by a band known for its onstage pyrotechnic displays may have cost more than 230 people their lives at a nightclub in southern Brazil, according to a police ...			

				SANTA MARIA, Brazil &mdash; Penny-pinching by a band known for its onstage pyrotechnic displays may have cost more than 230 people their lives at a nightclub in southern Brazil, according to a police ...			





 


Related News On Huffington Post:





							 
						


										Michele Cardoso, Brazilian Nightclub Fire Victim, Pleaded For Help On Facebook Before She Died
									

										Brazil Nightclub Fire Funerals Begin For 233 Killed In Santa Maria Blaze
									

										Brazil Nightclub Fire Kills At Least 233 People (VIDEOS, PHOTOS)
									

 






                                			Michele Cardoso, Brazilian Nightclub Fire Victim, Pleaded For Help On Facebook Before She Died
                                		




		                        
																A young woman trapped inside the deadly Brazilian nightclub blaze this weekend posted one final message to Facebook, pleading for help as the building burned....                                




 






                                			Brazil Nightclub Fire Funerals Begin For 233 Killed In Santa Maria Blaze
                                		




		                        
																SANTA MARIA, Brazil — The nightclub Kiss was hot, steamy from the press of beer-fueled bodies dancing close. The Brazilian country band on stage was...                                




 






                                			Brazil Nightclub Fire Kills At Least 233 People (VIDEOS, PHOTOS)
                                		




		                        
																SANTA MARIA, Brazil -- A fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, filling the air in seconds with flames...                                
















Around the Web:
  Raw: Deadly nightclub fire protested in Brazil Brazil Nightclub Fire Probe to Focus on Safety Code Violations  Fire rips through crowded Brazil nightclub, killing 233 - CNN.com In Brazil Nightclub Fire, a Frantic Struggle to Survive - NYTimes.com The Brazil nightclub fire in photos and tweets Brazil nightclub fire: No fire alarm, just one door - CSMonitor.com At least 233 dead in Brazil nightclub fire - Video on TODAY.com




Filed by Ryan Craggs

												 | 
										
										
								
						
						




More in World...

 

U.S. Embassy Bombing In Turkey Was Suicide...Hillary Clinton: Syria's War Could Still Get...Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Imprisoned Pussy Riot Member, HospitalizedU.S. Embassy Suicide Bomber Believed To Be... 







 





 
















 















 
















FOLLOW US

















































Connect with your friends


Check out stories you might like,  and see what your friends are sharing!
















Most Popular on HuffPost



4Fp5C4mY0S6J4xvdIf72EJyj%2Bk5cyw3538c9NvC%2FaMnDirSwo4ygWFLbY3TdiAPDHhNxvpsXlpdr4fwoQ9se0AxSY5nROrpx
Iql3MlwLuA2Ur242634ALMoaNczwEJ%2BUXg6fFhM1ObeHxN4uAjLvR9i73mSKdiDVP%2B38mB%2FekNMHaI6e%2FV2SNU1KNp6Mqds0



1 of 2













Applebee's FIRES 'I Give God 10%' Tip Receipt Waitress






Recommend



24k













Burger King Admits Burgers Were Possibly Tainted With Horsemeat






Like



19k













#FreeCrunkBear: Too Hot For Twitter Teacher Backed By Students






Like



606













WATCH: Piers Morgan Enrages Chelsea Handler






Like



263













'Gay' Dog Saved After Owner Sends It To Be Euthanized 






Like



30k













49ers' Teammates Say They Never Participated In 'It Gets Better' Video (Even Though They're In It)






Recommend



7k













Dakota Fanning On Her First Nude Scene






Like



188













Shooting At Middle School (UPDATE)






Recommend



15k













Beyonce Silences Critics By Singing National Anthem Live






Like



10k















Don't Miss HuffPost Bloggers



1 of 5















Bradley Cooper
Mental Health in America (Video)













Alan Colmes
Dear NRA, Please Put Me On Your Enemies List













Cecile Richards
Birth Control Benefit a Huge Advance for Women’s Health and Equality













Michael Shermer
What Is Skepticism, Anyway?













Marlo Thomas
Heart Health Month: What Every Woman Should Know













Leonard Maltin
5 Must-See Indie Films This Month













Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
Girls Just Wants to Have (White) Fun













Amb. Swanee Hunt
Marshall and Clinton: A Shared Legacy













Sec. Tom Vilsack
Celebrating Inclusion at the 2013 Special Olympics World Winter Games













Sec. Kathleen Sebelius
Countdown to Affordable Health Insurance



 















Late-Night Laughs: The 5 Best Comedy Clips of the Week
 





Loud and Proud: Japanese Husbands Shout Declarations of Love in Public
 





Lady Gaga Calls Ex-Assistant “A Disgusting Human Being” under Oath
 





Time - World







TOP VIDEO PICKS


1 of 9







Biden To Meet On Syria









New Jersey Auto Repair Shop Holds Historic Toilet









'Creeping Annexation'







 
















MOST DISCUSSED RIGHT NOW


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8a43pip0bdKP
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgKQA9zRBn5c9



1 of 2













Suicide Bombing At U.S. Embassy In Turkey












U.N. Panel: Israeli Settlements Are 'Illegal'





 





HOT ON FACEBOOK


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8TKPvBq8xPkmgYINREC4w8w%3D
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgPTAYkCdRanfpr%2BnvSQA9QM%3D
jpeKJKgSs0bJPlRX0pV4Fss35VaaM%2Fhsd5ArrOAf1yA%3D
RmGEoNfRqc5CzahDwgqSmw%3D%3D



1 of 3













Imprisoned Pussy Riot Member Hospitalized












PHOTOS: Hillary's Best Moments Abroad





 




 



HUFFPOST'S BIG NEWS PAGES











Celebrity Super Bowl Fans: Who's Rooting For The 49ers And The Ravens?



Video








Chipotle Salary Can Top $95,000 Annually



Careers








Marriage Research: Happy Teenage Years Lead To Happier Marriages



Marriage









Energy Secretary Steven Chu Resigns, Chastises Climate Deniers And Clean-Energy Critics



Climate Change








Twitter Stock Market Hoax Draws Attention Of Regulators



Twitter








U.S. Bureau Of Land Management Emphasizing 'Compassion And Concern' For Wild Mustangs



Denver News









Post-Super Bowl Shows Through The Years: How Will 'Elementary' Do Compared To Others? (VIDEO)



Television








Michigan Deferred Action Recipients To Receive Driver's Licenses



Immigration








Best Latino 'American Idol' Auditions From Season 12, So Far (VIDEOS)



Latino Entertainment




more big news pages »
			





 


  

 























Advertise | 

Make HuffPost your Home Page | 
RSS | 
Careers | 
FAQ


User Agreement | 
Privacy | 
Comment Policy | 
About Us | 
About Our Ads | 
Contact Us


Copyright © 2013 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. | 
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.


Part of 
                        HPMG News                        








 

























HuffPost Lightbox


























