Fire rips through crowded Brazil nightclub, killing 233 - CNN.com

            EDITION:  INTERNATIONAL U.S. MÉXICO ARABIC    TV:   CNNi CNN en Español   Set edition preference    Sign up Log in                  Home Video World U.S. Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East Business World Sport Entertainment Tech Travel iReport   



















Print
Email
More sharing














Fire rips through crowded Brazil nightclub, killing 233



By Shasta Darlington, Marilia Brocchetto and Dana Ford, CNN
January 28, 2013 -- Updated 0659 GMT (1459 HKT)










Relatives and friends of Paraguayan student Guido Britez, 21, who died in a fire at the Kiss nightclub in Brazil, carry his coffin during the funeral in Asuncion on Tuesday, January 29. More than 230 people died and more than 120 were injured early Sunday when a fire tore through the nightclub packed with university students in southern Brazil, police said.




Guido Britez's family attends the funeral on January 29. 




Mauro Hoffman, co-owner of the Kiss nightclub, is taken into custody by police in Santa Maria, Brazil, on Monday, January 28. 




Residents of Santa Maria, Brazil, hold a march on January 28 to honor the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire and demand justice for them. 




Residents march along Rio Branco Avenue on January 28, demanding justice for and to honor the Kiss nightclub fire victims.




A violinist comforts another during the march on January 28.




Demonstrators carry candles through the streets in Santa Maria on January 28.




Soldiers carry the coffin of a victim of the nightclub blaze on January 28.




A priest celebrates Mass in a public square in the center of Santa Maria on January 28.




Mourners cry at the municipal cemetery on January 28.




The entrance to the Kiss nightclub is covered in soot on January 28.




Relatives and friends of one of the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire gather during the funeral at Santa Rita Cemetery in Santa Maria on January 28.




Firefighters stand at the burnt-out entrance of the Kiss nightclub on Sunday, January 27, in Santa Maria, Brazil.




Relatives wait to identify victims at the municipal gymnasium in Santa Maria on January 27.




Relatives of victims weep during a funeral in Santa Maria on January 27.




Relatives pray at the wake of a victim on January 27 in Santa Maria.




Relatives of a victim of a fire that broke out at the Kiss nightclub weep during the funeral in Santa Maria, Brazil, on Sunday, January 27.




A woman weeps on a coffin as relatives of the nightclub fire victims identify bodies.




People console each other during a collective wake for the victims of the nightclub fire.




A coffin decorated with a photograph and image of the Virgin Mary is surrounded by mourners.




Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, right, consoles relatives of victims of the fire.




Emergency personnel gather outside the burned-out Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria, Brazil. The nightclub is popular with young people, drawing between 2,000 and 3,000 people a night on the weekends.




A firefighter, center, carries a victim away from the blaze.




Residents look on as bodies of victims are transferred from the site of the fire to a municipal sports center.




People cry after a getting news about the deadly fire.




Firefighters work to extinguish the blaze that broke early Sunday.




Victims were dragged out of the nightclub and received preliminary medical treatment on the ground.




Firefighters, onlookers and police gather outside the burned-out club.




A grieving woman talks on her cell phone after the fire.




HIDE CAPTION


Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire
Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8





9





10





11





12





13





14





15





16





17





18





19





20





21





22





23





24





25





26





27





28





29


>
>>






STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Cell phones left in the club ring, go unanswered amid the ruins
The club's license had expired in August and had not been renewed
At least 80 of those killed were students at the Federal University of Santa Maria




Are you there? Share your story.
Santa Maria, Brazil (CNN) -- Workers combing through the charred wreckage of Kiss nightclub in southern Brazil on Sunday encountered the eerie sound of ringing cell phones.
Glauber Fernandes, a reporter from CNN affiliate Band News, explains.
"It was a really complicated scene. A lot of smoke, a lot of shoes that was left, cell phones, because everybody tried to get out of there running," he said. "While we were there, we saw the cell phones were ringing. It was parents, friends, trying to know about what was happening and nobody was answering."
A fire swept through the packed, popular nightclub in Santa Maria early Sunday, killing at least 233 people -- enough to fill a large plane -- Brazilian Health Minister Alexandro Padilha told reporters. Of those, 185 have been identified so far.
Many apparently died from smoke inhalation. Others were trampled in the rush for the exits, one security guard told Band News.
More than 90 people were hospitalized, Padilha said, including 14 patients with severe burns.






 Map: Brazil nightclub fire



Map: Brazil nightclub fire



Deadly blazes: Nightclub tragedies in recent history
About 2,000 people were inside the club when the fire broke out -- double the maximum capacity of 1,000, said Guido de Melo, a state fire official.
Investigators have received preliminary information that security guards stopped people from exiting the club, he told Globo TV.
"People who were inside the facility informed us ... that security guards blocked the exit to prevent people there from leaving, and that's when the crowd starting panicking, and the tragedy grew worse," he said.
The fire started "from out of nowhere" on a stage at the club and quickly spread to the ceiling, witness Jairo Vieira told Band News.
"People started running," survivor Luana Santos Silva told Globo TV. "I fell on the floor."
There was a pyrotechnics show going on inside the club when the fire started. Authorities stopped short of blaming it for the blaze, saying the cause was still under investigation.




Hundreds dead in Brazil nightclub fire 





Chaos in Brazilian city after fire 





Deadly fire sweeps through Brazil club





Deadly nightclub fire in Brazil 





Brazilian reporter: People were running 

The Kiss nightclub is popular with young people in Santa Maria, which is home to a number of universities and colleges, including the Federal University of Santa Maria. At least 80 of those killed Sunday were students at that school, it said.
The blaze broke out during a weekend when students were celebrating the end of summer. Many universities are set to resume classes on Monday.
Video from the scene showed firefighters shooting streams of water at the club and shirtless men trying to break down a wall with axes.
Smoke billowed outside the front of the building as the stench of fire filled the air, said Max Muller, who was riding by on his motorbike when he saw the blaze.
Muller recorded video of a chaotic scene outside the club, which showed emergency crews tending to victims and dazed clubgoers standing in the street. Bodies lay on the ground beside ambulances.
Friends who were inside the club told him that many struggled to find the exits in the dark. Muller, who was not inside the club Sunday morning but has been there twice before, said there were no exit signs over the doors. It is rare to see such signs in Brazilian clubs.
Valderci Oliveira, a state lawmaker, told Band News that he saw piles of bodies in the club's bathroom when he arrived at the scene hours after the blaze. It looked "like a war zone," he said.
Read more: How to protect yourself in a crowd
Police told Band News that 90% of the victims were found in that part of the club.
The roof collapsed in several parts of the building, trapping many inside, said Fernandes, the reporter from Band News.
For others, escaping was complicated by the fact that guards initially stopped people from leaving, he said, echoing comments from the state fire official.
"Some guards thought at first that it was a fight, a huge fight that happened inside the club and closed the doors so that the people could not leave without paying their bills from the club," Fernandes said.
The deadly fire is sure to shine a spotlight on safety in Brazil, which is set to host the World Cup next year and the Olympics in 2016.
Many wept as they searched for information outside a local gymnasium where bodies were taken for identification later Sunday. Inside, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff met with family members and friends as they waited on bleachers for word of their loved ones.
Rousseff became teary-eyed as she spoke of the fire to reporters in Chile earlier Sunday. She had been attending a regional summit there, but cut short the trip and returned to Brazil early to deal with the aftermath of the tragedy.
"The Brazilian people are the ones who need me today," she said. "I want to tell the people of Santa Maria in this time of sadness that we are all together."
The fire started around 2 a.m. after the acoustic insulation in the Kiss nightclub caught fire, said Civil Defense Col. Adilomar Silva.
An accordionist who had been performing onstage with a band when the blaze broke out was among the dead, drummer Eliel de Lima told Globo TV.
Police were questioning the club's owner and interviewing witnesses as part of an investigation into what caused the blaze, state-run Agencia Brasil reported.
The club's license had expired in August and had not been renewed, local fire official Moises da Silva Fuchs told Globo TV.
The incident called to mind a 2003 nightclub fire in Rhode Island where pyrotechnics used by the heavy metal band Great White ignited a blaze that killed 100 people.
Pyrotechnics were also involved in a 2004 nightclub fire in Argentina that killed 194 people and a 2009 explosion at a nightclub in Russia that left more than 100 dead.

Shasta Darlington reported from Santa Maria, Brazil. Marilia Brocchetto and Dana Ford reported from Atlanta. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Helena DeMoura and Samira Jafari contributed to this report.




0
Comments »












Print
Email
More sharing










































Part of complete coverage on 
CNN Recommends


Richard III: The king and the car park?

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1847 GMT (0247 HKT)




As experts prepare to reveal results of DNA tests on a body believed to belong to notorious King Richard III, will history be rewritten?



Experts: Chinese attacks 'widespread'

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1150 GMT (1950 HKT)




One in three observed computer attacks comes from China. The New York Times and the WSJ claim to be victims of Chinese attacks.



Who is behind US embassy attack?

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1330 GMT (2130 HKT)




CNN's Barbara Starr & contributor Fran Townsend on who could be behind a suicide bombing at U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey.



Looking back at Clinton's time at State

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1412 GMT (2212 HKT)




Jill Dougherty looks at the dizzying pace of events during Hillary Clinton's time as Secretary.



Prince Harry: Once more into breach?

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1802 GMT (0202 HKT)




Prince Harry's comments about Afghanistan stir up mockery, controversy -- and sympathy.



Pygmy elephants poisoned in Malaysia

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 0520 GMT (1320 HKT)




Fourteen elephants have been found dead in recent weeks in Malaysia. The World Wildlife Fund suspect they have been poisoned.



For polluted Beijing, canned air

January 30, 2013 -- Updated 1825 GMT (0225 HKT)




One of China's richest men is giving away fresh, canned air in polluted Beijing. CNN's Suzanne Malveaux reports.



Musical harmony in the Middle East

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1248 GMT (2048 HKT)




Conductor and pianist Daniel Barenboim's youth orchestra joins Arabs and Israelis.



Gay rights: How U.S. leads the way

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1032 GMT (1832 HKT)




A week before Barack Obama mention gay rights in his inauguration speech, the French had already made history on that matter.



Why Queen Elizabeth II won't abdicate

January 31, 2013 -- Updated 1857 GMT (0257 HKT)




Royal watcher Arianne Chernock explains why, unlike Queen Beatrix, Britain's Queen Elizabeth isn't going anywhere soon.



Unseen photos of Beatles in color





Henry Grossman spent four years photographing The Beatles as never seen before, recognizing their prominence.



Nigeria's Jews: 'Lost tribe' of Israel?

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1127 GMT (1927 HKT)




A Shabbat service is underway at the Ghihon Hebrew Research synagogue in the Jikwoyi suburb of Nigeria's capital territory. 



Job seeker sells himself on 'Amazon'

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1225 GMT (2025 HKT)




A French job-seeker has "sold" himself with an online résumé made to look like an Amazon page, proving that some creativity can go a long way.



Soccer: Big spend in age of austerity

February 1, 2013 -- Updated 1333 GMT (2133 HKT)




Paris Saint-Germain may have bagged the biggest star in David Beckham, but English clubs spent the biggest bucks in the transfer window.












Most Popular

Today's five most popular stories




The American secretary who became king: A woman's journey to royalty








Dutch 737 pilot locked out of cockpit while co-pilot sleeps








Protesters attack presidential palace in Cairo, one person dies in clashes








Why Limbaugh is gushing over Marco Rubio 








The 10 best movies of 2012

























      Loading weather data ...                 Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport Tools & Widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Radio | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels    CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN México | العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe   © 2013 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | License our content | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts       










