Lady Gaga prays for those involved in the Brazil nightclub fireżas itżs revealed one of her Little Monsters lost their life 
 | Mail OnlineClick here to print



Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to search



 













TV&Showbiz Home


U.S. Showbiz


Headlines


Arts


A-Z Star Search


Pictures


Showbiz Boards


Blogs


TV Listings




Login








Saturday, Feb 02 2013

12AM 
2°C

3AM
1°C

5-Day Forecast










Lady Gaga prays for those involved in the Brazil nightclub fire…as it’s revealed one of her 'Little Monsters' lost their life 



 
By 
Fay Strang


PUBLISHED:

03:50 EST, 28 January 2013


| 

UPDATED:

15:45 EST, 28 January 2013







Comments (328)




 Share


















Pop star Lady Gaga expressed her sadness and sent her condolences to those who lost loved ones in the Brazilian nightclub fire which claimed 232 lives on Saturday.The singer shared a picture of herself praying, writing:‘I’m thinking of you today during this tragedy.’The big-hearted star will no doubt feel particularly moved by the events after discovering that one of her 'Little Monsters' lost their life in the blaze which occurred in Santa Maria. Scroll down for video 

Upset: Lady Gaga shared a picture of herself praying following the nightclub fire in Brazil 
 Taking to Twitter following the events of Saturday morning, she retweeted a message from a follower which reveals the tragic news about her fan.
 

More...

Oh no! Jennifer Lawrence rips her dress as she walks on stage to accept SAG Award for best actress while battling pneumonia

Revealed: How Jennifer Lawrence went from Super Sweet 16 to SAG winner
That's not very ladylike! Michelle Dockery almost exposes herself as she celebrates Downton Abbey's triumph at SAG Awards


It read: ‘A Little Monster died in a tragedy here in Brazil! His name is Luiz Felipe! Mother Monster Pray for him! @ladygaga #PrayForSantaMaria +181.’The message prompted her to write: ‘My heart is with you Brazil,‘Sending my prayers to the families and friends who lost loved one in the fire in Brazil. Im thinking of you today during this tragedy.’ 

All about the fans: Lady Gaga greeted fans as she promoted her Born Brave Bus Foundation on Saturday - she later discovered one of her Little Monsters lost their life in Brazil 

 She completed the message writing ‘#prayforSantaMaria’ and by sharing a picture of herself doing just that. In the image the Born This Way star appears to be make-up free and still lying in bed.While her hair looks a little matted, it also looks as if she not wearing a top as her hands are clasped together. In the early hours of Saturday morning a fire ravaged through the nightclub in Brazil, killing 232 people.  

Performance: Lady Gaga always finds time for her fans in between her busy schedule like performing with Tony Bennett recently 
 It was claimed that bouncers stopped people escaping because they could not prove they had paid their drinks bills.Up to 2,000 people - mostly students - were in the Kiss nightclub om Santa Maria, southern Brazil, when the fire started.While the official cause of the blaze has not been stated, local reports claim it was sparked by a firework set off during a band's performance.Most of the victims died of suffocation or were trampled in a stampede for the venue's only emergency exit, police said.The nightclub was operating illegally, the fire extinguishers were not working, and many victims confused the sign for the exit with that for the toilets, where 50 were later found dead.VIDEO Brazil in mourning as it comes to terms with nightclub fire  





Play Video




Loading video...





 




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
1
2
3
Next






Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and...





'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert...





EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King...





Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific...





High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself,...





'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of...





Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to...





'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting...





Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last...





Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside...






 


Share this article: 




Facebook




Twitter




Google+




Messenger




LinkedIn




Digg it




Newsvine




Fark




Nowpublic




Reddit















Print article




Email article




























Add your comments

Comments (328)


The comments below have not been moderated.





Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated



 View all




Pretending to pray while taking a picture of herself. When will your faves??!
-
                                    
                                        ONTD
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London,
                                     30/1/2013 07:51

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            1
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


I think this umpteenth publicity stunt of this desperate fading star, who is struggling to sell tickets and has to sell albums at cut price has backfired. Does she think we are all stupid? Praying is a contact with one's God, not the media... Ooops, I forgot her god is publicity, so maybe she did the only thing that suited her. Infortunately, Gaga is an extreme child of the 80s: all image and no substance. Strip her of her ridiculous clothes and stubts and what is one left with? A medicre singer who can't dance, write songs that could as well have been written in the 1980s, a boring tour, fake accounts ob twitter, fake hots on youtube, basically, her name should be Lady Fake...
-
                                    
                                        Alan
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London, United Kingdom,
                                     29/1/2013 18:30

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            12
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


why would you take a picture during praying? dear god, please bless... oh wait let me take this opportunity to make myself look like a good citizen and take a photo. so irritating, all for the publicity. 
-
                                    
                                        amymeow
                                    ,
                                    
                                        essex,
                                     29/1/2013 16:55

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            24
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


"And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by men. I tell you the truth, they have received their reward in full." Matt 6:5
-
                                    
                                        kate
                                    ,
                                    
                                        london, United Kingdom,
                                     29/1/2013 16:17

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            20
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


We all know that she is really a he !!
-
                                    
                                        annie
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London,
                                     29/1/2013 15:25

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            2
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Like she cares....but if it gains her some media time then at least shes trying to look like she does. Pathetic woman.
-
                                    
                                        manich
                                    ,
                                    
                                        newquay,
                                     29/1/2013 15:01

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            17
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


And to all those complaining about it being a publicity photo; Terry Richardson walks around with his cameras wherever Gaga goes and takes pictures, documenting her, her friends/creative team and Taylor Kinney's life.
- marty_mclean , Sydney, Australia, 29/1/2013 08:45

I have no problem with her documenting photographer taking a photo while she is praying, the tacky part is POSTING it!
-
                                    
                                        clberg68
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Smyrna,
                                     29/1/2013 14:49

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            13
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Because nothing shows sincerity like taking a picture of yourself praying! Gimmie a break! 
-
                                    
                                        bholder
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Nashville, United States,
                                     29/1/2013 14:36

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            26
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Publicity hound.  Such a tiresome woman.
-
                                    
                                        Marian
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Tarrytown New York,
                                     29/1/2013 13:24

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            25
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


about 200,000 people die every single day of the week world wide . I dont see her praying for any of them ! yes this is some thing that maybe should not of happend but it did and they are dead and that is that . GAGA is fake and using this for a bit of publicity ....sorry if i sound harsh but life is harsh then you die.
-
                                    
                                        Jon
                                    ,
                                    
                                        brighton,
                                     29/1/2013 11:55

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            19
                                        
                                    

Report abuse




                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.









Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search



















 
 
Femail Today






Is running making you fat? Tracy Anderson reveals tricks to 'problem area' weight-loss in 15-minute workout for Gwyneth Paltrow's website








Amanda Bynes moves out of New York apartment after eviction threat over 'marijuana smoke complaint from neighbors'
Branded 'disrespectful'








'Just one bite!': Pregnant Kim Kardashian gives into her junk food cravings with a trip to McDonalds
The 31-year-old tweeted a snap of her indulgence








EXCLUSIVE: The Danish beauty who may beat Miss Alabama to win Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue cover
Stunning Nina Agdal is the hot favorite








Miley Cyrus bares her body in lingerie in straight-to-DVD movie filmed BEFORE her blonde hair and weight loss makeover
Watch the trailer here








'I'm your Katniss!' Miley Cyrus gets new tattoo from Kat Von D... and it looks suspiciously like a Hunger Games tribute
Her fiancé stars in the franchise








Penelope Cruz and husband Javier Bardem 'expecting second child'
The 38-year-old actress and her husband Javier Bardem, 43, already have son Leonardo, two








Brandi Glanville used to joke that Eddie Cibrian 'raped' her on their first 'hot' night together... but poses serenely for Glamour
Has she gone too far?








Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each other'
Valeria Lukyanova, 23, and Justin Jedlica, 32








So she CAN do casual! Victoria Beckham dresses down... in skintight jeans and Christian Louboutin boots 
As David trains in Paris








 'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Crazy life of Lady Gaga laid bare as she's sued by 'slave' former assistant








Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place
'Like a bad movie'








'He delusional... fame hungry and just wants money': Khloe Kardashians slams Kris Humphries for dragging out Kim divorce
He wants an annulment








Leonardo DiCaprio's blonde bombshell ex Erin Heatherton smoulders in new fashion campaign
The 23-year-old oozes sex appeal for XOXO








The zombies will touchdown soon: Unseen trailer for Brad Pitt's new movie World War Z will air during the Super Bowl
Watch one trailer here








How does she do it? Natalie Imbruglia, 37, shows off her flawless wrinkle free skin... as she reveals a return to acting
Famed for her hit Torn








The art of overexposure: Joanna Krupa flashes a dangerous amount of sideboob in daring one sleeved mini-dress
Fashion show in Poland








'I'm just like J-Lo!' Adrienne Maloof, 51, reveals why dating Sean Stewart, 32, has made her more fashionable
Says she should NOT be called a cougar!








Guess who! Katie Holmes masters the art of disguise... on a very blustery outing in the Big Apple
Katie was well and truly a celeb undercover 








Who is Lady Mary's new pretty boy?
Downton Abbey's casting directors have auditioned scores of possible suitors, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Not another car controversy! On the same night Justin Bieber's Ferrari is pulled over... his $100K Fisker is towed away
Bad luck on the road








Jennifer Love Hewitt works her curves in tight jeans on set of The Client List... as she prepares to strip off this season
Filming in Los Angeles








Kristin Chenoweth in bitter row with American Airlines after supervisor 'left her in tears when she refused to let her dog on board'
Flew from Dallas to LA








No.1 groupie! Make-up free Jennie Garth keeps boyfriend Jeremy Salken close as she wears his band's hoodie on film set
On the set in Toronto








Pictured: Chris Brown sporting cast on hand... days after 'fight' with gay rapper Frank Ocean 'over parking space at studio'
Known for his temper 








'I disrespected my husband': Coco Austin on those steamy snaps with rapper AP.9... but says marriage to Ice-T is strong
She spoke to MailOnline








'Being part of that world made me feel cooler': Hailee Steinfeld, 16, gushes over her high fashion friends as she poses in designer photo shoot








It's in the genes! Georgia May and her brother James inject a double dose of Jagger into new denim fashion campaign
Watch the video here








Daddy's girls! Bruce Willis' daughters Rumer and Tallulah steal the show at Die Hard mural unveiling
The day was supposed to belong to their father








Pretty in prints! Carly Rae Jepsen shows off her limbs in a floral romper as she poses for colorful Seventeen photo shoot
Spring is on the horizon 








Liberty Ross poses naked for LOVE magazine as she moves on from the breakdown of her marriage to cheating Rupert Sanders








Time to visit daddy! Claire Danes takes baby Cyrus to visit Hugh Dancy on the set of his new movie
He's filming Hannibal in snowy Toronto...








Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen launch 'affordable' handbag line - that looks just like their $39,000 backpacks for The Row
Expanding their range








'I have uneven breasts': Jennifer Lawrence reveals her secret body insecurity as she steps out in a colorful teal dress 
Striking hues








He's eating her alive! Bar Refaeli kisses a geeky extra in cringe-inducing Super Bowl advert
The stunt was for internet firm Go Daddy








Be my Valentine! Bar Refaeli poses in sexy black bra and panties with red high heels for stunning new underwear campaign
Sheer black underwear 








'Shoes create a chemical reaction in women': Sam Edelman on what makes heels so irresistible as he releases racy new video starring Kate Upton








Team Beckham! David shares daughter Harper's first tiny Paris St Germain football shirt
Vowed to donate his entire $270k per-week wages to charity








Alicia Keys recruits husband Swizz Beatz and Jada Pinkett Smith for her new music video... and little Egypt comes too
Plenty of star power 








Is Michelle Obama set to front ANOTHER Vogue cover? Rumor mill in overdrive after magazine crew is spotted at White House
Four years ago 








Are you looking, LeAnn? Brandi Glanville revels in playing with HER boys while she washes the car (showing off her great pins)








Dude Looks Like A Lady! Steven Tyler returns to American Idol dressed in drag as he secretly auditions
Pepper revealed to be former judge








Fat chance! Gamine sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner supersize each other and upload pictures to Twitter
The girls transformed their slender frames








Princess in pleather: Beatrice shows off her legs in a sexy mini skirt for a date night with her long-term boyfriend Dave Clark
Royal in London








Hugh Hefner's new wife Crystal Harris puts wedding dress up for charity auction to honor Playboy secretary Mary O'Connor's death
Wed on New Year's Eve








Single girl Ashlee Simpson hits town in a little red dress as her ex-husband's girlfriend Meagan looks after her son Bronx
Needed a girls' night out








He's bringing SexyBack: Justin Timberlake set to return to 2013 BRIT Awards for a television exclusive performance in the UK
First time since 2004








Old smoothie! Kelsey Grammer gets into Kayte's good books as he looks after baby Faith while she enjoys a spa day
Some pampering time








Asexual 29-year-old who said she'd never have sex again is looking for a man... but admits a celibate relationship is hard to find








More Than A Woman! Toni Braxton defies her age in figure-hugging LBD and towering peep-toe heels
Spotted at The Grove in Los Angeles








No limo today, boys? $150m Winklevoss twins forced to take the subway after failing to find a New York taxi to pick them up
It's a hard life for them...








Her leading men! Catherine Zeta-Jones lives it up with husband Michael Douglas and co-star Jude Law at Side Effects party
The belle of the ball...








Justin Bieber's Ferrari hits headlines again after his friend is pulled over and arrested for 'driving without a license'
Incident occurred in LA








Now that's skin-tight! Melanie Griffith shows off her enviable body in optical illusion leggings and smart jacket for day at the shops
Looks fab at 55








Go faster stripes! Selma Blair and toddler Arthur wear matching patterns as they gambol around the park
Making it clear they come as a pair...








Japanese women pay hundreds of dollars to to get a snaggletooth smile in latest cosmetic craze - because it 'looks cute and childlike'
Known as 'yaeba' look








Aren't you a Countess? Real Housewives star LuAnn de Lesseps wears a leather minidress and racy tights to charity gala
Reality star in New York








Victoria's Secret begins design research on special mastectomy bras after 120,000 sign petition of frustrated breast cancer survivor
Branching out








That's what it's made for! Bikini-clad Alessandra Ambrosio is chucked in ocean after Victoria's Secret shoot
Posed in seven different stunning bikinis








What a transformation! Isabella Cruise updates her look as she ditches the red hair in favor of new lilac pixie crop
Inspired by Kelly Osbourne's color?








Kit Kat gang reunited: Liza Minnelli joins her Cabaret co-stars for 40th anniversary screening of classic musical
At The Ziegfeld Theater








That's better! Britney Spears swaps her holey leggings for Daisy Dukes on a coffee run in Beverly Hills
The newly single star went out solo
















 
 
DON'T MISS






Defeating the object: Ashley Benson enjoys cake baking class after workout session with good friend Izak Rappaport
Earned those calories








Fancy seeing you here: Real Housewife Lisa Vanderpump greets soccer star Robbie Keane as he dines at her restaurant
He's no Beckham...








What not to wear! Katie Holmes risks her cream jumper and light pink jeans as she visits a chocolate shop
Stocking up before Valentine's Day








SPOILER ALERT: It's all over! Tina Fey and her 30 Rock crew bow out with an emotional final episode of the NBC hit comedy
Watch the video here








Keeping him close: Reese Witherspoon flashes her screensaver featuring baby Tennessee during yet another gym visit
Her four-month-old son








The EX factor! One Direction's Harry Styles celebrates his 19th birthday on a night out with former flame Caroline Flack, 33
He was her toyboy








My little prince! Naomi Watts' youngest son Sammy looks regal in a pink crown as he leaves a friend's birthday party
He was with mom in Brentwood, LA








Going back to curt AGAIN? Lindsay Lohan sues her own fashion label for $1.1m over rights to trademark 6126 name
Launched it in 2008








EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'
Former Today co-host was ousted by NBC








Lena Dunham's on a roll! Girls creator working on next comedy series looking at the life of a legendary New York stylist
A Bergdorf employee








Most boys collect toy cars not real ones! Petrol head Harry Styles adds to his growing selection of motors with new classic Ford Capri
A vintage 1970s car 








'Skinny is not appealing to me': Shahs of Sunset star Mercedes Javid is curvy and proud in skimpy monokini
Proudly flaunts her substantial curves 








Baby joy! Former American Idol judge Kara DioGuardi welcomes son via surrogate
Putting years of infertility anguish behind her








Eliza who? Benji Madden moves on from Doolittle romance as he debuts new mystery girlfriend in Australia
Still loving his new life Down Under








Georgia May Jagger models the latest collection of printed jeans for Hudson
The model proudly wore Union Flag pants in honor of her country








'It's not like I'm eating donut after donut... but I HATE my upper arms!' Khloe Kardashian talks body confidence as she shows off her figure in a skintight LBD








'I've tried Botox... but never again': Nicole Kidman insists she's currently natural after giving the cosmetic procedure a go
Planning to avoid it








'I got pregnant with my boyfriend and I gave birth with my girlfriend': How a mom-to-be coped when the father of her child decided to become a woman








'Daddy once flew me to Paris for a bottle of Chanel nail polish': Confessions of a Park Avenue princess - before she got 'cut-off'
Park Avenue princess








Did you feel overdressed? Uma Thurman goes from heels to flats after Whoopi Goldberg turns up to a red carpet in CROCS








Ditching the onesie: Model Cara Delevingne cuts a chic figure in peplum top and leather trousers at exclusive Burberry show
At the London event








She is the Queen Bey! Beyoncé is only missing her crown as stunning singer poses with Miss America at Super Bowl junket
She Runs the World








A talk show pro! Beasts Of The Southern Wild Quvenzhané Wallis, 9, chats to Jay Leno... and reveals she wants to meet Beyoncé at the Oscars








Rooney Mara shows her edgy side in black leather before playing it sweet and innocent in white on the red carpet
New York premiere of Side Effect








Amy Adams goes retro at Santa Barbara Film Festival to accept award for trailblazing career
Pretty in polka dots as she receives Cinema Vanguard Award








Just like old times! Former Dancing With The Stars contestant Chaz Bono goes back to dance class
He loved strutting his stuff on the dance floor








Scared of snakes Adam? Sandler wears chaps to stave off a rattlesnake attack on hike as wife sticks to her jeans
In the Los Angeles hills








Keeping those famous curls under control: Harry Styles wears a hairband as he plays soccer ahead of his birthday night out
He's a hit on the pitch








They've still got it! Rock royalty Joan Jett and Stevie Nicks show their iconic style on the red carpet at Sound City premiere
On red carpet in LA








'Well hello there, baby bump!' Kim Kardashian gives first real glimpse of her pregnancy curves in playful photo shoot
Celebrated her new shape alongside Khloe








Time for some new clothes! Britney exposes her behind in ripped leggings at the upmarket Beverly Hills Hotel
Her bottom is visible








Don't forget my name! Sofia Vergara makes sure fans spot her with an eye-catching 'SV' mobile phone case
It must have cost a pretty penny








Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight'








Don't rain on their parade! Cat Deeley and Patrick Kielty look happy leaving the British cold weather to fly back home to Los Angeles
Spotted at the airport








We get the message! Sharon Stone, 54, and toyboy beau Martin Mica, 27, share a cuddle and a smooch... a day after split reports
Apparently still together








Even celebrities have cheat days! Jennifer Garner drops the diet to grab pizza with daughter Violet
Even she needs a cheat day now and again








Upset the stylist? Annalynne McCord and Shenae Grimes show their legs on 90210... but Jessica Stroup is stuck in trousers
Strutting along LA street








Dressed for success? You bet, says Jennifer Lawrence
She'll bring a sewing kit to the EE British Academy Film Awards, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Charlize Theron makes gym wear stylish as she heads to the dance studio in patterned top and red Toms
Working out  in Beverly Hills








Risky business: Justin Bieber ditches helmet for a muddy four-wheeler bike ride
Willing to risk serious injury to keep his hair looking good.








Al Pacino dons a huge wig as he's transformed into Phil Spector in new stills from controversial TV movie
He stars alongside Helen Mirren








'I didn't sing live for Obama, but I will at the Super Bowl': Beyoncé addresses lip-synching uproar with rendition of National Anthem
Silencing her critics








On the fringe! Christina Applegate wears festive blouse for flamenco documentary premiere
Alongside her partner Martyn LeNoble for a romantic date night








Date night dress sense: Sienna Miller wears LBD for romantic dinner with fiancé Tom Sturridge
At Lulu's restaurant in Mayfair, London








That's an interesting look! Meghan Ory dons head-to-toe red in scenes for fairytale show Once Upon a Time
Modern-day Red Riding Hood








'I basically live in a sorority house with my girlfriends now,' reveals single Eva Longoria as she kicks up her heels in photo shoot
She posed poolside








Julianne Hough shows her perfect dancers legs in a blue dress... as Ryan Seacrest admits her athletic prowess 'scares me'
The perfect couple








'We are overweight kids but want to change': Sisters aged eight and nine launch fitness program in a bid to trim down
From San Antonio, Texas








The simple things: Anne Hathaway enjoys a walk with her husband and dog as she takes a break from accepting awards
Back to normality








Stunt woman! Jennifer Love Hewitt is forced to make a run for it in a low cut halter neck frock on set of The Client List
Got to ditch her heels at least...








Sweet kisses for Marion Cotillard as she's named Harvard's Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year
Honored with a ceremonial pudding pot








A trip to a spa, a day at the seaside and being a bride for a day: The heartbreaking final wishes of the 21-year-old dying from cancer








Never too old for a telling off: Downton Abbey's Brendan Coyle reveals his mother scolded him following his foul-mouthed Twitter spat








He's just a vulture sniffing my blood, waiting for me to die: Screen goddess Gina Lollobrigida blasts toyboy over 'fake wedding'








Style Solidarity! The Saturday's Mollie King and Rochelle Humes co-ordinate colours and coats on night out with British boy band JLS
Pop stars in London








So that's why Sigourney Weaver's dress looked so bad! Actress wore Lanvin gown back-to-front at the SAG Awards
On worst dressed list








EXCLUSIVE: Girl who claimed to be Harry's Vegas lover planning 'tell all' book about parties with Tiger Woods, Jack Nicholson and Mick Jagger








'I'm over the moon!' 30 Rock star Tracy Morgan and fiancée expecting a baby
He announced his engagement to Megan, 26, in September 2011








Zayn Malik sports mystery hand injury as he attends One Direction rehearsals in bandages
No word on how the boy band member could have hurt himself








Inspired by Rainbow Brite? Isabel Lucas wears unusual Christian Dior dress to designer's store opening in Australia
Straight off the runway








Review: With juvenile humor and moronic profanity, Movie 43 might be the saddest, most pathetic film of 2013, and possibly any year
Starring Halle Berry








Meet my dog Dourtney! Courtney Stodden takes her puppy for a walk in HIGH HEELS and a BIKINI
Not even a cute puppy is allowed to steal her limelight








Watch out Posh, Becks is off to Paris for five months... on his own! And he's giving his $270,000-a-week to charity
Just moved from LA








Denzel, your Flight is a fright! Even an Oscar worthy turn from its star can't get this cliched tale off the ground
Review: Washington isn't Denzel at his best








'I don't want that for my kid': Drew Barrymore on why daughter Olive will NOT follow in her child star footsteps
She grew up in the spotlight... and rehab








Will they ever learn? Russell Brand apologizes for 'Sachsgate' before cracking tasteless jokes about Jimmy Savile sex offender scandal








It's really growing! Pregnant Lara Stone makes sure her baby is nourished with the finest food as she eats out AGAIN with husband David Walliams








'It's the saddest thing I've ever been through': Beyoncé opens up about her miscarriage for the first time
Talks about her loss in her HBO documentary








She's going to have a ball! Beyoncé is poised for kickoff in new snap released ahead of her Superbowl performance
She's going to be singing live on Sunday








Honey, I shrunk myself! Morbidly obese groom, 23, loses more than the weight of his 112lbs bride for their wedding day
From XXXL to a medium








Who needs Tom Brady when you have THESE abs to look at? Calvin Klein creates provocative first-ever Super Bowl ad
Will be a 30-second ad








Girls heartthrob Christopher Abbott makes fashion debut in romantic film for Free People (but leaves the modelling to his female co-star)








Iconic 60s designer Celia Birtwell unveils brightly printed collection for Uniqlo and says she is 'delighted'
Combines traditional style with a modern twist








A 'stressed' Zara Phillips moves home to mommy: Removal van arrives to transport the young royal's belongings 20 miles up the road to Princess Anne's estate








Doubleact: New split image show Ashton Kutcher as an older Steve Jobs with receding hairline
The upcoming biopic is set to hit theaters in April








Brandi Glanville reveals she would 'make out with girlfriends' to turn on ex-husband Eddie Cibrian
And it would work like a charm, she says...








Cheeky little number! Rose McGowan steps out to upscale Hollywood event wearing very revealing shorts
Forgot to wear her skirt








One for Instagram? Alessandra Ambrosio masters the art of taking a self portrait as she enjoys down time from swimwear shoot








One expensive joy ride! Famed Beverly Hills hotel foots the bill after Justin Bieber's expensive car is damaged by his friend
Lil Twist damaged it








Why, aged 29, I have decided I'll NEVER have sex again
LISA SMITH faces up to the fact that, since losing her virginity at 16, she has always detested sex








Broke Lindsay Lohan takes her lawyer for dinner... but did he bill her?
After the judge told her she could still face jail during her pre-trial








Forever young: Trendy Robin Wright, 46, is perfectly in sync with toyboy Ben Foster, 32, as they arrive in New York
Actress pulled off twenty-something hipster gear








These boots are made for walking! Khloe Kardashian pulls on her favorite Givenchy fold-over kicks for second day running
Paid $1,695 for them








She wears it well: Rihanna rocks her shaved head and extensions as she prepares to jet out of New York
Her Rolling Stone look








'She could die and MTV could be blamed! Network considers axing Teen Mom 2 due to Janelle Evans' shocking behavior
Rarely out of headlines








Trying to hide something? Lara Flynn Boyle covers up her puffy face and trout pout with dark glasses and cap during day at the park








'You can suck my a**': Chelsea Handler loses her cool as she bickers with Piers Morgan during TV interview
It was a clash of the talk show hosts








Bold in Berlin: Diane Kruger returns home to Germany in floral printed trousers for latest movie photocall
Her latest film is titled Un Plan Parfait








Today host Hoda Kotb told bosses 'you can't scare me' after breast cancer battle gave her the guts to ask for her dream job
Spoke on Anderson Live








Cleaning out her closet! LeAnn Rimes poses in a red bikini as she has a wardrobe makeover
Rarely seen at the top of any best-dressed lists








Saint Beckham signs for St Germain! David agrees $230k-a-week deal to play in Paris... and he's donating his ENTIRE salary to a local children's charity 








Non-stop castings, all-night fittings and three models to each bedroom: 48 hours with a top catwalk star reveals the exhausting reality of Fashion Week








'I'm the victim': Jason London shows off his bruised face as he claims unmarked hands prove he was attacked in bar brawl
Left with broken bones








They kept that quiet! Little House on the Prairie star Melissa Gilbert is engaged to Timothy Busfield
Nobody knew they were even dating








'Live fast and freely': Lana Del Rey shares her views on life and spirituality in Manga-inspired cover shoot
Posed for a Japanese fashion magazine








DWTS' Katherine Jenkins steps out in another Posh dress... despite Victoria Beckham 'removing singer from label's freebie list'








Move over Gisele! Brazilian bombshell Gracie Cavalho shows off her bikini beach body for Victoria's Secret
The brunette showed off stunning figure 








Keeping limber: Heavily pregnant Amber Rose readies herself for the big push with some yoga moves
Keeping fit before her baby arrives








'There's no place like home': Robin Roberts goes on New Orleans road trip with fellow GMA anchors
With Sam Champion and Josh Elliott











 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Marlin wins! Incredible photos show massive fish as it toppled over an entire boat and crew





Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in...





Dozens of cheating Harvard students required to withdraw after last year's scandal,many others were given...





Parents of autistic boy,11, give him medical marijuana to curb his self-destructive rages






Dan Marino kept his love child secret from CBS bosses and his agent for SEVEN YEARS - and only told his wife





Secret Service Director to resign after 30 years with agency and less than a year after Colombian...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in...





Mother-of-two loses her EYE after fungus 'caused by contact lenses' eats it away





Smile! Crow's feet make you look clever and more attractive





Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each...





Dozens of women sue 'revenge porn' websites that show half-naked photos of them posted by jilted lovers





See how a fish thinks! Incredible video that shows a thought swimming through the brain of a Zebrafish





Woman's hidden camera captures shocking footage of her room-mate 'secretly torturing her cat while she was...





Man, 25, faces life in prison for 'having sex with three-year-old girl'





Girl, 7, dies at school of asphyxiation after choking on a balloon





Sick of your colleagues? Why not work in a bubble: Fantastic French invention keeps you sealed off in the...





Jodi Arias 'received lewd photographs from her Mormon elder ex-boyfriend even though he told friends he was...





English teacher who said she 'hit the jackpot' when she got job 'had sex with student, 14, when he was in...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy...





Scientists warn fans could suffer Super Bowl withdrawal on Sunday and prescribe watching MORE football as a...





Manti Te'o hoaxer says the pain of 'being molested as a child' drove him to pull prank against Notre Dame...





The adorable foal set to be the star of Sunday's game: Budweiser debuts new Super Bowl ad showing the life...





Does Jasper the 7-year-old rescue dog have a cure for cancer? American scientists increasingly study the...





Couple lucky to be alive after pole pierces their windshield and narrowly misses them both 






'I thought it was kidney stones!' Nurse who didn’t know she was pregnant gives birth to healthy baby...





ANOTHER U.S. newspaper targeted by Chinese hackers as Washington Post reveals it was targeted by cyber spies...





Why February's a bad month for a good night's sleep... takes extra eight minutes to fall to get to sleep...





The luckiest nerd in the world: Geeky actor reveals how it took SIXTY-FIVE takes to film lingering kiss with...





Dow Jones closes above 14,000 for first time since October 2007





MORE HEADLINES







 
Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and Whoppers containing horsemeat



 
'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert reveals Columbia shuttle crew were not told of problem with re-entry as families mark 10-year anniversary



 
EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King be pushed out for political dynamo Jake Tapper? 



 
Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific Ocean 40 seconds after launch 



 
High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself, called her students JAIL BAIT and talked about getting high'



 
'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves rude note objecting to 18 per cent tip on Applebee's check... and waitress is FIRED for posting it on the internet



 
'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in underground bunker - as cops fear they may be holed up for months 



 
Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early 20th century 'wonder years' when children ran barefoot instead of playing Xbox



 
'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy life of Lady Gaga, revealed as she's sued for treating ex assistant like a 'slave'




 
'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place



 
Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last minute...and his new owner calls him Elton!



 
Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside the most notorious biker gang as man turns into undercover police agent to put a dozen Hells Angels in jail




 
EXCLUSIVE: How biological mother of Super Bowl star Colin Kaepernick gave him up for adoption after her parents' offer to help raise him... and she never even told them who his father is



 
Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in Atlanta shopping mall



 
EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'



 
Mother pleads guilty to allowing daughter, 6, to be sexually abused by different men in exchange for drugs and money



 
That's not my dead wife! Grieving widower opens casket at funeral to discover stranger inside



 
'It's a slap in the face': Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight anyway she could'



 
The 'kindly' Auschwitz commander who beat prisoners to death then went home to make dinner for his beloved children




 
Students of teacher, 23, who posted semi-naked pictures of herself and called a teen 'jail bait' launch Twitter page supporting her


MOST READ IN DETAIL






















































				Find this story at www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2269421/Lady-Gaga-prays-involved-Brazil-nightclub-s-revealed-Little-Monsters-lost-life.html




 
 
Back to top


 
 
Navigation


 
 
Popular






Home




U.K. Home




News




Sport




U.S. Showbiz




Femail




Health




Science




Money




RightMinds




Travel




Columnists







Popular searches in tvshowbiz:

Daily Mail Facebook
Daily Mail Showbiz Twitter
Daily Mail Google+
Celebrity Pictures
Celebrities
US Showbiz
US Home





Sitemap
Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
This is London
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group



© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies





















