President Dilma





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/president dilma 
President Dilma 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page

















Videos
Video Details

Images


Biography
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

history


















President Dilma




Dilma Rousseff Interviews






President Dilma



Dilma Rousseff Interviews



Dilma Rousseff
Elizabeth II
Barack Obama
Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
People
Places
Video Suggestions

Facebook



Buy Books


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                
































































Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...









Sorry, your browser does not support IFRAME




Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME





Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









24 Chasa
Abortion
Abortion in Brazil
Academic term
Ademar de Barros
Adélia Prado
Afonso Pena
Agence France-Presse
Agência Brasil
AI-5
Alan García
Alceu Valença
Alcione Nazareth
Alfredo Nascimento
Alma mater
Alpha Condé
Amazon River
Amazon Watch
Angela Merkel
Angra dos Reis
Antonio Palocci
Argentina
Artur Bernardes
Associated Press
Australia
Barack Obama
BBC News
Belo Horizonte
Belo Monte Dam
Benicio del Toro
Bete Mendes
Beth Carvalho
Board of directors
Boarding school
Boyko Borisov
Brasil de Fato
Brasília
Brazil
Brazilian Army
Brazilian Miracle
Brazilian real
BRICS
Buenos Aires
Bulgaria
Bulgarian language
Bulgarian people
Bulgarians
Cabinet of Brazil
Café Filho
Campos Sales
Canada
Capitalism
Carlos Lamarca
Carlos Luz
Carlos Minc
CartaCapital
Cathedral
Cecília Meireles
Celso Amorim
Center-right
Che Guevara
Chemotherapy
Chico Buarque
China
Civil marriage
Civil rights
Civil union
Classics
Common-law marriage
Company store
Conjugal visit
Cuba
Daily Telegraph
Daniel Cohn-Bendit
Darik Radio
David Cameron
Death penalty
Delfim Moreira
Democracy Now!
Denmark
Deodoro da Fonseca
Der Spiegel
Dilma Rousseff
Divorce
Domestic partnership
Dominique Voynet
Donald Ramotar
Débutante
Dési Bouterse
E-mail
Economist
EFE
Elba Ramalho
Electric shock
Eletrobrás
Elisaveta Bagriana
Embroider
Epitácio Pessoa
Erenice Guerra
Ernesto Geisel
Eurico Gaspar Dutra
European Green Party
European Union
Evo Morales
Excellency
Far-right politics
Felipe Calderón
Fernanda Montenegro
Fernanda Takai
Fernando Lugo
Fidel Castro
Financial Times
Floriano Peixoto
Folha de S. Paulo
Folha de São Paulo
Fome Zero
France
François Hollande
Free market
French language
G-20 major economies
Gabrovo
Gay marriage
Germany
Getúlio Vargas
Gleisi Hoffmann
Google News
Grandchild
Greek mythology
Green Party (Brazil)
Greenpeace
Guimarães Rosa
Head of government
Head of state
Hermes da Fonseca
Hu Jintao
Hugo Chávez
Hydroelectric dam
Ideli Salvatti
Incumbent
India
Indonesia
Intellectual
Italy
Itamar Franco
Jacob Zuma
James Cameron
Japan
Joan of Arc
Jornal Nacional
José Bové
José Dirceu
José Linhares
José Manuel Barroso
José Mujica
José Sarney
José Serra
José Sócrates
João Figueiredo
João Goulart
Juan Manuel Santos
Juiz de Fora
Julia Gillard
Juscelino Kubitschek
Jânio Quadros
Júlio Prestes
Karl Marx
Kayapo
La Papessa
Labour union
Latin America
Law of Brazil
Lawyer
Leblon
Lee Myung-bak
Left-wing politics
Leonardo Boff
Leonel Brizola
Light S.A.
Louis Althusser
Luiz Pinguelli Rosa
Luiz Sérgio
Lula
Lymphoma
Machado de Assis
Makeover
Mammography
Manmohan Singh
Mannesmann
Maria I of Portugal
Marilena Chaui
Marina Silva
Mario Monti
Mart'nália
Martine Aubry
Marxism
Marxist
Marxist-Leninist
Master's degree
Mauricio Funes
Mensalão scandal
Mexico
Michel Temer
Militant
Military Junta
Minas Gerais
Mino Carta
Mixed-sex education
Mongaguá
Monica Frassoni
Monumental Axis
Myopathy
Nelson Jobim
Neoliberalism
Nereu Ramos
New York City
Newsweek
NGO
Nicos Poulantzas
Nilo Peçanha
Nobel Prize
Nova Friburgo
Noël Mamère
O Estado de S. Paulo
Oath of office
Oliver Stone
Ollanta Humala
Olívio Dutra
Oscar Niemeyer
Palácio da Alvorada
Paraná (state)
Penelope
Petrobras
Philippe Lamberts
Pierre Hotel
Plastic surgery
PMDB
Political parties
Political radicalism
Populism
Portal Biography
Portal Brazil
Porto Alegre
Portuguese Brazilian
Portuguese language
Preschool
President of Bolivia
President of Brazil
President of Chile
President of Uruguay
Presidential sash
Primary education
Privatization
Pro-life
Prosecutor
Prudente de Morais
Public works
Radiotherapy
Rafael Correa
Raoni Metuktire
Rape
Recep Tayyip Erdoğan
República Velha
Rio de Janeiro
Rio Grande do Sul
Roman Catholic
Rui Falcão
Russia
Régis Debray
Safe
Saudi Arabia
Sebastián Piñera
Senate of Brazil
Sigourney Weaver
Silas Rondeau
Social welfare
Social-democratic
Socialism
Sonia Gandhi
South Africa
South Korea
Stephen Harper
Sting (musician)
Stuart Angel
São Paulo
São Paulo (state)
Tancredo Neves
Taro Aso
Tarso Genro
Teresópolis
Terra Networks
The Nation
The New York Times
Thesis
Third Way (centrism)
Thyroid disease
Tom Morello
Turkey
Twitter
U.S. dollar
U.S. dollars
Uberaba
United Kingdom
United States
Upper middle class
Veja (magazine)
Venceslau Brás
Vestibular
Vladimir Herzog
Vladimir Putin
Volkswagen Beetle
Washington Consensus
Washington D.C.
Washington Luís
White House
Wikipedia Link rot
Wikipedia Persondata
Wiktionary ferule
Workaholic
Xingu
Yoshihiko Noda
YouTube
Yves Cochet
Zuzu Angel
Zélia Duncan
Álvaro Colom
Época














Angra dos Reis

                            Angra dos Reis (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈə̃ɡɾɐ duʒ ˈʁeɪʃ]) is a Brazilian municipality located in the southern part of Rio de Janeiro state. It is located at an altitude of 6 meters and includes in its territory 365 offshore islands. It was discovered on January 6, 1502, but has been under continual settlement since 1556. Its population was estimated on 1 July 2009 to be 168,664 inhabitants.

It has an area of 816.3 km ². The neighboring municipalities are Paraty, Rio Claro and Mangaratiba in Rio de Janeiro state, and Bananal and São José do Barreiro, which are adjacent in São Paulo state.

The municipality fell into decline after 1872 with the advent of railways. It came back into prominence in the 1920s when a railway extension connected it to the states of Minas Gerais and Goias, as a terminus for the transportation of agriculture production from these same two states. The railway extension, in meter gauge, still exists and is currently operated by the Ferrovia Centro-Atlântica company.

wn.com/Angra_dos_Reis





Argentina

                            Argentina i/ˌɑrdʒənˈtiːnə/, officially the Argentine Republic (Spanish: República Argentina [reˈpuβlika aɾxenˈtina]), is a country in South America, the continent's second largest by land area, after Brazil. It is constituted as a federation of 23 provinces and an autonomous city, Buenos Aires. It is the eighth-largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations.

Argentina's continental area is between the Andes mountain range in the west and the Atlantic Ocean in the east. It borders Paraguay and Bolivia to the north, Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast, and Chile to the west and south. Argentine claims over Antarctica, as well as overlapping claims made by Chile and the United Kingdom, are suspended by the Antarctic Treaty of 1961. Argentina also claims the Falkland Islands (Spanish: Islas Malvinas) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, which are administered by the United Kingdom as British Overseas Territories.

A recognised middle power, Argentina is Latin America's third-largest economy, with a "very high" rating on the Human development index. Within Latin America, Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per capita and the highest in purchasing power terms. Analysts have argued that the country has a "foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods", and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy. Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the Union of South American Nations, the Organization of Ibero-American States, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.

wn.com/Argentina





Australia

                            Australia ( /əˈstreɪljə/), officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is a country in the Southern Hemisphere comprising the mainland of the Australian continent as well as the island of Tasmania and numerous smaller islands in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. It is the world's sixth-largest country by total area. Neighbouring countries include Indonesia, East Timor and Papua New Guinea to the north; the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and New Caledonia to the north-east; and New Zealand to the south-east.

For at least 40,000 years before European settlement in the late 18th century, Australia was inhabited by indigenous Australians, who belonged to one or more of roughly 250 language groups. After discovery by Dutch explorers in 1606, Australia's eastern half was claimed by Great Britain in 1770 and settled through penal transportation to the colony of New South Wales from 26 January 1788. The population grew steadily in subsequent decades; the continent was explored and an additional five self-governing Crown Colonies were established.

wn.com/Australia





Belo Horizonte

                            Belo Horizonte (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˌbɛloɾiˈzõtʃi],Beautiful Horizon) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, located in the southeastern region of the country. It is the third largest metropolitan area in the country. Belo Horizonte (also known as "Belô", "Beagá", or "BH") has a population of 2,475,440 inhabitants (2010) in the city and 5,497,922 people in the official Metropolitan Area (2010).

The region was first settled in the early 18th century, but the city as it is known today was planned and constructed in the 1890s, in order to replace Ouro Preto as the capital of Minas Gerais. The city features a mixture of contemporary and classical buildings, and is home to several modern Brazilian architectural icons, most notably the Pampulha Complex. In planning the city, Aarão Reis and Francisco Bicalho sought inspiration in the urban planning of Washington, D.C. The city has employed notable programs in urban revitalization and food security, for which it has been awarded international accolades.

wn.com/Belo_Horizonte





Brasília

                            Brasília (pronounced [bɾaˈziʎɐ] nationwide, in both colloquial and educated speech) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District. The name is commonly spelled Brasilia in English. The city is located in the Federal District, and is in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,562,963 (3,716,996 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site UNESCO.

As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.

wn.com/Brasília





Brazil

                            Brazil i/brəˈzɪl/ (Portuguese: Brasil, IPA: [bɾaˈziw]), officially the Federative Republic of Brazil (Portuguese: República Federativa do Brasil,  listen (help·info)), is the largest country in South America. It is the world's fifth largest country, both by geographical area and by population with over 192 million people. It is the only Portuguese-speaking country in the Americas and the largest lusophone country in the world.

Bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of 7,491 km (4,655 mi). It is bordered on the north by Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and the French overseas region of French Guiana; on the northwest by Colombia; on the west by Bolivia and Peru; on the southwest by Argentina and Paraguay and on the south by Uruguay. Numerous archipelagos form part of Brazilian territory, such as Fernando de Noronha, Rocas Atoll, Saint Peter and Paul Rocks, and Trindade and Martim Vaz. It borders all other South American countries except Ecuador and Chile.

Brazil was a colony of Portugal from the landing of Pedro Álvares Cabral in 1500 until 1815, when it was elevated to the rank of kingdom and the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves was formed. The colonial bond was in fact broken in 1808, when the capital of the Portuguese colonial empire was transferred from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro, after Napoleon invaded Portugal.Independence was achieved in 1822 with the formation of the Empire of Brazil, a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system. The country became a presidential republic in 1889, when a military coup d'état proclaimed the Republic, although the bicameral legislature, now called Congress, dates back to the ratification of the first constitution in 1824. Its current Constitution, formulated in 1988, defines Brazil as a Federal Republic. The Federation is formed by the union of the Federal District, the 26 States, and the 5,564 Municipalities.

wn.com/Brazil





Buenos Aires

                            Buenos Aires ( /ˈbweɪnəs ˈɛəriːz/ or /ˈaɪrɪs/,Spanish: [ˈbwenos ˈaiɾes]) is the capital and largest city of Argentina, and the second-largest metropolitan area in South America, after Greater Sao Paulo. It is located on the western shore of the estuary of the Río de la Plata, on the southeastern coast of the South American continent. Greater Buenos Aires conurbation, which also includes several Buenos Aires Province districts, constitutes the third-largest conurbation in Latin America, with a population of around thirteen million.

The city of Buenos Aires is not a part of Buenos Aires Province, nor is it the Province's capital, but an autonomous district. In 1880, after decades of political infighting, Buenos Aires was federalised and removed from Buenos Aires Province. The city limits were enlarged to include the towns of Belgrano and Flores (both are currently neighborhoods of the city). The 1994 constitutional amendment granted the city autonomy, hence its formal name: Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires (Autonomous City of Buenos Aires). Its citizens first elected a Chief of Government (i.e. Mayor) in 1996; before, the Mayor was directly appointed by the President of the Republic.

wn.com/Buenos_Aires





Bulgaria

Coordinates: 42°45′N 25°30′E﻿ / ﻿42.75°N 25.5°E﻿ / 42.75; 25.5

Bulgaria i/bʌlˈɡɛəriə/ (Bulgarian: България, IPA: [bɤ̞ɫˈɡarijɐ]), is a country located in Southeastern Europe. It is bordered by Romania to the north, Serbia and the Macedonia to the west, Greece and Turkey to the south and the Black Sea to the east. With a territory of 110,994 square kilometres (42,855 sq mi), Bulgaria is Europe's 14th-largest country. Its location has made it a historical crossroad for various civilisations and as such it is the home of some of the earliest metalworking, religious and other cultural artifacts in the world.
Prehistoric cultures began developing on Bulgarian lands during the Neolithic period. Its ancient history was marked by the presence of the Thracians, and later by the Greeks and Romans. The emergence of a unified Bulgarian ethnicity and state dates back to the First Bulgarian Empire, which dominated most of the Balkans and functioned as a cultural hub for Slavic peoples during the Middle Ages. With the downfall of the Second Bulgarian Empire in 1396, its territories came under Ottoman rule for nearly five hundred years. The Russo-Turkish War of 1877–1878 resulted in the Third Bulgarian State, recognised in 1908. The following years saw several conflicts with its neighbours, which prompted Bulgaria to align with Germany in both World Wars. In 1946 it became a Communist republic with a single-party system until 1989, when the Communist Party allowed multi-party elections. After 1990 Bulgaria transitioned to democracy and a market-based economy.

wn.com/Bulgaria





Canada

                            Canada ( /ˈkænədə/) is a North American country consisting of ten provinces and three territories. Located in the northern part of the continent, it extends from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west, and northward into the Arctic Ocean. Spanning over 9,900,000 km2 (3,800,000 sq mi), Canada is the world's second-largest country by total area, and its common border with the United States is the longest land border in the world.

The land that is now Canada has been inhabited for millennia by various Aboriginal peoples. Beginning in the late 15th century, British and French colonial expeditions explored, and later settled, along the region's Atlantic coast. France ceded nearly all of its colonies in North America in 1763 after the Seven Years' War. In 1867, with the union of three British North American colonies through Confederation, Canada was formed as a federal dominion of four provinces. This began an accretion of provinces and territories and a process of increasing autonomy; the Canada Act 1982 severed the vestiges of legal dependence on Britain.

wn.com/Canada





China

                            China (i/ˈtʃaɪnə/; Chinese: 中国; pinyin: Zhōngguó; see also Names of China), officially the People's Republic of China (PRC), is the world's most-populous country, with a population of over 1.3 billion. Covering approximately 9.6 million square kilometres, the East Asian state is the world's second-largest country by land area, and the third- or fourth-largest in total area, depending on the definition of total area.

The People's Republic of China is a single-party state governed by the Communist Party of China. It exercises jurisdiction over 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, four directly controlled municipalities (Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, and Chongqing), and two mostly self-governing special administrative regions (Hong Kong and Macau). Its capital city is Beijing. The PRC also claims Taiwan—which is controlled by the Republic of China (ROC), a separate political entity—as its 23rd province, a claim controversial due to the complex political status of Taiwan and the unresolved Chinese Civil War. The PRC government denies the legitimacy of the ROC.

wn.com/China





Cuba

                            Cuba, officially the Republic of Cuba, (i/ˈkjuːbə/; Spanish: República de Cuba, pronounced: [reˈpuβlika ðe ˈkuβa] ( listen)) is an island country in the Caribbean. The nation of Cuba consists of the main island of Cuba, the Isla de la Juventud, and several archipelagos. Havana is the largest city in Cuba and the country's capital. Santiago de Cuba is the second largest city. To the north of Cuba lies the United States (140 km or 90 mi away) and the Bahamas, Mexico is to the west, the Cayman Islands and Jamaica are to the south, and Haiti and the Dominican Republic are to the southeast.

In 1492, Christopher Columbus landed on and claimed the island now occupied by Cuba, for the Kingdom of Spain. Cuba remained a territory of Spain until the Spanish–American War ended in 1898, and gained formal independence from the U.S. in 1902. A fragile democracy, increasingly dominated by radical politics eventually evolved, solidified by the Cuban Constitution of 1940, but was definitely quashed in 1952 by former president Fulgencio Batista, and an authoritarian regime was set up, intensifying and catalyzing already rampant corruption, political repression and crippling economic regulations.Batista was ousted in January 1959 by the July 26 movement, and a new administration under Fidel Castro established, which had by 1965 evolved into a single-party state under the revived Communist Party of Cuba, which holds power to date.

wn.com/Cuba





Denmark

                            The Kingdom of Denmark (Danish: Kongeriget Danmark, pronounced [ˈkɔŋəʁiːəð ˈdanmɑɡ̊] ( listen)) is a constitutional monarchy and sovereign state consisting the country of Denmark in northern Europe and two autonomous constituent countries, the Faroe Islands in the North Atlantic and Greenland in North America. The kingdom is a unitary state with some power being devolved from Denmark proper to Greenland and the Faroe Islands; this polity is referred to as the Danish Realm. Denmark proper is the hegemonial area, where judicial, executive, and legislative power resides. The Faroe Islands are defined to be a community of people within the kingdom, and the Greenlandic people are defined as a separate people with the right to self-determination.

Denmark is the southernmost of the Nordic countries, located southwest of Sweden and south of Norway, and bordered to the south by Germany. The country consists of a large peninsula, Jutland and many islands, most notably Zealand, Funen, Lolland, Falster and Bornholm, as well as hundreds of minor islands often referred to as the Danish Archipelago.

wn.com/Denmark





France

                            France (English i/ˈfræns/ FRANSS or /ˈfrɑːns/ FRAHNSS; French: [fʁɑ̃s] ( listen)), officially the French Republic (French: République française [ʁepyblik fʁɑ̃sɛz]), is a unitary semi-presidential republic in Western Europe with several overseas territories and islands located on other continents and in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic oceans. Metropolitan France extends from the Mediterranean Sea to the English Channel and the North Sea, and from the Rhine to the Atlantic Ocean. It is often referred to as l’Hexagone ("The Hexagon") because of the geometric shape of its territory. It is the largest western European country and it possesses the second-largest exclusive economic zone in the world, covering 11,035,000 km2 (4,260,000 sq mi), just behind that of the United States (11,351,000 km2 / 4,383,000 sq mi).

Over the past 500 years, France has been a major power with strong cultural, economic, military and political influence in Europe and around the world. During the 17th and 18th centuries, France colonised great parts of North America and Southeast Asia; during the 19th and early 20th centuries, France built the second largest colonial empire of the time, including large portions of North, West and Central Africa, Southeast Asia, and many Caribbean and Pacific Islands.

wn.com/France





Gabrovo

                            Gabrovo (Bulgarian: Габрово) is a city in central northern Bulgaria, the administrative centre of Gabrovo Province. It is situated at the foot of the central Balkan Mountains, in the valley of the Yantra River, and is known as an international capital of humour and satire (see Gabrovo humour), as well as noted for its Bulgarian National Revival architecture. Gabrovo is also known as the longest city in Bulgaria, stretching over 25 km[citation needed] along the Yantra, yet reaching only 1 km in width at places. The geographic center of Bulgaria - Uzana is located near the city. According to Census 2011, as of February 2011, the population of the town was 58,950 inhabitants.

The area around Gabrovo, inhabited since the Neolithic, gained economic importance after Veliko Tarnovo became capital of the Second Bulgarian Empire in the 12th century. Craftsmanship and trade prospered due to the proximity to both the capital and the Balkan passes. Medieval Gabrovo was a small pass village of about 100 houses.

wn.com/Gabrovo





Germany

                            Germany (i/ˈdʒɜrməni/), officially the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland, pronounced [ˈbʊndəsʁepuˌbliːk ˈdɔʏtʃlant] ( listen)), is a federal parliamentary republic in Europe. The country consists of 16 states while the capital and largest city is Berlin. Germany covers an area of 357,021 km2 and has a largely temperate seasonal climate. With 81.8 million inhabitants, it is the most populous member state and the largest economy in the European Union. It is one of the major political powers of the European continent and a technological leader in many fields.

A region named Germania, inhabited by several Germanic peoples, was documented before AD 100. During the Migration Period, the Germanic tribes expanded southward, and established successor kingdoms throughout much of Europe. Beginning in the 10th century, German territories formed a central part of the Holy Roman Empire. During the 16th century, northern German regions became the centre of the Protestant Reformation while southern and western parts remained dominated by Roman Catholic denominations, with the two factions clashing in the Thirty Years' War, marking the beginning of the Catholic–Protestant divide that has characterized German society ever since. Occupied during the Napoleonic Wars, the rise of Pan-Germanism inside the German Confederation resulted in the unification of most of the German states into the German Empire in 1871 which was Prussian dominated. After the German Revolution of 1918–1919 and the subsequent military surrender in World War I, the Empire was replaced by the Weimar Republic in 1918, and partitioned in the Treaty of Versailles. Amidst the Great Depression, the Third Reich was proclaimed in 1933. The latter period was marked by Fascism and World War II. After 1945, Germany was divided by allied occupation, and evolved into two states, East Germany and West Germany. In 1990 Germany was reunified.

wn.com/Germany





India

                            India (i/ˈɪndiə/), officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya), is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by geographical area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people, and the most populous democracy in the world. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the south-west, and the Bay of Bengal on the south-east, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west;China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north-east; and Burma and Bangladesh to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is in the vicinity of Sri Lanka and the Maldives; in addition, India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Thailand and Indonesia.

Home to the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation and a region of historic trade routes and vast empires, the Indian subcontinent was identified with its commercial and cultural wealth for much of its long history. Four of the world's major religions—Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism—originated here, whereas Zoroastrianism, Christianity, and Islam arrived in the 1st millennium CE and also helped shape the region's diverse culture. Gradually annexed by and brought under the administration of the British East India Company from the early 18th century and administered directly by the United Kingdom from the mid-19th century, India became an independent nation in 1947 after a struggle for independence that was marked by non-violent resistance led by Mahatma Gandhi.

wn.com/India





Indonesia

                            Indonesia (i/ˌɪndəˈniːʒə/ IN-də-NEE-zhə or /ˌɪndoʊˈniːziə/ IN-doh-NEE-zee-ə), officially the Republic of Indonesia (Indonesian: Republik Indonesia Indonesian pronunciation: [rɛpʊblɪk ɪndɔnɛsɪa]), is a country in Southeast Asia and Oceania. Indonesia is an archipelago comprising approximately 17,508 islands. It has 33 provinces with over 238 million people, and is the world's fourth most populous country. Indonesia is a republic, with an elected legislature and president. The nation's capital city is Jakarta. The country shares land borders with Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Malaysia. Other neighboring countries include Singapore, Philippines, Australia, and the Indian territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Indonesia is a founding member of ASEAN and a member of the G-20 major economies. The Indonesian economy is the world's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP.

The Indonesian archipelago has been an important trade region since at least the 7th century, when Srivijaya and then later Majapahit traded with China and India. Local rulers gradually absorbed foreign cultural, religious and political models from the early centuries CE, and Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms flourished. Indonesian history has been influenced by foreign powers drawn to its natural resources. Muslim traders brought Islam, and European powers brought Christianity and fought one another to monopolize trade in the Spice Islands of Maluku during the Age of Discovery. Following three and a half centuries of Dutch colonialism, Indonesia secured its independence after World War II. Indonesia's history has since been turbulent, with challenges posed by natural disasters, corruption, separatism, a democratization process, and periods of rapid economic change.

wn.com/Indonesia





Italy

                            Italy i/ˈɪtəli/ (Italian: Italia [iˈtaːlja]), officially the Italian Republic or the Republic of Italy (Italian: Repubblica italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in south-central Europe. To the north, it borders France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia along the Alps. To the south, it consists of the entirety of the Italian Peninsula, Sicily, Sardinia–the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea–and many other smaller islands. The independent states of San Marino and the Vatican City are enclaves within Italy, while Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland. The territory of Italy covers some 301,338 km2 (116,347 sq mi) and is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate. With 60.6 million inhabitants, it is the fifth most populous country in Europe, and the 23rd most populous in the world.

Rome, the capital of Italy, was for centuries a political and religious centre of Western civilisation as the capital of the Roman Empire and site of the Holy See. After the decline of the Roman Empire, Italy endured numerous invasions by foreign peoples, from Germanic tribes such as the Lombards and Ostrogoths, to the Byzantines and later, the Normans, among others. Centuries later, Italy became the birthplace of Maritime republics and the Renaissance, an immensely fruitful intellectual movement that would prove to be integral in shaping the subsequent course of European thought.

wn.com/Italy





Japan

                            Japan i/dʒəˈpæn/ (Japanese: 日本 Nihon or Nippon; formally 日本国  Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku, literally the State of Japan) is an island nation in East Asia. Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south. The characters that make up Japan's name mean "sun-origin", which is why Japan is sometimes referred to as the "Land of the Rising Sun".

Japan is an archipelago of 6,852 islands. The four largest islands are Honshū, Hokkaidō, Kyūshū and Shikoku, together accounting for ninety-seven percent of Japan's land area. Japan has the world's tenth-largest population, with over 127 million people. The Greater Tokyo Area, which includes the de facto capital city of Tokyo and several surrounding prefectures, is the largest metropolitan area in the world, with over 30 million residents.

Archaeological research indicates that people lived in Japan as early as the Upper Paleolithic period. The first written mention of Japan is in Chinese history texts from the 1st century AD. Influence from other nations followed by long periods of isolation has characterized Japan's history. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, victory in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese War and World War I allowed Japan to expand its empire during a period of increasing militarism. The Second Sino-Japanese War of 1937 expanded into part of World War II in 1941, which came to an end in 1945 following the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Since adopting its revised constitution in 1947, Japan has maintained a unitary constitutional monarchy with an emperor and an elected parliament called the Diet.

wn.com/Japan





Juiz de Fora

                            Juiz de Fora (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʒwiz dʒi ˈfɔɾɐ], External Judge), also known as J.F., is a city in the southeastern Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, located close to the state border with Rio de Janeiro. According to 2006 estimates the current population is about 509,125 inhabitants. The geographical area of the municipality is 1,437 km².

The city's location was determinant for its economic and demographic development, for it is placed between the three most important financial and economic metropolises of southeast Brazil (and also the three largest urban sprawls of the country): Rio de Janeiro (189 km), Belo Horizonte (260 km) and São Paulo (486 km). Major highways connect Juiz de Fora with these three metropolitan areas, the most important -and crucial for the city's recent growth- being the BR 040, which connects Brasília, Rio de Janeiro, and Belo Horizonte. Running throughout the city, the Paraibuna river is a major tributary of the Paraíba do Sul river, in which basin lies the core of Brazilian heavy and high-technology industries.

wn.com/Juiz_de_Fora





Leblon

Coordinates: 22°59′0.82″S 43°13′19.78″W﻿ / ﻿22.9835611°S 43.2221611°W﻿ / -22.9835611; -43.2221611

Leblon is the most affluent neighbourhood in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ipanema is regarded the second most affluent are in Rio de Janeiro. It is also the name of the local beach. The neighbourhood is located in the southern zone of the city, between Lagoa Rodrigo de Freitas, Morro Dois Irmãos and the Jardim de Alá channel, bordering the Gávea, Ipanema, Lagoa and Vidigal neighbourhoods.

The neighbourhood was named after a 19th century French businessman, Charles Leblon, who owned the area.

Is is located west of Ipanema. In the north, it is bordered by Gávea and, in the west, by a towering hill called Dois Irmãos, which translates as "two brothers", because of its split peak.

Leblon is similar to Ipanema but even more exclusive, being the home of rich and famous people. The beach is quieter and more relaxed than the hip and trendy beach of Ipanema.

Leblon is known for being a very cosmopolitan neighbourhood, with a lively nightlife across its bars, restaurants and nightclubs. Leblon has been either referenced or depicted in the following media:

wn.com/Leblon





Mexico

                            Mexico (i/ˈmɛksɨkoʊ/; Spanish: México, IPA: [ˈmexiko] ( listen)), officially the United Mexican States (Spanish:  Estados Unidos Mexicanos (help·info)), is a federal constitutional republic in North America. It is bordered on the north by the United States of America; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico. Covering almost two million square kilometres (over 760,000 sq mi), Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the thirteenth largest independent nation in the world. With an estimated population of over 113 million, it is the eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country. Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District, the capital city.

In Pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec, the Toltec, the Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before the first contact with Europeans. In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in México-Tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain. This territory would eventually become Mexico as the colony's independence was recognized in 1821. The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability, the Mexican-American War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship. The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country's current political system. Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party.

wn.com/Mexico





Minas Gerais

                            Minas Gerais (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈminɐz ʒeˈɾajs]) is one of the 26 states of Brazil, ranks as the second most populous, the third by Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the fourth largest by area in the country. The state's capital and largest city, Belo Horizonte, is a major urban and finance center in Latin America, and stands as the third largest urban aglomeration in Brazil, after the cities of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Minas Gerais is the Brazilian state with the largest number of Presidents of Brazil, the current one, Dilma Rousseff, born in Belo Horizonte, being one of them. The main producer of coffee and milk in the country, Minas Gerais is known for its heritage of architecture and colonial art in historical cities such as Ouro Preto, Diamantina, Tiradentes and Mariana. In the south, the tourist points are the hydro mineral spas, such as Caxambu, São Lourenço, Poços de Caldas, São Thomé das Letras, Monte Verde and the national parks of Caparaó and Canastra. The landscape of the State is marked by mountains, valleys, and large areas of fertile lands. In the Serra do Cipó, Sete Lagoas, Cordisburgo and Lagoa Santa, the caves and waterfalls are the attractions. Some of Brazil's most famous caverns are located there.

wn.com/Minas_Gerais





Mongaguá

                            Mongaguá is a municipality in the state of São Paulo in Brazil. The population in 2006 is 46,977, the population density is 328.11/km² and the area is 143 km². The name comes from the Tupi language.

The municipality's street plan is on a planned grid running from SSE to NNW and many of the houses are within sight of the Atlantic Ocean. The populated area of Mongaguá is near the bottom of steep-sloping and densely-forested mountains. The BR-101 superhighway linking Santos and the southern part of the state runs through Mongaguá. The freeway to the city of São Paulo is also easily accessible. Housing developments near the beaches were built in the 1970s and the 1990s. Prior to the construction of the housing developments, the population was mainly rural. Housing development continues to this day.

There are two aboriginal villages in Mongaguá: Itaóca and Aguapéu, located in the Atlantic Mata reserve. The aboriginal community of Aguapéu conceived of the project Jaguatareí Nhemboé (Walking and Learning).

wn.com/Mongaguá





Monumental Axis

                            The Monumental Axis ("Eixo Monumental" in Portuguese) is a central avenue in Brasília's city design.

The avenue begins on the National Congress of Brazil building and is considered part of the DF-002 road. Its first section is known as "Ministries Esplanade" ("Esplanada dos Ministérios"), as it is surrounded by ministries buildings. Many important government buildings, monuments and memorials are located on the Monumental Axis.

A common urban legend persists that the Monumental Axis is the widest road in the world, where "[100 to 160] cars can drive side by side". This is untrue, as the road consists of two avenues with six lanes on either side; a total of twelve lanes. However, it was in the Guinness Book of Records as having the widest median (central reservation) of a divided highway (dual carriageway) in the world.
Coordinates: 15°47′13″S 47°54′13″W﻿ / ﻿15.78694°S 47.90361°W﻿ / -15.78694; -47.90361

wn.com/Monumental_Axis





New York City

                            New York is the most populous city in the United States and the center of the New York Metropolitan Area, one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. The city is referred to as New York City or The City of New York to distinguish it from the State of New York, of which it is a part. As a global power city, New York exerts a significant impact upon commerce, finance, media, art, fashion, research, technology, education, and entertainment. The home of the United Nations Headquarters, New York is an important center for international diplomacy and has been described as the cultural capital of the world.

Located on one of the world's largest natural harbors, New York City consists of five boroughs, each of which comprises a state county. The five boroughs—The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and Staten Island—were consolidated into a single city in 1898. With a Census-estimated 2011 population of 8,244,910 distributed over a land area of just 305 square miles (790 km2), New York is the most densely populated major city in the United States. As many as 800 languages are spoken in New York, making it the most linguistically diverse city in the world. The New York City Metropolitan Area's population is the United States' largest, with 18.9 million people distributed over 6,720 square miles (17,400 km2), and is also part of the most populous combined statistical area in the United States, containing 22.1 million people as of the 2010 Census.

wn.com/New_York_City





Nova Friburgo

                            Nova Friburgo (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈnɔvɐ ˈfɾibuχˈɡu], English: New Fribourg) is a municipality in the state of Rio de Janeiro in southeastern Brazil. It is located in the northern mountainous region of the state, 136 km from its capital Rio de Janeiro (city). The town is 846m (2,776 feet) above sea level and encompasses a total area of 938.5 km² (362.4 mi²).

Commonly referred to as just "Friburgo", the town has an estimated population of 178,102 people, known as "Friburguenses". It was settled by 2,006 Swiss emigrants from the canton of Fribourg, transferred to the region by royal decree from D. João VI in 1818, and was also the first town in the country to be settled by Germans. It contains the districts of Riograndina, Campo do Coelho, Amparo, Conselheiro Paulino, Lumiar and São Pedro da Serra.

On 16 May 1818, Prince Regent John VI of Portugal issued a decree allowing the Swiss representative of the Canton of Fribourg, Sebastian Nicolau Gachet, to establish a colony in Cantagalo. The purpose of this was to further encourage development within the Kingdom of Brazil and the area was chosen as it greatly resembled Swiss climate and geographical features. 100 Swiss families were to settle in the Fazenda do Morro Queimado (Farm of the Burnt Hill) where the colony of Nova Friburgo was later founded. From 1819-1820 a total of 261 families formed the original settlement nucleus and on the 17 April 1820 the government elevated its status to that of a village.

wn.com/Nova_Friburgo





Palácio da Alvorada

                            The Palácio da Alvorada (Portuguese pronunciation: [paˈlasju dɐ awvoˈɾadɐ]) is the official residence of the President of Brazil. It is located in the national capital of Brasília, on a peninsula at the margins of Paranoá Lake. The building was designed by Oscar Niemeyer and built between 1957 and 1958 in the modernist style. It has been the residence of every Brazilian president since Juscelino Kubitschek. The building is listed as a National Historic Heritage Site.

The building was initially referred to as the "Presidential Palace". The name "Palácio da Alvorada" ("Palace of Dawn") comes from a quote by Juscelino Kubitschek:

The Palácio da Alvorada was the first government structure built in the new federal capital. Construction began on April 3, 1957 and was completed on June 30, 1958. Niemeyer's project was based on the principles of simplicity and modernity.

In 2004, the First Lady Marisa Letícia directed the most extensive and historical restoration of the palace in its history. The project took two years to complete at a cost of $18.4 million dollars. Research was conducted to restore the rooms and décor to their original styles. Furniture and decoration objects were also restored. The electric and central air conditioning systems were replaced, and floor and ceiling work was done. Contrary to popular belief, the restoration was not paid by the government, but was part of an ongoing project of restoration of heritage sites under the direction of the National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage with funds donated by private corporations (for tax-deduction).

wn.com/Palácio_da_Alvorada





Porto Alegre

                            Porto Alegre (local Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈpoɾtʊ aˈlɛɡɾi] ( listen);Merry Harbour) is the capital and largest city in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul. The city population is 1,509,939 inhabitants (2010), the tenth most populous city in the country and the centre of Brazil's fourth largest metropolitan area, with 4,405,760 inhabitants (2010). The city is the southernmost capital city of a Brazilian state. Porto Alegre is one of the top cultural, political and economic centers of Brazil. Two Mercosul countries, Argentina and Uruguay, border on the State of Rio Grande do Sul.

Porto Alegre was founded in 1772 by immigrants from the Azores, Portugal. In the late 19th century the city received many immigrants from other parts of the world, particularly Germany, Italy, and Poland. The vast majority of the population is of European descent.

The city lies on the eastern bank of the Rio Guaiba (Guaiba Lake), where five rivers converge to form the Lagoa dos Patos (Lagoon of the Ducks), a giant freshwater lagoon navigable by even the largest of ships. This five-river junction has become an important alluvial port as well as a chief industrial and commercial center of Brazil.

wn.com/Porto_Alegre





Rio de Janeiro

                            Rio de Janeiro ( /ˈriːoʊ deɪ ʒəˈnɛəroʊ/ or /ˈriːoʊ deɪ dʒəˈnɛəroʊ/; Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈʁi.u dʒi ʒaˈnejɾu],River of January), commonly referred to simply as Rio, is the capital city of the State of Rio de Janeiro, the second largest city of Brazil, and the third largest metropolitan area and agglomeration in South America, boasting approximately 6.3 million people within the city proper, making it the 6th largest in the Americas, and 26th in the world.

The city was the capital of Brazil for nearly two centuries, from 1763 to 1815 during the Portuguese colonial era, 1815 to 1821 as the capital of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves, and 1822 to 1960 as an independent nation. Rio is nicknamed the Cidade Maravilhosa or "Marvelous City."

Rio de Janeiro represents the second largest GDP in the country (and 30th largest in the world in 2008), estimated at about R$ 343 billion (IBGE/2008) (nearly US$ 201 billion), and is the headquarters of two major Brazilian companies – Petrobras and Vale, and major oil companies and telephony in Brazil, besides the largest conglomerate of media and communications companies in Latin America, the Globo Organizations. The home of many universities and institutes, it is the second largest center of research and development in Brazil, accounting for 17% of national scientific production – according to 2005 data.

wn.com/Rio_de_Janeiro





Rio Grande do Sul

                            Rio Grande do Sul (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁiw ˈɡɾɐ̃dʒi du suw] ( listen); lit. "Great Southern River") is the southernmost state in Brazil, and the state with the fifth highest Human Development Index (HDI) in the country. In this state is located the southernmost city in the country, Chuí, on the border with Uruguay. In the region of Bento Gonçalves and Caxias do Sul, the largest wine producing center in Brazil, the attraction is Italian gastronomy. Besides the European influence, the gaúchos, or inhabitants of Rio Grande do Sul, strongly cultivate the traditions of the Pampas — region of the border with Uruguay and Argentina — such as drinking mate (known as chimarrão drunk in special gourd cups), eating the typical barbecue, known as churrasco, and the traditional clothes are the bombachas (baggy trousers), boots and large hats. Although the majority of the population dresses non-traditionally, there is[citation needed][says who?] a widespread value for tradition and culture, which renders the image of "cultural zealots" sometimes attributed[by whom?] to the gaúchos.

wn.com/Rio_Grande_do_Sul





Russia

                            Russia i/ˈrʌʃə/ or /ˈrʊʃə/ (Russian: Россия, tr. Rossiya; IPA: [rɐˈsʲijə] ( listen)), also officially known as the Russian Federation (Russian: Российская Федерация, tr. Rossiyskaya Federatsiya; IPA: [rɐˈsʲijskəjə fʲɪdʲɪˈratsɨjə] ( listen)), is a country in northern Eurasia. It is a federal semi-presidential republic, comprising 83 federal subjects. From northwest to southeast, Russia shares borders with Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland (both via Kaliningrad Oblast), Belarus, Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, China, Mongolia, and North Korea. It also has maritime borders with Japan by the Sea of Okhotsk, and the US state of Alaska by the Bering Strait. At 17,075,400 square kilometres (6,592,800 sq mi), Russia is the largest country in the world, covering more than one eighth of the Earth's inhabited land area. Russia is also the eighth most populous nation with 143 million people. It extends across the whole of northern Asia and 40% of Europe, spanning nine time zones and incorporating a wide range of environments and landforms. Russia has the world's largest reserves of mineral and energy resources and is the largest producer of oil and natural gas globally. Russia has the world's largest forest reserves and its lakes contain approximately one-quarter of the world's fresh water.

wn.com/Russia





Saudi Arabia

                            Saudi Arabia (i/ˌsaʊdi əˈreɪbi.ə/ or i/ˌsɔːdiː əˈreɪbi.ə/; Arabic: السعودية‎ as-Su‘ūdīyah[citation needed] or incorrectly as-Sa‘ūdīyah, officially known as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Arabic: المملكة العربية السعودية‎ al-Mamlakah al-‘Arabīyah as-Su‘ūdīyah  Arabic pronunciation (help·info)), is the largest state in Western Asia by land area, constituting the bulk of the Arabian Peninsula, and the second-largest in the Arab world, after Algeria. It is bordered by Jordan, and Iraq on the north and northeast, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates on the east, Oman on the southeast, and Yemen on the south. The Red Sea lies to its west, and the Persian Gulf lies to the east. Saudi Arabia has an area of approximately 2,250,000 km2 (870,000 sq mi), and it has an estimated population of 27 million, of which 9 million are registered foreign expatriates and an estimated 2 million are illegal immigrants. Saudi nationals comprise an estimated 16 million people.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was founded by Abdul-Aziz bin Saud (known for most of his career as Ibn Saud) in 1932, although the conquests which eventually led to the creation of the Kingdom began in 1902 when he captured Riyadh, the ancestral home of his family, the House of Saud, referred to in Arabic as the Al Saud. The Saudi Arabian government, which has been an absolute monarchy since its inception, refers to its system of government as being Islamic, though this is contested by many due to its strong basis in Salafism, a minority school of thought in Islam. The kingdom is sometimes called "The Land of the Two Holy Mosques" in reference to Al-Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca), and Al-Masjid al-Nabawi (in Medina), the two holiest places in Islam.

wn.com/Saudi_Arabia





South Africa

Coordinates: 30°S 25°E﻿ / ﻿30°S 25°E﻿ / -30; 25

South Africa, officially the Republic of South Africa, is a country located at the southern tip of Africa. It is divided into nine provinces and has 2,798 kilometres (1,739 mi) of coastline. To the north of the country lie the neighbouring territories of Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe; to the east are Mozambique and Swaziland; while Lesotho is an enclave surrounded by South African territory.

South Africa is multi-ethnic and has diverse cultures and languages. Eleven official languages are recognised in the constitution. Two of these languages are of European origin: South African English and Afrikaans, a language which originated mainly from Dutch that is spoken by the majority of white and Coloured South Africans. Though English is commonly used in public and commercial life, it is only the fifth most-spoken home language. All ethnic and language groups have political representation in the country's constitutional democracy comprising a parliamentary republic; unlike most parliamentary republics, the positions of head of state and head of government are merged in a parliament-dependent President.

wn.com/South_Africa





South Korea

                            South Korea ( listen), officially the Republic of Korea (Hangul: 대한민국; Hanja: 大韓民國; Daehan Minguk  listen), is a sovereign state in the southern part of the Korean Peninsula. The name "Korea" is derived from Goryeo, a dynasty which ruled in the Middle Ages (an initial "G" in Korean is pronounced like an English "K").

Its neighbors are China to the west, Japan to the east, North Korea to the north, and the Korea Strait to the south. South Korea lies in the north temperate zone with a predominantly mountainous terrain. It covers a total area of 99,392 square kilometers and has a population of almost 50 million. The capital and largest city is Seoul, with a population of 9,794,304.

Archaeological findings show that the Korean Peninsula was occupied by the Lower Paleolithic period.Korean history begins with the founding of Gojoseon in 2333 BC by the legendary Dan-gun. Following the unification of the Three Kingdoms of Korea under Silla 668 AD, Korea went through the Goryeo Dynasty and Joseon Dynasty as one nation until the end of the Korean Empire in 1910, when it was annexed by Japan. After liberation and occupation by Soviet and U.S. forces at the end of World War II, the nation was divided into North and South Korea. The latter was established in 1948 as a democracy, though political turmoil and times of military rule and martial law characterized much of the period until the foundation of the Sixth Republic in 1987.

wn.com/South_Korea





São Paulo

                            São Paulo (/ˌsaʊ ˈpaʊloʊ/; Portuguese pronunciation: [sɐ̃w ˈpawlu] ( listen); Saint Paul;), popularly known as Sampa, is the largest city in Brazil, the largest city in the southern hemisphere and Americas, and the world's seventh largest city by population. The metropolis is anchor to the São Paulo metropolitan area, ranked as the second most populous metropolitan area in the Americas and among the five largest metropolitan areas on the planet. São Paulo is the capital of the state of São Paulo, which is the most populous Brazilian state, and exerts strong regional influence in commerce and finance as well as arts and entertainment. São Paulo maintains strong international influence and is considered an Alpha- World City. The name of the city honors Saint Paul.

The metropolis has significant cultural, economic and political influence both nationally and internationally. It houses several important monuments, parks and museums such as the Latin American Memorial, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, São Paulo Museum of Art and the Ibirapuera Park. The Paulista Avenue is the most important financial center of São Paulo. The city holds many high profile events, like the São Paulo Art Biennial, the Brazil Grand Prix Formula 1 Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo Fashion Week, ATP Brasil Open, and the São Paulo Indy 300.

wn.com/São_Paulo





Teresópolis

Coordinates: 22°24′43″S 42°57′57″W﻿ / ﻿22.41194°S 42.96583°W﻿ / -22.41194; -42.96583

Teresópolis (Portuguese pronunciation: [teɾeˈzɔpolis]) is a Brazilian municipality located in the state of Rio de Janeiro, in a mountainous region known as Região Serrana. The Serra dos Órgãos National Park lies partly within the city limits.

Teresópolis began as a quilombo founded by Maroons and indigenous peoples. In 1818, Englishman George March (1781–1845) established a farm there, and when he died in the middle of the 19th century, the locals divided the farm into several shares, some of which the new owners eventually resold.

In 1855, the settlement became an incorporated village, and was officially renamed "Freguesia de Santo Antonio de Paquequer"; however, the local inhabitants had already become accustomed to calling their home "Therezopolis" (named for the Empress Teresa Cristina). At this time, the village had a population of 2,000.

The Count D’Eu and Princess Isabel visited Teresópolis in 1868; Emperor Dom Pedro II visited in 1870, and praised the village's beauty. On July 6, 1891, Brazilian officials upgraded the village's status to municipality.

wn.com/Teresópolis





Turkey

                            Turkey (Turkish: Türkiye), known officially as the Republic of Turkey ( Türkiye Cumhuriyeti (help·info)), is a Eurasian country located in Western Asia (mostly in the Anatolian peninsula) and in East Thrace in Southeastern Europe. Turkey is bordered by eight countries: Bulgaria to the northwest; Greece to the west; Georgia to the northeast; Armenia, Azerbaijan (the exclave of Nakhchivan) and Iran to the east; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast. The Mediterranean Sea and Cyprus are to the south; the Aegean Sea is to the west; and the Black Sea is to the north. The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles (which together form the Turkish Straits) demarcate the boundary between East Thrace and Anatolia; they also separate Europe and Asia.

Turkey is one of the six independent Turkic states. The vast majority of the population are Muslims. The country's official language is Turkish, whereas Kurdish and Zazaki languages are spoken by Kurds and Zazas, who constitute 18% of the population.

wn.com/Turkey





Uberaba

                            Uberaba is a city and municipality in the west of the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil. Its population is 296.000 (2010) with an area of 4529.7 km², giving a density of 60.71 people per km². It is located on a plateau at an elevation of 785 meters and is in the Uberaba River floodplain. It became a city in 1856.

Uberaba is also a statistical micro-region including 07 municipalities: Água Comprida, Campo Florido, Conceição das Alagoas, Conquista, Delta, Uberaba, and Veríssimo. In 2000 the population was 687,618 inhabitants in a total area of 9,392.60 km². The population density was 30.62 inhab/km² (2000).

The town was founded in 1820 by sergeant-mor Antônio Eustáquio da Silva e Oliveira. The name was taken from a brazilian native language, and means "bright water". It was classified as indigenous territory on February 1811 and then as a freguesia on March 2, 1820 with the name of Santo Antônio e São Sebastião do Uberaba. Uberaba became a city on February 22, 1836.

The region known as Triângulo Mineiro, where Uberaba is located, was part of the Territory of Goiás until 1816, when it was joined with Minas Gerais.

wn.com/Uberaba





United Kingdom

                            The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (commonly known as the United Kingdom, the UK, or Britain) is a sovereign state located off the north-western coast of continental Europe. The country includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland and many smaller islands. Northern Ireland is the only part of the UK that shares a land border with another sovereign state—the Republic of Ireland. Apart from this land border the UK is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the North Sea, the English Channel and the Irish Sea.

The United Kingdom is a unitary state governed under a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system, with its seat of government in the capital city of London. It is a country in its own right and consists of four countries: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. There are three devolved administrations, each with varying powers, based in Belfast, Edinburgh and Cardiff, the capitals of Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales. Associated with the UK, but not constitutionally part of it, are three Crown Dependencies. The United Kingdom has fourteen overseas territories. These are remnants of the British Empire which, at its height in 1922, encompassed almost a quarter of the world's land surface and was the largest empire in history. British influence can still be observed in the language, culture and legal systems of many of its former territories.

wn.com/United_Kingdom





United States

                            The United States of America (commonly abbreviated to the United States, the U.S., the USA, America, and the States) is a federal constitutional republic comprising fifty states and a federal district. The country is situated mostly in central North America, where its forty-eight contiguous states and Washington, D.C., the capital district, lie between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, bordered by Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. The state of Alaska is in the northwest of the continent, with Canada to the east and Russia to the west, across the Bering Strait. The state of Hawaii is an archipelago in the mid-Pacific. The country also possesses several territories in the Pacific and Caribbean.

At 3.79 million square miles (9.83 million km2) and with over 312 million people, the United States is the third or fourth largest country by total area, and the third largest by both land area and population. It is one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries. The U.S. economy is the world's largest national economy, with an estimated 2011 GDP of $15.1 trillion (22% of nominal global GDP and over 19% of global GDP at purchasing-power parity). Per capita income is the world's sixth-highest.

wn.com/United_States





White House

                            The White House is the official residence and principal workplace of the President of the United States. Located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C., the house was designed by Irish-born James Hoban, and built between 1792 and 1800 of white-painted Aquia sandstone in the Neoclassical style. It has been the residence of every U.S. president since John Adams. When Thomas Jefferson moved into the house in 1801, he (with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe) expanded the building outward, creating two colonnades that were meant to conceal stables and storage.

In 1814, during the War of 1812, the mansion was set ablaze by the British Army in the Burning of Washington, destroying the interior and charring much of the exterior. Reconstruction began almost immediately, and President James Monroe moved into the partially reconstructed house in October 1817. Construction continued with the addition of the South Portico in 1824 and the North in 1829. Because of crowding within the executive mansion itself, President Theodore Roosevelt had all work offices relocated to the newly constructed West Wing in 1901. Eight years later, President William Howard Taft expanded the West Wing and created the first Oval Office which was eventually moved as the section was expanded. The third-floor attic was converted to living quarters in 1927 by augmenting the existing hip roof with long shed dormers. A newly constructed East Wing was used as a reception area for social events; Jefferson's colonnades connected the new wings. East Wing alterations were completed in 1946, creating additional office space. By 1948, the house's load-bearing exterior walls and internal wood beams were found to be close to failure. Under Harry S. Truman, the interior rooms were completely dismantled and a new internal load-bearing steel frame constructed inside the walls. Once this work was completed, the interior rooms were rebuilt.

wn.com/White_House













Adélia Prado

                            Adélia Luzia Prado Freitas (born December 13, 1935), is a Brazilian writer and poet.

She was born in Divinópolis, Minas Gerais, and started writing at the age of 40 which is relatively late in life for a poet. Although much of her outlook is religious, deeply Catholic, her works are often about the body.

Adélia Prado's poems were translated into English by Ellen Watson and published in a book entitled, The Alphabet in the Park. (Wesleyan University Press, 1990).


wn.com/Adélia_Prado





Afonso Pena

                            Afonso Augusto Moreira Pena (Portuguese: [aˈfõsu awˈɡustu moˈrejrɐ ˈpenɐ]; 30 November 1847 – 14 June 1909) was a Brazilian politician. He served as President of Brazil between 1906 and 1909. Before his political career, Pena was a lawyer, jurist and member of the Brazilian Supreme Court.

He began his political career in 1874 with an election to the Imperial General Assembly. In the succeeding years, Pena reconciled legislative work with some periods occupying secretariats — secretary of Agriculture (1882), Commerce and Public Issues (1883) and Justice (1885). Pena then presided over the provincial assembly of Minas Gerais.

After the proclamation of the Republic, he was governor of Minas Gerais between 1892 and 1894. It was during his administration that Belo Horizonte was set for the future state capital (which at that time was Ouro Preto).

In 1902 Pena became vice-president to Francisco de Paula Rodrigues Alves. He was elected president in 1906 and served until his death in 1909, a few days after the passing of his son Álvaro Pena.

wn.com/Afonso_Pena





Alan García

                            Alan Gabriel Ludwig García Pérez (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈalaŋ ɡaˈβɾjel luðˈβiɣ ɣarˈsi.a ˈpeɾes]; born 23 May 1949) was the President of Peru, having won the 2006 elections on 4 June 2006 in a run-off against Union for Peru candidate Ollanta Humala. He is the leader of the APRA and the only party member ever to have served as President of Peru. He served a first term as President from 1985 to 1990. His first term was marked by a severe economic crisis, social unrest and violence. He ran unsuccessfully for the Presidency in 2001, losing in a run-off to Alejandro Toledo. During his second term Peru averaged seven percent GDP growth a year, held inflation below three percent annually and collated Peru's foreign exchange reserves at US$47 billion; however his tenureship also resulted in increased environment damage according to critics and increased social conflict, according to the national human rights ombudsman's office.

García won the elections on 14 April 1985 with 45% of the votes. Since he did not receive the 50% of the votes required to win the presidency, García had to enter a run-off against Alfonso Barrantes (the leftist former mayor of Lima) of the United Left party. Barrantes, however, retired and decided not to enter the run-off, saying he did not want to prolong the political uncertainty of the country. García was thus declared president on 1 June and officially took power on 28 July 1985. For the first time in its sixty-year history, the APRA party came to power in Peru. Aged 36, García was dubbed "Latin America's Kennedy", becoming the region's youngest president at the time, and the second youngest president in Peruvian history (the youngest was Juan Crisostomo Torrico in 1842, aged 34).

wn.com/Alan_García




Alceu Valença

                            Alceu Valença (born July 1, 1946 in São Bento do Una, Pernambuco, Northeast Brazil) is a Brazilian composer, writer, performer, actor, and poet.

Alceu Valenca was born in countryside Pernambuco, Northeast Brazil. He is considered the most successful artist in achieving an aesthetic balance between traditional northeastern Brazilian music and a broad range of electronic sounds and effects from pop music. One can find traces of maracatu, coco and "repentes de viola" (improvising fast-paced Brazilian folk music) in most of his songs. Alceu was able to utilize the electric guitar the electric bass, and lately even a synthesizer was added to his broad scope of musical instruments.

Because of that, Alceu was able to recreate Northeastern traditional music, like baião, coco, toada, maracatu, frevo, caboclinhos, embolada and repentes: all sung with a sometimes rock sometimes alternative sounding music background. His music and his themes are intangible, universal and unlimited. However, his aesthetic basis is genuinely Brazilian Northeastern music.

wn.com/Alceu_Valença




Alcione Nazareth

                            Alcione Dias Nazareth (born November 21, 1947) (better known as simply Alcione, also nicknamed as A Marrom (the brown one)) is one of the most successful female sambists in Brazil who first claimed international recognition in the late 1970s, and has had 19 gold records and two platinum records.

She was born in São Luís, Maranhão. Her father was a military musician who worked as the conductor of the corps marching band. Alcione was introduced to the traditional Brazilian music by her father. At the age of thirteen, she was already able to give vocal performance in college parties. At this same age, she began to study clarinet, and then learnt to play the trumpet.

At age 20 Alcione moved to Rio de Janeiro. There she worked at the city's TV Excelsior, and later went on tour in Argentina and Chile for four months. On returning to Brazil, she settled in São Paulo, working in nightclub and making appearances on television. In 1970, she started her two-year tour in Europe, performing as a vocalist and a trumpet artist.

wn.com/Alcione_Nazareth




Alfredo Nascimento

                            Alfredo Nascimento (born May 5, 1952) is Brazil's minister of Transport. He is a member of the Republic Party. He has occasionally been at odds with environmental minister Carlos Minc over projects in Amazonas and Rondônia.


wn.com/Alfredo_Nascimento





Alpha Condé

                            Alpha Condé (born 4 March 1938) is a Guinean politician who has been President of Guinea since December 2010. He spent decades in opposition to a succession of regimes in Guinea, unsuccessfully running against President Lansana Conté in the 1993 and 1998 presidential elections and leading the Rally of the Guinean People (RPG), an opposition party. Standing again in the 2010 presidential election, Condé was elected as President of Guinea in a second round of voting, according to official results.

Condé was born on 4 March 1938 in Boké in western Guinea to Mandinka parents from Baro village, Kouroussa Prefecture, upper Guinea. Alpha is married to Djene Kaba Condé. He has one son by the name of Alpha Mohammed Condé and one niece by the name of Aicha Diallo who is currently studying in the United States.

Alpha Condé, who is an ethnic Mandinka, left for France at the age of 15. He was active in parallel within the National Union of Higher Education (SNESUP) and combined the functions of charge within the Association of Guinean students in France (AEGF), and within the Federation of Black African Students in France (FEANF), in which he was the Executive Coordinator of African National Groups (NG) from 1967 to 1975, overseeing the activities of the Directorate of FEANF.

wn.com/Alpha_Condé





Angela Merkel

                            Angela Dorothea Merkel, German: [aŋˈɡeːla doʁoˈteːa ˈmɛʁkl̩] ( listen); née Kasner (born 17 July 1954) is the Chancellor of Germany and Chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Merkel is the first female Chancellor of Germany.

A physical chemist by professional background, Merkel entered politics in the wake of the Revolutions of 1989 and briefly served as the deputy spokesperson for Lothar de Maizière's democratically elected East German government prior to the German reunification. Following reunification in 1990, she was elected to the Bundestag, where she has represented the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern since. She served as Federal Minister for Women and Youth 1991–1994 and as Federal Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety 1994–1998 in Helmut Kohl's fourth and fifth cabinets. She was Secretary General of the CDU 1998–2000, and was elected chairperson in 2000. From 2002 to 2005, she was also chair of the CDU/CSU parliamentary coalition.

After her election as Chancellor following the 2005 federal election, she led a grand coalition consisting of her own CDU party, its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), until 2009. In the 2009 federal election, the CDU obtained the largest share of the votes, and formed a coalition government with the CSU and the liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP).

wn.com/Angela_Merkel





Antonio Palocci

                            Antonio Palocci Filho (born October 4, 1960) is a Brazilian physician and politician, and former Chief of Staff of Brazil under President Dilma Rousseff . He was the Finance minister of the Brazilian federal government from January 1, 2003 until March 27, 2006 (when he resigned in the wake of reports of conduct unbecoming of his office), during the presidency of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. He resigned from his office as Chief of Staff on June 7, 2011.

Raised in Ribeirão Preto, in the state of São Paulo. His father was an artist and teacher. During his youth as a medical student at the University of São Paulo’s Ribeirão Preto Medical School, Palocci took part in several radical left wing movements, notably in Libelu, a Brazilian Trotskyist organization. He was one of the founders of the Workers' Party and was its President in São Paulo from 1997 to 1998.

After graduation, Palocci worked for five years as a civil servant at the Ribeirão Preto regionel office of the São Paulo State Public Health Secretary. He inaugurated the Workers’ Health Ward and was the director of the regional office of the Public Health Service.

wn.com/Antonio_Palocci





Artur Bernardes

                            Artur da Silva Bernardes (Portuguese: [aɾˈtuɾ da ˈsiwvɐ beɾˈnaɾdʒis]; 8 August 1875 – 23 March 1955) was a Brazilian politician in the early 20th century. Born in Viçosa, Minas Gerais, he was elected governor of Minas Gerais in 1918. In 1922, he was elected president of Brazil and served until 1926. Facing a military rebellion, Bernardes ruled under a state of siege during most of the course of his term.


wn.com/Artur_Bernardes





Barack Obama



Barack Hussein Obama II (i/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/; born August 4, 1961) is the 44th and current President of the United States. He is the first African American to hold the office. In January 2005, Obama was sworn in as a U.S. Senator in the state of Illinois. He would hold this office until November 2008, when he resigned following his victory in the 2008 presidential election.

Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was the president of the Harvard Law Review. He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law degree. He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004.

Following an unsuccessful bid against the Democratic incumbent for a seat in the United States House of Representatives in 2000, Obama ran for the United States Senate in 2004. Several events brought him to national attention during the campaign, including his victory in the March 2004 Illinois Democratic primary for the Senate election and his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. He won election to the U.S. Senate in Illinois in November 2004. His presidential campaign began in February 2007, and after a close campaign in the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won his party's nomination. In the 2008 presidential election, he defeated Republican nominee John McCain, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. In April 2011, he announced that he would be running for re-election in 2012.

wn.com/Barack_Obama





Benicio del Toro

                            Benicio Monserrate Rafael del Toro Sánchez (born February 19, 1967) is a Puerto Rican actor and film producer. He won an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a BAFTA Award for his role as Javier Rodríguez in Traffic (2000). He is also known for his roles as Fred Fenster in The Usual Suspects (1995), Dr. Gonzo in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998), Franky Four Fingers in Snatch (2000), Jackie Boy in Sin City (2005), and Che Guevara in Che (2008). He is the third Puerto Rican to win an Academy Award.

Benicio del Toro was born in San German, on the southwest side of the island of Puerto Rico, and grew up in Santurce, a district of San Juan. He is the son of Gustavo Adolfo del Toro Bermúdez and Fausta Genoveva Sánchez Rivera, who were both lawyers, and deeply respected and beloved in Puerto Rico for their commitment to their community. Gustavo Del Toro was affectionately called the "lawyer of the poor". Many of Del Toro's relatives are involved in the island's legal system.  He has an older brother, Gustavo, who was a pediatric oncologist at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. He is of Spanish descent through a Catalan paternal great-grandfather and a Basque maternal great-grandmother, he has Italian and Amerindian ancestry as well. The surname del Toro (Touro) is of Sephardic origin. Benicio del Toro is related to Puerto Rican basketball player Carlos Arroyo, his father Gustavo is a cousin of Arroyo's mother, Gloria Bermudez. Del Toro is also related to Spanish Euro-pop singer Rebeca Pous Del Toro, whose grandfather is Puerto Rican, and Puerto Rican singer Eliseo del Toro.

wn.com/Benicio_del_Toro




Bete Mendes

                            Bete Mendes (born Elizabeth Mendes de Oliveira on May 11, 1949) is a Brazilian actress and politician.

Bete Mendes was born Elizabeth Mendes de Oliveira in Santos, São Paulo. She is the daughter of Osmar Pires de Oliveira, a Sub-Lieutenant of the Brazilian Air Force, and Maria Mendes de Oliveira. She acted in school plays since she was 5. However, her artistic career really began at age 15, in her hometown of Santos, in the role of bunny Naná in the play A Árvore que Andava, by Oscar Von Phull. Mendes has a degree in performing arts by the University of São Paulo (USP), and was pursuing a degree in Sociology when she was arrested by the political police of the military dictatorship.

She performed by the first time in theatre with the play A Cozinha (The kitchen) on 1968. At that same year, she had a prominent role in the popular TV Tupi soap opera Beto Rockfeller.

On 1970, Mendes was arrested by the DOI-CODI, being held as prisoner for four years. Between September and October 1974, she was once again detained, this time being tortured. She was acquitted by the Superior Tribunal Militar (Superior Military Court), being released after spending 30 days in prison. Upon her release, she decided to quit the Sociology School.

wn.com/Bete_Mendes





Beth Carvalho

                            Elizabeth Santos Leal de Carvalho known professionally as Beth Carvalho (born May 5, 1946 in Rio de Janeiro) is a Brazilian samba singer, guitarist, cavaquinist and composer.

Carvalho was raised in a middle class family in Rio de Janeiro's South Zone. Her father, João Francisco Leal de Carvalho, was a lawyer. She grew up influenced by different types of music. Her father used to take her to samba school rehearsals, and her mother was a lover of classical music who encouraged her to become a ballerina. She started playing the guitar as a teenager, and got involved with the emerging Bossa Nova movement, winning a nationwide song contest on TV at the age of 19. Her first record was 1968's "Andança", carrying the song of the same name to victory in a larger festival, which brought her to prominence. Although she started her career with Bossa Nova, that was an ephemeral phase which lasted less than one year. Beth started dedicating herself entirely to samba just as her fame began, working with legendary composers such as Nelson Sargento.

wn.com/Beth_Carvalho





Boyko Borisov

                            Boyko Metodiev Borisov (Bulgarian: Бойко Методиев Борисов, IPA: [ˈbɔjko mɛˈtɔdiɛf boˈrisof]; born 13 June 1959) is a Bulgarian politician who has been Prime Minister of Bulgaria since July 2009. Previously he was Mayor of Sofia from 8 November 2005 until his election as Prime Minister.

After his party, GERB, won the July 2009 parliamentary election, Borisov became Bulgaria's 50th Prime Minister on 27 July 2009.

Borisov was born in 1959 in Bankya (then a village, today a town part of greater Sofia) to Ministry of Internal Affairs official Metodi Borisov and elementary school teacher Veneta Borisova. Between 1982 and 1990, he assumed different positions in the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a firefighter and later as a professor at the Police Academy in Sofia. As a National Security Office member, Borisov took part in the protection of crops and haylofts during the name-changing campaign towards ethnic Turks in the 1980s. He quit the Ministry in 1990. In 1991 he founded a private security company, Ipon-1, and later guarded personalities like Todor Zhivkov and Simeon II. Borisov has been actively participating in karate championships since 1978, serving as the coach of the Bulgarian national team and a referee of international matches. He currently has a 7th dan black belt in karate and is the chairman of the Bulgarian Karate Federation. Borisov has also been a coach for the Bulgarian national karate team for many years.

wn.com/Boyko_Borisov





Café Filho

                            João Fernandes Campos Café Filho (Portuguese: [ˈjuɐ̃w feɾˈnɐ̃dis ˈkɐ̃pus kaˈfɛ ˈfiʎu]; 1899–1970) was a Brazilian politician. Born in Natal, Rio Grande do Norte state, Café Filho was a journalist and federal deputy, elected vice-president in 1950, under Getúlio Vargas. Following the Vargas suicide in 1954, Café Filho assumed the presidency. Two months before the end of his term (which was due to expire on January 31, 1956), he temporarily withdrew from leadership of the government, citing poor health. Later he tried to resume his post, but was prevented from doing so by the Congress and the military, who suspected that he would not allow the president-elect Juscelino Kubitschek to take the oath of office. An Evangelical Christian, he was the first Protestant to become President of Brazil and the first President of Brazil to be born a citizen of the República Velha.

wn.com/Café_Filho




Carlos Lamarca

                            Carlos Lamarca (October 23, 1937 – September 17, 1971) was a Brazilian Army Captain who deserted to become a communist guerilla member. He was a part of the revolutionary guerrilla group Popular Revolutionary Vanguard (Vanguarda Popular Revolucionária - VPR) and became, along with Carlos Marighella, one of the major elements of communist subversion in Brazil. Lamarca was the only man in the republican History of Brazil to receive the status of traitor, being considered an "enemy of the state" by the military dictatorship of the time. 

Carlos Lamarca was born on October 23, 1937 in the city of Rio de Janeiro. In 1955, he joined the Preparatory School of Military Cadets in Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul. Two years later he was transferred to the Military Academy of Agulhas Negras in Resende, Rio de Janeiro, in which he graduated as one of the lower ranking cadets of his class, being the 46th placer out of a class of 57 cadets (1960).

Lamarca was a member of the United Nations Peacekeeping forces in Gaza during the Suez War. He later returned to Brazil, where he supported the military coup. In 1967, he was promoted to Captain. In 1969, he deserted from the Army to join VPR, stealing in the process a truck full of military equipment with him.

wn.com/Carlos_Lamarca





Carlos Luz

                            Carlos Coimbra da Luz (Portuguese: [ˈkaɾlus koˈĩbrɐ da ˈlus]; 1894–1961) was a Brazilian politician. After the political crisis following the Getúlio Vargas suicide in 1954, Carlos Luz was the second of three presidents that ruled Brazil in a brief period of 16 months. At the time of President Café Filho's alleged illness he was the president of the Chamber of Deputies, and so the next in the line of succession to the Presidency, since Café Filho had been the Vice President under Vargas. Luz headed the government only two days in November 1955 and was deposed by the Minister of Defense Teixeira Lott over his fear that Luz may support a plot to prevent President-elect Juscelino Kubitschek from taking office.

wn.com/Carlos_Luz





Carlos Minc

                            Carlos Minc (born July 12, 1951 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) is a Brazilian geographer, professor, environmentalist, politician and Minister of Environment in Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's second term as president of Brazil.

Minc was born on July 12, 1951. He studied at Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro. He was a student leader and participated in resistance against the military dictatorship. He was arrested in 1969 and exiled. In 1979, with the help from Amnesty, he returned to Brazil.

In 1978, Minc completed his Master's degree from the Technical University of Lisbon. He completed his doctorate from the University of Paris in 1984.

Minc is married and has two children.

Minc was one of the founding members of the Green Party, together with Fernando Gabeira, Alfredo Sirkis, and others.

Minc was elected Member state for the first time in 1986, in coalition with Workers' Party. He was re-elected in 1994, 1998, and 2002.

On November 22, 2006, Sérgio Cabral Filho, governor of the state of Rio de Janeiro, appointed Minc for the post of secretary of environment.

wn.com/Carlos_Minc





Cecília Meireles

                            Cecília Benevides de Carvalho Meireles (Rio de Janeiro, 1901–1964) was a Brazilian writer and educator, known principally as a poet. She is a canonical name of Brazilian Modernism, one of the great female poets in the Portuguese language, and is widely considered the best poetess from Brazil, though she combatted the word "poetess" because of gender discrimination.

She traveled in the Americas in the 1940s, visiting the United States, Mexico, Argentina, Uruguay and Chile. In the summer of 1940 she gave lectures at the University of Texas, Austin. She wrote two poems about her time in the capital of Texas, and a long (800 lines) very socially aware poem "USA 1940", which was published posthumously. As a journalist her columns (crônicas, or chronicles) focused most often on education, but also on her trips abroad in the western hemisphere, Portugal, other parts of Europe, Israel, and India (where she received an honorary doctorate).

As a poet, her style was mostly neosymbolist and her themes included ephemeral time and the contemplative life. Even though she was not concerned with local color, native vernacular, or experiments in (popular) syntax, she is considered one of the most important poets of the second phase of the Brazilian Modernism, known for nationalistic vanguardism. As a teacher she did much to promote educational reforms and advocated the construction of children's libraries. Between 1935 and 1938 she taught at the short-lived federal-district university in Rio.

wn.com/Cecília_Meireles





Celso Amorim

                            Celso Luiz Nunes Amorim (born 3 June 1942) is a Brazilian diplomat who has been Minister of Defence since August 2011. Amorim was the Minister of Foreign Relations from 1993 to 1995 under President Itamar Franco and again from 2003 to 2011 under President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.

Before his appointment by Lula, Amorim served as Brazil's ambassador to the United Kingdom. On 7 October 2009, Amorim was named the "world's best foreign minister" by Foreign Policy magazine blogger David Rothkopf. On 4 August 2011, Amorim was invited by President Dilma Rousseff to assume the Ministry of Defence.

Amorim was born in Santos, São Paulo, on 3 June 1942. He is married to Ana Maria Amorim and has four children: Vicente, Anita, João, and Pedro.

He graduated from the Rio Branco Institute, an undergraduate school of international relations run by the Ministry of External Relations, in 1965, and obtained his post-graduate degree in International Relations from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna in 1967.

Amorim was a Portuguese language professor at the Rio Branco Institute, as well as political science and international relations professor at the University of Brasília. He is a permanent member of the Foreign Affairs Department of the University of São Paulo Institute of Advanced Studies.

wn.com/Celso_Amorim





Che Guevara

                            Ernesto "Che" Guevara (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈtʃe ɣeˈβaɾa]; June 14, 1928 – October 9, 1967), commonly known as el Che or simply Che, was an Argentine Marxist revolutionary, physician, author, intellectual, guerrilla leader, diplomat, and military theorist. A major figure of the Cuban Revolution, his stylized visage has become a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia within popular culture.

As a young medical student, Guevara traveled throughout Latin America and was radically transformed by the endemic poverty and alienation he witnessed. His experiences and observations during these trips led him to conclude that the region's ingrained economic inequalities were an intrinsic result of capitalism, monopolism, neocolonialism, and imperialism, with the only remedy being world revolution. This belief prompted his involvement in Guatemala's social reforms under President Jacobo Arbenz, whose eventual CIA-assisted overthrow solidified Guevara's political ideology. Later, while living in Mexico City, he met Raúl and Fidel Castro, joined their 26th of July Movement, and sailed to Cuba aboard the yacht, Granma, with the intention of overthrowing U.S.-backed Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista. Guevara soon rose to prominence among the insurgents, was promoted to second-in-command, and played a pivotal role in the victorious two-year guerrilla campaign that deposed the Batista regime.

wn.com/Che_Guevara





Chico Buarque

                            Francisco Buarque de Hollanda (born June 19, 1944 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil), popularly known as Chico Buarque (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʃikʊ ˈbwaɾkɪ]), is a singer, guitarist, composer, dramatist, writer and poet. He is best known for his music, which often includes social, economic and cultural commentary on Brazil and Rio de Janeiro in particular.

Son of the academic Sérgio Buarque de Hollanda, Buarque lived in several locations throughout his childhood, though mostly in Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Italy. He wrote and studied literature as a child and came to music through the bossa nova compositions of João Gilberto. He performed music throughout the 1960s as well as writing a play that was deemed dangerous by the Brazilian military dictatorship of the time. Buarque, along with several of his fellow musicians, were threatened by the government and eventually left Brazil in 1970. He moved to Italy again. However, he came back to Brazil in 1971, one year before the others, and continued to record albums, perform, and write, though much of his material was not allowed by government censors. He released several more albums in the 1980s and published three novels in the 1990s and 2000s, all of which were acclaimed critically.

wn.com/Chico_Buarque





David Cameron

                            David William Donald Cameron (pronunciation: /ˈkæmərən/; born 9 October 1966) is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, First Lord of the Treasury, Minister for the Civil Service and Leader of the Conservative Party. He represents Witney as its Member of Parliament (MP).

Cameron studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at Oxford, gaining a first class honours degree. He then joined the Conservative Research Department and became Special Adviser to Norman Lamont, and then to Michael Howard. He was Director of Corporate Affairs at Carlton Communications for seven years.

He was defeated in his first candidacy for Parliament at Stafford in 1997, but was elected in 2001 as the Member of Parliament for the Oxfordshire constituency of Witney. He was promoted to the Opposition front bench two years later, and rose rapidly to become head of policy co-ordination during the 2005 general election campaign. With a public image of a youthful, moderate candidate who would appeal to young voters, he won the Conservative leadership election in 2005.

wn.com/David_Cameron





Delfim Moreira

                            Delfim Moreira da Costa Ribeiro (Portuguese: [dewˈfim moˈrejrɐ da ˈkɔstɐ riˈbejru]; 7 November 1868 – 1 July 1920) was a Brazilian politician. He was born in Minas Gerais state, and was elected vice-president in 1918. He assumed the presidency on November 15, 1918, due to the illness and death of former (1902–1906) and now President-Elect Rodrigues Alves. However, Moreira suffered from psychological problems, and left his duties to the ministers. Following the constitution, he called elections in 1919 and returned to the vice-presidency until his death. He was born to a Portuguese father and to a Portuguese Brazilian mother who traced her ancestry back to the early settlers of Brazil.


wn.com/Delfim_Moreira





Deodoro da Fonseca

Marshal Manuel Deodoro da Fonseca (Portuguese pronunciation: [mɐnuˈɛɫ deoˈdɔɾu da fõˈsekɐ]; 5 August 1827 – 23 August 1892) became the first president of the Republic of Brazil after heading a military coup that deposed Emperor Pedro II and proclaimed the Republic in 1889, dis-establishing the Empire of Brazil.


Fonseca was born the third child of a large military family in Vila Madalena, Alagoas, a town that today bears his name as Marechal Deodoro, in Northeast Brazil. He was the son of Manuel Mendes da Fonseca Galvão (1785-1859) and his wife Rosa Maria Paulina de Barros Cavalcanti (1802-1873). In the period of the Brazilian Empire, his older brother Severino Martins da Fonseca was created the first Baron of Alagoas. Another notable relative was the Portuguese humanist Francisco de Holanda (d. 1585), his remote uncle. Fonseca pursued a military career that was notable for his suppression of the Praieira revolt in Pernambuco in 1848, Brazil's response to the European year of failed liberal revolutions. He also saw action during the Paraguayan War (1864–1870), attaining the rank of captain. In 1884 he was promoted to the rank of field-marshal, and he later achieved the rank of full marshal. His personal courage, military competence and manly personal style made him a national figure.

wn.com/Deodoro_da_Fonseca





Dilma Rousseff

                            Dilma Vana Rousseff (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈdʒiwmɐ χuˈsɛf] born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.

The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte. She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured.

After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years. Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations. In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT).

wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff





Dominique Voynet

                            Dominique Voynet (born 4 November 1958 in Montbéliard, Doubs département, France) is the mayor of Montreuil and a member of Europe Écologie–The Greens. She was a French senator for the département of Seine-Saint-Denis.

Dominique Voynet trained as a doctor, specifically as an anaesthetist. During her studies in the late 1970s, she began participating in environmental activism. She fought against the establishment of nuclear reactors in Fessenheim and Malville, and the deforestation of the Vosges area on behalf of the Belfort Association for the Protection of Nature.

She also became a member of Amnesty International and the French Democratic Confederation of Labour (CFDT). In her student years, she was a broadcaster for an independent radio station, "Radio ondes rouges" (Red Radio Waves). Her pacifist and environmental efforts continued with her membership of Front de lutte antimilitariste (FLAM, "Front for the Antimilitarist Struggle") and Friends of the Earth.

Politics tempted her at this time, however the issues that were dear to her – social efforts, peace and environmentalism – were not represented in France by any party at the time. For this reason, she became one of the founding members of The Greens in France.

wn.com/Dominique_Voynet





Donald Ramotar

                            Donald Ramotar (born 22 October 1950) is a Guyanese politician who has been President of Guyana since December 2011. He has been the General Secretary of the People's Progressive Party (PPP) since 1997.

Ramotar joined the PPP in 1967 and was first elected to the PPP Central Committee in 1979; he joined the PPP Executive Committee in 1983. He received a degree in economics from the University of Guyana. From 1988 to 1993, he was International Secretary of the Guyana Agricultural Workers' Union. In the 1992 election, in which the PPP under Cheddi Jagan won power for first time in decades, Ramotar was elected to the National Assembly of Guyana; he was continuously re-elected thereafter. He was designated as the PPP's Executive Secretary in 1993. Following Jagan's death in March 1997, Ramotar was unanimously elected to succeed him as the PPP's General Secretary on March 29, 1997.

At the PPP's 29th Congress, he was re-elected to its Central Committee on August 2, 2008, receiving the fourth-highest number of votes (637). Following the Congress, he was re-elected by the Central Committee as General Secretary on August 12, 2008, without opposition; he was also elected to the editorial board of the PPP paper Thunder on this occasion.

wn.com/Donald_Ramotar





Dési Bouterse

                            Desiré Delano "Dési" Bouterse (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈbɑutərsə]) (born 13 October 1945) is a Surinamese politician who has been the ninth President of Suriname since 2010.

As an army officer, he was the de facto leader of Suriname through most of the 1980s, serving as Chairman of the National Military Council. Later, as leader of the National Democratic Party (Nationale Democratische Partij, NDP), Bouterse was elected as President of Suriname on 19 July 2010 and inaugurated on 12 August 2010.

Born in Paramaribo District, Bouterse grew up in Suriname. He attended the Middelbare Handelsschool and acquired the MULO diploma (roughly equivalent to junior secondary general education). He received his military education in the Netherlands.

Bouterse's name is closely bound with the military regime that controlled Suriname from the 1980 Surinamese coup d'état until the beginning of the 1990s. On 25 February 1980, the government of newly-independent Suriname underwent a military coup which declared the country to be a Socialist Republic and Bouterse became Chairman of the National Military Council. President Johan Ferrier was forced out of office by Bouterse pressure in August 1980, and several months after the coup d'état by Bouterse most of the political authority transferred to the military leadership. From then until 1988, the titular Presidents were essentially army-installed by Bouterse, who ruled as a de facto leader with few practical checks on his power.

wn.com/Dési_Bouterse





Elba Ramalho

                            Elba Ramalho, (born on August 17, 1951 in Conceição, Paraíba) is a Brazilian songwriter, performer, poet and actress. She is sometimes called "The Queen of Forró".

In addition to her successful solo career, Elba has collaborated with a number of well-established Brazilian acts, including Alceu Valença and her first cousin Zé Ramalho.

wn.com/Elba_Ramalho





Elisaveta Bagriana

                            Elisaveta Bagryana (Bulgarian: Елисавета Багряна) (April 16, 1893 – March 23, 1991), born Elisaveta Lyubomirova Belcheva (Bulgarian: Елисавета Любомирова Белчева), was a Bulgarian poet who wrote her first verses while living with her family in Veliko Tarnovo in 1907–08. She, along with Dora Gabe (1886–1983), is considered one of the Bulgarian mothers of literature.

Bagryana taught in the village of Aftane, where she experienced rural life, from 1910 to 1911, after which she studied Slavic philology at Sofia University. Her first poems were published in 1915 – Why ("Защо") and Night Song ("Вечерна песен") – in the magazine Contemporary Thought (Съвременна мисъл).

It was after World War I ended that she truly entered into the literary world, at a time when poetry was undergoing a transformation. By 1921, she was already active in the literary life, and was collaborating on the Newspaper of the Woman ("Вестник на жената") and the magazine Modernity("Съвременник"), among other publications.

With the arrival of her first book, The Eternal and the Holy ("Вечната и святата", 1927), she earned the confirmation of her peers. She also started writing children’s stories. Her poems are straightforward, sensitive and serious, as in The Well ("Кладенецът"), a fable-like piece relating a well she dug when a little girl to the wellspring of poetry in her soul. They often are undeniably feminine – as in the poem The Eternal, in which the writer contemplates the body of a dead mother, or Evening Prayer – and spirited, as shown by the youthful, rebellious spirit in The Elements.

wn.com/Elisaveta_Bagriana





Epitácio Pessoa

                            Epitácio Lindolfo da Silva Pessoa (Portuguese pronunciation: [epiˈtasju lĩˈdowfu da ˈsiwvɐ peˈsoɐ]; 23 May 1865 – 13 February 1942) was a Brazilian politician and jurist, and president of the republic between 1919 and 1922, when Rodrigues Alves could not take office due to illness after being elected in 1918. His period of government was marked by military revolts that would culminate in the Revolution of 1930, which brought Getúlio Vargas into control of the federal government.

In addition to his term as president, Pessoa served as Minister of Justice, a justice in the Supreme Federal Tribunal, Attorney General, a two-term Federal Deputy, a three-term Senator, Chief of the Brazilian delegation for the Treaty of Versailles, and a judge on the Permanent Court of International Justice.

Epitácio Pessoa was born in Umbuzeiro, a small town in the state of Paraíba. His parents died of smallpox when he was only seven years old. He was taken in and educated by his uncle Henrique de Lucena, then the governor of Pernambuco. Pessoa endured a very poor childhood, but with great effort managed to earn a degree in law. He went on to join the Faculty of Law at the University of Pernambuco as a professor. He eventually made his way to Rio de Janeiro.

wn.com/Epitácio_Pessoa





Erenice Guerra

                            Erenice Alves Guerra (born February 15, 1959) was the 41st Chief of Staff of Brazil. She is best known for resigning from the post of Chief of Staff due to credible allegations of corruption and nepotism for which she was publicly reprimanded by the President's Public Ethics Committee. She was born in Brasília and is a law graduate, specialized in Health Law.

She was Chief of Staff of the Secretariat of Public Security of the Federal District Government (GDF) and general manager of the Brasília Metro. She was also head of the legal department of the Brasília Society of Collective Transport (TCB).

At the federal administration level, she was manager of Eletronorte, Attorney General of the National School of Public Administration (ENAP), Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and consultant of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) at the Ministry of Health. She also worked in the council of the Chamber of Deputies of Brazil.

Erenice was an advisor at Petrobras and the São Francisco Hydroelectric Company (CHESF). Currently she is member of the board of directors of the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES).

wn.com/Erenice_Guerra





Ernesto Geisel

                            Ernesto Beckmann Geisel, (Portuguese pronunciation: [eɾˈnɛstu ˈbɛkmɐ̃ ˈɡajzew]; 3 August 1907 – 12 September 1996) was a Brazilian military leader and politician of German descent who was President of Brazil from 1974 to 1979.

Ernesto Geisel was born in Bento Gonçalves, Rio Grande do Sul. His father was Guilherme Augusto Geisel (born Wilhelm August Geisel), a German teacher from Herborn. He immigrated to Brazil in 1883, at 16. The mother was the homemaker Lydia Beckmann, born in Brazil (Teutônia) to German parents from Osnabrück. In Bento Gonçalves, where he was raised, there were only two families of German origin- the Geisel and the Dreher- while the majority of the population was composed of Italian immigrants. About the contact with the local Italian immigrants during his childhood Geisel described the cultural contrasts between the strict and rigorous education that his German parents imposed compared to the freedom and more relaxed way of life that his Italian friends had, whom he admired. Geisel was raised in a Lutheran family (the grandfather was a priest) and he claimed to be part of a lower middle class, relatively poor family. At home, Geisel spoke German as well as Portuguese because his father, who spoke Portuguese so well that became a teacher of this language, did not want his children to speak Portuguese with a foreign accent. As an adult, Geisel reported that he was able to understand the German language, but was not able to write it and had some difficulty speaking it.

wn.com/Ernesto_Geisel





Eurico Gaspar Dutra

                            Eurico Gaspar Dutra (Portuguese: [ewˈɾiku ɡasˈpaɾ ˈdutrɐ]; 1883–1974), was a Brazilian marshal, politician and president of Brazil from 1946–1951.

He was born in Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, and like many other Brazilians, was from Azorean-Portuguese origin. In 1936, he was appointed as Minister of War, a post he held until the end of WWII.

Gaspar Dutra was one of the generals in charge of the soldiers on the Brazilian Expeditionary Force that entered World War II, and he succeeded José Linhares in the presidency.

He left it in 1951 and until then, he was considered as a presidential candidate.

Gaspar Dutra died in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil's former capital.


wn.com/Eurico_Gaspar_Dutra





Evo Morales

                            Juan Evo Morales Ayma (born October 26, 1959), popularly known as Evo (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈeβo]), is a Bolivian politician and activist, serving as the 80th President of Bolivia, a position that he has held since 2006. He is also the leader of both the Movement for Socialism party (MAS) and the cocalero trade union. Politically a socialist, his presidency has seen a focus on implementing leftist policies in the country, introducing a new constitution, land reforms, nationalising various key industries, opposing United States and corporate involvement in the country's politics, and poverty reduction measures.

Born into a working class Aymara family in Isallawi, Orinoca Canton, Evo grew up aiding his parents as a subsistence farmer. After studying for a degree, Morales undertook national service until 1978, when he returned to the family profession of farming, moving with them to Chapare Province. He eventually settled into growing coca, the plant from which cocaine is made. His activism led him into the political arena, and he eventually became the leader of the MAS, through which he got involved in social protests like the gas conflict and the Cochabamba protests of 2000. The MAS claimed that its aims were giving more power to the country's indigenous and poor communities by means of land reforms and redistribution of gas wealth, and gradually increased its electoral support.

wn.com/Evo_Morales





Felipe Calderón

                            Felipe de Jesús Calderón Hinojosa (Spanish pronunciation: [feˈlipe kaldeˈɾon] ( listen); born August 18, 1962) is the current President of Mexico. He assumed office on December 1, 2006, and was elected for a single six-year term through 2012. He is a member of the Partido Acción Nacional (PAN), one of the three major Mexican political parties.

Prior to the presidency, Calderón received two masters degrees and went on to work within the PAN while it was still an important opposition party. Calderón served as National President of the party, Federal Deputy, and Secretary of Energy in Vicente Fox's cabinet.

He served in the cabinet of the previous administration up until he resigned to run for the Presidency and secured his party's nomination. The Federal Electoral Institute's official electoral results gave Felipe Calderón the largest vote total and the presidency but the decision was contested by Andrés Manuel López Obrador. Calderón's victory was confirmed on September 5, 2006 by the Federal Electoral Tribunal.

wn.com/Felipe_Calderón





Fernanda Montenegro

                            Fernanda Montenegro (born Arlete Pinheiro Esteves da Silva; October 16, 1929) is a Brazilian stage, television and film actress, mostly recognized for her leading role in Central Station, which she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the first Brazilian actor to be nominated.

She is commonly revered as one of Brazil's finest actresses and referred to as "The First Lady of Brazilian Theater" and "The First Lady of Brazilian Television".

Montenegro was born Arlete Pinheiro Esteves da Silva in Rio de Janeiro, of Portuguese and Italian descent. Regarding the adoption of a stage name, the actress has stated that she chose Fernanda simply because of its sonority, whilst Montenegro was the surname of her family's doctor. Montenegro was married to Fernando Torres from 1954 until his death in 2008. They had two children: Fernanda Torres who is an actress and has been nominated for the Cannes Film Festival and film director Cláudio Torres.

In late 1940s, Montenegro was adapting famous theatre plays to radio. She began her artistic life in the theatre with the play Alegres Canções nas Montanhas (Happy Songs on the Mountain) in 1950. Among her mates was Fernando Torres, who would soon become her husband. In the next years she worked with other acclaimed actors like Sérgio Britto, Cacilda Becker, Nathalia Timberg, Cláudio Correa e Castro and Ítalo Rossi. In 1951 she become one of the TV's pioneers in Brazil, working in Rio de Janeiro's TV Tupi - the second TV station of South America. She played in several plays on TV between 1951 and 1970.

wn.com/Fernanda_Montenegro





Fernanda Takai

                            Fernanda Barbosa Takai (born August 25, 1971, in Serra do Navio, Amapá) is a Brazilian singer, better known as the lead vocalist of rock band Pato Fu. She has also been working on a solo career since 2007, and recorded a single solo album.

In 2011, she collaborated with Atom™, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Moreno Veloso on the track "Águas de Março" for the Red Hot Organization's most recent charitable album "Red Hot+Rio 2." The album is a follow-up to the 1996 "Red Hot + Rio." Proceeds from the sales will be donated to raise awareness and money to fight AIDS/HIV and related health and social issues.

Takai was raised in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais. She is of Japanese and Portuguese descent. Since the year 2007, she's been working on a solo career, but hasn't left Pato Fu.

wn.com/Fernanda_Takai





Fernando Lugo

                            Fernando Armindo Lugo Méndez (Spanish pronunciation: [ferˈnando arˈmindo ˈluɣo ˈmendeθ]; born 30 May 1951) is the President of Paraguay, and a former Roman Catholic bishop of the Diocese of San Pedro.

Lugo's family was not particularly religious; by his own account, he never saw his father set foot in a church.[citation needed] However, the influences during his upbringing were distinctly political. His maternal uncle, Epifanio Méndes Fleitas, was a Colorado Party dissident and was persecuted and exiled by General Stroessner's regime. Lugo's father was imprisoned twenty times, and some of his elder siblings were sent into exile. He received his basic education at a religious school in Encarnación, all the while he worked selling snacks on the streets.[citation needed]

Aged 17 or 18, against his father's wishes for him to become a lawyer, Lugo entered a normal school, and began teaching at a rural community. He was well accepted within this people, who were very religious, but they had no priest. He recalls that he was touched by that experience, discovering his vocation to the Roman Catholic priesthood, and he decided to enter a seminary operated by the Society of the Divine Word at age 19. Lugo was ordained a priest on 15 August 1977. That year he was sent to Ecuador, where he served as a missionary for five years. In Ecuador he had the opportunity to learn about the controversial liberation theology, a movement later criticized in large measure by the Vatican.

wn.com/Fernando_Lugo





Fidel Castro

                            Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (Spanish: [fiˈðel ˈkastro]; born August 13, 1926) is a Cuban revolutionary and politician, having held the position of Prime Minister of Cuba from 1959 to 1976, and then President from 1976 to 2008. He also served as the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba from the party's foundation in 1961 until 2011. Politically a Marxist-Leninist, under his administration the Republic of Cuba was converted into a one-party socialist state, with industry and business being nationalized under state ownership and socialist reforms implemented in all areas of society. On the international stage, he also served as the Secretary-General of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1979 to 1983 and 2006 to 2008.

wn.com/Fidel_Castro





Financial Times

                            The Financial Times (FT) is an international business newspaper. It is a morning daily newspaper published in London and printed in 24 cities around the world.

Along with FT.com, it has an average daily readership of 2.1 million people worldwide (PwC audited figures, November 2011). FT.com has 4 million registered users and 250,000 digital subscribers, as well as 585,681 paying users. FT Chinese has more than 1.7 million registered users. The Financial Times in print format has an average daily circulation of three hundred and five thousand copies worldwide (the British edition has a daily circulation of eighty eight thousand and a combined Saturday and Sunday, weekend, circulation of one hundred and thirteen thousand copies), as of April 2012.

Founded in 1888 by James Sheridan and Horatio Bottomley, the Financial Times competed with four other finance-oriented newspapers, in 1945 absorbing the last, the Financial News (founded in 1884). The FT specialises in UK and international business and financial news, and is printed as a broadsheet on light salmon paper.

wn.com/Financial_Times





Floriano Peixoto

                            Floriano Vieira de Araújo Peixoto (Portuguese pronunciation: [floriˈɐ̃nu viˈejrɐ dʒi araˈuʒu pejˈʃotu] 30 April 1839 — 29 July 1895), born in Ipioca (today a district of the city of Maceió in the State of Alagoas), was a Brazilian soldier and politician, a veteran of the Paraguayan War, and the second president of Brazil.

Floriano Peixoto was an army Marshal when elected vice-president in February 1891. Later, in November 1891, he rose to the presidency following the resignation of Marshal Deodoro da Fonseca, the first president of Brazil. Floriano Peixoto came to the presidency in a difficult period of the new Brazilian Republic, which was in the midst of a general political and economic crisis made worse by the effects of the bursting of the Encilhamento economic bubble.

Floriano Peixoto defeated a naval officers' rebellion against him in 1893–1894 and a seditious military movement in the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina during the same years. His government was marked by increased centralization of power and nationalism.

wn.com/Floriano_Peixoto





François Hollande

                            François Gérard Georges Nicolas Hollande (French pronunciation: [fʁɑ̃swa ɔlɑ̃d]; born 12 August 1954) is the 24th President of the French Republic and ex officio Co-Prince of Andorra. He previously served as the First Secretary of the French Socialist Party from 1997 to 2008 and as a Deputy of the National Assembly of France for Corrèze's 1st Constituency from 1988 to 1993 and then again from 1997 to 2012. He also served as the Mayor of Tulle from 2001 to 2008 and the President of the General Council of Corrèze from 2008 to 2012.

He was elected President of France on 6 May 2012, defeating the incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy, and was inaugurated on 15 May. He is the second Socialist President of the Fifth French Republic, after François Mitterrand who served from 1981 to 1995.

Hollande was born in Rouen, Seine-Maritime, Upper Normandy, to a middle-class family. His mother, Nicole Frédérique Marguerite Tribert (1927–2009), was a social worker, and his father, Georges Gustave Hollande, an ear, nose, and throat doctor who "had once run for the extreme right in local politics." The surname "Hollande" is "believed to come from Calvinist ancestors who escaped Holland (the Netherlands) in the 16th century and took the name of their old country." Hollande was raised Catholic but quietly rebelled against the strict religious brothers chosen by his father to educate him. The family moved to Neuilly, a suburb of Paris, when Hollande was 13.

wn.com/François_Hollande





Getúlio Vargas

                            Getúlio Dornelles Vargas (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒeˈtuliu doɾˈnɛlis ˈvaɾɡɐs]; 19 April 1882 – 24 August 1954) served as President of Brazil, first as dictator, from 1930 to 1945, and in a democratically elected term from 1951 until his suicide in 1954. Vargas led Brazil for 18 years, the most for any President, and second in Brazilian history only to Emperor Pedro II among heads of government. He favored nationalism, industrialization, centralization, social welfare and populism – for the latter, Vargas won the nickname "O Pai dos Pobres" (Portuguese for "The Father of the Poor"). Despite his promotion of workers' rights, Vargas was a staunch anti-communist.

Vargas was brought to power by political outsiders and the rank and file of the Armed Forces in the Revolution of 1930, a reaction to his loss in rigged elections earlier that year. His ascent marked the end of the Brazilian oligarchic Old Republic and states' dominated café com leite politics. He successfully influenced the outcome of the Brazilian presidential election of 1934, and instituted an authoritarian corporatist regime in 1937 known as the Estado Novo ("New State"), prolonging his hold onto power. Vargas went on to appease and eventually dominate his supporters, and pushed his political agenda as he built a propaganda machine around his figure.

wn.com/Getúlio_Vargas





Gleisi Hoffmann

                            Gleisi Helena Hoffmann (born September 6, 1965 in Curitiba, Brazil) is a lawyer and Brazilian politician. Since June 8, 2011, she is Chief of Staff of Brazil.

Born into a religious family of German origin, she began her involvement in politics in the student movement during her youth, becoming a Partido dos Trabalhadores' member in 1989.

Known for her public management skills, Hoffmann has served as state secretary in Mato Grosso do Sul and as municipal secretary in the city of Londrina. She was a member of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's presidential transition team in 2002, and served as the financial director at the hydroelectric dam Itaipu Binacional from 2003 to 2006. She ran for the Federal Senate of Brazil in 2006 and for the office of mayor of Curitiba in 2008, losing both elections. At the time, she was the president of PT in the state of Paraná.

In October 2010, Hoffmann was elected to the Senate, receiving over 3.1 million votes, the most voted senator from the state of Paraná and the first woman to hold the office. After four months in office, she was appointed Chief of Staff, the highest-ranking member of Brazil's Executive Office, by President Dilma Rousseff.

wn.com/Gleisi_Hoffmann





Hermes da Fonseca

                            Hermes Rodrigues da Fonseca (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈɛɾmis roˈdriɡis da fõˈsekɐ]; May 12, 1855 – September 9, 1923) was a Brazilian soldier and politician. The nephew of Deodoro da Fonseca, the first Brazilian President, he was the country's Minister of War in 1906. In 1910, he was elected as the 8th president of Brazil, serving until 1914.

He was on an official visit to Portugal when the revolution that overthrew the Portuguese monarchy and replaced it with a new republican regime took place.

His father was from Alagoas and served in the Brazilian armed forces; as part of his service, he was transferred to São Gabriel. Hermes was born in there in 1855. When his father was sent to the Paraguayan War, the family returned to Rio de Janeiro.

In 1871, at 16, he got his bachelor's degree in Science and Letters and enrolled in the Military Academy, where he was student of Benjamin Constant, a promoter of the ideas of Auguste Comte in Brazil. When he graduated, he served as aide-de-camp to Gaston, comte d'Eu.

wn.com/Hermes_da_Fonseca





Hu Jintao

                            Hu Jintao (Pinyin: Hú Jǐntāo, pronounced [xǔ tɕìntʰɑ́ʊ]; born 21 December 1942) is the current Paramount leader of the People's Republic of China. He has held the titles of General Secretary of the Communist Party of China since 2002, President of the People's Republic of China since 2003, and Chairman of the Central Military Commission since 2004, succeeding Jiang Zemin as the chief of the fourth generation of leadership of the Communist Party of China.

Hu has been involved in the Communist party bureaucracy for most of his adult life, notably as Party secretary for Guizhou province and the Tibet Autonomous Region, and then later first Secretary of the CPC Secretariat and Vice-President under former leader Jiang Zemin. Hu is the first leader of the Communist Party without any significant revolutionary credentials. As such, his rise to the presidency represented China's transition of leadership from establishment communists to younger, more pragmatic technocrats.

During his term in office, Hu has reintroduced state control in some sectors of the economy that were relaxed by the previous administration, and has been conservative with political reforms. Along with his colleague, Premier Wen Jiabao, Hu presided over nearly a decade of consistent economic growth and development that cemented China as a major world power. He sought to improve socio-economic equality domestically through the Scientific Development Concept, which aimed to build a "Harmonious Society" that was prosperous and free of social conflict. Meanwhile, Hu kept a tight lid on China politically, cracking down on social disturbances, ethnic minority protests, and dissident figures. In foreign policy, Hu advocated for "China's peaceful development", pursuing soft power in international relations and a business-oriented approach to diplomacy. Through Hu's tenure, China's influence in Africa, Latin America, and other developing countries has increased.

wn.com/Hu_Jintao





Hugo Chávez

                            Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈuɣo rafaˈel ˈtʃaβes ˈfɾi.as]; born 28 July 1954) is the current President of Venezuela, having held that position since 1999. He was formerly the leader of the Fifth Republic Movement political party from its foundation in 1997 until 2007, when he became the leader of the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV). Following his own political ideology of Bolivarianism and "Socialism for the 21st Century", he has focused on implementing socialist reforms in the country as a part of a social project known as the Bolivarian Revolution, which has seen the implementation of a new constitution, participatory democratic councils and the nationalisation of several key industries.

Born into a working class family in Sabaneta, Barinas, Chávez became a career military officer, and after becoming dissatisfied with the Venezuelan political system, he founded the secretive Revolutionary Bolivarian Movement-200 (MBR-200) in the early 1980s to work towards overthrowing it. Chávez led the MBR-200 in an unsuccessful coup d'état against the Democratic Action government of President Carlos Andrés Pérez government in 1992, for which he was imprisoned. Getting out of prison after two years, he founded a social democratic political party, the Fifth Republic Movement, and was elected president of Venezuela in 1998. He subsequently introduced a new constitution which increased rights for marginalised groups and altered the structure of Venezuelan government, and was re-elected in 2000. During his second presidential term, he introduced a system of Bolivarian Missions, Communal Councils and worker-managed cooperatives, as well as a program of land reform, whilst also nationalising various key industries.

wn.com/Hugo_Chávez





Itamar Franco

                            Itamar Augusto Cautiero Franco (Portuguese pronunciation: [itɐˈmaʁ ˈfɾɐ̃ku]; June 28, 1930 – July 2, 2011) was a Brazilian politician and the President of Brazil from December 29, 1992, to December 31, 1994. During his long political career, Franco was also a Senator, Mayor, Ambassador, Governor and Vice President. At the time of his death he was a Senator from Minas Gerais, having won the seat in the 2010 election.

Franco was born prematurely at sea, aboard a ship traveling between Salvador and Rio de Janeiro. On his father's side he was of partial German descent (the Stiebler family from Minas Gerais), while on the mother's side he was of Italian descent, with both of his maternal grandparents having emigrated to Brazil from Italy. His mother's name was "Itália", which means "Italy" in Portuguese and Italian. Franco's father died prior to his birth.

Franco was named Itamar because he was born on board the ship Ita, at sea (in Portuguese Mar). His family was from Juiz de Fora, Minas Gerais, where he grew up and became a civil engineer in 1955, graduating from the School of Engineering of Juiz de Fora.

wn.com/Itamar_Franco





Jacob Zuma

                            Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma (born 12 April 1942) is the President of South Africa,elected by parliament following his party's victory in the 2009 general election.

Zuma is the President of the African National Congress (ANC), the governing political party, and was Deputy President of South Africa from 1999 to 2005. Zuma is also referred to by his initials JZ and his clan name Msholozi. Zuma became the President of the ANC on 18 December 2007 after defeating incumbent Thabo Mbeki at the ANC conference in Polokwane. Zuma was also a member of the South African Communist Party (SACP), briefly serving on the party's Politburo until he left the party in 1990. On 20 September 2008, Thabo Mbeki announced his resignation after being recalled by the African National Congress's National Executive Committee, following a conclusion by Judge Nicholson of improper interference in the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), including the prosecution of Jacob Zuma for corruption.

Zuma has faced significant legal challenges. He was charged with rape in 2005, but was acquitted. In addition, he fought a long legal battle over allegations of racketeering and corruption, resulting from his financial advisor Schabir Shaik's conviction for corruption and fraud. On 6 April 2009, the National Prosecuting Authority decided to drop the charges, citing political interference.

wn.com/Jacob_Zuma





James Cameron

                            James Francis Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian film director, film producer, deep-sea explorer, screenwriter, visual artist and editor. His writing and directing work includes Piranha II: The Spawning (1981), The Terminator (1984), Aliens (1986), The Abyss (1989), Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), True Lies (1994), Titanic (1997), Dark Angel (2000–02), and Avatar (2009). In the time between making Titanic and Avatar, Cameron spent several years creating many documentary films (specifically underwater documentaries) and co-developed the digital 3D Fusion Camera System. Described by a biographer as part-scientist and part-artist, Cameron has also contributed to underwater filming and remote vehicle technologies. On March 26, 2012, Cameron reached the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of the ocean, in the Deepsea Challenger submersible.

He has been nominated for six Academy Awards overall and won three for Titanic. In total, Cameron's directorial efforts have grossed approximately US$2 billion in North America and US$6 billion worldwide. Without adjusting for inflation, Cameron's Titanic and Avatar are the two highest-grossing films of all time at $2.16 billion and $2.78 billion respectively. In March 2011 he was named Hollywood's top earner by Vanity Fair, with estimated 2010 earnings of $257 million.

wn.com/James_Cameron





Joan of Arc

                            Joan of Arc, nicknamed "The Maid of Orléans" (French: Jeanne d'Arc,IPA: [ʒan daʁk]; ca. 1412 – 30 May 1431), is a folk heroine of France and a Roman Catholic saint. A peasant girl born in what is now eastern France who claimed divine guidance, she led the French army to several important victories during the Hundred Years' War, which paved the way for the coronation of Charles VII of France. She was captured by the Burgundians, transferred to the English in exchange for money, put on trial by the pro-English Bishop of Beauvais Pierre Cauchon for charges of "insubordination and heterodoxy," and was burned at the stake for heresy when she was only 19 years old.

Twenty-five years after her execution, an inquisitorial court authorized by Pope Callixtus III examined the trial, pronounced her innocent, and declared her a martyr. Joan of Arc was beatified in 1909 and canonized in 1920. She is – along with St. Denis, St. Martin of Tours, St. Louis IX, and St. Theresa of Lisieux – one of the patron saints of France. Joan said that she had visions from God that instructed her to recover her homeland from English domination late in the Hundred Years' War. The uncrowned King Charles VII sent her to the siege of Orléans as part of a relief mission. She gained prominence when she overcame the dismissive attitude of veteran commanders and lifted the siege in only nine days. Several additional swift victories led to Charles VII's coronation at Reims and settled the disputed succession to the throne.

wn.com/Joan_of_Arc





José Bové

                            Joseph (José) Bové (born June 11, 1953 in Talence, Gironde) is a French farmer and syndicalist, member of the alter-globalization movement, and spokesman for Via Campesina. He was one of the twelve official candidates in the 2007 French presidential election. On 7 June 2009, he was elected to the European Parliament as a member of Europe Écologie, a coalition of French environmentalist political parties.

Bové was born in Talence, near Bordeaux, but raised in many different places, both inside and outside France, including the United States. Bové speaks English fluently, having followed his parents to Berkeley, California at the age of three, when they were invited to be researchers at the University of California, Berkeley.

Bové attended a Jesuit secondary school near Paris (from which he was expelled for being "faithless"). While at university, he associated with anarchists and pacifists. When asked to serve in the army, he fled France.

In 1976 Bové joined a movement protesting the proposed expansion of a military camp on the Larzac plateau, which would have displaced sheep farmers. He joined a band of peasants occupying the threatened territory and illegally building a sheep barn. The protest eventually succeeded and the military plan was cancelled. As a result of that experience he became a sheep farmer, producing Roquefort cheese on the Larzac.

wn.com/José_Bové





José Dirceu

                            José Dirceu de Oliveira e Silva (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒoˈzɛ dʒiʁˈsew]; b. Passa Quatro, Minas Gerais, March 16, 1946) is a Brazilian politician.

He participated in a revolutionary armed group following the Brazilian military coup of 1964, and was exiled in 1969. He returned in 1980 and was active politically, his highest post was as the chief-of-staff to Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's administration from 2003 to 2005, when he resigned due to corruption charges. 

Dirceu moved to São Paulo in 1961 and began his militancy by joining the "Ala Marighella" (later called the ALN) in 1966, a revolutionary armed group linked to the Brazilian Communist Party. In 1968 Dirceu, who was known as "Daniel", was the leader of the State Union of Students or UEE. As a consequence of his militancy in the student movement, Dirceu was arrested on October 12, 1968, during the 30th Congress of the National Student Union (UNE), in Ibiúna.

In 1969 the Marxist revolutionary groups MR8 and ALN abducted the US ambassador to Brazil Charles Burke Elbrick. The revolutionaries demanded the liberation of fifteen prisoners, including José Dirceu. This incident is the basis of the film Four Days in September.

wn.com/José_Dirceu





José Linhares

                            José Linhares, (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ ʎĩˈȷ̃aɾis]; January 28, 1886 – January 26, 1957). Brazilian Chief of Justice. He assumed the presidency of Brazil in 1945–1946, between the deposition of Getúlio Vargas and the oath of Eurico Gaspar Dutra. During his provisional administration, measures were taken to re-establish a democratic system of government.


wn.com/José_Linhares





José Manuel Barroso

                            José Manuel Durão Barroso (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ mɐnuˈɛɫ duˈɾɐ̃w bɐˈʁozu]; born 23 March 1956) is the 11th and current President of the European Commission and a Portuguese politician. He served as Prime Minister of Portugal from 6 April 2002 to 17 July 2004.

Durão Barroso (as he is known in Portugal) graduated in Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon and has an MSc in Economic and Social Sciences from the University of Geneva (Institut Européen de l'Université de Genève) in Switzerland. His academic career continued as an Assistant Professor in the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon. He did research for a PhD at Georgetown University and Georgetown's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service in Washington, D.C. but his CV does not list any doctoral degree (except honorary). He is a 1998 graduate of the Georgetown Leadership Seminar. Back in Lisbon, Barroso became Director of the Department for International Relations at Lusíada University (Universidade Lusíada). He received honorary degrees from many Universities listed under honorary degrees.

wn.com/José_Manuel_Barroso





José Mujica

                            José Alberto "Pepe" Mujica Cordano (Spanish pronunciation: [xoˈse muˈxika]; born May 20, 1935) is an Uruguayan politician who has been President of Uruguay since 2010. A former guerrilla fighter and a member of the Broad Front (left-wing coalition), Mujica was Minister of Livestock, Agriculture, and Fisheries from 2005 to 2008 and a Senator afterwards. As the candidate of the Broad Front, he won the 2009 presidential election and took office as President on 1 March 2010.

Mujica was born on 20 May 1935 to Demetrio Mujica, of Basque ancestry and Lucy Cordano of Italian descent. As a youth, Mujica was active in the National Party, where he became close to Enrique Erro.

In the early 1960s, he joined the newly formed Tupamaros movement, an armed political group inspired by the Cuban revolution. He participated in the 1969 brief takeover of Pando, a town close to Montevideo, and was later convicted by a military tribunal under the government of Jorge Pacheco Areco, who had suspended certain constitutional guarantees. Mujica was captured by the authorities on four occasions, and he was among those political prisoners who escaped Punta Carretas Prison in 1971. He was eventually re-apprehended in 1972, and was shot by the police six times. After the military coup in 1973, he was transferred to a military prison where he served 14 years. During the 1970s, this included being confined to the bottom of a well for more than two years. During his time in prison, he remained in contact with other leaders of the Tupamaros, including Frente Amplio Senator Eleuterio Fernández Huidobro and the founder and leader of the Tupamaros, Raúl Sendic.

wn.com/José_Mujica





José Sarney

                            José Sarney de Araújo Costa (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ saʁˈnej dʒj ɐɾaˈuʒu ˈkɔʃtɐ]; born 24 April 1930 in Pinheiro, Maranhão) is a Brazilian lawyer, writer and politician. He served as president of Brazil from 15 March 1985 to 15 March 1990.

Sarney ascended in the politics of his home state of Maranhão as part of the "Bossa Nova Generation" of UDN politicians in the 1950s, young idealists seeking to reorganize public administration and rid the government of corruption and old deleterious practices. During the Brazilian military dictatorship, which imposed a two-party system, Sarney affiliated himself with the government party, ARENA, becoming the president of the party in 1979. As the regime fell, however, ARENA split over the appointment of Paulo Maluf as Presidential candidate. Sarney joined the dissenters, being instrumental in the creation of the Liberal Front Party. He agreed to run for Vice-President on the ticket of Tancredo Neves, of PMDB, formerly the opposition party to the military government. Neves won the Presidential elections, but fell ill and died before taking office, and Sarney became President. He started out his term with great popularity, but public opinion shifted with the Brazilian debt crisis and the failure of Plano Cruzado to abate chronic inflation.

wn.com/José_Sarney





José Serra

                            José Serra (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ ˈsɛʁɐ]; born March 19, 1942 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian politician, former secretary of state, congressman, senator, minister of Planning and Minister of Health, mayor of São Paulo and Governor of São Paulo state.

José Serra was born in São Paulo's neighbourhood called Mooca to Francesco Serra, an Italian immigrant from Corigliano Calabro, Calabria and Serafina Chirico, a Brazilian born to Italian parents. Serra comes from a lower middle class family. His father was semi-illiterate and worked as a fruit vendor in a market of São Paulo, but he was able to send his only child to a college.

Serra interrupted his studies in engineering at age 22 and left the country in 1964, after the coup that established the military government era in Brazil. Serra had come to the attention of the authorities having served as President of the National Student Union União Nacional dos Estudantes (UNE), while he was a 4th year engineering student at the Polytechnic School at the University of São Paulo.

wn.com/José_Serra





José Sócrates

                            José Sócrates Carvalho Pinto de Sousa, GCIH (born 6 September 1957), commonly known as José Sócrates (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ ˈsɔkɾɐtɨʃ]), is a Portuguese politician who was the Prime Minister of Portugal from 12 March 2005 to 21 June 2011.

For the second half of 2007, he acted as the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union. In addition to these posts, José Sócrates was Portugal's Minister for Youth and Sports and one of the organisers of the UEFA Euro 2004 football championship in Portugal, as well as being a former Environment Minister in the governments of António Guterres.

On 23 March 2011, he submitted his resignation to the president after parliament rejected his government's austerity measures in a vote, leading to the Portuguese legislative election of 2011. After losing the election, held on 5 June 2011, he resigned as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party.

José Sócrates was born in Porto on 6 September 1957, and was registered as a newborn in Vilar de Maçada, Alijó municipality, in northeastern Portugal, since the locality was his family ancestral homeland. However, the young José Sócrates lived throughout his childhood and teen years with his father, a divorced building designer, in the city of Covilhã, Cova da Beira subregion, in central inland Portugal, in the Centro region. His parents are Fernando Pinto de Sousa (b. Vilar de Maçada, Alijó, 15 November 1926) and wife and remote relative Maria Adelaide de Carvalho Monteiro (b. Vilar de Maçada, Alijó, 8 October 1931). He has two younger siblings, António Carvalho Pinto de Sousa, born circa 1962, and Ana Maria Carvalho Pinto de Sousa, died in 1988. He is a descendant of the illegitimate daughter of António José Girão Teixeira Lobo Barbosa (Porto, Sé, 9 January 1715 – Alijó, Vilar de Maçada), Fidalgo of the Royal Household and Knight of the Order of Christ, thrice distant relative of Diogo Cão.

wn.com/José_Sócrates





João Figueiredo

                            João Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈɐ̃w̃ baˈtistɐ di oliˈvejɾɐ fiɡejˈɾedu]; January 15, 1918 – December 24, 1999) was a Brazilian military leader and politician. He was chief of the Secret Service (SNI) during the term of his predecessor Ernesto Geisel. Figueiredo was chosen to be president of Brazil by the former military leader, General Ernesto Geisel. He took the oath of office on March 15, 1979, serving until March 15, 1985. He continued the democratization that Geisel started and decreed amnesty. Facing a severe economic crisis, Figueiredo became increasingly unpopular. He suffered a heart attack in 1981. Since 1964, Brazilians had not been allowed to vote for president and by 1983 they began to demonstrate for the return of the democracy. Figueiredo was against this desire and in 1984 the Congress rejected the return of direct elections. But the opposition, headed by Tancredo Neves, won the election for president in the Congress. Figueiredo retired after the end of his term and died in 1999.

wn.com/João_Figueiredo





João Goulart

                            João Belchior Marques Goulart (gaúcho Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʒu.ɐ̃w bewˈki.ɔɾ ˈmarkis ɡuˈlaɾ], or [ˈʒwɐ̃w ˈbɛwkjɔʁ ˈmaʁkiʒ ɡuːˈlaʁ] in the standard fluminense dialect; March 1, 1919 – December 6, 1976) was a Brazilian politician and the 24th President of Brazil until a military coup d'état deposed him on April 1, 1964. He is considered to have been the last left-wing President of the country until Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva took office in 2003.

João Goulart is nicknamed "Jango" ([ˈʒɐ̃gu]). The Jânio Quadros–João Goulart presidential bid was thus called "Jan–Jan" ([ʒɐ̃.ʒɐ̃], an amalgamation of Jânio and Jango).

His childhood hypocoristics was "Janguinho" (little Jango), which came from an uncle named Jango. Years later, when he entered the world of politics, supported and advised by Getúlio Vargas, his friends and colleagues started to call him Jango.

His grandfather, Belchior Rodrigues Goulart, descended from Portuguese immigrants from Azores who arrived at Rio Grande do Sul in the second half of the 18th century. In the group of first Azoreans established in the state there were at least three immigrants with the surname Govaert (latter adapted to Goulart or Gularte in Portuguese) of Flemish-Azorean ancestors; the surname Goulart originates from France.

wn.com/João_Goulart





Juan Manuel Santos

                            Juan Manuel Santos Calderón (Spanish pronunciation: [xwan maˈnwel ˈsantos kaldeˈɾon]; born August 10, 1951) is a Colombian politician who has been the President of Colombia since 7 August 2010. He previously served as Minister of Foreign Trade, Minister of Finance, and Minister of National Defense.

Juan Manuel Santos attended the prestigious Colegio San Carlos, a private secondary school in Bogotá, where he spend most of his school years until 1967, when he transferred to the Naval School of Cartagena and graduated from it in 1969. He continued in the Colombian Navy until 1971, earning a B.A. and finishing as Naval Cadet NA-42 139.

After leaving the Navy, Santos decided to continue his education in the United States where he attended the University of Kansas and joined Delta Upsilon Fraternity. He graduated in 1973 with a B.A. in Economics and Business Administration. From there he moved to the United Kingdom to study at the London School of Economics and received a MSc in Economic Development, and in Law and Diplomacy from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.

wn.com/Juan_Manuel_Santos





Julia Gillard

                            Julia Eileen Gillard (born 29 September 1961) is the 27th and current Prime Minister of Australia, in office since 24 June 2010.

Gillard was born in Barry, Wales and migrated with her family to Adelaide, Australia in 1966, attending Mitcham Demonstration School and Unley High School. In 1982 Gillard moved to Melbourne. She graduated from the University of Melbourne with Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws degrees in 1986. In 1987, Gillard joined the law firm Slater & Gordon working in industrial law, before entering politics.

Gillard was elected at the 1998 federal election to the House of Representatives seat of Lalor, Victoria, for the Australian Labor Party. Following the 2001 federal election, Gillard was elected to the shadow cabinet with the portfolios of Population and Immigration. The Reconciliation and Indigenous Affairs and the Health portfolios were added in 2003. In December 2006, Kevin Rudd was elected Labor leader and Leader of the Opposition, with Gillard as deputy leader.

wn.com/Julia_Gillard





Juscelino Kubitschek

                            Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuseˈlinu kubiˈtʃɛki dʒi oliˈvejrɐ]; September 12, 1902 – August 22, 1976), known also by his initials JK, was a prominent Brazilian politician of gypsy Czech origin who was President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961. He was born in Diamantina, Minas Gerais, and died in 1976. His term was marked by economic prosperity and political stability, being most known by the construction of a new capital, Brasília.

A leader who favored long-term planning and who set high goals for Brazil's future, Kubitschek is viewed inside the country as the father of modern Brazil. He stands among the politicians whose legacy is held most favorably.

Kubitschek was born into a very poor family in the countryside of Brazilian state Minas Gerais. His father, João César de Oliveira (1872–1905), who died when Juscelino was two years old, was a traveling salesman. He was raised by his mother, a schoolteacher named Júlia Kubitschek (1873–1973), of Czech (by grandfather) and Roma(gypsy) descent.[dead link]

wn.com/Juscelino_Kubitschek





Jânio Quadros

                            Jânio da Silva Quadros (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʒɐniu da ˈsiwva ˈkwadɾus] ( listen)), (January 25, 1917 — February 16, 1992), was a Brazilian politician who served as President of Brazil for only 7 months in 1961.

Quadros was born in Campo Grande, Mato Grosso do Sul. His meteoric career can be attributed to his widespread use of populist rhetoric and his extravagant behavior. He became mayor of the city of São Paulo in 1953 and governor of the state of São Paulo just two years later, in 1955. He was elected president of Brazil by a landslide in 1960, running as the candidate of the center-right National Democratic Union. When he took office on January 31, 1961; it was the first time since Brazil became a republic in 1889 that an incumbent government peacefully transferred power to an elected member of the opposition. It was also the first time in 31 years that the presidency was not held by an heir to the legacy of Getúlio Vargas.

Quadros laid the blame for the country's high rate of inflation on his predecessor, Juscelino Kubitschek. As president, Quadros outlawed gambling, banned women from wearing bikinis on the beach, and established relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba, trying to achieve a neutralist international policy. The re-establishment of relations with the Socialist Bloc in the middle of the Cold War cost him the support of the UDN in Congress, so that he was left with no real power.

wn.com/Jânio_Quadros





Júlio Prestes

                            Júlio Prestes de Albuquerque (March 15, 1882 – February 9, 1946) was a Brazilian politician. Governor of São Paulo state in 1926, he was elected president of Brazil on March 1, 1930, but never took office because the government was overthrown in the Revolution of 1930 that brought Getúlio Vargas to power, three weeks before Prestes' scheduled inauguration on November 15, 1930.


wn.com/Júlio_Prestes





Karl Marx

                            Karl Heinrich Marx (5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, economist, sociologist, historian, journalist, and revolutionary socialist. His ideas played a significant role in the development of social science and the socialist political movement. He published various books during his lifetime, with the most notable being The Communist Manifesto (1848) and Capital (1867–1894); some of his works were co-written with his friend and fellow German revolutionary socialist, Friedrich Engels.

Born into a wealthy middle class family in Trier, formerly in Prussian Rhineland now called Rhineland-Palatinate, Marx studied at both the University of Bonn and the University of Berlin, where he became interested in the philosophical ideas of the Young Hegelians. In 1836, he became engaged to Jenny von Westphalen, marrying her in 1843. After his studies, he wrote for a radical newspaper in Cologne, and began to work out his theory of dialectical materialism. Moving to Paris in 1843, he began writing for other radical newspapers. He met Engels in Paris, and the two men worked together on a series of books. Exiled to Brussels, he became a leading figure of the Communist League, before moving back to Cologne, where he founded his own newspaper. In 1849 he was exiled again and moved to London together with his wife and children. In London, where the family was reduced to poverty, Marx continued writing and formulating his theories about the nature of society and how he believed it could be improved, and also campaigned for socialism—he became a significant figure in the International Workingmen's Association.

wn.com/Karl_Marx





Leonardo Boff

                            Leonardo Boff was born 14 December 1938 in Concórdia, Santa Catarina state, Brazil. He is a theologian, philosopher and writer, known for his active support for the rights of the poor and excluded.

He currently serves as Professor Emeritus of Ethics, Philosophy of Religion and Ecology at the Rio de Janeiro State University.

Boff entered the Franciscan Order in 1959 and was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1964. He spent the following years studying for a doctorate in theology and philosophy at the University of Munich, which he received in 1970. Boff's doctoral thesis studied in what measure the church can be a sign of the sacred and the divine in the secular world and in the process of liberation of the oppressed. He has since published his thesis as a book available in German, entitled Die Kirche als Sakrament im Horizont der Welterfahrung.

He became one of the best known supporters (along with Gustavo Gutiérrez) of the early Liberation theologians. He was present in the first reflections that sought to articulate indignation against misery and marginalization with promissory discourse of the faith, leading to Liberation theology. He continues to be a controversial figure in the Catholic Church, primarily for his sharp criticism of the church's hierarchy, which he sees as "fundamentalist" ("A cardinal like J. Ratzinger, who publishes an official paper stating that the only true Church is the Catholic Church, and the others aren't even churches, that the only legitimate religion is Catholicism and the others don't even possess a faith, being just beliefs, perpetrates religious terrorism, besides being a grave theological error" ), but also for his past critical support of communist régimes.

wn.com/Leonardo_Boff





Leonel Brizola

                            Leonel de Moura Brizola (January 22, 1922 – June 21, 2004) was a Brazilian politician. Launched in politics by Getúlio Vargas, Brizola was the only politician to serve as governor of two different states in the whole history of Brazil. In 1959 he was elected governor of Rio Grande do Sul, and in 1982 and 1990 he was elected governor of Rio de Janeiro. He was also vice-president of the Socialist International, as well as Honorary President of that organization for a few months, from October 2003 until his death. Brizola and his party (Democratic Labour Party) preached and practiced a kind of social democratic left-wing policy.

wn.com/Leonel_Brizola





Louis Althusser

                            Louis Pierre Althusser (French pronunciation: [altyˈsɛʁ]; 16 October 1918 – 22 October 1990) was a French Marxist philosopher. He was born in Algeria and studied at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, where he eventually became Professor of Philosophy.

Althusser was a longtime member—although sometimes a strong critic—of the French Communist Party. His arguments and thesis were set against the threats that he saw attacking the theoretical foundations of Marxism. These included both the influence of empiricism on Marxist theory, and humanist and reformist socialist orientations which manifested as divisions in the European communist parties, as well as the problem of the "cult of personality" and of ideology.

Althusser is commonly referred to as a structural Marxist, although his relationship to other schools of French structuralism is not a simple affiliation and he was critical of many aspects of structuralism.

Althusser's life was marked by periods of intense mental illness. During one of his bouts, he killed his wife by strangling her.

wn.com/Louis_Althusser




Luiz Pinguelli Rosa

                            Luiz Pingueli Rosa (born 1942) is a Brazilian nuclear physicist, researcher and professor at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. He is also a scientific leader. He lives in the city of Rio de Janeiro.

One of Dr. Rosa's fields activity is renewable energy. He has also been scientifically and politically active in the field of nuclear energy.


wn.com/Luiz_Pinguelli_Rosa





Manmohan Singh

                            Manmohan Singh (Punjabi: ਮਨਮੋਹਨ ਸਿੰਘ [mənˈmoːɦən ˈsɪ́ŋɡ], Hindi: मनमोहन सिंह [mənˈmoːɦən ˈsɪŋɦ] ( listen); born 26 September 1932) is the 13th and current Prime Minister of India. He is the only Prime Minister since Jawaharlal Nehru to return to power after completing a full five-year term. A Sikh, he is the first non-Hindu to occupy the office. Singh is also the 7th Prime Minister from the Indian National Congress (Congress) party. He is a four-time Member of Parliament from the Upper House of the Parliament of India, the Rajya Sabha, representing the state of Assam. His term in the 14th Rajya Sabha was from 22 May 2004 to 26 February 2009. In the 15th Rajya Sabha his term started 22 May 2009 and is scheduled to continue till 2014. On 27 May 2012, he became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Myanmar in 25 years.

Born in Gah, Punjab in British India (now Pakistan) in 1932, he migrated to India with his family at the time of Partition in 1947. Singh studied at Panjab University, University of Cambridge and University of Oxford. Thereafter, while Singh was working at United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Lalit Narayan Mishra, the then Indian Minister for Foreign Trade, appointed Singh as an advisor to his ministry. He was appointed Governor of the Reserve Bank of India between 1982 and 1985, Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of India from 1985 to 1987  and Secretary General of the South Commission from 1987 to 1990. Elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1991, he was inducted into Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao's cabinet as Finance Minister the same year, a post he held until 1996. His tenure as Finance Minister is best remembered for the economic reforms he carried out, which ended the Licence Raj system and helped open the Indian economy.

wn.com/Manmohan_Singh





Maria I of Portugal

                            Maria I (17 December 1734 – 20 March 1816) was Queen regnant of Portugal and the Algarves from 1777 until her death. Known as Maria the Pious (in Portugal), or Maria the Mad (in Brazil), she was the first undisputed Queen regnant of Portugal. She was the eldest of the four daughters of Joseph I of Portugal and Mariana Victoria of Spain.

Maria was born at the Ribeira Royal Palace in Lisbon. Maria was baptized Maria Francisca Isabel Josefa Antónia Gertrudes Rita Joana de Bragança. On the day of her birth, her grandfather, King João V of Portugal, created her the Princess of Beira. She was the eldest of all her siblings.

When her father ucceeded to the throne in 1750 as José I, Maria was declared his heiress-presumptive and given the traditional title of Princess of Brazil and Duchess of Braganza.

Maria would grow up in a time when her father's government and country was governed completely by the first Marquis of Pombal. Her father would often retire to the Queluz National Palace which was later given to Maria and her husband. The Marquis took control of the government after the terrible 1755 Lisbon earthquake of 1 November 1755, in which around 100,000 people lost their lives; the palace of her birth was also destroyed in the disaster.

wn.com/Maria_I_of_Portugal





Marina Silva

                            Maria Osmarina Marina Silva Vaz de Lima (born near Rio Branco, in Acre on February 8, 1958) is a Brazilian environmentalist and politician. Ms. Silva was a colleague of Chico Mendes, who was assassinated for defending the Amazon environment. She was a member of the Partido dos Trabalhadores until August 19, 2009 and served as a senator before becoming environmental minister in 2003. In 1996, Ms. Silva won the Goldman Environmental Prize for South & Central America. In 2007, the United Nations Environment Program named her one of the Champions of the Earth and the 2009 Sophie Prize. Running in the 2010 Brazilian elections, she won 19.4% of the popular votes.

In 2010, she along with Cécile Duflot, Monica Frassoni, Elizabeth May and Renate Künast were named by Foreign Policy magazine to its list of top global thinkers, for taking Green mainstream.

Ms. Silva is descendent of Portuguese and black African parents on both her maternal and paternal lines. Silva grew up as one of eleven children in a community of rubber tappers on the Bagasse (Bagaço) rubber tree plantation (Portuguese Seringal Bagaço), in the western state of Acre. Orphaned at age 16, young Marina moved to the state capital, Rio Branco, where she received a Catholic education as she worked as a maid. She graduated in history from the Federal University of Acre at 26 and became increasingly politically active. In 1984 Ms. Silva helped create Acre's first workers' union. She led demonstrations called empates with Chico Mendes to warn against deforestation and the outplacement of forest communities from their traditional locations.

wn.com/Marina_Silva





Mario Monti

                            Mario Monti (Italian pronunciation: [ˈmaːrjo ˈmonti]; born 19 March 1943) is an Italian economist and academic who has been the 54th Prime Minister of Italy, as well as Minister of Economy and Finance, since November 2011.

Monti served as a European Commissioner from 1995 to 2004, with responsibility for the Internal Market, Services, Customs and Taxation from 1995 to 1999 and for Competition from 1999 to 2004. Monti has also been Rector and President of Bocconi University in Milan.

On 12 November 2011, in the midst of the European sovereign debt crisis, Monti was invited by President Giorgio Napolitano to form a new technocratic government (in Italian, governo tecnico) following the resignation of Silvio Berlusconi. Monti was sworn in as Prime Minister on 16 November 2011, just a week after having been appointed a Senator for Life.

Monti was born in Varese on 19 March 1943. His mother was from Piacenza. Although his father grew up in Varese, he was born in Luján in the Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, where the Monti family had emigrated in the 19th century and built up a soft-drink and beer-production business. Monti's father went back to Argentina during World War II, but later returned to his family home in Varese.

wn.com/Mario_Monti





Martine Aubry

                            Martine Aubry (French pronunciation: [maʁtin obʁi]; née Delors; born 8 August 1950) is a French politician. She has been the First Secretary of the French Socialist Party (Parti Socialiste, or PS) since November 2008 and Mayor of Lille (Nord) since March 2001. Her father, Jacques Delors, served as Minister of Finance under President François Mitterrand and was also President of the European Commission.

Aubry joined the PS in 1974 and was appointed Minister of Labour by Prime Minister Édith Cresson in 1991, but lost her position in 1993 after the Right won the legislative elections. However, she became Minister of Social Affairs when Lionel Jospin was appointed Prime Minister in 1997. She is mostly known for having pushed the popular 35-hour workweek law, known as the "Loi Aubry", reducing the nominal length of the normal full-time working week from 39 to 35 hours, and the law that created the Couverture maladie universelle (Universal health care coverage).

Aubry stepped down from her Cabinet post in 2001 to be elected Mayor of Lille in place of Pierre Mauroy. Aubry subsequently lost her seat in the National Assembly in the general election of 2002. In March 2008, she was reelected Mayor of Lille, with 66.55% of the votes.

wn.com/Martine_Aubry





Mauricio Funes

                            Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena (born 18 October 1959) is the President of El Salvador. He won the 2009 presidential election as the candidate of the left-wing Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN) political party and took office on 1 June 2009.

Funes was born in San Salvador. He is married to Dr. Vanada Pignado, who was involved in the Workers' Party in Brazil. They have one son, Gabriel. Funes received his High School Diploma (Bachillerato) from the Externado San José, and studied at Universidad Centroamericana "José Simeón Cañas"(UCA) but did not graduate  . Both Externado and UCA are jesuit institutions, something that has deeply influenced president Funes. In this respect, Funes has mentioned his relationship to the murdered scholars of UCA as of particular significance in his professional and personal development. In 1994 he was awarded the Maria Moors Cabot prize from Columbia University for promoting press freedom and inter-American understanding.

Funes' brother was killed during the Salvadoran Civil War. His oldest son, Alejandro Funes Velasco, who was 27 years old, died after being attacked in Paris, France, where he was studying photography.

wn.com/Mauricio_Funes





Michel Temer

                            Michel Miguel Elias Temer Lulia (born September 23, 1940), better known as Michel Temer, is a Brazilian lawyer and politician, and currently the Vice-President of Brazil after winning on the ticket of Workers' Party candidate Dilma Rousseff. He is also the President of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, although he is currently suspended from that office to comply with Brazilian Law and to carry out his duties as Vice-President.

He previously served for six consecutive terms as Federal Deputy for the state of São Paulo in the Chamber of Deputies, and on three separate occasions served two-year terms as President of the Chamber (in 1997-1998, 1999-2000 and 2009-2010). Temer was also a member of the 1988 National Constituent Assembly, which promulgated the current Constitution of Brazil.

Born in Tietê, São Paulo state, Temer holds a doctorate in Law from the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo. He served as State prosecutor and twice as State Secretary for Public Security, in both capacities working in São Paulo. He is a licensed professor of Constitutional Law at PUC-SP, and has authored numerous books on the subject.

wn.com/Michel_Temer





Mino Carta

                            Mino Carta, pseudonym of Demetrio Giuliano Gianni Carta (Born c. 1933 in Genoa) is an Italian-born Brazilian journalist, publisher and writer. Carta helped in the creation of Veja, Istoé and CartaCapital, three of the four leading newsmagazines currently published in Brazil.

Carta arrived in São Paulo, São Paulo with his family after the War in 1946, when he "still wore short pants". He was probably 12 or 13 years old at that time. He recalls São Paulo as a "quiet and orderly" town with "human measures".

In 1951, Carta did a vestibular exam and was admitted at the University of São Paulo's traditional Law School of Largo São Francisco. His enrollment records state that he was born on September 3, 1933. He attended the classes of the first years, but quit and ended up never graduating from higher education.

In 1960 he started his career in journalism by helping to found Editora Abril automobile magazine Quatro Rodas. In 1966, he introduced new journalism in Brazil by founding São Paulo-based newspaper Jornal da Tarde. Two years later, he helped Victor Civita of Abril to found Veja, which currently is the leading newsmagazine in the country, with a circulation of over a million copies per edition. Unsatisfied with the result, he helped in the foundation of Istoé in 1976. Yet not completely satisfied with the result, he founded CartaCapital in 1994. On the new magazine, he and other columnists emphatically criticize neoliberal and neocon politics that are recently defended by Veja.

wn.com/Mino_Carta





Monica Frassoni

                            Monica Frassoni (born September 10, 1963 in Veracruz, Mexico) is an Italian politician and was a Member of the European Parliament for the North West of Italy until 2009. She is a member of the Italian Green Party, part of the European Greens. Frassoni was co-chair, together with Daniel Cohn-Bendit, of the European Greens–European Free Alliance group in the European Parliament until 2009. Before first being elected as an MEP of the Francophone Green party Ecolo from Belgium in 1999, she served for 10 years as an officer of the Greens group in the European Parliament. She was previously Secretary General of the Young European Federalists.

In 2010, she along with Cécile Duflot, Renate Künast, and Marina Silva were named by Foreign Policy magazine to its list of top global thinkers, for taking Green mainstream.


wn.com/Monica_Frassoni





Nelson Jobim

                            Nelson Azevedo Jobim (born 12 April 1946) is a Brazilian jurist and politician. He served as the Minister of Defense of Brazil from 2007–2011. He is a distant relative of musician Antonio Carlos Jobim.

Jobim was born in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul, the son of Hélvio Jobim and Namy Azevedo Jobim, and the grandson of former governor of Rio Grande do Sul, Walter Só Jobim. He attended the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul in Porto Alegre from 1964 to 1968, and graudated with a bachelor's degree in Social and Legal Sciences. He taught philosophy of law and procedural law at the Universidade Federal de Santa Maria. His brothers are Walter Jobim Neto and Hélvio Jobim Filho.

After graduation, he began practicing as a lawyer. He was chairman of the sub-section of the Order of Attorneys of Brazil in Santa Maria from 1977 to 1978, and was vice president of the Rio Grande do Sul section of the Brazilian Bar Association from 1985 to 1986. He was also a member of the Office of Lawyers of Rio Grande do Sul and the Institute of Brazilian Lawyers, based in Rio de Janeiro. Jobim served as an Adjunct Professor of the Department of Law for the Universidade Federal de Santa Maria from 1980 to 1986. Jobim also sporadically taught graduate classes at the Department of Law of the Universidade de Brasília in the early 1990s.

wn.com/Nelson_Jobim





Nereu Ramos

                            Nereu de Oliveira Ramos (Portuguese pronunciation: [neˈrew di oliˈvejrɐ ˈʁɐ̃mus]; September 3, 1888 – June 16, 1958) was a Brazilian political figure. Ramos was vice-president of the Republic between 1947 and 1951. Elected to the Federal Senate as a representative from Santa Catarina state in 1954, he became the Senate's vice-president in the following year. By this stage President Getúlio Vargas had taken his own life. There followed a series of brief presidential reigns: Vargas's successor Café Filho soon stepped down because of poor health; and the president of the Chamber of Deputies Carlos Luz was impeached after holding the presidency only two days. Ramos, who was the next in the line of succession, assumed the presidency on November 11, 1955 to complete Vargas's term. He served until January 31, 1956, whereupon Juscelino Kubitschek took the oath of presidential office. He was the last President to have been born in the Empire of Brazil.

Nereu Ramos died in a Cruzeiro airline crash on July, 6th 1958 near Curitiba Afonso Pena International Airport.

wn.com/Nereu_Ramos




Nicos Poulantzas

                            Nicos Poulantzas (Greek: Νίκος Πουλαντζάς; 21 September 1936, Athens, Greece  – 3 October 1979, Paris, France) was a Greek Marxist political sociologist. In the 1970s, Poulantzas was known, along with Louis Althusser, as a leading Structural Marxist and, while at first a Leninist, eventually became a proponent of eurocommunism. He is most well known for his theoretical work on the state. But he also offered Marxist contributions to the analysis of fascism, social class in the contemporary world, and the collapse of the dictatorships in Southern Europe in the 1970s (e.g. Franco's rule in Spain, Salazar's in Portugal, and Papadopoulos's in Greece).

Poulantzas studied law in Greece and moved to France where he completed a doctorate in the philosophy of law. He taught sociology at the University of Paris VIII from 1968 until his death. He was married to the French novelist Annie Leclerc and had one daughter. He killed himself in 1979 by jumping from the window of a friend's flat in Paris.

wn.com/Nicos_Poulantzas





Nilo Peçanha

                            Nilo Procópio Peçanha (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈnilu proˈkɔpju peˈsaɲɐ]; 2 October 1867 – 31 March 1924) was a Brazilian politician. He was Governor of Rio de Janeiro State (1903–1906), then elected Vice-President of Brazil in 1906. He assumed the presidency in 1909 following the death of President Afonso Pena and served until 1910. He was disputably the only mulatto president of Brazil.

Nilo Peçanha was born to Sebastião de Sousa Peçanha, a baker, and Joaquina Anália de Sá Freire, the descendent of a wealthy and noble family from northern Rio de Janeiro State. He was one of seven siblings (five boys and two girls). His family lived in a state of poverty in the remote and poor neighborhood of Morro do Coco, Campos dos Goytacazes, and moved to the downtown area when Peçanha started elementary education.

He was frequently described as being a mulatto and often ridiculed in the press for his skin color. During his youth, the local Campos dos Goytacazes social elite alluded to him as the "mestiço of Morro do Coco" (the half-breed from Morro do Coco district). In 1921, when he ran for the Presidency of Republic, letters falsely attributed to the other candidate Artur Bernardes were published by the press and caused a political crisis because they insulted both the former president Marshal Hermes da Fonseca and also Peçanha, another former president, claiming he was a mulatto. Gilberto Freyre mentioned his "mulatismo" in Brazilian politics as the same that prevailed in Brazilian soccer. According to some scholars, his presidential photographs were touched up to whiten his dark skin.

wn.com/Nilo_Peçanha





Noël Mamère

                            Noël Mamère (born 25 December 1948 in Libourne, Gironde) is a French singer, cyclist and politician.

He rose to fame in the 1980s as a TV entertainer, in particular on Antenne 2[1].

In 1992, he became president of Brice Lalonde's Ecology Generation party, from which he was expelled in 1994. He then founded "Ecology-Solidarity Convergences", of which he was president, before joining Les Verts in 1998.

In 2002, he was presidential candidate and garnered 5.25% of the votes. He is the mayor of Bègles in Gironde as well as deputy to the French National Assembly for that constituency.

On 5 June 2004 he stirred up controversy by conducting a marriage ceremony for a male homosexual couple (see same-sex marriage in France).

Noël Mamère has achieved lasting fame as a composer and interpreter in particular with Les Enfants de Par Là.

Noël Mamère has also become famous as a result of his cycling endeavoursNoël Mamère et son vélo.

Electoral mandates
European Parliament

Member of European Parliament : 1994–1997 (Resignation, elected in the National Assembly of France). Elected in 1994.

wn.com/Noël_Mamère





Oliver Stone

                            William Oliver Stone (born September 15, 1946) is an American film director, producer and screenwriter. Stone became well known in the late 1980s and the early 1990s for directing a series of films about the Vietnam War, in which he had previously participated as an infantry soldier. He won further attention - and controversy - with films JFK (1991) and Natural Born Killers (1994). Stone's movies frequently focus on contemporary political and cultural issues. He has received three Academy Awards: Best Adapted Screenplay for Midnight Express (1978), and Best Director for Platoon (1986) and Born on the Fourth of July (1989). British newspaper The Guardian described Stone as "one of the few committed men of the left working in mainstream American cinema." Stone's films often combine different cameras and film formats within a single scene (including VHS and 8 mm film) as evidenced in JFK and Natural Born Killers.

wn.com/Oliver_Stone





Ollanta Humala

                            Ollanta Moisés Humala Tasso (Spanish pronunciation: [oˈʎanta mojˈses uˈmala ˈtaso]) (born June 27, 1962) is a Peruvian politician and the President of Peru. Humala, who previously served as an army officer, lost the presidential election in 2006 but won the 2011 presidential election in a run-off vote. He was elected as President of Peru in the second round, defeating Keiko Fujimori.

The son of Isaac Humala, a labour lawyer, Humala entered the Peruvian Army in 1982. In the military he achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel; in 1992 he fought in the internal conflict against the Shining Path and three years later he participated in the Cenepa War against Ecuador. In October 2000, Humala led an unsuccessful military revolt by 39 soldiers in the southern city of Tacna against President Alberto Fujimori; he was pardoned by the Peruvian Congress after the downfall of the Fujimori regime.

In 2005 he founded the Peruvian Nationalist Party and registered to run in the 2006 presidential election. The nomination was made under the Union for Peru ticket as the Nationalist party did not achieve its electoral inscription on time. He passed the first round of the elections, held on April 9, 2006, with 30.62% of the valid votes. A runoff was held on June 4 between Humala and Alan García of the Peruvian Aprista Party. Humala lost this round with 47.47% of the valid votes versus 52.62% for García. After his defeat, Humala remained as an important figure within Peruvian politics.

wn.com/Ollanta_Humala





Olívio Dutra

                            Olívio de Oliveira Dutra (born 10 June 1941 in Bossoroca, Rio Grande do Sul) is a Brazilian politician. He is a founding member of the Workers' Party.

Dutra graduated in Grammar school and became an employee of Banrisul, Rio Grande do Sul's then state owned bank, on 1961. In that position, he became familiarized with the Porto Alegre Bank Workers Union. He was elected President of the organization in 1975. On 1979 he organized a major strike of the government employees. For that reason, he was arrested by the political police of the military dictatorship and lost his term as the Union's President.

During the redemocratization of Brazilian politics, Dutra participated of the foundation of the Workers' Party section in his state, of which he was the President from 1980 to 1986. On the 1982 gubernatorial elections, the first in over twenty years, he was released as the Workers' Party candidate. He received unexpressive voting, coming in last place with more than 50,000 votes. In 1986, Dutra was elected Constitutional Congressman with over 55,000 votes. During the time in which he lived in Brasília, Dutra shared an apartment with Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, also a Congressman and the former President of Brazil. Since then, they are close friends.

wn.com/Olívio_Dutra





Oscar Niemeyer

                            Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho (born December 15, 1907) is a Brazilian architect specializing in international modern architecture. In the 1940s, '50s and '60s "he established himself as one of Modernism's greatest luminaries," while he “reshaped Brazil’s identity in the popular imagination and mesmerized architects around the globe."  During the 1950s while Brasilia was starting to develop, Oscar Niemeyer made incredible amounts of contributions to the country by designing many important buildings in Brasilia. He is a pioneer in exploring the formal possibilities of reinforced concrete solely for their aesthetic impact. He is currently 104 years old and still working.

Niemeyer is most famous for his use of abstract forms and curves that specifically characterize every one of his works; he didn’t stick to traditional straight lines, for he is not attracted to straight angles or lines but rather he is captured by ”free-flowing, sensual curves… [like that] on the body of the beloved woman.” He was able to design and build curved architecture through his revolutionary useage of concrete. His designs are daring: mixing innovation and courage, plastic freedom and invention. His buildings are often characterized by being spacious and exposed, mixing volumes and empty space to create unconventional patterns and often propped up by piloti. His work with concrete is described as elegant and harmonious. Oscar Niemeyer was able to connect the baroque style with modern architecture leading to a new form of architecture, which had never been built in Brazil before.

wn.com/Oscar_Niemeyer




Philippe Lamberts

                            Philippe Lamberts (born 1963 in Brussels) is a Belgian politician, co-spokesperson of the European Green Party (first with Ulrike Lunacek, then with Monica Frassoni) and a Member of the European Parliament for the Ecolo party.

He graduated as an engineer at the Université catholique de Louvain in 1986. Since 1987 he has worked as a manager in the private sector. Between 1999 and 2003 he was an adviser of the Vice-Prime Minister Isabelle Durant on foreign affairs and defence.


wn.com/Philippe_Lamberts





Portuguese Brazilian

                            Portuguese Brazilians (or Luso-brasileiros) are Brazilian citizens whose ancestry originates wholly or partly in Portugal[citation needed]. Most of the Portuguese who arrived throughout the centuries to Brazil sought economic opportunities. Although present since the onset of colonization, Portuguese people began migrating to Brazil in larger numbers and without state support, in the 18th century.

Some of the earliest colonists for whom we have written records are João Ramalho and Diogo Álvares Correia. At the time the Portuguese Crown was focused on securing its highly lucrative Portuguese Empire in Asia, and so did little to protect the newly discovered lands in the Americas from foreign interlopers. As a result, many pirates, mainly French, began dealing in pau brasil with the Amerindians. This situation worried Portugal, which in the 1530s started to encourage the colonization of Brazil, principally for defensive reasons. The towns of Cananéia (1531), São Vicente (1532), Porto Seguro (1534) and Iguape (1538) date from that period.

wn.com/Portuguese_Brazilian





Prudente de Morais

                            Prudente José de Morais Barros (Portuguese pronunciation: [pruˈdẽtʃi ʒoˈzɛ di moˈrajs ˈbaʁus]; 4 October 1841 – 3 December 1902) was the third president of Brazil. He is notable as the first civilian president of the country and the first to be elected by direct popular ballot under the permanent provisions of Brazil's 1891 Constitution. His presidency, which lasted from 15 November 1894 until 15 November 1898, was marked by the War of Canudos, a campesinant revolt in the northeast of the country that was crushed by the Brazilian Army. He also had to face a break in diplomatic relations with Portugal that was successfully mediated by Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom.

Previously he had been the Governor of the State of São Paulo and President of the Senate from 1891 to 1894. He was also president of the Constituent Congress that drafted and approved Brazil's 1891 Constitution.

The city of Presidente Prudente, located in the western part of the State of São Paulo, is named after him.

His ancestry dated back to the early Portuguese settlers of Brazil.

wn.com/Prudente_de_Morais





Rafael Correa

                            Rafael Vicente Correa Delgado (6 April 1963) is the President of the Republic of Ecuador and was the president pro tempore of the Union of South American Nations. An economist educated in Ecuador, Belgium and the United States, he was elected President in late 2006 and took office in January 2007. In December 2008, he declared Ecuador's national debt illegitimate, based on the argument that it was odious debt contracted by corrupt and despotic prior regimes. He then pledged to fight creditors in international courts, and succeeded in reducing the price of the debt letters and continued paying all the debt. He brought Ecuador into the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas in June 2009. To date, Correa’s administration has succeeded in reducing the high levels of poverty, indigence, and unemployment in Ecuador.

Correa's first term in office had been due to end on 15 January 2011, but the new approved constitution written by the new National Assembly mandated general elections for 26 April 2009. In that election, Rafael Correa won in the first round with 51.9% of votes counted. It was the first time since 1979 in which a representative was elected without having to face a second round. Consequently, Correa began a new term in office due to end on 10 August 2013, which could be extended by reelection until 2017.

wn.com/Rafael_Correa





Raoni Metuktire

                            Raoni Metuktire, born ca. 1930, is a chief of the Kayapo people, a Brazilean Indigenous group from the plain lands of the Mato Grosso and Pará in Brazil, south of the Amazon Basin and along Rio Xingu and its tributaries.

Raoni Metuktire was born in the State of Mato Grosso in 1930, in the heart of the Amazonian forest, in the village named Krajmopyjakare (today called Kapôt).

Raoni and the Kayapo encountered the Western World for the first time in 1954. Initiated to the Portuguese language by the Villas-Bôas brothers, famous indigenous anthropologist of Brazil, he meets King Léopold III of Belgium in 1964, while the latter was on an expedition in the protected indigenous reserve of Mato Grosso. In 1978 he became the subject of a documentary film shot in 35mm. Actor Marlon Brando, then at the height of his fame, agreed to be filmed for the opening sequence and the movie was nominated for the Academy Awards.

Since 1988, Raoni Metuktire has achieved worldwide renown for his struggle for the preservation of the Amazon rainforest. His fight has obtained public attention thanks in part to singer Sting who contributed in 1989 with his wife Trudy Styler to the creation of the Rainforest Foundation. With the presence of the singer, Raoni spread his word worldwide and twelve foundations have since been created to raise funds for the protection of the rainforest. During his various world tours Raoni has met with world leaders such as the French Presidents François Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac, as well as the King of Spain Juan Carlos, Prince Charles and the pope John Paul II.

wn.com/Raoni_Metuktire





Recep Tayyip Erdoğan

                            Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (IPA: [ɾeˈd͡ʒep tajˈjip ˈæɾdoan]; born 26 February 1954) has been Prime Minister of Turkey since 2003 and is chairman of the ruling Justice and Development Party (AK Party), which holds a majority of the seats in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Erdoğan served as Mayor of Istanbul from 1994 to 1998. He graduated in 1981 from Marmara University's Faculty of Economics and Commercial Sciences. Erdoğan was also a semi-professional footballer from 1969 to 1982.

Erdoğan was elected Mayor of Istanbul in the local elections of 27 March 1994. He was banned from office and sentenced to a prison term for reciting a poem during a public address in the province of Siirt on 12 December 1997. The poem was allegedly quoted from a book published by a state enterprise and one that had been recommended to teachers by the Ministry of Education. After six months in prison, Erdoğan established the Justice and Development Party (AK Party) on August 14, 2001. From its first year, the AK Party became the largest publicly-supported political movement in Turkey. In the general election of 2002 the AK Party won nearly two-thirds of the seats in parliament, forming the first single-party government for 9 years.

wn.com/Recep_Tayyip_Erdoğan




Rui Falcão

                            Rui Falcão is a Brazilian politician, the incumbent president of the Workers' Party (Partido dos Trabalhadores). He also served as the President of the Workers' Party in 1994 and was elected again president of the party to the term 2011-2013. He was the Secretary of Government of São Paulo during Marta Suplicy's administration.


wn.com/Rui_Falcão





Régis Debray

                            Jules Régis Debray (born September 2, 1940) is a French intellectual,journalist, government official and professor. He is known for his theorization of mediology, a critical theory of the long-term transmission of cultural meaning in human society; and for having fought in 1967 with Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in Bolivia.

Born in Paris, Regis Debray studied at the École Normale Supérieure under Louis Althusser, and became "agrégé de philosophie" in 1965.

In the late 1960s he was a professor of philosophy at the University of Havana in Cuba, and became an associate of Che Guevara in Bolivia. He wrote the book Revolution in the Revolution?, which analysed the tactical and strategic doctrines then prevailing among militant socialist movements in Latin America, and acted as a handbook for guerrilla warfare that supplemented Guevara's own manual on the subject. It was published by Maspero in Paris in 1967 and in the same year in New York (Monthly Review Press and Grove), Montevideo (Sandino), Milan (Feltrinelli) and Munich (Trikont). Guevara was captured in Bolivia early in October, 1967; on April 20, 1967, Debray had been arrested in the small town of Muyupampa, also in Bolivia. Convicted of having been part of Guevara's guerrilla group Debray on November 17 was sentenced to 30 years in prison. He was released in 1970 after an international campaign for his release which included Jean-Paul Sartre, André Malraux, General Charles de Gaulle and Pope Paul VI. He sought refuge in Chile, where he wrote The Chilean Revolution (1972) after interviews with Salvador Allende. Debray returned to France in 1973 following the coup by Augusto Pinochet in Chile.

wn.com/Régis_Debray





Sebastián Piñera

                            Miguel Juan Sebastián Piñera Echenique (Spanish pronunciation: [miˈɣel ˈxwan sevasˈtjan piˈɲeɾa etʃeˈnice]; born December 1, 1949) is a Chilean businessman and politician. He was elected President of Chile in January 2010, taking office in March 2010.

One year after his birth, Piñera's family moved abroad to Belgium and later to New York City where his father was the Chilean ambassador to the United Nations. Piñera returned to Chile in 1955 and was enrolled in the Colegio del Verbo Divino ("Divine Word College"), from which he graduated in 1967.

Piñera then matriculated at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile to undertake his undergraduate degree in Business and Administration, from which he graduated in 1971. Upon graduation, he was awarded the Raúl Iver Oxley Prize which is given to the best overall student of each class.

Piñera continued on to study at Harvard University on a partial Fulbright Program for his postgraduate studies in economics. During his time at Harvard, Piñera and a classmate co-authored an article titled, "The Old South's Stake in the Inter-Regional Movement of Slaves" for the Journal of Economic History. After three years at Harvard, Piñera graduated with both a M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics. 

wn.com/Sebastián_Piñera





Sigourney Weaver

                            Sigourney Weaver (born Susan Alexandra Weaver; October 8, 1949) is an American actress. She is known for her role of Ellen Ripley in the four Alien films: Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, and Alien Resurrection, for which she has received worldwide recognition.

Other notable roles include Dana Barrett in Ghostbusters and its sequel Ghostbusters II, Gorillas in the Mist: The Story of Dian Fossey, Working Girl, Death and the Maiden, The Ice Storm, Galaxy Quest, Snow Cake, Prayers for Bobby and Grace Augustine in Avatar.

Weaver has been nominated for three Academy Awards, three BAFTA Awards (one win), two Emmy Awards, six Saturn Awards (two wins) and six Golden Globe Awards, winning two in 1988 for Gorillas in the Mist and Working Girl, becoming the first person ever to have won two acting Golden Globe Awards in the same year. She was also nominated for a Drama Desk Award and a Tony Award.

Her 1986 Academy Award nomination for Aliens is considered as a landmark in the recognition of science fiction, action, and horror genres, as well as a major step in challenging the gender role in cinema. Weaver progressively received notoriety for her numerous contributions to the science fiction film history (including minor roles in successful works such as Futurama, WALL-E and Paul) and gained the nickname of "The Sci-Fi Queen".

wn.com/Sigourney_Weaver




Silas Rondeau

                            Silas Rondeau is a Brazilian politician, and a member of Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB). He formerly served as Minister of Mines and Energy in Brazil President Lula's cabinet.

On May 22, 2007, he resigned over allegations of corruption in a public works project. According to BBC, the police suspected that Rondeau took more than a $100,000 reais kickback from a construction company that won a contract to provide power to rural areas across Brazil. But, the country's justice minister Tarso Genro said that there was no proof directly linking this scandal to Rondeau.

Rondeau claimed, in his letter of resignation, that he believed it was "the correct thing to do" and denied any involvement.


wn.com/Silas_Rondeau





Sonia Gandhi

                            Sonia Gandhi (born Antonia Edvige Albina Maino on 9 December 1946) is an Italian-born Indian politician and the President of the Indian National Congress, one of the major political parties of India. She is the widow of former Prime Minister of India, Rajiv Gandhi and belongs to Nehru–Gandhi family. After his assassination in 1991, she was invited by the Indian National Congress to take over the Congress but refused and publicly stayed away from politics amidst constant prodding by the Congress. She finally agreed to join politics in 1997; in 1998, she was elected as the leader of the Congress.

Since then, Sonia Gandhi has been the President of the Indian National Congress Party. She has served as the Chairperson of the ruling United Progressive Alliance in the Lok Sabha since 2004. In September 2010, on being re-elected for the fourth time, she became the longest serving president in the 125-year history of the Congress party. Her foreign birth has been a subject of much debate and controversy. Although Sonia is actually the fifth foreign-born person to be leader of the Congress Party, she is the first since independence in 1947.

wn.com/Sonia_Gandhi





Stephen Harper

                            Stephen Joseph Harper, PC MP (born April 30, 1959) is the 22nd and current Prime Minister of Canada and leader of the Conservative Party. Harper became prime minister when his party formed a minority government after the 2006 federal election. He is the first prime minister from the newly reconstituted Conservative Party, following a merger of the Progressive Conservative and Canadian Alliance parties.

Harper has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for the riding of Calgary Southwest in Alberta since 2002. Earlier, from 1993 to 1997, he was the MP for Calgary West. He was one of the founding members of the Reform Party, but did not seek re-election, and instead joined, and shortly thereafter led, the National Citizens Coalition. In 2002, he succeeded Stockwell Day as leader of the Canadian Alliance (the successor to the Reform Party) and returned to parliament as Leader of the Opposition. In 2003, he reached an agreement with Progressive Conservative leader Peter MacKay for the merger of their two parties to form the Conservative Party of Canada. He was elected as the party's first non-interim leader in March 2004.

wn.com/Stephen_Harper




Stuart Angel

                            Stuart Edgar Angel Jones (January 11, 1946 – May 14, 1971) was an American Brazilian guerrilla fighter captured, tortured and killed by officers of the Brazilian military dictatorship.

Stuart was born in Salvador, Bahia, to American salesman Norman Angel Jones and Brazilian fashion designer Zuzu Angel, having dual citizenship. Stuart was an undergraduate student at Federal University of Rio de Janeiro's School of Economics when he joined left-wing urban guerrilla group Revolutionary Movement 8th October (Portuguese: Movimento Revolucionário 8 de Outubro - MR-8). He married fellow militant Sônia Maria Morais Angel Jones, who would also die in the custody of the military dictatorship's political police. Stuart, known by his fellow guerrillas by the codenames "Paulo" and "Henrique", disappeared in 1971, at age 25.

Stuart was arrested in the neighborhood of Grajaú, Rio de Janeiro, near Av. 28 de Setembro, around 9 a.m. on June 14, 1971 by officers of the Aeronautics Information Center (Portuguese: Centro de Informações da Aeronáutica - CISA). He was then taken under custody to CISA headquarters, where he was reportedly tortured to death. According to witnesses, Stuart was tied to the back of a jeep with his mouth glued to the vehicle's exhaust pipe and dragged through the courtyard of the Aeronautics headquarters. According to this version, Stuart died by asphyxiation and carbon monoxide poisoning.

wn.com/Stuart_Angel





Tancredo Neves

                            Tancredo de Almeida Neves, SFO more commonly Tancredo Neves (Portuguese pronunciation: [tɐ̃ˈkɾedu ˈnɛvis]; March 4, 1910 – April 21, 1985) was a Brazilian politician. He was born in São João del Rey, in the state of Minas Gerais, of mostly Portuguese, but also Austrian descent and graduated in law. The Neves family name comes from an Azorean great great grandfather. Tancredo Neves was a descendant of Amador Bueno, a noted paulista from the colonial Brazilian era.

He began his political career as a member of the legislative chamber of his hometown in 1934, and was elected in 1947 to the Minas Gerais state legislature. Three years later he became a representative of his state in the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies. In 1953 he was appointed by President Getúlio Dornelles Vargas to be the Minister of Justice. Neves served in that post until Vargas committed suicide in 1954. In 1960, Neves ran unsuccessfully for governor of Minas Gerais.

During the political crisis that began with the resignation of President Jânio da Silva Quadros on August 25, 1961, a parliamentary system was installed in Brazil by a constitutional amendment passed on September 2, 1961. Neves was appointed as Prime Minister by President João Goulart and served from September 1961 until July 1962. The parliamentary system was abolished by plebiscite in January 1963.

wn.com/Tancredo_Neves





Tarso Genro

                            Tarso Fernando Herz Genro is a Brazilian politician, and a member of the Workers' Party (Partido dos Trabalhadores – PT). As a result of the Mensalão scandal, Genro served the remainder of José Genoíno's term as party president in 2005. Ricardo Berzoini was elected to the post later that year.

Following his service as interim president, Genro was a top political adviser to Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, former President of Brazil (2006–2010), during the contentious, but quite successful, 2006 Presidential campaign. On 16 March 2007, he became the new Minister of Justice in Lula's cabinet.

Genro is the former mayor of Porto Alegre, the capital city of Rio Grande do Sul, and was a candidate for the state's governorship on 2010. Since January 1, 2011, he is the state's Governor.

wn.com/Tarso_Genro





Tom Morello

                            Thomas Baptiste Morello (born May 30, 1964) is a Grammy Award-winning American guitarist best known for his tenure with the bands Rage Against the Machine, Audioslave, his acoustic solo act The Nightwatchman, and his newest group, Street Sweeper Social Club. Tom is also the co-founder (along with Serj Tankian) of the non-profit political activist organization Axis of Justice, which airs a monthly program on Pacifica Radio station KPFK (90.7 FM) in Los Angeles. He is best known for his unique and creative guitar playing style, which incorporates feedback noises, unconventional picking and tapping as well as heavy use of guitar effects. He was ranked #26 in Rolling Stone's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."

Tom Morello was born on May 30, 1964, in Harlem, New York, to Ngethe Njoroge and Mary Morello. Tom is of Irish and Italian descent on his maternal side, and Kikuyu Kenyan descent on his paternal side. His mother was a schoolteacher from Marseilles, Illinois, who earned a Master of Arts at Loyola University, Chicago and travelled to Germany, Spain, Japan, and Kenya as an English language teacher between 1977 to 1983. His father was a Kenyan participant in the Mau Mau Uprising, and served as Kenya's first ambassador to the United Nations. Morello's paternal great-uncle, Jomo Kenyatta, was the first elected president in Kenyan history. His parents met in August 1963, while attending a pro-democracy protest in Nairobi, Kenya. After discovering her pregnancy, Mary returned to the United States with Njoroge in November, and married in New York City.

wn.com/Tom_Morello





Venceslau Brás

                            Venceslau Brás Pereira Gomes (Portuguese pronunciation: [vẽsesˈlaw ˈbras peˈrejrɐ ˈɡomis]; 26 February 1868 – 15 May 1966) was a Brazilian politician. Brás was born in Brasópolis (formerly São Caetano da Vargem Grande), Minas Gerais State. He became governor of that state in 1909, and in 1910 he was elected vice-president under Hermes Rodrigues da Fonseca. He was elected president in 1914 and served until 1918. He declared war on the German Empire in 1917 during World War I. He was the longest-lived Brazilian president, reaching 98 years of age.

wn.com/Venceslau_Brás




Vladimir Herzog

                            Vladimir Herzog (27 June 1937 – 25 October 1975) nicknamed Vlado, was a Brazilian journalist, university professor and playwright of Yugoslavian origin. He also developed a taste for photography, because of his film projects. Although his birth name was Vladimir, he adopted the pseudonym of "Vlado", since his real name was very unusual in Brazil.

In October 1975, Herzog, then editor in chief of TV Cultura, was tortured to death by the political police of the military dictatorship, which later forged his suicide.[citation needed] His death had a great impact on the Brazilian society, marking the beginning of the redemocratization process of the country. According to journalist Sérgio Gomes, Herzog is a "symbol of the struggle for democracy, freedom, and justice".

Herzog was born in Osijek, Kingdom of Yugoslavia province of Sava Banovina (currently Croatia) on 27 June 1937, to Zigmund and Zora Herzog, a Croatian Jewish family who emigrated to Brazil in the early 1940s, to escape Nazi persecution.

wn.com/Vladimir_Herzog





Vladimir Putin

                            Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin (Russian: Влади́мир Влади́мирович Пу́тин; IPA: [vɫɐˈdʲimʲɪr vɫɐˈdʲimʲɪrəvʲɪtɕ ˈputʲɪn] ( listen); born 7 October 1952) is a Russian politician who has been the President of Russia since 7 May 2012. Putin previously served as President from 2000 to 2008 and as Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000, and again from 2008 to 2012. Putin also serves as chairman of United Russia and Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Union of Russia and Belarus. He became acting President on 31 December 1999, when president Boris Yeltsin resigned in a surprising move. Putin won the 2000 presidential election; in 2004 he was re-elected for a second term lasting until 7 May 2008.

Because of constitutionally mandated term limits, Putin was ineligible to run for a third consecutive presidential term. After his successor Dmitry Medvedev won the 2008 presidential election, Putin was nominated by Medvedev to be Russia's Prime Minister; Putin took office on 8 May 2008 and a period of so-called "tandemocracy" followed. In September 2011, Putin and Medvedev agreed he should seek a third, non-consecutive term in the 2012 presidential election, which he won in the first round on 4 March 2012.

wn.com/Vladimir_Putin





Washington Luís

                            Washington Luís Pereira de Sousa (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈwɔʃintõ luˈis peˈrejrɐ dʒi ˈsowzɐ]; 26 October 1869 – 4 August 1957) was a Brazilian politician. His family was of Portuguese Romani descent. He was born in Macaé, Rio de Janeiro, and moved to São Paulo, where he became a lawyer. Elected governor of São Paulo state in 1920 and president of Brazil in 1926, Washington Luís was the last president of the Brazilian First Republic (see also café com leite, coronelismo). Facing the 1929 crisis, the president lost almost all his support. He selected his friend Júlio Prestes as his successor in 1930, but just 3 weeks before the end of his term, Luís was overthrown by a coup d'etat (1930 Revolution) and was succeeded by a military junta.


wn.com/Washington_Luís




Wikipedia Persondata

wn.com/Wikipedia_Persondata





Yoshihiko Noda

                            Yoshihiko Noda (野田 佳彦, Noda Yoshihiko?, born 20 May 1957) is the current Prime Minister of Japan, a member of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), and a member of the House of Representatives (lower house) in the Diet (national legislature). He was named to succeed outgoing Prime Minister Naoto Kan as a result of a runoff vote against Banri Kaieda in his party, and was formally appointed by the Emperor on 2 September 2011.

Noda was born in Funabashi, Chiba, as a son of a member of the Japan Self-Defense Forces. Unlike many prominent Japanese politicians, Noda has no family connections to Nagatachō. His parents were too poor to pay for a wedding reception.

Noda graduated from Chiba Prefectural Funabashi Senior High School in 1975. Then, Noda graduated from Waseda University School of Political Sciences and Economics in 1980 and was later accepted into the prestigious Matsushita Institute, an institution founded by Panasonic founder Konosuke Matsushita that grooms future civic leaders of Japan. While attending the Matsushita Institute, Noda read household gas meters as a part-time job in his native Chiba Prefecture, partially in order to get to know his future constituents better in preparation for a run for office. He was elected to the assembly of Chiba Prefecture for the first time in 1987 at the age of 29.

wn.com/Yoshihiko_Noda





Yves Cochet

                            Yves Cochet is a French politician, member of Europe Écologie–The Greens. He was minister in the government of Lionel Jospin. On December 6 2011, he was elected member of the European Parliament.

He wrote Apocalypse pétrole which was published in 2005.

wn.com/Yves_Cochet




Zuzu Angel

                            Zuleika Angel Jones, better known as Zuzu Angel (June 5, 1921 – April 14, 1976), was a Brazilian-American fashion designer, who became famous for opposing the Brazilian military dictatorship after the forced disappearance of her son Stuart. Zuzu was also mother of journalist Hildegard Angel.

As a child, Zuzu moved to Belo Horizonte, later living in Bahia. Bahian culture and colors significantly influenced the style of Zuzu's creations. In 1947, she went to live in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil's cultural capital.

In the 1950s, Zuzu began her work as a seamstress, usually making clothing for close relatives. At the start of the 1970s, she opened up a store in Ipanema, at the same time beginning to exhibit her clothes on American runways. In her fashion expositions, she always harnessed the joy and richness of the colors of Brazilian culture, making a name for herself in the fashion world of her time.

In the 1970s, her son Stuart, an activist against the military regime, was taken prisoner and killed by agents of the DOI-CODI. From then on, Zuzu would enter into a private war against the dictatorship for the recovery of her son's body, involving the Embassy of the United States, the native country of her former husband and Stuart's father. The battle ended with Zuzu's death in 1976 in a car crash. Stuart's body was never found. His mother's death was investigated by the Comissão de Mortos e Desaparecidos Políticos ("commission on political missing and presumed dead"), under process number 237/96, and the Brazilian government later admitted that the State was involved in her death.

wn.com/Zuzu_Angel





Zélia Duncan

                            Zélia Duncan (28 October 1964), born Zélia Cristina Gonçalves Moreira, is a Brazilian singer and composer.

Zélia was born in Niterói, in the state of Rio de Janeiro. She moved with her family to Brasília, where she lived for 16 years. She started her professional career in 1981 after she won a contest organized by the Fundação Nacional de Artes (National Foundation of Arts). When she was 22 years old, she returned to Rio. Using the name "Zélia Cristina", she first performed as a soloist in Botanic in Rio de Janeiro. In 1990 she launched the LP "Outra Luz" ("Another Light"), and she began performing in cities like São Paulo, Florianópolis, and Porto Alegre and participating in tv shows.

In late 1991, she accepted an offer to go play in the United Arab Emirates. She stayed there for 5 months, returning to Brazil in May 1992. It was in this year that she recorded a track in the songbook of Dorival Caymmi, and she also adopted the name Duncan, the maiden name of her mother. In 1994, she launched her first CD, Zélia Duncan, and two years later she recorded Intimidade (Intimacy), which made her spend a season in Europe and Japan.

wn.com/Zélia_Duncan





Álvaro Colom

                            Álvaro Colom Caballeros (born 15 June 1951) is a Guatemalan politician who was the President of Guatemala from 2008 to 2012, as well as leader of the social-democratic National Unity of Hope (UNE).

Colom was born in Guatemala City, the son of Antonio Colom Argueta and Yolanda Caballeros Ferraté, being the fourth of five siblings. His uncle, Manuel Colom, was a mayor of Guatemala City who was killed by the military in 1979 just after the creation of his political party was approved. He is also the father of Antonio Colom Szarata, the bass player of a Guatemalan pop rock band, Viento en Contra. He and his third wife, Sandra Torres, divorced in 2011. After gaining a degree as an industrial engineer at the University of San Carlos (USAC) he became a businessman involved in a variety of businesses, and a government civil servant, including being the founding General Director of the Fondo Nacional para la Paz and Vice Minister of the Economy before turning to politics. Representing the UNE (Unidad Nacional de la Esperanza) in the 2003 presidential elections, he lost to Óscar Berger on December 28, 2003--the closest a left-leaning candidate had come to winning the presidency since democracy was restored in 1985.

wn.com/Álvaro_Colom






























Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"

Order: Reorder
Duration: 14:34
Updated: 27 Jan 2013


democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org
http://wn.com/Brazilian_President_Dilma_Rousseff_From_Guerrilla_Fighter_to_the_Most_Powerful_Woman_in_the_World




				
					democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org

published: 03 Jan 2011
views: 41184

author:
mediagrrl9















AETN - PRESIDENT OBAMA AND PRESIDENT DILMA BILATERAL MEETING

Order: Reorder
Duration: 27:51
Updated: 19 Nov 2012



http://wn.com/AETN_PRESIDENT_OBAMA_AND_PRESIDENT_DILMA_BILATERAL_MEETING






published: 10 Apr 2012
views: 1196

author:
audiovisualbrazil















Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:12
Updated: 21 Jan 2013


Cortesia: TVNBR London 2012: Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace to welcome Heads of State and Heads of Government to the UK before they travel to the Olympic Stadium for the Opening Ceremon
http://wn.com/Queen_Elizabeth_II_meets_President_of_Brazil_Dilma_Rousseff_during_a_reception_at_Buckingham_Palace




				
					Cortesia: TVNBR London 2012: Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace to welcome Heads of State and Heads of Government to the UK before they travel to the Olympic Stadium for the Opening Ceremon

published: 27 Jul 2012
views: 7374

author:
Rumoaohepta7















President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil: Bilateral Meeting with President Obama (2012)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 27:56
Updated: 13 Jan 2013


thefilmarchive.org April 9, 2012 Dilma Vana Rousseff (born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte. She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured. After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years. Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations. In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT). In 2002, Rousseff joined the committee responsible for the energy policy of presidential candidate Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who after winning the election invited her to become Minister of Energy. In ...
http://wn.com/President_Dilma_Rousseff_of_Brazil_Bilateral_Meeting_with_President_Obama_2012




				
					thefilmarchive.org April 9, 2012 Dilma Vana Rousseff (born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte. She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured. After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years. Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations. In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT). In 2002, Rousseff joined the committee responsible for the energy policy of presidential candidate Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who after winning the election invited her to become Minister of Energy. In ...

published: 20 Apr 2012
views: 1617

author:
thefilmarchived















President Dilma e Barack Obama In Brazil Part 1

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:24
Updated: 19 Apr 2012


Presidente Barack Obama no Brasil - Creditos - Tv Rede Globo
http://wn.com/President_Dilma_e_Barack_Obama_In_Brazil_Part_1




				
					Presidente Barack Obama no Brasil - Creditos - Tv Rede Globo

published: 19 Mar 2011
views: 5522

author:
ClownBrazil















Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff's Sadness At Night Club Fire

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:09
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


On Facebook : www.facebook.com The Brazilian President has cut short a visit to Chile and is returning home after a fire in a nightclub killed at least 245 people in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul. At a news conference before she left, Dilma Rousseff said the authorities were doing everything they could to help those affected by the fire. ''At this time of sadness, we are together,'' she added. Local media say the fire began when a band let off fireworks at the Kiss club in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul.
http://wn.com/Brazilian_President_Dilma_Rousseff's_Sadness_At_Night_Club_Fire




				
					On Facebook : www.facebook.com The Brazilian President has cut short a visit to Chile and is returning home after a fire in a nightclub killed at least 245 people in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul. At a news conference before she left, Dilma Rousseff said the authorities were doing everything they could to help those affected by the fire. ''At this time of sadness, we are together,'' she added. Local media say the fire began when a band let off fireworks at the Kiss club in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul.

published: 27 Jan 2013
views: 928

author:
ChikoritaNews















Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:08
Updated: 03 Jan 2013


Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF Moscow, Russia December 13, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting on Thursday with Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, during her visit to Moscow. The premier accepted Rousseff's invitation to visit Brazil during the Rio Carnival in February. Medvedev will also attend a meeting of the Russian-Brazilian intergovernmental commission during his visit. Various of the meeting. 00:00-03:07 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸
http://wn.com/Russian_PM_Dmitry_MEDVEDEV_MEETS_Brazilian_President_DILMA_ROUSSEFF




				
					Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF Moscow, Russia December 13, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting on Thursday with Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, during her visit to Moscow. The premier accepted Rousseff's invitation to visit Brazil during the Rio Carnival in February. Medvedev will also attend a meeting of the Russian-Brazilian intergovernmental commission during his visit. Various of the meeting. 00:00-03:07 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸

published: 14 Dec 2012
views: 200

author:
WestEndNews















Kelsang's Message to President Dilma Roussef

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:48
Updated: 09 Jan 2013


My message to President Dilma (and the great people) of Brazil. My name is Kelsang, I'm a Tibetan. My wife is Brazilian and we have a son who was born in your home state of Minas Gerais. More than 90 Tibetans have chosen self-immolation as a form of protest against the Chinese rule in Tibet. As a warrior who fought for your country against military dictatorship in the 70's, you can understand the pain of the Tibetan people when we ask, "Why is the world not speaking of this? Why is noone doing anything, only watching this tragedy in Tibet that keeps getting worse every day?" I want to ask you to do something, help our people, to be a part of our solution - please. Thank you.
http://wn.com/Kelsang's_Message_to_President_Dilma_Roussef




				
					My message to President Dilma (and the great people) of Brazil. My name is Kelsang, I'm a Tibetan. My wife is Brazilian and we have a son who was born in your home state of Minas Gerais. More than 90 Tibetans have chosen self-immolation as a form of protest against the Chinese rule in Tibet. As a warrior who fought for your country against military dictatorship in the 70's, you can understand the pain of the Tibetan people when we ask, "Why is the world not speaking of this? Why is noone doing anything, only watching this tragedy in Tibet that keeps getting worse every day?" I want to ask you to do something, help our people, to be a part of our solution - please. Thank you.

published: 09 Dec 2012
views: 960

author:
Kelsang Gyatso















Yoani Sanchez's Message to Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:23
Updated: 28 Jan 2013


Prominent independent journalist and blogger Yoani Sanchez has been banned once again from leaving Cuba. Sanchez is featured in a Brazilian documentary on journalism in Cuba and Honduras. She was invited by the director Dado Galvao for a screening of the documentary in Brazil but due to government restrictions, Yoani Sanchez has been banned from leaving Cuba and traveling to Brazil. In this video, Yoani asks Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff to appeal to the Cuban government on her behalf.
http://wn.com/Yoani_Sanchez's_Message_to_Brazilian_President_Dilma_Rousseff




				
					Prominent independent journalist and blogger Yoani Sanchez has been banned once again from leaving Cuba. Sanchez is featured in a Brazilian documentary on journalism in Cuba and Honduras. She was invited by the director Dado Galvao for a screening of the documentary in Brazil but due to government restrictions, Yoani Sanchez has been banned from leaving Cuba and traveling to Brazil. In this video, Yoani asks Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff to appeal to the Cuban government on her behalf.

published: 09 Jan 2012
views: 1868

author:
FHRCuba















President Obama and Dilma Roussef 2011

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:09
Updated: 16 Nov 2012


President Obama and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff speak to the media after meeting in Brasilia, Brazil. President Obama also addresses the situation in Libya, saying that the US is prepared to act to protect civilians.
http://wn.com/President_Obama_and_Dilma_Roussef_2011




				
					President Obama and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff speak to the media after meeting in Brasilia, Brazil. President Obama also addresses the situation in Libya, saying that the US is prepared to act to protect civilians.

published: 26 Dec 2011
views: 1737

author:
akantor1977















Dilma: save the Amazon, veto the new Forest Code

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:47
Updated: 14 Jan 2013


greenpeace.org Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff can veto damaging changes to Brazil's Forest Code, which would weaken protections for the forest.
http://wn.com/Dilma_save_the_Amazon,_veto_the_new_Forest_Code




				
					greenpeace.org Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff can veto damaging changes to Brazil's Forest Code, which would weaken protections for the forest.

published: 01 Dec 2011
views: 73715

author:
GreenpeaceVideo















A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff

Order: Reorder
Duration: 64:56
Updated: 25 Jan 2013


ENGLISH TRANSLATION COMING SOON In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil. Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction.
http://wn.com/A_Public_Address_by_President_of_Brazil_Dilma_Rousseff




				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION COMING SOON In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil. Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction.

published: 11 Apr 2012
views: 7035

author:
JFKJrForum















Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:54
Updated: 21 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_Brazilian_President_in_Sofia,Bulgaria_051011_no_comment_






published: 05 Oct 2011
views: 7090

author:
thejiffyTV















President Dilma Rousseff speaks in Washington about development

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:32
Updated: 11 Apr 2012



http://wn.com/President_Dilma_Rousseff_speaks_in_Washington_about_development






published: 11 Apr 2012
views: 161

author:
maryc gershwin















A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff (English Translation)|| Institute of Politics

Order: Reorder
Duration: 64:31
Updated: 28 Dec 2012


ENGLISH TRANSLATION In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012
http://wn.com/A_Public_Address_by_President_of_Brazil_Dilma_Rousseff_English_Translation||_Institute_of_Politics




				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012

published: 18 Apr 2012
views: 2155

author:
Harvard















A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff || Institute of Politics

Order: Reorder
Duration: 64:56
Updated: 26 Jan 2013


ENGLISH TRANSLATION HERE: www.youtube.com In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012
http://wn.com/A_Public_Address_by_President_of_Brazil_Dilma_Rousseff_||_Institute_of_Politics




				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION HERE: www.youtube.com In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012

published: 18 Apr 2012
views: 1068

author:
Harvard















Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil - Complet English Captions.

Order: Reorder
Duration: 14:48
Updated: 25 May 2012


Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil Google Earth Brasilia: 15 47' 33.26"S 47 49' 20.02"W
http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_First_Woman_President_of_Brazil_Complet_English_Captions




				
					Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil Google Earth Brasilia: 15 47' 33.26"S 47 49' 20.02"W

published: 02 Nov 2010
views: 2274

author:
tatuete















DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:41
Updated: 27 Dec 2012


DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN Moscow, Russia December 14, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) The Russian and Brazilian presidents held a meeting in Moscow on Friday. Vladimir Putin and Dilma Rousseff discussed plans to strengthen economic ties between their countries, and diversify bilateral trade. At the start of the meeting, Putin presented a bouquet of flowers the Brazilian leader, and congratulated her on her 65th birthday. The leaders later oversaw the signing of a series of bilateral agreements and memorandums relating to trade, sports, and the countries' militaries. 1. Various of meeting. 00:00 -- 03:29 2. Various of document signing, press conference. 03:29 - 06:40 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸
http://wn.com/DILMA_ROUSSEFF_Meets_with_Russian_President_VLADIMIR_PUTIN




				
					DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN Moscow, Russia December 14, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) The Russian and Brazilian presidents held a meeting in Moscow on Friday. Vladimir Putin and Dilma Rousseff discussed plans to strengthen economic ties between their countries, and diversify bilateral trade. At the start of the meeting, Putin presented a bouquet of flowers the Brazilian leader, and congratulated her on her 65th birthday. The leaders later oversaw the signing of a series of bilateral agreements and memorandums relating to trade, sports, and the countries' militaries. 1. Various of meeting. 00:00 -- 03:29 2. Various of document signing, press conference. 03:29 - 06:40 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸

published: 16 Dec 2012
views: 353

author:
WestEndNews














..." style="float: right; margin-right: 25px;">
Dilma Rousseff became the first female President of Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:30
Updated: 15 Nov 2012


www.timesofearth.com BRASILIA - Dilma Rousseff took the oath of office Saturday during a ceremony in the capital of Brasilia, taking over from her highly popular political mentor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, known to many as "Lula." Ms. Rousseff served as his chief of staff for five years and, in her first speech to Congress, she promised to continue many of the former president's economic and social welfare programs. Under Mr. da Silva, Brazil emerged as one of the world's major economies, along with Russia, India and China. It is estimated that 30 million people joined the middle class during his eight-year presidency. Experts say President Rousseff will face many challenges, including how to address high government spending and a recent drop in Brazilian exports. Ms. Rousseff has said Brazil should not rest as long as problems like homelessness, hunger and drugs continue to afflict the country. She also has said she will press for better trade agreements with foreign partners and work to resolve a currency imbalance that is hurting some Brazilian industries. Ms. Rousseff is a former guerrilla leader whose road to the presidency has been untraditional. The daughter of a Bulgarian immigrant, Rousseff joined a leftist guerrilla group in the 1960s that resisted Brazil's military dictatorship of that era. She was imprisoned for three years, during which she said she was tortured with electric shocks. Upon her release from prison in the early 1970s, she continued her ...
http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_became_the_first_female_President_of_Brazil




				
					www.timesofearth.com BRASILIA - Dilma Rousseff took the oath of office Saturday during a ceremony in the capital of Brasilia, taking over from her highly popular political mentor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, known to many as "Lula." Ms. Rousseff served as his chief of staff for five years and, in her first speech to Congress, she promised to continue many of the former president's economic and social welfare programs. Under Mr. da Silva, Brazil emerged as one of the world's major economies, along with Russia, India and China. It is estimated that 30 million people joined the middle class during his eight-year presidency. Experts say President Rousseff will face many challenges, including how to address high government spending and a recent drop in Brazilian exports. Ms. Rousseff has said Brazil should not rest as long as problems like homelessness, hunger and drugs continue to afflict the country. She also has said she will press for better trade agreements with foreign partners and work to resolve a currency imbalance that is hurting some Brazilian industries. Ms. Rousseff is a former guerrilla leader whose road to the presidency has been untraditional. The daughter of a Bulgarian immigrant, Rousseff joined a leftist guerrilla group in the 1960s that resisted Brazil's military dictatorship of that era. She was imprisoned for three years, during which she said she was tortured with electric shocks. Upon her release from prison in the early 1970s, she continued her ...

published: 02 Jan 2011
views: 2108

author:
timesofearth















Brazil Elects Dilma Rousseff, First Female President

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:58
Updated: 13 Dec 2012


Brazil has reached a new milestone with the election of its first-ever female president. On October 31, Dilma Rousseff defeated rival Jose Serra with 55 percent in a run-off vote. Rousseff was outgoing Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's chosen successor after serving the last five years as his chief of staff. During the 1960s and 1970s, she was involved in the armed struggle against Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned for nearly three years and tortured. Among her other pledges, Rousseff also vowed to eradicate chronic poverty in Brazil affecting 20 million people. Democracy Now! interviews Michael Fox, an independent journalist and documentary filmmaker based outside Porto Allegre. "She's a fighter," Fox says. For thetranscripts and more information, visit www.DemocracyNow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.DemocracyNow.org/donate
http://wn.com/Brazil_Elects_Dilma_Rousseff,_First_Female_President




				
					Brazil has reached a new milestone with the election of its first-ever female president. On October 31, Dilma Rousseff defeated rival Jose Serra with 55 percent in a run-off vote. Rousseff was outgoing Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's chosen successor after serving the last five years as his chief of staff. During the 1960s and 1970s, she was involved in the armed struggle against Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned for nearly three years and tortured. Among her other pledges, Rousseff also vowed to eradicate chronic poverty in Brazil affecting 20 million people. Democracy Now! interviews Michael Fox, an independent journalist and documentary filmmaker based outside Porto Allegre. "She's a fighter," Fox says. For thetranscripts and more information, visit www.DemocracyNow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.DemocracyNow.org/donate

published: 01 Nov 2010
views: 2276

author:
mediagrrl9















Dilma Rousseff wins Brazil's presidential election - CNN.com

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:04
Updated: 20 Jun 2012


Dilma Rousseff, who was elected as Brazil's first female president on Sunday, once told reporters that as a typical Brazilian girl in the 1950s she dreamed of becoming a ballerina. But as the 1960s saw the emergence of a brutal military regime in her country, she had to make some hard choices. "I quickly discovered that the world had no place for debutantes," Rousseff told reporters.
http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_wins_Brazil's_presidential_election_CNNcom




				
					Dilma Rousseff, who was elected as Brazil's first female president on Sunday, once told reporters that as a typical Brazilian girl in the 1950s she dreamed of becoming a ballerina. But as the 1960s saw the emergence of a brutal military regime in her country, she had to make some hard choices. "I quickly discovered that the world had no place for debutantes," Rousseff told reporters.

published: 02 Nov 2010
views: 2923

author:
Roberto Sabino















Summit of the Americas - Official Photo: Barack Obama, Dilma, Cristina Kirchner, Calderon...

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:52
Updated: 03 Jul 2012


(L to R back to front) Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff, Belize's Deputy Prime Minister Gaspar Vega, Bahamas' Deputy Prime Minister Theodore Symonette, Antigua and Barbuda's Prime Minister Baldwin Spencer, Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Barbados' Prime Minister Jerome Stuart, Bolivia's President Evo Morales and Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Uruguay's President Jose Mujica, Suriname's President Desire Bouterse, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines' Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves, Dominican Republic's President Leonel Fernandez, Saint Kitts and Nevis' Prime Minister Denzil Douglas Saint Lucia's Prime Minister Kenny Davis Anthony Trinidad and Tobago's Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar and Venezuela'sForeign Minister Nicolas Maduro, Paraguay's President Fernando Lugo, Jamaica's Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller, Haiti's Foreign Minister Laurent Lamothe, Honduras' President Porfirio Lobo, Mexico's President Felipe Calderon and Panama's President Ricardo Martinelli, Guyana's President Donald Ramotar, El Salvador's President Mauricio Funes, Dominica's Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit, Costa Rica's President Laura Chinchilla, Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos, Chile's President Sebastian Pinera, US President Barack Obama, Guatemala's President Otto Perez and Grenade's Prime Minister Joseph Thomas wave during the family photograph on the last day of the VI Americas Summit in Cartagena, Colombia on April 15, 2012. The United States was ...
http://wn.com/Summit_of_the_Americas_Official_Photo_Barack_Obama,_Dilma,_Cristina_Kirchner,_Calderon




				
					(L to R back to front) Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff, Belize's Deputy Prime Minister Gaspar Vega, Bahamas' Deputy Prime Minister Theodore Symonette, Antigua and Barbuda's Prime Minister Baldwin Spencer, Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Barbados' Prime Minister Jerome Stuart, Bolivia's President Evo Morales and Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Uruguay's President Jose Mujica, Suriname's President Desire Bouterse, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines' Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves, Dominican Republic's President Leonel Fernandez, Saint Kitts and Nevis' Prime Minister Denzil Douglas Saint Lucia's Prime Minister Kenny Davis Anthony Trinidad and Tobago's Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar and Venezuela'sForeign Minister Nicolas Maduro, Paraguay's President Fernando Lugo, Jamaica's Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller, Haiti's Foreign Minister Laurent Lamothe, Honduras' President Porfirio Lobo, Mexico's President Felipe Calderon and Panama's President Ricardo Martinelli, Guyana's President Donald Ramotar, El Salvador's President Mauricio Funes, Dominica's Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit, Costa Rica's President Laura Chinchilla, Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos, Chile's President Sebastian Pinera, US President Barack Obama, Guatemala's President Otto Perez and Grenade's Prime Minister Joseph Thomas wave during the family photograph on the last day of the VI Americas Summit in Cartagena, Colombia on April 15, 2012. The United States was ...

published: 15 Apr 2012
views: 1314

author:
Paul Burns















President Dilma's Swearing-in ceremony/ 01.01.11

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:00
Updated: 26 Jul 2012


This is shot by Uzondu-Roy Owoh during the swearing in ceremony of Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff
http://wn.com/President_Dilma's_Swearing-in_ceremony_010111




				
					This is shot by Uzondu-Roy Owoh during the swearing in ceremony of Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff

published: 02 Jan 2011
views: 135

author:
Roy2018
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"

Order: Reorder
Duration: 14:34
Updated: 13 Jan 2013


democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org
http://wn.com/Brazilian_President_Dilma_Rousseff_From_Guerrilla_Fighter_to_the_Most_Powerful_Woman_in_the_World




				
					democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org

published: 03 Jan 2011
views: 40720

author:
mediagrrl9















Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma 7 de Setembro

Order: Reorder
Duration: 11:39
Updated: 30 Sep 2012


Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff por ocasião do 7 de setembro
http://wn.com/Pronunciamento_da_presidenta_Dilma_7_de_Setembro




				
					Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff por ocasião do 7 de setembro

published: 07 Sep 2012
views: 44561

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















President Obama's Bilateral Meeting with President Rousseff of Brazil

Order: Reorder
Duration: 27:56
Updated: 07 Jan 2013


President Obama and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil speak to the press after a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office.
http://wn.com/President_Obama's_Bilateral_Meeting_with_President_Rousseff_of_Brazil




				
					President Obama and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil speak to the press after a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office.

published: 10 Apr 2012
views: 21657

author:
whitehouse















Digital Age-How Did Brazil Get Connected?-Julia Sweig

Order: Reorder
Duration: 26:47
Updated: 09 Nov 2012


Brazil, long disparaged as the "country of the future," has become the world's seventh largest economy with an astonishing growth rate of 7.5%; its first female President, Dilma Rousseff, is talking turkey with Obama and Hu Jintao; and its free press and social media have turned it into a vibrant democracy. Latin America expert Julia Sweig tells Jim Zirin what happened to revitalize Brazil...and why.
http://wn.com/Digital_Age-How_Did_Brazil_Get_Connected?-Julia_Sweig




				
					Brazil, long disparaged as the "country of the future," has become the world's seventh largest economy with an astonishing growth rate of 7.5%; its first female President, Dilma Rousseff, is talking turkey with Obama and Hu Jintao; and its free press and social media have turned it into a vibrant democracy. Latin America expert Julia Sweig tells Jim Zirin what happened to revitalize Brazil...and why.

published: 05 May 2011
views: 1983

author:
jzirin1















Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff durante almoço oferecido pelo rei Juan Carlos I

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:58
Updated: 20 Nov 2012


ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 19.11.12: A presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou, em Madri, na Espanha, de uma recepção oferecida pelo rei Juan Carlos I ea rainha Sofia. Durante a visita ao Palácio Real, as autoridades brasileiras e espanholas conversaram sobre o aprofundamento do diálogo político entre os dois países e parcerias nas áreas de ciência, tecnologia e inovação, educação e defesa. Durante o almoço, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff fez um pronunciamento e um brinde.
http://wn.com/Discurso_da_presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_durante_almoço_oferecido_pelo_rei_Juan_Carlos_I




				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 19.11.12: A presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou, em Madri, na Espanha, de uma recepção oferecida pelo rei Juan Carlos I ea rainha Sofia. Durante a visita ao Palácio Real, as autoridades brasileiras e espanholas conversaram sobre o aprofundamento do diálogo político entre os dois países e parcerias nas áreas de ciência, tecnologia e inovação, educação e defesa. Durante o almoço, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff fez um pronunciamento e um brinde.

published: 19 Nov 2012
views: 1362

author:
TVNBR















Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff na abertura da Assembleia-Geral da ONU

Order: Reorder
Duration: 24:54
Updated: 11 Jan 2013


Fato inédito na história da comunidade internacional, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff foi a primeira mulher a abrir o Debate Geral da 66ª Assembleia-Geral da ONU, em Nova York.
http://wn.com/Discurso_da_presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_na_abertura_da_Assembleia-Geral_da_ONU




				
					Fato inédito na história da comunidade internacional, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff foi a primeira mulher a abrir o Debate Geral da 66ª Assembleia-Geral da ONU, em Nova York.

published: 21 Sep 2011
views: 82500

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















67ª AGNU - Discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff

Order: Reorder
Duration: 23:40
Updated: 01 Jan 2013


Íntegra do discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff, por ocasião da abertura do debate geral da 67ª Sessão da Assembleia Geral das Nações Unidas. Transcrição do discurso: www2.planalto.gov.br Vídeo obtido em www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/67ª_AGNU_Discurso_da_Presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff




				
					Íntegra do discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff, por ocasião da abertura do debate geral da 67ª Sessão da Assembleia Geral das Nações Unidas. Transcrição do discurso: www2.planalto.gov.br Vídeo obtido em www.youtube.com

published: 25 Sep 2012
views: 2040

author:
MREBRASIL















Em Belo Horizonte, presidenta Dilma Rousseff visita instalações internas do novo Mineirão

Order: Reorder
Duration: 15:38
Updated: 23 Dec 2012


ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 21.12.12: O estádio Mineirão foi reinaugurado nesta sexta-feira (21). Antes da cerimônia, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff visitou as instalações do estádio e se encontrou com jogadores que fazem parte da história do Mineirão.
http://wn.com/Em_Belo_Horizonte,_presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_visita_instalações_internas_do_novo_Mineirão




				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 21.12.12: O estádio Mineirão foi reinaugurado nesta sexta-feira (21). Antes da cerimônia, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff visitou as instalações do estádio e se encontrou com jogadores que fazem parte da história do Mineirão.

published: 21 Dec 2012
views: 2499

author:
TVNBR















Dilma Rousseff é responsável pelo chute inaugural do Estádio Castelão, em Fortaleza

Order: Reorder
Duration: 11:26
Updated: 29 Dec 2012


ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 16.12.12: Acompanhada do governador do Ceará, Cid Gomes, e do ministro do Esporte, Aldo Rebelo, Dilma Rousseff cortou a fita de inauguração oficial do novo Estádio Governador Plácido Castelo Branco, em Fortaleza. Após o corte, a presidenta tirou uma foto com os trabalhadores responsáveis pelas obras do Castelão. Dilma também deu o tradicional pontapé inicial no gramado da arena, com capacidade para receber 60 mil pessoas. O estádio é o primeiro a ficar pronto para os jogos da Copa das Confederações, em 2013, e do Mundo, em 2014.
http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_é_responsável_pelo_chute_inaugural_do_Estádio_Castelão,_em_Fortaleza




				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 16.12.12: Acompanhada do governador do Ceará, Cid Gomes, e do ministro do Esporte, Aldo Rebelo, Dilma Rousseff cortou a fita de inauguração oficial do novo Estádio Governador Plácido Castelo Branco, em Fortaleza. Após o corte, a presidenta tirou uma foto com os trabalhadores responsáveis pelas obras do Castelão. Dilma também deu o tradicional pontapé inicial no gramado da arena, com capacidade para receber 60 mil pessoas. O estádio é o primeiro a ficar pronto para os jogos da Copa das Confederações, em 2013, e do Mundo, em 2014.

published: 16 Dec 2012
views: 4376

author:
TVNBR















Presidenta Dilma Rousseff - pronunciamento 7 de Setembro

Order: Reorder
Duration: 10:49
Updated: 09 Jan 2013


Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff pelo dia 7 de setembro. Setembro de 2012.
http://wn.com/Presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_pronunciamento_7_de_Setembro




				
					Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff pelo dia 7 de setembro. Setembro de 2012.

published: 06 Sep 2011
views: 21423

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















Na França, presidenta Dilma Rousseff participa do Fórum pelo Progresso Social

Order: Reorder
Duration: 62:03
Updated: 12 Jan 2013


ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 11.12.12: Em visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou do "Fórum pelo Progresso Social: o crescimento como saída para crise". O evento foi aberto, também, pelo presidente francês, François Hollande. O fórum foi organizado pelo Instituto Lula e pela Fundação Jean Jaurés.
http://wn.com/Na_França,_presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_participa_do_Fórum_pelo_Progresso_Social




				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 11.12.12: Em visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou do "Fórum pelo Progresso Social: o crescimento como saída para crise". O evento foi aberto, também, pelo presidente francês, François Hollande. O fórum foi organizado pelo Instituto Lula e pela Fundação Jean Jaurés.

published: 11 Dec 2012
views: 639

author:
TVNBR














..." style="float: right; margin-right: 25px;">
Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD

Order: Reorder
Duration: 26:45
Updated: 24 Dec 2012


Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD. Não estamos sob o governo de nenhuma Tipo de Política. Se nós somos obrigados a fazer ou não, algo, então não temos mérito nenhum. É por isto que Jesus diz, que se somos obrigados, a fazer algo, MESMO bom, façamos, mais uma fez, MAS DESTA VEZ por nossa INICIATIVA E conta, pois a primeira não fomos nós que fizemos, mas foi quem nos obrigou! Não é o que acontece, com o VOTO OBRIGATÓRIO, POIS NÃO PODEMOS VOTAR DUAS VEZES! AGORA, PARA EVITARMOS, VOTAR, EM INTERESSES ESCUSOS, ou NO PESSOAL DE fraternidade machista, QUE SOMENTE BUSCAM INTERESSES DA FRATERNIDADE SECRETA, que se ouve falar, desta e tal conspiração! ENTÃO, SOMENTE VAMOS COLOCAR NO PODER, SOMENTE MULHERES, QUE NÃO SÃO ACEITAS NESTAS TAIS FRATERNIDADES, que se conseguissem seus intentos egoístas, seriam castigados, pois se alguém de alguma seita secreta feitas somente DE "machos", e tem uma tal intenção maligna, mesmo MERECENDO QUE fiquem sozinhos num inferno, sem escravos, para trabalhar para eles, pois se são e amam as trevas, se é que existe os da Luz! Chorariam amargamente, ouvindo "Luzes da Ribalta", e lamentar, a Perdida Ilusão.. pelas Luzes de vidas apagadas... que soaria para "eles" como musica fúnebre! MESMO ASSIM NÃO VALERIA A PENA MORRER DESTA MANEIRA! POIS, ONDE ESTARIA O REINO DE AMOR? Mas, Graças ao nosso Deus Altíssimo, Nós temos acima de tudo, Jesus o Cristo que com o sopro de sua boca, destruirá, as obras das trevas, que quer a tudo dominar, até A TAL "Política" da ...
http://wn.com/Hebe_e_Dilma_Rousseff_HD




				
					Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD. Não estamos sob o governo de nenhuma Tipo de Política. Se nós somos obrigados a fazer ou não, algo, então não temos mérito nenhum. É por isto que Jesus diz, que se somos obrigados, a fazer algo, MESMO bom, façamos, mais uma fez, MAS DESTA VEZ por nossa INICIATIVA E conta, pois a primeira não fomos nós que fizemos, mas foi quem nos obrigou! Não é o que acontece, com o VOTO OBRIGATÓRIO, POIS NÃO PODEMOS VOTAR DUAS VEZES! AGORA, PARA EVITARMOS, VOTAR, EM INTERESSES ESCUSOS, ou NO PESSOAL DE fraternidade machista, QUE SOMENTE BUSCAM INTERESSES DA FRATERNIDADE SECRETA, que se ouve falar, desta e tal conspiração! ENTÃO, SOMENTE VAMOS COLOCAR NO PODER, SOMENTE MULHERES, QUE NÃO SÃO ACEITAS NESTAS TAIS FRATERNIDADES, que se conseguissem seus intentos egoístas, seriam castigados, pois se alguém de alguma seita secreta feitas somente DE "machos", e tem uma tal intenção maligna, mesmo MERECENDO QUE fiquem sozinhos num inferno, sem escravos, para trabalhar para eles, pois se são e amam as trevas, se é que existe os da Luz! Chorariam amargamente, ouvindo "Luzes da Ribalta", e lamentar, a Perdida Ilusão.. pelas Luzes de vidas apagadas... que soaria para "eles" como musica fúnebre! MESMO ASSIM NÃO VALERIA A PENA MORRER DESTA MANEIRA! POIS, ONDE ESTARIA O REINO DE AMOR? Mas, Graças ao nosso Deus Altíssimo, Nós temos acima de tudo, Jesus o Cristo que com o sopro de sua boca, destruirá, as obras das trevas, que quer a tudo dominar, até A TAL "Política" da ...

published: 22 Sep 2012
views: 1456

author:
dozeh2005















A verdadeira face de Dilma Roussef

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:03
Updated: 27 Dec 2012



http://wn.com/A_verdadeira_face_de_Dilma_Roussef






published: 02 Apr 2009
views: 101230

author:
araguaia2009















Top Five Dilma Roussef

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:20
Updated: 27 Nov 2012


Video mostrando as mancadas da Candidata a presidencia Dilma Roussef. Coisas como "O Meio ambiente é uma ameaça ao desenvolvimento sustentavel..." e "Neymar e Ganso tem essa capacidade de fazer a gente olhar"
http://wn.com/Top_Five_Dilma_Roussef




				
					Video mostrando as mancadas da Candidata a presidencia Dilma Roussef. Coisas como "O Meio ambiente é uma ameaça ao desenvolvimento sustentavel..." e "Neymar e Ganso tem essa capacidade de fazer a gente olhar"

published: 16 Oct 2010
views: 240909

author:
Paulo Moreira















Discussão entre Dilma Rousseff e Miriam Leitão [CBN 2010]

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:31
Updated: 14 Jan 2013


Visite nossa comunidade no Orkut! www.orkut.com.br Dois dias depois de aparecer, pela primeira vez, na liderança de uma pesquisa sobre a corrida presidencial de 2010, a ex-ministra Dilma Rousseff demonstrou firmeza e desenvoltura ao ser entrevistada, na manhã de 17 de maio de 2010, pela rádio CBN, das Organizações Globo. Foi um dos melhores desempenhos de Dilma na mídia desde o anúncio, em fevereiro, de sua pré-candidatura à sucessão do presidente Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Mediada pelo jornalista Heródoto Barbeiro, a entrevista começou em meio à repercussão do acordo nuclear firmado entre Brasil, Irã e Turquia na noite de domingo (16). Apesar da descrença da comunidade internacional, Lula, tachado como ingênuo pelo jornal The New York Times, liderou um dos mais exemplares êxitos na história da diplomacia brasileira. Na opinião de Dilma, o Brasil marcou um gol no Oriente Médio. Segundo ela, foi a vitória de uma política externa de diálogo, pró-paz, que tenta construir um mundo melhor. A pré-candidata disse que o acordo valorizou a disposição do governo Lula de instaurar um outro clima de negociação e credenciou ainda mais o presidente brasileiro como líder internacional. Questionada sobre os impactos do acordo numa eventual indicação de Lula para secretário-geral da ONU (Organização das Nações Unidas), Dilma disse tratar-se do tipo de pergunta que tem de ser feita para ele — mas ponderou que o presidente tem vínculos fortes com o Brasil. Por outro lado, ressaltou que a ...
http://wn.com/Discussão_entre_Dilma_Rousseff_e_Miriam_Leitão_CBN_2010_




				
					Visite nossa comunidade no Orkut! www.orkut.com.br Dois dias depois de aparecer, pela primeira vez, na liderança de uma pesquisa sobre a corrida presidencial de 2010, a ex-ministra Dilma Rousseff demonstrou firmeza e desenvoltura ao ser entrevistada, na manhã de 17 de maio de 2010, pela rádio CBN, das Organizações Globo. Foi um dos melhores desempenhos de Dilma na mídia desde o anúncio, em fevereiro, de sua pré-candidatura à sucessão do presidente Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Mediada pelo jornalista Heródoto Barbeiro, a entrevista começou em meio à repercussão do acordo nuclear firmado entre Brasil, Irã e Turquia na noite de domingo (16). Apesar da descrença da comunidade internacional, Lula, tachado como ingênuo pelo jornal The New York Times, liderou um dos mais exemplares êxitos na história da diplomacia brasileira. Na opinião de Dilma, o Brasil marcou um gol no Oriente Médio. Segundo ela, foi a vitória de uma política externa de diálogo, pró-paz, que tenta construir um mundo melhor. A pré-candidata disse que o acordo valorizou a disposição do governo Lula de instaurar um outro clima de negociação e credenciou ainda mais o presidente brasileiro como líder internacional. Questionada sobre os impactos do acordo numa eventual indicação de Lula para secretário-geral da ONU (Organização das Nações Unidas), Dilma disse tratar-se do tipo de pergunta que tem de ser feita para ele — mas ponderou que o presidente tem vínculos fortes com o Brasil. Por outro lado, ressaltou que a ...

published: 24 May 2010
views: 656561

author:
muitoalemjn















Presidenta Dilma Rousseff conhece projeto de Visualização Avançada em Londres 2012

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:40
Updated: 01 Dec 2012


A presidenta Dilma Rousseff conheceu em 26 de julho de 2012 o projeto de Visualização Avançada e assistiu a trechos do filme EstereoEnsaios durante a abertura da exposição Brazil at Heart na Embaixada Brasileira em Londres. A exibição é parte da organização de eventos relacionados às Olimpíadas de 2012.
http://wn.com/Presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_conhece_projeto_de_Visualização_Avançada_em_Londres_2012




				
					A presidenta Dilma Rousseff conheceu em 26 de julho de 2012 o projeto de Visualização Avançada e assistiu a trechos do filme EstereoEnsaios durante a abertura da exposição Brazil at Heart na Embaixada Brasileira em Londres. A exibição é parte da organização de eventos relacionados às Olimpíadas de 2012.

published: 28 Jul 2012
views: 5731

author:
ciceroinaciodasilva















Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:54
Updated: 05 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff_Brazilian_President_in_Sofia,Bulgaria_051011_no_comment_






published: 05 Oct 2011
views: 6859

author:
thejiffyTV















Presidenta Dilma Rousseff é homenageada na prefeitura de Paris

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:58
Updated: 14 Dec 2012


ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 12.12.12: No segundo dia de visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff se encontrou nesta quarta-feira (12) com o prefeito de Paris, Bertrand Delanoè. Ela participou de uma cerimônia na sede da prefeitura onde foi homenageada. Após a cerimônia, Dilma Rousseff fez uma visita de cortesia ao presidente do Senado francês, Jean-Pierre Bel.
http://wn.com/Presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_é_homenageada_na_prefeitura_de_Paris




				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 12.12.12: No segundo dia de visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff se encontrou nesta quarta-feira (12) com o prefeito de Paris, Bertrand Delanoè. Ela participou de uma cerimônia na sede da prefeitura onde foi homenageada. Após a cerimônia, Dilma Rousseff fez uma visita de cortesia ao presidente do Senado francês, Jean-Pierre Bel.

published: 12 Dec 2012
views: 480

author:
TVNBR















Quem é Dilma Roussef - QUE SE ABRAM OS ARQUIVOS DA DITADURA!

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:04
Updated: 03 Jan 2013


O Deputado Jair Bolsonaro dá uma prévia sobre a ficha criminal da Ministra Dilma Roussef. ABRAM OS ARQUIVOS DA DITADURA, MINISTRO TARSO GENRO DOIS MANDATOS NÃO FORAM SUFICIENTES PRA FAZER ISSO? OU O QUE TEM LÁ ACABA COM TODA A FARSA DO PT NOS ÚLTIMOS 30 ANOS?
http://wn.com/Quem_é_Dilma_Roussef_QUE_SE_ABRAM_OS_ARQUIVOS_DA_DITADURA!




				
					O Deputado Jair Bolsonaro dá uma prévia sobre a ficha criminal da Ministra Dilma Roussef. ABRAM OS ARQUIVOS DA DITADURA, MINISTRO TARSO GENRO DOIS MANDATOS NÃO FORAM SUFICIENTES PRA FAZER ISSO? OU O QUE TEM LÁ ACABA COM TODA A FARSA DO PT NOS ÚLTIMOS 30 ANOS?

published: 03 Nov 2009
views: 116802

author:
Marcos Alex















Pronunciamento da Presidenta da República, Dilma Rousseff, pelo Dia do Trabalho

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:23
Updated: 08 Sep 2012


O trabalhador tem o direito de usufruir tudo que o seu país produz, diz Dilma Rousseff
http://wn.com/Pronunciamento_da_Presidenta_da_República,_Dilma_Rousseff,_pelo_Dia_do_Trabalho




				
					O trabalhador tem o direito de usufruir tudo que o seu país produz, diz Dilma Rousseff

published: 01 May 2012
views: 30413

author:
SImpPR















TV Fuzarca! #15 Dilma Rousseff / Ganso Preto / Banda Matildos e Making Off!

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:50
Updated: 08 Dec 2012


A TV Fuzarca! dessa vez resolveu inovar gravando então dois quadros que envolvem felicidade, crianças e melagrião. Divirtam-se com o Ganso preto, os Matildos e as loucuras dos bastidosres da nossa TV!
http://wn.com/TV_Fuzarca!_15_Dilma_Rousseff_Ganso_Preto_Banda_Matildos_e_Making_Off!




				
					A TV Fuzarca! dessa vez resolveu inovar gravando então dois quadros que envolvem felicidade, crianças e melagrião. Divirtam-se com o Ganso preto, os Matildos e as loucuras dos bastidosres da nossa TV!

published: 25 May 2011
views: 31662

author:
TVFuzarca















Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff em homenagem ao Dia do Trabalho

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:44
Updated: 15 Dec 2012


Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma por ocasião do Dia do Trabalho Maio de 2011
http://wn.com/Pronunciamento_da_presidenta_Dilma_Rousseff_em_homenagem_ao_Dia_do_Trabalho




				
					Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma por ocasião do Dia do Trabalho Maio de 2011

published: 29 Apr 2011
views: 14018

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















Gustavo Mendes imita Dilma Rousseff

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:53
Updated: 02 Jan 2013


Gustavo Mendes experimenta a imitação de Dilma Rousseff. Contatos gmendesmiranda@hotmail.com / Twitter: @GustavoMMendes
http://wn.com/Gustavo_Mendes_imita_Dilma_Rousseff




				
					Gustavo Mendes experimenta a imitação de Dilma Rousseff. Contatos gmendesmiranda@hotmail.com / Twitter: @GustavoMMendes

published: 31 Oct 2010
views: 80331

author:
gustavommendes





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































14:34



Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"
democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female presid...


published: 03 Jan 2011
author: mediagrrl9


Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"


				
					democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org

published: 03 Jan 2011
views: 41184

author:
mediagrrl9















27:51



AETN - PRESIDENT OBAMA AND PRESIDENT DILMA BILATERAL MEETING
...


published: 10 Apr 2012
author: audiovisualbrazil


AETN - PRESIDENT OBAMA AND PRESIDENT DILMA BILATERAL MEETING




published: 10 Apr 2012
views: 1196

author:
audiovisualbrazil















1:12



Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace
Cortesia: TVNBR London 2012: Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff d...


published: 27 Jul 2012
author: Rumoaohepta7


Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace


				
					Cortesia: TVNBR London 2012: Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace Queen Elizabeth II meets President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff during a reception at Buckingham Palace to welcome Heads of State and Heads of Government to the UK before they travel to the Olympic Stadium for the Opening Ceremon

published: 27 Jul 2012
views: 7374

author:
Rumoaohepta7















27:56



President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil: Bilateral Meeting with President Obama (2012)
thefilmarchive.org April 9, 2012 Dilma Vana Rousseff (born 14 December 1947) is the 36th a...


published: 20 Apr 2012
author: thefilmarchived


President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil: Bilateral Meeting with President Obama (2012)


				
					thefilmarchive.org April 9, 2012 Dilma Vana Rousseff (born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte. She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured. After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years. Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations. In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT). In 2002, Rousseff joined the committee responsible for the energy policy of presidential candidate Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who after winning the election invited her to become Minister of Energy. In ...

published: 20 Apr 2012
views: 1617

author:
thefilmarchived















2:24



President Dilma e Barack Obama In Brazil Part 1
Presidente Barack Obama no Brasil - Creditos - Tv Rede Globo...


published: 19 Mar 2011
author: ClownBrazil


President Dilma e Barack Obama In Brazil Part 1


				
					Presidente Barack Obama no Brasil - Creditos - Tv Rede Globo

published: 19 Mar 2011
views: 5522

author:
ClownBrazil















1:09



Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff's Sadness At Night Club Fire
On Facebook : www.facebook.com The Brazilian President has cut short a visit to Chile and ...


published: 27 Jan 2013
author: ChikoritaNews


Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff's Sadness At Night Club Fire


				
					On Facebook : www.facebook.com The Brazilian President has cut short a visit to Chile and is returning home after a fire in a nightclub killed at least 245 people in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul. At a news conference before she left, Dilma Rousseff said the authorities were doing everything they could to help those affected by the fire. ''At this time of sadness, we are together,'' she added. Local media say the fire began when a band let off fireworks at the Kiss club in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul.

published: 27 Jan 2013
views: 928

author:
ChikoritaNews















3:08



Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF
Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF Moscow, Russia Decembe...


published: 14 Dec 2012
author: WestEndNews


Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF


				
					Russian PM Dmitry MEDVEDEV MEETS Brazilian President DILMA ROUSSEFF Moscow, Russia December 13, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting on Thursday with Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, during her visit to Moscow. The premier accepted Rousseff's invitation to visit Brazil during the Rio Carnival in February. Medvedev will also attend a meeting of the Russian-Brazilian intergovernmental commission during his visit. Various of the meeting. 00:00-03:07 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸

published: 14 Dec 2012
views: 200

author:
WestEndNews















0:48



Kelsang's Message to President Dilma Roussef
My message to President Dilma (and the great people) of Brazil. My name is Kelsang, I'm a ...


published: 09 Dec 2012
author: Kelsang Gyatso


Kelsang's Message to President Dilma Roussef


				
					My message to President Dilma (and the great people) of Brazil. My name is Kelsang, I'm a Tibetan. My wife is Brazilian and we have a son who was born in your home state of Minas Gerais. More than 90 Tibetans have chosen self-immolation as a form of protest against the Chinese rule in Tibet. As a warrior who fought for your country against military dictatorship in the 70's, you can understand the pain of the Tibetan people when we ask, "Why is the world not speaking of this? Why is noone doing anything, only watching this tragedy in Tibet that keeps getting worse every day?" I want to ask you to do something, help our people, to be a part of our solution - please. Thank you.

published: 09 Dec 2012
views: 960

author:
Kelsang Gyatso















2:23



Yoani Sanchez's Message to Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
Prominent independent journalist and blogger Yoani Sanchez has been banned once again from...


published: 09 Jan 2012
author: FHRCuba


Yoani Sanchez's Message to Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff


				
					Prominent independent journalist and blogger Yoani Sanchez has been banned once again from leaving Cuba. Sanchez is featured in a Brazilian documentary on journalism in Cuba and Honduras. She was invited by the director Dado Galvao for a screening of the documentary in Brazil but due to government restrictions, Yoani Sanchez has been banned from leaving Cuba and traveling to Brazil. In this video, Yoani asks Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff to appeal to the Cuban government on her behalf.

published: 09 Jan 2012
views: 1868

author:
FHRCuba















5:09



President Obama and Dilma Roussef 2011
President Obama and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff speak to the media after meeting in...


published: 26 Dec 2011
author: akantor1977


President Obama and Dilma Roussef 2011


				
					President Obama and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff speak to the media after meeting in Brasilia, Brazil. President Obama also addresses the situation in Libya, saying that the US is prepared to act to protect civilians.

published: 26 Dec 2011
views: 1737

author:
akantor1977















0:47



Dilma: save the Amazon, veto the new Forest Code
greenpeace.org Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff can veto damaging changes to Brazil's Fo...


published: 01 Dec 2011
author: GreenpeaceVideo


Dilma: save the Amazon, veto the new Forest Code


				
					greenpeace.org Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff can veto damaging changes to Brazil's Forest Code, which would weaken protections for the forest.

published: 01 Dec 2011
views: 73715

author:
GreenpeaceVideo















64:56



A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff
ENGLISH TRANSLATION COMING SOON In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilia...


published: 11 Apr 2012
author: JFKJrForum


A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff


				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION COMING SOON In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil. Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction.

published: 11 Apr 2012
views: 7035

author:
JFKJrForum















1:54



Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/
...


published: 05 Oct 2011
author: thejiffyTV


Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/




published: 05 Oct 2011
views: 7090

author:
thejiffyTV















1:32



President Dilma Rousseff speaks in Washington about development
...


published: 11 Apr 2012
author: maryc gershwin


President Dilma Rousseff speaks in Washington about development




published: 11 Apr 2012
views: 161

author:
maryc gershwin










Youtube results:







64:31



A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff (English Translation)|| Institute of Politics
ENGLISH TRANSLATION In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President ...


published: 18 Apr 2012
author: Harvard


A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff (English Translation)|| Institute of Politics


				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012

published: 18 Apr 2012
views: 2155

author:
Harvard















64:56



A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff || Institute of Politics
ENGLISH TRANSLATION HERE: www.youtube.com In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd...


published: 18 Apr 2012
author: Harvard


A Public Address by President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff || Institute of Politics


				
					ENGLISH TRANSLATION HERE: www.youtube.com In front of an enthusiastic capacity Forum crowd, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff offered a vision of growing global importance and economic vitality for her country. She spoke of Brazil's growing middle class, increasing prosperity, decreasing social inequality, and emphasized the continuing need to improve both the access and quality of education for Brazilians to increase competitiveness. She concluded this memorable Forum by reiterating that "Brazil needs Harvard as much as Harvard needs Brazil." Harvard Kennedy School Dean David Ellwood moderated the Forum and Merilee Grindle, Director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, provided the President's introduction. April 10, 2012

published: 18 Apr 2012
views: 1068

author:
Harvard















14:48



Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil - Complet English Captions.
Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil Google Earth Brasilia: 15 47' 33.26"S 47 ...


published: 02 Nov 2010
author: tatuete


Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil - Complet English Captions.


				
					Dilma Rousseff - First Woman President of Brazil Google Earth Brasilia: 15 47' 33.26"S 47 49' 20.02"W

published: 02 Nov 2010
views: 2274

author:
tatuete















6:41



DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN
DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN Moscow, Russia December 14, 201...


published: 16 Dec 2012
author: WestEndNews


DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN


				
					DILMA ROUSSEFF Meets with Russian President VLADIMIR PUTIN Moscow, Russia December 14, 2012 -Video from RIA Novosti (Видео с Российское агентство международных новостей) The Russian and Brazilian presidents held a meeting in Moscow on Friday. Vladimir Putin and Dilma Rousseff discussed plans to strengthen economic ties between their countries, and diversify bilateral trade. At the start of the meeting, Putin presented a bouquet of flowers the Brazilian leader, and congratulated her on her 65th birthday. The leaders later oversaw the signing of a series of bilateral agreements and memorandums relating to trade, sports, and the countries' militaries. 1. Various of meeting. 00:00 -- 03:29 2. Various of document signing, press conference. 03:29 - 06:40 .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸ CLICK HERE to view all the Videos/photos we've uploaded: www.youtube.com .´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸.´¯`·.¸¸.·´¯`·.¸

published: 16 Dec 2012
views: 353

author:
WestEndNews











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































14:34



Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"
democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female presid...


published: 03 Jan 2011
author: mediagrrl9


Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff: From Guerrilla Fighter to "the Most Powerful Woman in the World"


				
					democracynow.org - Brazil has made history with the swearing-in of its first female president. On Saturday, Dilma Rousseff received the presidential sash from outgoing President Lula da Silva at a ceremony in the capital Brasília. In the 1960s, Rousseff was a guerrilla resisting Brazil's military dictatorship. She was imprisoned and tortured for three years. Democracy Now! interviewed Greg Grandin, professor of Latin American history at New York University, and author of "Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism." His most recent book, "Fordlandia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. For thevideo/audio podcast, transcript, to sign up for the daily news digest, and for today's entire show, visit www.democracynow.org. Please consider supporting independent media by making a donation to Democracy Now! today, visit www.democracynow.org

published: 03 Jan 2011
views: 40720

author:
mediagrrl9















11:39



Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma 7 de Setembro
Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff por ocasião do 7 de setembro...


published: 07 Sep 2012
author: PalaciodoPlanalto


Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma 7 de Setembro


				
					Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff por ocasião do 7 de setembro

published: 07 Sep 2012
views: 44561

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















27:56



President Obama's Bilateral Meeting with President Rousseff of Brazil
President Obama and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil speak to the press after a bilatera...


published: 10 Apr 2012
author: whitehouse


President Obama's Bilateral Meeting with President Rousseff of Brazil


				
					President Obama and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil speak to the press after a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office.

published: 10 Apr 2012
views: 21657

author:
whitehouse















26:47



Digital Age-How Did Brazil Get Connected?-Julia Sweig
Brazil, long disparaged as the "country of the future," has become the world's seventh lar...


published: 05 May 2011
author: jzirin1


Digital Age-How Did Brazil Get Connected?-Julia Sweig


				
					Brazil, long disparaged as the "country of the future," has become the world's seventh largest economy with an astonishing growth rate of 7.5%; its first female President, Dilma Rousseff, is talking turkey with Obama and Hu Jintao; and its free press and social media have turned it into a vibrant democracy. Latin America expert Julia Sweig tells Jim Zirin what happened to revitalize Brazil...and why.

published: 05 May 2011
views: 1983

author:
jzirin1















6:58



Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff durante almoço oferecido pelo rei Juan Carlos I
ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 19.11.12: A presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou, em Madri, na ...


published: 19 Nov 2012
author: TVNBR


Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff durante almoço oferecido pelo rei Juan Carlos I


				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 19.11.12: A presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou, em Madri, na Espanha, de uma recepção oferecida pelo rei Juan Carlos I ea rainha Sofia. Durante a visita ao Palácio Real, as autoridades brasileiras e espanholas conversaram sobre o aprofundamento do diálogo político entre os dois países e parcerias nas áreas de ciência, tecnologia e inovação, educação e defesa. Durante o almoço, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff fez um pronunciamento e um brinde.

published: 19 Nov 2012
views: 1362

author:
TVNBR















24:54



Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff na abertura da Assembleia-Geral da ONU
Fato inédito na história da comunidade internacional, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff foi a pr...


published: 21 Sep 2011
author: PalaciodoPlanalto


Discurso da presidenta Dilma Rousseff na abertura da Assembleia-Geral da ONU


				
					Fato inédito na história da comunidade internacional, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff foi a primeira mulher a abrir o Debate Geral da 66ª Assembleia-Geral da ONU, em Nova York.

published: 21 Sep 2011
views: 82500

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















23:40



67ª AGNU - Discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff
Íntegra do discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff, por ocasião da abertura do debate geral ...


published: 25 Sep 2012
author: MREBRASIL


67ª AGNU - Discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff


				
					Íntegra do discurso da Presidenta Dilma Rousseff, por ocasião da abertura do debate geral da 67ª Sessão da Assembleia Geral das Nações Unidas. Transcrição do discurso: www2.planalto.gov.br Vídeo obtido em www.youtube.com

published: 25 Sep 2012
views: 2040

author:
MREBRASIL















15:38



Em Belo Horizonte, presidenta Dilma Rousseff visita instalações internas do novo Mineirão
ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 21.12.12: O estádio Mineirão foi reinaugurado nesta sexta-feira...


published: 21 Dec 2012
author: TVNBR


Em Belo Horizonte, presidenta Dilma Rousseff visita instalações internas do novo Mineirão


				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 21.12.12: O estádio Mineirão foi reinaugurado nesta sexta-feira (21). Antes da cerimônia, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff visitou as instalações do estádio e se encontrou com jogadores que fazem parte da história do Mineirão.

published: 21 Dec 2012
views: 2499

author:
TVNBR















11:26



Dilma Rousseff é responsável pelo chute inaugural do Estádio Castelão, em Fortaleza
ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 16.12.12: Acompanhada do governador do Ceará, Cid Gomes, e do m...


published: 16 Dec 2012
author: TVNBR


Dilma Rousseff é responsável pelo chute inaugural do Estádio Castelão, em Fortaleza


				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 16.12.12: Acompanhada do governador do Ceará, Cid Gomes, e do ministro do Esporte, Aldo Rebelo, Dilma Rousseff cortou a fita de inauguração oficial do novo Estádio Governador Plácido Castelo Branco, em Fortaleza. Após o corte, a presidenta tirou uma foto com os trabalhadores responsáveis pelas obras do Castelão. Dilma também deu o tradicional pontapé inicial no gramado da arena, com capacidade para receber 60 mil pessoas. O estádio é o primeiro a ficar pronto para os jogos da Copa das Confederações, em 2013, e do Mundo, em 2014.

published: 16 Dec 2012
views: 4376

author:
TVNBR















10:49



Presidenta Dilma Rousseff - pronunciamento 7 de Setembro
Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff pelo dia 7 de setembro. Setembro de 2012....


published: 06 Sep 2011
author: PalaciodoPlanalto


Presidenta Dilma Rousseff - pronunciamento 7 de Setembro


				
					Pronunciamento da presidenta Dilma Rousseff pelo dia 7 de setembro. Setembro de 2012.

published: 06 Sep 2011
views: 21423

author:
PalaciodoPlanalto















62:03



Na França, presidenta Dilma Rousseff participa do Fórum pelo Progresso Social
ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 11.12.12: Em visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousse...


published: 11 Dec 2012
author: TVNBR


Na França, presidenta Dilma Rousseff participa do Fórum pelo Progresso Social


				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 11.12.12: Em visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff participou do "Fórum pelo Progresso Social: o crescimento como saída para crise". O evento foi aberto, também, pelo presidente francês, François Hollande. O fórum foi organizado pelo Instituto Lula e pela Fundação Jean Jaurés.

published: 11 Dec 2012
views: 639

author:
TVNBR















26:45



Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD
Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD. Não estamos sob o governo de nenhuma Tipo de Política. Se nós so...


published: 22 Sep 2012
author: dozeh2005


Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD


				
					Hebe e Dilma Rousseff HD. Não estamos sob o governo de nenhuma Tipo de Política. Se nós somos obrigados a fazer ou não, algo, então não temos mérito nenhum. É por isto que Jesus diz, que se somos obrigados, a fazer algo, MESMO bom, façamos, mais uma fez, MAS DESTA VEZ por nossa INICIATIVA E conta, pois a primeira não fomos nós que fizemos, mas foi quem nos obrigou! Não é o que acontece, com o VOTO OBRIGATÓRIO, POIS NÃO PODEMOS VOTAR DUAS VEZES! AGORA, PARA EVITARMOS, VOTAR, EM INTERESSES ESCUSOS, ou NO PESSOAL DE fraternidade machista, QUE SOMENTE BUSCAM INTERESSES DA FRATERNIDADE SECRETA, que se ouve falar, desta e tal conspiração! ENTÃO, SOMENTE VAMOS COLOCAR NO PODER, SOMENTE MULHERES, QUE NÃO SÃO ACEITAS NESTAS TAIS FRATERNIDADES, que se conseguissem seus intentos egoístas, seriam castigados, pois se alguém de alguma seita secreta feitas somente DE "machos", e tem uma tal intenção maligna, mesmo MERECENDO QUE fiquem sozinhos num inferno, sem escravos, para trabalhar para eles, pois se são e amam as trevas, se é que existe os da Luz! Chorariam amargamente, ouvindo "Luzes da Ribalta", e lamentar, a Perdida Ilusão.. pelas Luzes de vidas apagadas... que soaria para "eles" como musica fúnebre! MESMO ASSIM NÃO VALERIA A PENA MORRER DESTA MANEIRA! POIS, ONDE ESTARIA O REINO DE AMOR? Mas, Graças ao nosso Deus Altíssimo, Nós temos acima de tudo, Jesus o Cristo que com o sopro de sua boca, destruirá, as obras das trevas, que quer a tudo dominar, até A TAL "Política" da ...

published: 22 Sep 2012
views: 1456

author:
dozeh2005















4:03



A verdadeira face de Dilma Roussef
...


published: 02 Apr 2009
author: araguaia2009


A verdadeira face de Dilma Roussef




published: 02 Apr 2009
views: 101230

author:
araguaia2009















4:20



Top Five Dilma Roussef
Video mostrando as mancadas da Candidata a presidencia Dilma Roussef. Coisas como "O Meio ...


published: 16 Oct 2010
author: Paulo Moreira


Top Five Dilma Roussef


				
					Video mostrando as mancadas da Candidata a presidencia Dilma Roussef. Coisas como "O Meio ambiente é uma ameaça ao desenvolvimento sustentavel..." e "Neymar e Ganso tem essa capacidade de fazer a gente olhar"

published: 16 Oct 2010
views: 240909

author:
Paulo Moreira










Youtube results:







7:31



Discussão entre Dilma Rousseff e Miriam Leitão [CBN 2010]
Visite nossa comunidade no Orkut! www.orkut.com.br Dois dias depois de aparecer, pela prim...


published: 24 May 2010
author: muitoalemjn


Discussão entre Dilma Rousseff e Miriam Leitão [CBN 2010]


				
					Visite nossa comunidade no Orkut! www.orkut.com.br Dois dias depois de aparecer, pela primeira vez, na liderança de uma pesquisa sobre a corrida presidencial de 2010, a ex-ministra Dilma Rousseff demonstrou firmeza e desenvoltura ao ser entrevistada, na manhã de 17 de maio de 2010, pela rádio CBN, das Organizações Globo. Foi um dos melhores desempenhos de Dilma na mídia desde o anúncio, em fevereiro, de sua pré-candidatura à sucessão do presidente Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Mediada pelo jornalista Heródoto Barbeiro, a entrevista começou em meio à repercussão do acordo nuclear firmado entre Brasil, Irã e Turquia na noite de domingo (16). Apesar da descrença da comunidade internacional, Lula, tachado como ingênuo pelo jornal The New York Times, liderou um dos mais exemplares êxitos na história da diplomacia brasileira. Na opinião de Dilma, o Brasil marcou um gol no Oriente Médio. Segundo ela, foi a vitória de uma política externa de diálogo, pró-paz, que tenta construir um mundo melhor. A pré-candidata disse que o acordo valorizou a disposição do governo Lula de instaurar um outro clima de negociação e credenciou ainda mais o presidente brasileiro como líder internacional. Questionada sobre os impactos do acordo numa eventual indicação de Lula para secretário-geral da ONU (Organização das Nações Unidas), Dilma disse tratar-se do tipo de pergunta que tem de ser feita para ele — mas ponderou que o presidente tem vínculos fortes com o Brasil. Por outro lado, ressaltou que a ...

published: 24 May 2010
views: 656561

author:
muitoalemjn















3:40



Presidenta Dilma Rousseff conhece projeto de Visualização Avançada em Londres 2012
A presidenta Dilma Rousseff conheceu em 26 de julho de 2012 o projeto de Visualização Avan...


published: 28 Jul 2012
author: ciceroinaciodasilva


Presidenta Dilma Rousseff conhece projeto de Visualização Avançada em Londres 2012


				
					A presidenta Dilma Rousseff conheceu em 26 de julho de 2012 o projeto de Visualização Avançada e assistiu a trechos do filme EstereoEnsaios durante a abertura da exposição Brazil at Heart na Embaixada Brasileira em Londres. A exibição é parte da organização de eventos relacionados às Olimpíadas de 2012.

published: 28 Jul 2012
views: 5731

author:
ciceroinaciodasilva















1:54



Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/
...


published: 05 Oct 2011
author: thejiffyTV


Dilma Rousseff Brazilian President in Sofia,Bulgaria - 05.10.11 /no comment/




published: 05 Oct 2011
views: 6859

author:
thejiffyTV















9:58



Presidenta Dilma Rousseff é homenageada na prefeitura de Paris
ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 12.12.12: No segundo dia de visita oficial à França, a presiden...


published: 12 Dec 2012
author: TVNBR


Presidenta Dilma Rousseff é homenageada na prefeitura de Paris


				
					ATIVIDADES DA PRESIDENTA - 12.12.12: No segundo dia de visita oficial à França, a presidenta Dilma Rousseff se encontrou nesta quarta-feira (12) com o prefeito de Paris, Bertrand Delanoè. Ela participou de uma cerimônia na sede da prefeitura onde foi homenageada. Após a cerimônia, Dilma Rousseff fez uma visita de cortesia ao presidente do Senado francês, Jean-Pierre Bel.

published: 12 Dec 2012
views: 480

author:
TVNBR











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25. Caleb Moore was attempting a backflip when his snowmobile caught the edge of a landing area, sending him over the handlebars. The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



By Alexander Dziadosz and Oliver Holmes. BEIRUT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - At least 65 people were found shot dead with their hands bound in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Tuesday in a "new massacre" in the near two-year revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, activists said. Opposition campaigners blamed the government but it was impossible to confirm who was responsible ... The U.N ... State media did not mention the incident ... STALEMATE ... ....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime ... Joe Biden, US vice president, will be meeting with Sergei Lavrov, Russian foreign minister, on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference in Germany opening on Friday ... 538 Source.. Agencies. Share. Send Feedback ... Female militarism ... ....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



The cause of the basement explosion in an administrative building next to the iconic, 51-story Pemex tower in Mexico City remained a mystery early Friday, and President Enrique Pena Nieto urging people not to speculate. Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... Authorities said the dead were 17 women and eight men....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed ... Top Israeli officials have recently expressed worries that if desperate, the regime of President Bashar Assad could pass chemical weapons to Hezbollah or other militant groups ... The Israeli army called that move "routine." ... First Published....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














Cabinet highlights: Jan. 28, 2013 (Northern Arizona University)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



President John Haeger and Pat Haeuser, vice president for Planning and Institutional Effectiveness, are running a variety of scenarios before presenting their recommendation to the board and for public input ... President Haeger as well as the presidents of ASU and UA will serve as moderators. Fred Hurst, vice president for Extended Campuses, will be among the presenters....(size: 2.4Kb)
	    



ICBA Nominates New Officers for 2013-14 (ICBA - Independent Community Bankers of America)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



Gerhart, president and CEO of Bank of Newman Grove, Neb., will become ICBA immediate past chairman, while Bill Loving, ICBA chairman-elect and president and CEO of Pendleton Community Bank in Franklin, W.Va., will become the new ICBA chairman ... Buhrmaster, president of 1st National Bank of Scotia, N.Y., has been nominated to become ICBA chairman-elect, while Jack Hartings, president of The Peoples Bank Co....(size: 3.0Kb)
	    



Appeals Court decision

Star Telegram02 Feb 2013

read more



The president has shown ... It is time that President Obama fully accepts our checks-and-balances system of government as we are still a democratic republic and not a dictatorship....(size: 0.9Kb)
	    



Purinai leads insurance association

Rocky Mount Telegram02 Feb 2013

read more



David Purinai, president of MSH Insurance in Rocky Mount, is serving as chairman of the board of directors for the Independent Insurance Agents of North Carolina ... An active member of the association, Purinai most recently served as its secretary-treasurer, vice president and chairman-elect ... Purinai has worked with MSH Insurance since 1984 and became its president in 1990....(size: 1.9Kb)
	    



ABOR to start tuition discussions (Northern Arizona University)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source. Northern Arizona University) ... The board will meet from 9 a.m. to 4.15 p.m. Thursday, Feb ... Friday, Feb ... Thursday ... Mason Gerety, vice president for Advancement and NAU Foundation president, will join ASU and the University of Arizona foundation presidents for a presentation on the critical role of fundraising in higher education at 11.45 a.m ... NAU President John Haeger has said that he will not implement the at-will employment policy....(size: 3.1Kb)
	    



PSU breaks ground on Center for the Arts (Pittsburg State University)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



PSU President Steve Scott opened his comments by paying tribute to those who worked for many years to make the center a reality ... The president also paid tribute to the anonymous lead donor, whose $10-million lead gift "signaled Pittsburg State University's intent to reclaim its rightful place as the cultural center of this region."....(size: 3.5Kb)
	    



Scholars sketch bleak economic picture for black Americans

The Washington Post02 Feb 2013

read more



Despite that, Anderson and others said, President Obama seems reluctant to attack economic disparities between blacks and whites head-on ... “He does not want to be labeled a president who is consumed by racial inequality in this country,” Anderson said ... They also note that the president’s work to expand Pell Grants and extend the earned-income and child tax credits have helped millions of African Americans....(size: 5.2Kb)
	    



Consumer Groups Call on President and Congress to Pursue Strong Consumer Agenda (US PIRG - The Federation of US Public Interest Research Groups)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



Groups present agenda for nine major priorities to help consumers as President's second term, new session of Congress begin ... - In joint letters to President Obama and Congressional leaders, eight of the nation's leading consumer organizations urged policymakers to pursue a strong, robust agenda of consumer reforms ... For a copy of the consumer groups' letter to President Obama, go to.....(size: 5.3Kb)
	    



Hyde Park On Hudson Review

IMDb02 Feb 2013

read more



President to be released recently, Hyde Park On Hudson uses an historic event, the first time a ... Roosevelt (Bill Murray), the movie chronicles her friendship and eventual affair with the president....(size: 1.0Kb)
	    



Hawaii lawmakers grill UH officials on salaries

Palm Beach Post02 Feb 2013

read more



Senate President Donna Mercado Kim says university officials are getting paid too much. She says 11 years ago, the university president received $187,000 per year while ......(size: 0.9Kb)
	    



NuStar GP Holdings' CEO Discusses Q4 2012 Results - Earnings Call Transcript

Seeking Alpha02 Feb 2013

read more



Curt Anastasio – President and Chief Executive Officer ... Danny Oliver – Senior Vice President ......(size: 0.5Kb)
	    



US Secret Service chief to retire

The Star02 Feb 2013

read more



The head of the Secret Service - the police agency that protects President Barack Obama - is retiring, a spokesman said Friday, just months after the elite squad was hit by a sex scandal ... told AFP, noting he had overseen 23 national security events, including the 2009 inauguration of President Barack Obama....(size: 1.6Kb)
	    



PA GOP Statement on President Obama’s Groundhog Day Presidency (Republican Party)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



PA GOP Statement on President Obama's Groundhog Day Presidency ... President Obama promised his failed stimulus would create jobs, which it didn't, and promised that ObamaCare wouldn't cause premiums to rise, which it did ... Pennsylvanians can't afford a Groundhog Day Obama Presidency that regurgitates the same failed agenda of the past four years....(size: 21.8Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001



















Her Excellency Dilma Rousseff





36th President of Brazil


Incumbent


Assumed office
1 January 2011


Vice President
Michel Temer


Preceded by
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva


Chief of Staff of Brazil


In office
21 June 2005 – 31 March 2010


President
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva


Preceded by
José Dirceu


Succeeded by
Erenice Guerra


Minister of Mines and Energy


In office
1 January 2003 – 21 June 2005


President
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva


Preceded by
Francisco Luiz Sibut Gomide


Succeeded by
Silas Rondeau


Personal details


Born
(1947-12-14) 14 December 1947 (age 64)
Belo Horizonte, Brazil


Political party
Workers' Party


Spouse(s)
Cláudio Galeno Linhares (1967–1969)
Carlos Franklin Paixão de Araújo (1969–2000)


Children
Paula


Residence
Alvorada Palace


Alma mater
Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul


Signature



Website
Official website


Dilma Vana Rousseff (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈdʒiwmɐ χuˈsɛf] born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.[1]
The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte.[1] She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured.[1][2]
After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years.[1] Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations.[1] In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT).[1]
In 2002, Rousseff joined the committee responsible for the energy policy of presidential candidate Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who after winning the election invited her to become Minister of Energy.[1] In 2005, a political crisis triggered by a corruption scandal led to the resignation of Chief of Staff José Dirceu. Rousseff took over the post, remaining in office until March 31, 2010, when she left in order to run for President.[1] She was elected in a run-off on 31 October 2010. She is the first female elected President of Brazil, in addition to being the first economist to hold the office.[3]




Contents


1 Early life

1.1 Childhood and youth

1.1.1 Education and early political awareness


1.2 Guerrilla activity

1.2.1 Colina
1.2.2 VAR Palmares


1.3 Arrest
1.4 Life in Porto Alegre
1.5 Later life


2 Political positions
3 Political career

3.1 Municipal Secretary of Treasury
3.2 State Secretary of Energy
3.3 Minister of Energy

3.3.1 Luz para Todos program


3.4 Chief of Staff


4 Presidential campaign
5 Presidency

5.1 Inauguration
5.2 Cabinet
5.3 Controversy
5.4 International recognition


6 References
7 External links




Early life[link]
Childhood and youth[link]
Dilma Vana Rousseff was born in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, on December 14, 1947, to Bulgarian lawyer and entrepreneur Pedro Rousseff (born Petar Rusev, Bulgarian: Петър Русев, 1900–1962)[4][5] and schoolteacher Dilma Jane da Silva.[6][7] Her father was born in Gabrovo, Principality of Bulgaria[8][9] and was a friend of the Nobel Prize-nominated Bulgarian poet Elisaveta Bagriana.[10] An active member of the Bulgarian Communist Party in the 1920s,[11] Petar Rusev fled political persecution in Bulgaria in 1929, settling in France. He arrived in Brazil in the 1930s, already widowed (he left behind his son Lyuben, who died in 2007), but soon moved to Buenos Aires. He returned to Brazil several years later, settling in São Paulo, where he succeeded in business. Pétar Rúsev adapted his first name to Portuguese and the last to French. During a trip to Uberaba, he met Dilma Jane da Silva, a young schoolteacher born in Nova Friburgo, Rio de Janeiro, and raised in Minas Gerais, where her parents were ranchers. The two married and settled in Belo Horizonte, where they had three children: Igor, Dilma Vana, and Zana Lúcia (who died in 1977). Igor Rousseff, Dilma's elder brother, is a lawyer.[11]
Pedro Rousseff was a contractor for Mannesmann steel, in addition to building and selling real estate. The family lived in a large house, had three servants, and maintained European habits. The children had a classical education, and both piano and French lessons. After Pedro defeated the initial resistance of the local community to accept foreigners, the family began to attend traditional clubs and schools.
Education and early political awareness[link]




Dilma Rousseff (center) with her parents and siblings.


Rousseff was enrolled in preschool at the Colégio Izabela Hendrix and later received primary education at Colégio Nossa Senhora de Sion, a boarding school for girls run by nuns, where the students primarily spoke French with their teachers. Encouraged by her father, Rousseff acquired an early taste for reading. Pedro died in 1962, leaving behind around 15 properties.[11]
In 1964 Rousseff left the conservative Colégio Sion and joined the Central State High School, a co-ed public school where the students would usually make a great stir against the dictatorship established after the military coup. According to Rousseff, it was in this school that she became aware of the political situation of her country, getting "very subversive" and realizing that "the world was not a place for débutantes." In 1967 she joined the Worker's Politics (Portuguese: Política Operária—POLOP), an organization founded in 1961 as a faction of the Brazilian Socialist Party. Its members soon found themselves divided over the method to be used for the implementation of socialism; while some supported the struggle for the election of a constituent assembly, others preferred the armed struggle.[12] Rousseff joined the second group, which originated the Command of National Liberation (Portuguese: Comando de Libertação Nacional—COLINA). According to Apolo Heringer, who was the leader of Colina in 1968 and taught Marxism to Rousseff in high school, she chose the armed struggle after reading Revolution inside the Revolution by Régis Debray, a French intellectual who had moved to Cuba and became a friend of Fidel Castro and Che Guevara. Heringer says that "the book inflamed everybody, including Dilma."[11]
During that period, Rousseff met Cláudio Galeno Linhares, a brother in arms five years older than her. Galeno, who had joined POLOP 1n 1962, had served in the Army, participating in the uprising of sailors against the military coup, for which he had been arrested in Ilha das Cobras. They married in 1968 in a civil ceremony, after dating for one year.[11]
Guerrilla activity[link]
Colina[link]




Dilma Rousseff during an interview.


Rousseff participated in the militant activities of the Comando de Libertação Nacional—COLINA (English: National Liberation Command) and advocated Marxist politics among labour union members and as editor of the newspaper The Piquet. Dilma's role in this organization is unclear. According to the magazine Piauí, she handled weapons.[11] This is, however, contested by most of the Brazilian media. She probably was engaged only in "organization tasks".[13]
In early 1969, the Minas Gerais branch of Colina was limited to a dozen militants, with little money and few weapons. Its activities had boiled down to four bank robberies, some stolen cars and two bombings, with no casualties. On January 14, however, after the arrest of some militants during a bank robbery, the rest of them gathered to debate what they would do in order to release them from jail. At dawn, the police invaded the group's house and the militants responded by using a machine gun, which killed two policemen and wounded another.[11]
Rousseff and Galeno then began to sleep each night in a different location, since their apartment was visited by one of the leaders of the organization that had been arrested. They had to go back to their home secretly in order to destroy the organization's documents. On March 1969, the apartment was invaded by the police, but no documents were found. They stayed in Belo Horizonte for a few more weeks trying to reorganize what was left of Colina, but had to avoid their parents' houses, aware that they were being watched by the military (Rousseff's family had no knowledge of her participation in underground activities). In addition to that, Galeno had to undergo facial plastic surgery or a similar procedure (although he denies this) after a sketch of him was released for participating in a bank robbery. Unable to remain in the city, the organization ordered them to move to Rio de Janeiro. Rousseff was 21 and had just finished her fourth semester at the Minas Gerais Federal University School of Economics.[11]
There were a large number of people from Minas Gerais in the Rio de Janeiro faction of Colina (including former Belo Horizonte mayor Fernando Pimentel, 18 years old at the time), with the organization having no infrastructure to shelter all of them. Rousseff and Galeno stayed for a brief period in the home of one of Rousseff's aunts, who thought that they were in Rio on vacation. Later they moved to a small hotel and then to an apartment, until Galeno was sent by the organization to Porto Alegre. Rousseff remained in Rio, where she helped the organization, attending meetings and transporting weapons and money, according to the magazine Piauí. At one of these meetings, she met the Rio Grande do Sul-born lawyer Carlos Franklin Paixão de Araújo, who was then 31 years old; they developed a sudden attraction to one another. Araújo was head of a dissident group of the Brazilian Communist Party (Portuguese: Partido Comunista Brasileiro—PCB) and sheltered Galeano in Porto Alegre. The breakup with Galeno was peaceful. As Galeno said, "in that difficult situation, we had no prospect of being a regular couple."[11]
Araújo was the son of a prominent labor defense lawyer and had joined the PCB early. He had traveled through Latin America (having met Castro and Che Guevara) and had been imprisoned for several months in 1964. He joined the armed struggle after the issue of AI-5 by the dictatorship in 1968. On early 1969, he began to discuss the merger of his group with Colina and Popular Revolutionary Vanguard (Portuguese: Vanguarda Popular Revolucionária—VPR), led by Carlos Lamarca. Rousseff attended some meetings about the merger, which was formalized in two conferences in Mongaguá, leading to the creation of Revolutionary Armed Vanguard Palmares (Portuguese: Vanguarda Armada Revolucionária Palmares—VAR Palmares). Rousseff and Araújo attended these conferences, as well as Lamarca, who thought that Rousseff was a "stuck-up intellectual." His perception was based on her defense of a revolution through the political engagement of the working class, in opposition to VPR's military-based sense of revolution.[11]
VAR Palmares[link]


“
We fought and participated in a dream to build a better Brazil, we learned a lot. We did a lot of nonsense, but that is not what characterizes us. What characterizes us is to have dared to want a better country.
”



— Dilma Rousseff,
in a 2005 interview with Folha de S. Paulo [2]







Carlos Minc, who was also a VAR Palmares militant, denied Rousseff's role as head of the clandestine organization.


Carlos Araújo was chosen as one of the six leaders of VAR Palmares, which claimed to be a "political-military organization of Marxist-Leninist partisan orientation which aims to fulfill the tasks of the revolutionary war and the establishment of the working class party, in order to seize power and build socialism."[14] According to Maurício Lopes Lima, a former member of the Operação Bandeirantes (OBAN) search force (a structure which included the intelligence and torture services of the Armed Forces), Rousseff was the main leader of VAR Palmares. According to him, he received reports defining her as "one of the brains" of the revolutionary schemes. Police commissioner Newton Fernandes, who investigated the clandestine organization in São Paulo and drew the profile of dozens of their members, said that Rousseff was one of the principal masterminds of the revolutionary schemes. The attorney which prosecuted the organization called her "Joan of Arc of subversion," saying that she led strikes and advised bank robberies.[15] She was also dubbed as "the she-pope of subversion," "political criminal," and "female figure of sadly notable aspect."[11] Rousseff ridicules such comparison, stating that she does not even remember many of the actions attributed to her.[16] According to her former comrade and current colleague, Environment Minister Carlos Minc, her role in the group was sensationalized. "Because she is a very important person, they'll say anything about her."[17]
Rousseff has sometimes been described as the mastermind of the theft of a safe belonging to former governor of São Paulo, Ademar de Barros. The action was carried out on June 18, 1969, in Rio de Janeiro, and netted 2.5 million U.S. dollars.[18] It became the most spectacular and profitable action of the armed struggle.[11] Carlos Minc has denied the participation of Rousseff in the event, saying that the widespread version that she was the leader of the organization is rather exaggerated, since she was merely a member of no distinction. On at least three different occasions Rousseff herself also denied participating in the event.[17][19] Testimonials and police reports indicated that Rousseff was responsible for managing the money from the robbery, paying the salaries of the militants, finding a shelter for the group, and buying a Volkswagen Beetle. Rousseff only remembers purchasing the car, and doubts that she was the one responsible for managing the money.[20][21]
In 1969, VAR Palmares allegedly planned the kidnapping of Antônio Delfim Netto, a symbol of the "Brazilian Miracle" and the most powerful civilian in the federal government at the time. This would have been carried out in December according to the book Os Carbonários, written by Alfredo Sirkis in 1981. Antonio Roberto Espinosa, former head of both VPR and VAR Palmares, was reported to have said that Rousseff was one of the five members of the organization's leadership aware of it. The kidnapping did not take place because the members of the organization were captured just weeks before. Rousseff emphatically denies that she was aware of the plan and doubts that anyone involved really remembers much about it. She also said that Espinosa fantasized about the event.[20][21] After learning about the quotes that were being attributed to him, Espinosa denied stating that Rousseff knew about the plan, which was vague in any case. He said that Rousseff never participated or planned any paramilitary actions; her role was only political.[22][23][24][25][26]
Even with large amounts of money, the organization failed to maintain its unity. At a conference held in Teresópolis between August and September 1969, there was a major dispute among those who supported the armed struggle and who advocated working with the masses. Rousseff was in the second group. While the first group split into the paramilitary VPR, led by Lamarca, the second (including Rousseff) continued as VAR Palmares. There was a dispute over the money and weapons.[11]
After the split, Rousseff was sent to São Paulo, where she was in charge of keeping her group's weapons safe. She avoided the risk of keeping them in apartments by moving with a friend (Maria Celeste Martins, who would become her Chief of Staff assistant decades later) to a simple boarding house in the eastern zone of the city, where they hid the weapons under their beds.[11]
Arrest[link]




Gateway of Tiradentes Prison in São Paulo city, where Rousseff was arrested during the military dictatorship.


José Olavo Leite Ribeiro, who met three times a week with Rousseff, was captured by the military. As Ribeiro reported, after a day of torture, he revealed the place where he would meet with another militant, in a bar on Rua Augusta in São Paulo. On January 16, 1970, he was forced to go to the bar accompanied by undercover policemen, where his colleague was captured and, when they were preparing to leave, Rousseff unexpectedly arrived. Realizing that something was wrong, Rousseff tried to leave the place without being noticed. The officers suspected Rousseff and searched her, discovering that she was armed. "If it was not for the gun, it is possible that she could have escaped," says Ribeiro.[11] Rousseff was considered a big enough catch that a military prosecutor labeled her the "Joan of Arc" of the guerrilla movement.[2]
Rousseff was taken to the OBAN headquarters, the same place where Vladimir Herzog would be tortured and killed five years later. She was allegedly tortured for 22 days by punching, ferule, and electric shock devices.[27] As Maria Luisa Belloque, a cellmate, said "Dilma was shocked even with car wiring." Some ex-military officers have dismissed Rousseff's account, saying that she could not have survived that extent of torture.[28] Later, Rousseff denounced the torture she suffered in court proceedings, citing even the names of those who tortured her, such as Army Captain Benoni de Arruda Albernaz, mentioned by several other witnesses. Although she revealed the locations of some militants during torture interrogation, Rousseff managed to preserve the identities of Carlos Araújo (who would be arrested several months later) and Maria Celeste Martins.[11] Rousseff's name was on a list found at Carlos Lamarca's home, on a list of the prisoners who would get priority in exchange for hostages, but she was never exchanged and served out her sentence.[29]
Carlos Araújo was arrested on August 12, 1970. After Rousseff was captured, he had an affair with actress and fellow militant Bete Mendes. After his arrest, he met Rousseff on some occasions, during displacements regarding the military lawsuits both being prosecuted for. They were even a few months in the same prison in São Paulo, where during conjugal visits they reconciled, planning to resume married life after being released from jail.[11] Rousseff was convicted in the first instance to six years in prison. She had already served three years when the Supreme Military Court reduced her sentence to two years and a month. She also had her political rights suspended for eighteen years.[30]
In December 2006, the Special Commission for Reparation of the Human Rights Office for the State of Rio de Janeiro approved a request for indemnification by Rousseff and eighteen other prisoners in law enforcement agencies of the São Paulo state government in the 1970s.[31] In her request, a pivotal witness was Vânia Abrantes, who was in the same police car that transferred her from São Paulo to Rio de Janeiro (Vânia was Araújo's girlfriend when he and Rousseff began to date).[11] Rousseff also requested compensation in the states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais, since she was arrested in São Paulo but taken for interrogation in the cities of Juiz de Fora and Rio de Janeiro. She also seeks indemnification from the federal government. The total compensation figure paid to victims of political persecution may be up to 72,000 reais. However, as her advisors have declared, the indemnification has a symbolic value to her, and Rousseff demanded the requests to be tried only after her departure from public office.[30]
On April 5, 2009, Folha de S. Paulo published, on its front page, an alleged criminal record of Rousseff containing notes about various crimes allegedly committed by her. The document would have been part of the file of the Department of Political and Social Order (Portuguese: Departamento de Ordem Política e Social—DOPS), the military regime's political police. Rousseff questioned the veracity of the file, claiming that it was a forged document, which led the newspaper to declare that it had not obtained the document from DOPS' file, but rather via e-mail and, thus, could not guarantee its veracity.[32][33][34][35] The record can be found on a far right-wing website which supports the regime.[36]
Life in Porto Alegre[link]




Dilma Rousseff in Porto Alegre


Rousseff left jail at the end of 1972. She was twenty pounds thinner and acquired a thyroid disease.[37] She spent some time with her family in Minas Gerais in order to recover, visited an aunt in São Paulo, and then moved to Porto Alegre, where Carlos Araújo was finishing the last months of his sentence. She stayed in her in-laws' house, from where they could see the prison where Araújo was. Rousseff frequently visited her partner, giving him newspapers and political books disguised as novels. The Presídio da Ilha das Pedras Brancas was deactivated, and Araújo fulfilled the remainder of his sentence in the Presídio Central. The prominent lawyer, Afrânio Araújo, Carlos' father, died in June 1974, prompting his friends to pressure the regime for the release of Carlos, which happened just a week later.[11][37]
Punished for subversion in accordance with the decree number 477, considered the AI-5 of universities, Rousseff was expelled from the Minas Gerais Federal University and barred from resuming her studies at that university in 1973.[38] She decided to attend a preparatory course in order to take the vestibular test for Economics at the Rio Grande do Sul Federal University. She was admitted in the university and graduated in 1977, this time not participating actively in the students' movement. The year before, in March, she gave birth to her only child, daughter Paula Rousseff Araújo. After graduation, she got her first paid job after serving her prison sentence as an intern at the Foundation of Economics and Statistics (Portuguese: Fundação de Economia e Estatística—FEE), an organization linked to the government of Rio Grande do Sul.[37]
Her political activism, this time within the law, was resumed at the Institute of Social and Political Studies (Portuguese: Instituto de Estudos Políticos e Sociais—IEPES) linked to the only legalized opposition party, the Democratic Movement. Even though she was not affiliated with the party, Rousseff organized debates at the institute, which received lectures from scholars such as Francisco de Oliveira, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, and Francisco Weffort. In 1976, Rousseff and Araújo worked in the campaign of Glênio Peres, a MDB candidate for the city council. Although elected, Peres' term was revoked for denouncing the regime's torture in a speech. In November 1977, Rousseff was reported by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo as one of the 97 "subversives" infiltrated in the public administration. The list was made by resigned Army Minister, Silvio Frota, who had summarized the political background of those he listed. Rousseff, characterized as a Colina and VAR Palmares militant "cohabitating with the subversive Carlos Araújo," was discharged from her job at the FEE, being pardoned later.[37]
In 1978, Rousseff attended the Campinas State University, with the intention of receiving a master's degree in Economics. At that time, she began attending a discussion group formed by other VAR Palmares former members, such as Rui Falcão, Antonio Roberto Espinosa, and eventually Carlos Araújo. Meeting once every three months, the group lasted a couple of years. They would read the works of Karl Marx, Nicos Poulantzas, and Louis Althusser, discussing what would be the right moment to resume their political activity. Rousseff declared that she "attended the master's degree program," but did not finish it, failing to present her thesis. "That's why I returned to university to pursue a doctorate. And then I became minister and did not finish the doctorate", she said. Her academic credentials have been the subject of controversy as her official biography listed these master's and doctoral degrees that she had never earned. She was, however, twice enrolled in the graduate program in economics at the State University of Campinas, without ever fulfilling the requirements for those degrees.[39]
Later life[link]




Dilma Rousseff with Lula during the 2010 presidential campaign.


Rousseff has been married twice. In 1968 she married journalist Cláudio Galeno de Magalhães Linhares, who introduced 20-year-old Rousseff to the underground resistance movement against the dictatorship. In the early 1970s, Rousseff separated from Galeno and started dating Carlos Franklin Paixão de Araújo, her common-law husband for almost thirty years, with whom she had her only child, a daughter named Paula Rousseff de Araújo in 1976. The couple separated in 1994, after Rousseff discovered that another woman was pregnant with Araújo's son, and later resumed their relationship, finally divorcing him in 2000.
Detained in São Paulo, Araújo was sent to his home state of Rio Grande do Sul to finish his sentence. After she moved to Porto Alegre to resume her life with him, Rousseff became a teacher at the prison in order to see him. This work was unpaid.
Rousseff used the last name Linhares upon her marriage to Cláudio Galeno in 1967. The couple separated in their underground years, and an amicable divorce took place in 1981, when she was romantically involved with Araújo. Rousseff, however, continued to use the surname of her first husband until 1999, when she resumed using her maiden name, Dilma Vana Rousseff.[40]
According to Rousseff, she enjoys history and is interested in opera. In the early 1990s, she enrolled in a course in Greek theater taught by playwright Ivo Bender. Greek mythology then became an obsession for her, and, influenced by Penelope, she decided to learn how to embroider. Her favorite actress is Fernanda Montenegro. Her website claims she is an avid reader, citing Machado de Assis, Guimarães Rosa, Cecília Meireles, and Adélia Prado as her favorite authors.[41]

Paula Rousseff





Dilma Vana Rousseff at the christening of grandson Gabriel, with daughter Paula and son-in-law Rafael Covolo, and Dilma Jane Rousseff, the great-grandmother (far left)


Paula Rousseff, born on March 27, 1976, in Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, is the only daughter of Dilma Rousseff and her former husband, Carlos Araújo. Paula is a law graduate and holds the office of Labor Prosecutor in Porto Alegre.[42]
Paula Rousseff, married business administrator Rafael Covolo, three years her junior, in Porto Alegre on April 18, 2008.[43]
On September 9, 2010, Paula Rousseff, gave birth to Rousseff's first grandchild, a boy named Gabriel Rousseff Covolo in the city of Porto Alegre, during the 2010 presidential campaign of her mother. After the last debate with four other candidates, on September 30, 2010, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, which was aired on national TV, Rousseff flew to Porto Alegre for the christening of Gabriel in the Roman Catholic Cathedral on October 1, 2010.[44]

Health issues

At a press conference on April 25, 2009, Rousseff revealed that she was undergoing treatment to remove an early-stage axillar lymphoma, a cancer in the lymphatic system, which was detected in her left armpit during a routine mammogram. It was diagnosed as a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, an intermediate grade type, but her chances of being cured were up to 90%. She was submitted to curative chemotherapy treatment for four months.[45]
In mid-May 2009, she was hospitalized in the Hospital Sírio Libanês in São Paulo, with severe pains in her legs. The diagnosis was a myopathy, a muscle inflammation resulting from the cancer treatment. In early September that same year, she revealed she had completed her radiotherapy treatment, claiming to be cured, which was later confirmed by her doctors. She began to wear a wig due to hair loss caused by the chemotherapy.
After seven months of wearing a wig, Rousseff wore her natural dark brown hair at the launch of the 3rd Human Rights Program on December 21, 2009. She had announced in November that she would be retiring her wig as soon as her hair became more even. According to her, it was still "full of holes," the reason why she "couldn't take [the wig] off there in Copenhagen, Denmark." She first publicly admitted of wearing a wig back in May, when she jokingly referred to it as a "basic little wig."[46][47]
Political positions[link]
Although Rousseff states that her political thinking has evolved drastically — from Marxism to pragmatic capitalism — she remains proud of her radical roots.[2]
Rousseff is pro-life, supporting abortion only for pregnancies which endangers the life of the mother or are the result of rape, cases in which the current Brazilian legislation allows women to terminate their pregnancies.[48][49] Her present pro-life views have been criticized by sectors of the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil and other religious groups, due to her past support for the legalization of abortion. It was also a main target of criticism by José Serra's campaign as well as conservative newsmagazine Veja, which emphasized Rousseff's past and current positions on its cover.[50]
When asked about the criminal prosecution against Flamengo goalkeeper Bruno Fernandes de Souza, accused of killing his former girlfriend Eliza Samudio, Rousseff said that she opposes the death penalty.[51] According to her, "if it was effective, there would not be such crimes in the United States."[51]
Rousseff opposes gay marriage, but supports same-sex civil union.[52] She said that "marriage is a religious issue. I, as an individual, would never say what a religion should do or not. We have to respect them."[52] About same-sex civil union, Rousseff said that "basic civil rights should be recognized in a civil manner."[52] She also opposes the legalization of illegal drugs, stating that "Brazil today is unable to propose the decriminalization of any drug."[53]
As a member of the Workers' Party, a social-democratic party which opposes Third Way politics, Rousseff was expected to be against privatization and neoliberalism. The Nation, as an example of this thought, described Rousseff's victory as a defeat for the Washington Consensus.[54] Rousseff, however, has an ambiguous position on issues that involve privatization. She is, for instance, "favorable to grant to private enterprise the construction of new power plants and roads, when it is cheaper to do them through grants than through public works."[55] Additionally, she favored the privatization of airports in order to prepare Brazil's infra-structure for the 2014 FIFA World Cup.[56]
She also pledged to deepen the social welfare network inaugurated by the Lula administration, saying that, under her rule, "Brazil will continue to grow, with social inclusion and mobility."[55]
Political career[link]
With the end of the mandatory two-party system, in the early 1980s, Rousseff participated, along with Carlos Araújo, in Leonel Brizola's efforts for restructuring the Brazilian Labor Party [disambiguation needed ] (of social-democratic President João Goulart, overthrown by the 1964 coup). After the Supreme Electoral Court gave the name registry to the group linked to Ivete Vargas (Getúlio Vargas' niece), Rousseff and the group linked to Brizola founded the Democratic Labour Party (Portuguese: Partido Democrático Trabalhista—PDT).[37] Araújo was elected state deputy three times for this party, in 1982, 1986, and 1990. He was also the party's candidate for Porto Alegre mayor twice, losing to Workers' Party members Olívio Dutra in 1988, and Tarso Genro in 1992. Rousseff got her second job in the mid-1980s as an adviser for the PDT members of the Rio Grande do Sul Legislative Assembly.[37]
Municipal Secretary of Treasury[link]
Rousseff and Araújo devoted themselves to Alceu Collares' campaign for mayor of Porto Alegre in 1985. Much of his campaign and government plan was prepared at their home. After elected, Collares appointed Rousseff as the Municipal Secretary of Treasury; this was her first job in the Executive branch. According to Collares, Araújo influenced him on Rousseff's appointment, but her competence also contributed on his choice.[37]
In the gubernatorial campaign of fellow PDT member Aldo Pinto in 1986, Rousseff had an advising role. Pinto's running mate was Nelson Marchezan, one of the most prominent civilians during the Brazilian military government. They would be defeated by the PMDB candidate Pedro Simon. Twenty years later, in an interview, Rousseff attempted to justify the controversial alliance: "Marchezan was a leader of the dictatorship, but he was never an enraged (French: Enragé). The Marchezan wing was the wing of the radicalized small (rural) owners. And he was an ethical guy."[37]
Rousseff remained as Treasury Secretary until 1988, when she stepped out to dedicate herself in Araújo's campaign for mayor of Porto Alegre. She was replaced by Políbio Braga, which says that Rousseff persuaded him not to take office. She would have said that she could "not control these crazy people" and that she was leaving "before it taints my biography." While Collares remembers Rousseff as an example of competence and public transparency, Braga disagrees, stating that "she did not even leave us a single report, and the Treasury Secretary was a chaos."[37]
Araújo's defeat jettisoned the PDT of the local executive branch. In 1989, however, Rousseff was appointed director-general of the City Council, but was dismissed by councilman Valdir Fraga, president of the local legislature, after arriving late for work. As Fraga later said, "I dismissed her because she had a problem with the clock."[37]
State Secretary of Energy[link]
In 1990, Alceu Collares was elected Governor, appointing Rousseff as president of the FEE, where she had been an intern in the 1970s. She remained in office until the end of 1993, when she was appointed Secretary of Energy and Communication through the influence of Carlos Araújo and his group. She remained in office until the end of 1994, the same time when her relationship with Araújo had ended, shaken by the discovery that another woman was pregnant with his child, Rodrigo (born in 1995). They later reconciled and remained together until 2000, when Rousseff moved alone to a rented apartment.[37]




Dilma Rousseff


In 1995, after the end of Collares' term, Rousseff departed from her political office and returned to the FEE, where she was the editor of the magazine Economic Indicators (Portuguese: Indicadores Econômicos). It was during this break from public offices that she officially enrolled in the Campinas State University PhD program, in 1998. That same year, the Workers' Party won the Rio Grande do Sul gubernatorial election with the support of PDT in the second round. Once again she was appointed Secretary of Energy, this time by Governor Olívio Dutra. As he later recalled, "I already knew and respected her. I also appointed her because she was in a more left-leaning stance inside the PDT, less populist."[37]
During the first year of the Dutra administration, the PDT had gained some high-ranking offices, but Brizola felt that his party had very little space in the government, responsible for a tiny portion of the budget. Unable to get more space inside the administration, PDT members of the government were pressured by the party leadership to step down. The formation of the political alliance for the 2000 Porto Alegre mayoral election was also a cause of friction among the two parties. They ended up launching each own a different candidate; PDT's was Collares and PT's was Tarso Genro. Rousseff defended the maintenance of the alliance which had elected Dutra, supporting Genro's candidacy, and claiming she would not accept "neoliberal alliances with the right-wing". Her critics said that she was being hypocritical, once she defended an alliance with Marchezan in the 1986 election. Genro defeated Collares in the second round and Rousseff, among other fellow PDT members, joined the Workers' Party. Brizola accused them of being traitors.[37]
During Rousseff's management of the Secretariat of Energy in the Dutra administration, the service capacity of the electricity sector rose by 46%.[37] due to an emergency program attended by state and private companies. In January 1999, Rousseff traveled to Brasília in order to alert the Fernando Henrique Cardoso administration that if the authorities responsible for the power sector did not invest in generation and transmission of energy, the power cuts that Rio Grande do Sul faced early in her administration would take place in the rest of the country.[57] Therefore, the electricity crisis at the end of the Fernando Henrique Cardoso administration affected millions of Brazilians, with the exception of those from the three southern states, where a rationing was not imposed, as there was no drought. There was, however, a voluntary energy saving, and Rousseff tried to obtain compensation from the federal government, as it was granted to other regions. The federal government did not grante it, though, and Rousseff had to compromise with the private sector. According to Pedro Parente, Chief of Staff during the Cardoso administration, "she was pragmatic, objective and showed that she had a fluid dialogue with the business sector."[37]
Minister of Energy[link]




Dilma Rousseff in Brasília.


The issues related to the area of energy on the government plan of candidate Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva were discussed in meetings coordinated by physicist and nuclear engineer Luiz Pinguelli Rosa. Another highlighted member of the group was Ildo Sauer. Both of them were completely opposed to the privatization of the sector, which was, in their opinion, responsible for the energy problems that the country was facing. Pinguelli invited Rousseff to join the group meetings in June 2001, where she arrived as a shy participant in a team formed by several professors, but soon stood out with her objectivity and good knowledge of the area. However, it was clear for everyone in the group that Pinguelli would become the Minister of Energy if Lula won the election.[37]
It was a great surprise for everyone that, after elected, Lula chose Rousseff as the incumbent Minister. The President elect declared: "Already near 2002, it appears there a comrade with a little computer in her hand. We started debating and I realized she had a differential characteristic from the others who were there, because she came in with the practicality of the assignment of running the Secretary of Energy of Rio Grande do Sul. Then I was like: I think I found my Minister here."[37] Another factor which would have weighed heavily on Lula's choice was the sympathy that Antonio Palocci had for Rousseff, recognizing that she would have a much easier dialogue with the private sector than Pinguelli, in addition to her support of the Carta aos Brasileiros (English: Letter to the Brazilian People), agreeing with several market friendly changes in the Workers' Party. Dutra said he was consulted by Lula, and praised Rousseff's technical merits while Secretary of Energy during his administration. "I could have weighted the scale in her favor at that time, but from the transition government forward the merit is all hers," he recalled. After her appointment, she became very close to José Dirceu, appointed by Lula as the new Chief of Staff of Brazil.[37]
Her management of the Ministry was marked by the respect of contracts made by the previous administration, by her efforts to prevent further blackouts and by the implementation of an electric model less concentrated in the hands of the state, differently from what Rosa and Sauer desired. Regarding the free market of energy, Rousseff not only kept it as she expanded it as well. José Luiz Alquéres, president of Light S.A., praised the approach taken by Rousseff, which is, accordind to him, helping the segment as a whole. He criticized, however, the delay in the implementation of the new model, but said that this is the fault of the bureaucratic government machinery. Convinced that urgent investments in power generation were required so that the country would not face a general blackout in 2009, Rousseff entered in a serious clash with then Minister of Environment, Marina Silva, which defended the embargo on several construction sites, concerned with the ecological imbalance that they could cause. Dirceu had to create a team of mediators between the two ministers in order to try to resolve their disputes.[58]
A close friend of Lula, Pinguelli was appointed as president of Eletrobrás, and found himself at odds with Rousseff on several occasions, considering an early resignation once. He was ironic about Rousseff's alleged mood swings, being quoted as saying that "this lady formats her disk every week." Pinguelli eventually left the federal government on 2004. Mauricio Tolmasquim, a member of the transition government which shared a vision of the energy sector similar to Rousseff's, was invited by her to be the executive secretary of the ministry. He stated that once they got to know each other better, Rousseff started shouting with him occasionally. "It's her way. It's not personal. And in five minutes everything is okay," he said. Sauer, who took over the gas and energy department of Petrobras, also clashed with the minister, who repulsed his ideas of a statist model. Sometimes the clashes between them were so serious that Lula's intervention was necessary. Sauer left the state oil company in 2007. Another one which had disagreements with the minister on energy issues was the former Congressman Luciano Zica. For him, "Dilma is the most democratic person in the world, as long as you agree 100% with her."[37] He recently left PT and joined the Green Party along with Marina Silva.
After becoming a Minister, Rousseff defended a new industrial policy from the government, ensuring that Petrobras' platforms had a minimum domestic content, what could generate 30 thousand new jobs in the country. She argued that it was unthinkable that a billion dollar building was not being made in Brazil.[59] The bids for the P-51 and P-52 platforms were then the first in the country to require a minimum domestic content.[60] The requirement was heavily criticized, on the grounds that it would increase the costs of Petrobras,[61] but Rousseff defended the country's ability to produce ships and platforms, stating that the nationalization rates of the platforms, which varied between 15% and 18% rose to more than 60% after the requirement.[62] Lula acknowledged that, from the perspective of the company, the costs did in fact go higher, but that Petrobras should not only target the immediate costs, but also the strengthening of national science and technologies.[63] In 2008, the shipbuilding industry as a whole employed 40 thousand people, compared to 500 people in the mid-90s, in part because of the nationalization requirement.[63] Brazil now has the 6th largest shipping industry in the world.[64]
Luz para Todos program[link]
Rousseff proposed to accelerate the goals of universalizing the access to electricity, which had a deadline of 2015, suggesting that 1.4 million rural households would get electricity access until 2006. She argued that it was a social inclusion goal that should be a part of Fome Zero, and it was not possible to assume that such program would give financial return. During the Fernando Henrique Cardoso administration, a similar program, called Luz no Campo (English: Rural Electrification), was created to encourage agribusiness providing the funding by the recipient. The goal of the program was to provide electricity to over a million households, but as of early 2003 only half of them had been electrified.[65] According to Rousseff, the results of this program were higher in states where local governments subsidized it for the population.[66] She defended, then, a program heavily subsidized by the federal government, which should not only subsidize, but cover the costs for the universalization of electricity.[67] The subsidy, on the other hand, should be for the final consumer, and not for the electricity companies.[66]
The program was launched on November 2003, under the name Luz para Todos (English: Electricity for All), focused in regions with low Human Development Index and families with total income of up to three minimum wages. The goal of the program was to provide electricity for 2 million households until the end of 2008. In October 2008, Rousseff acknowledged that the government would not be able to fulfill its goal in time, leaving 100,000 households behind. In April 2008, the government expanded the program until 2010, in order to benefit other 1.17 million families. The Northeast region concentrated 49% of the connections of the program, which represented, from January 2005 to May 2008, 37.8% of all new wiring in the region, making the Northeast surpass the South region in power consumption for the first time. Despite being initially advertised as being funded by the Federal Government, 90% of its cost is actually paid for by electricity consumers, through several tariffs that incur on energy prices.[68]
Chief of Staff[link]




Dilma Rousseff and Lula meeting Barack Obama in the White House on March 14, 2009, in Washington.


As Minister of Energy, Rousseff had the support of two key ministers of the Lula administration: Antonio Palocci and José Dirceu. After Dirceu resigned as Chief of the Presidential Staff due to his involvement in the so-called "Mensalão" scandal, instead of being weakened, Rousseff was chosen by Lula to be the new Chief of Staff. She took office on June 21, 2005, becoming the first female to assume the position.[37] As a former Energy Minister, she also holds a seat in the board of directors of Petrobras.[69]
According to Gilberto Carvalho, the President's private secretary, Rousseff caught the attention of Lula for her courage to face difficult situations and for her technical skills. Franklin Martins, another guerrilla fighter-turned-minister, said Lula was very impressed with Rousseff's management of the Ministry of Energy, where she prevented another blackout. "Lula realized that she kept things moving," he said. By choosing Rousseff, Lula also prevented the political dispute between Palocci and Dirceu to succeed him, while Rousseff did not had such ambition for being a new member of the Workers' Party, and not belonging to any party faction, moving about well in all of them. Rousseff said to Carvalho that being appointed as Chief of Staff was a much bigger surprise for her than being appointed as Minister of Energy.[37] In the opinion of Rio Grande do Sul Senator and former Governor Pedro Simon, since Rousseff took office, "seriousness is being imposed" in the Presidential Staff.[70]
After Rousseff took office, the U.S. Consulate General in São Paulo sent a long profile of her to the U.S. Department of State.[71] It detailed several aspects of her life, talking about her past activity in guerrilla organizations, her tastes and habits, and professional characteristics, being described as a prestigious and detailed technician, with the reputation of a workaholic and a great ability to listen, but lacking political tact, turning directly to technicians rather than her superiors.[72][73]
Presidential campaign[link]
Main article: Brazilian presidential election, 2010




Dilma Rousseff in the Workers' Party National Convention.


On June 13, 2010, after more than two years of widespread speculation, Rousseff launched her campaign as the official presidential candidate for the Workers' Party in the 2010 presidential election.[74] At that time, former São Paulo State Governor José Serra, candidate for the center-right opposition bloc, had been at the top of the polls for over two years. With promises of maintaining Lula's popular policies, Rousseff was able to surpass Serra in all the polls by late July.[75] In spite of maintaining a wide margin over him, she did not receive 50% of unspoiled votes in the first round and had to face a run-off against Serra on October 31, when she was elected with over 56% of the unspoilt votes.
Rousseff's coalition, For Brazil to keep on changing, was initially formed by nine political parties, which gave her the largest amount of time for advertisement on television. This was the first time that PT got more television time than its main rival, the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB). However, according to electoral law, television time had to be equal on the run-off. Rousseff's ads were noted for their professionalism and production quality,[76] being rated as the best electoral program by 56% of voters.[77]




Dilma Rousseff with her running mate for the 2010 Brazilian presidential election, Michel Temer.


Rousseff's candidacy was also supported by notable international figures, such as Puerto Rican actor Benicio del Toro,[78] First Secretary of the French Socialist Party Martine Aubry,[79] and American filmmaker Oliver Stone, who recorded a message on her behalf.[80] Singer Alcione,[81] Portuguese Brazilian economist Maria da Conceição Tavares,[82] and journalist Hildegard Angel (daughter of Zuzu Angel and sister of Stuart Angel)[83] also recorded messages on Rousseff's behalf. On October 15, Tom Morello posted a message on his Twitter account supporting her candidacy, seen by him as representing "the poor, the working class and the youth."[84]




Rousseff gives her first public speech after being elected Brazil's first female president.


On October 18, 2010, Brazilian artists and intellectuals held an event in the Oi Casagrande theatre in Leblon, Rio de Janeiro, in order to show their support to Rousseff's candidacy. Among them were Chico Buarque, Beth Carvalho, Alceu Valença, Elba Ramalho, Emir Sader, Oscar Niemeyer, Leonardo Boff, and Marilena Chaui.[85] That same day, she received a letter of support by prominent members of the European Green Party, such as Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Dominique Voynet, Monica Frassoni, Philippe Lamberts, Noël Mamère, José Bové, and Yves Cochet.[86] According to the letter, Serra represents "the worst in our society: gender bias, sexism and homophobia, along with the most shady and myopic economic interests."[86]
Brazilian newspaper Brasil de Fato, as well as magazine CartaCapital both declared support for Rousseff's candidacy.[87][88] Rousseff won the Presidency by an approximate margin of 56% to 44%, and took office on January 1, 2011, as the first woman president of the country.[89] She became the third female head of government ever in the history of Brazil, and the first de facto female head of state since the death of Maria I, Queen of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves in 1816.
During her presidential campaign, Rousseff underwent a makeover, replacing glasses with contact lenses, undergoing plastic surgery and adopting a different hairstyle.[90]

Bulgarian reaction

According to state-owned Bulgarian media, Bulgaria experienced "Dilma fever."[91][92] The local media followed the presidential race in Brazil closely, interested in the election of a half-Bulgarian to rule over the 7th largest economy in the world.[92] In an interview for the 24 Hours newspaper, Rousseff said that she "feel[s] tenderness and love for Bulgaria. I can even say that to a certain extent I do feel like I am Bulgarian, even though I have never been in the country where my father was born. My father died when I was only fifteen years old and I did not have the chance to learn Bulgarian."[93] On November 2010, an exhibition was held in Gabrovo about Rousseff's origins.[94]
After Rousseff's election, Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov promptly invited her for an official visit to the country. During her inauguration, he reiterated the invitation.[95] Since her inauguration, Rousseff has received 21 letters from Bulgarian citizens.[96]
Presidency[link]
Inauguration[link]
Main article: Inauguration of Dilma Rousseff


Presidential styles of
Dilma Rousseff





Reference style
Excelentíssima Senhora Presidente da República
"Her Most Excellency Madam President of the Republic"


Spoken style
Presidente da República
"President of the Republic"


Alternative style
Senhora Presidente
"Madam President"






Dilma Rousseff takes the oath of office of the President of Brazil






Dilma Rousseff receiving the presidential sash from Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva


Dilma Rousseff was inaugurated as President of Brazil on January 1, 2011. The event – which was organized by her transitional team, the Ministries of External Relations and Defense and the Presidency of the Republic[97] – was awaited with some expectation, since she became the first woman ever to preside over the country. Important female figures in Brazilian history were honored with panels spread across the Monumental Axis.[98] According to the Military Police of the Federal District, around 30,000 people attended.[99]
Until December 21, 2010, the publishing house of the Senate had printed 1,229 invitations for Rousseff's inauguration.[100] The National Congress expected a total of 2,000 guests for the ceremony.[100] As reported by the press, between 14 and 17 heads of state and government had confirmed their presence.[101][102] Among them were José Sócrates,[103] Juan Manuel Santos, Mauricio Funes, Alan García, José Mujica, Hugo Chávez, Álvaro Colom, Alpha Condé, Sebastián Piñera, Evo Morales,[101] (later canceled due to last minute protests in his country) and Boyko Borisov.[95] U.S. President Barack Obama sent Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to represent him.[101][104] Former Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso also attended.[101]
In addition to the formal ceremony, Rousseff's inauguration also featured concerts by five female Brazilian singers: Elba Ramalho, Fernanda Takai, Mart'nália and Zélia Duncan, and Gaby Amarantos.[105] The Ministry of Culture organized the cultural part of the event, having provided a budget of 1.5 million reais (around 0.8 million U.S. dollars) for it.[105] The concerts started at 10:00 hours (local time) and stopped at 14:00 hours, with the start of the official inauguration ceremony.[106] The concerts continued at 18:00 hours until 21:00 hours.[106] Rousseff did not attended, as she held a reception at the Itamaraty Palace to foreign authorities present her inauguration.[106] Each foreign authority had the opportunity to talk to her for 30 seconds.[106]
Cabinet[link]




Cabinet of Brazil.


Main article: Cabinet of Brazil
“Besides representing my dear Brazil, I feel, here, today that I stand representing all women in the world, those who suffer from hunger and cannot provide food to their children, those who suffer violence both at their job and in their family lives and those who have been bold and conquered the power that allows me to be here today.” (A remarkable part of Dilma Roussef’s speech at the 66th opening ceremony of the United Nation’s general assembly. She received thunderous applause by many delegations.)
On December 17, 2010, Rousseff received from the Supreme Electoral Court a diploma attesting her victory in the 2010 presidential election, becoming the first woman in the history of Brazil to receive it.[107] She was unable to name all members of her cabinet until that ceremony, as she had desired.[108] Rousseff completed the appointment of all 37 members of her cabinet on December 22, 2010.[109] Although she had projected that 30% of her cabinet would be composed of women,[110][111] the females appointed eventually made up 24% of her cabinet. Rousseff's own Workers' Party (PT) comprised 43% of her cabinet, with 16 members, while 12 other offices were handed out to six out of ten political parties that formed her winning electoral coalition. The remaining 9 cabinet offices, among which were key offices such as the Presidency of the Central Bank of Brazil, the Ministry of External Relations and the Ministry of the Environment, were handed out to non-partisan technical names.[109]
Since she took office, Rousseff has changed the members of her cabinet members four times.[112] She has become the President which promoted the highest number of cabinet changes in the first six months of government.[112] On June 7, 2011, Rousseff's then Chief of Staff and influential PT leader, Antonio Palocci resigned from office due to a scandal involving his personal wealth evolution.[112] On the same day, Paraná Senator Gleisi Hoffmann (also from PT) replaced him.[112] Three days later, Ideli Salvatti – former Santa Catarina Senator for PT and Minister of Fishing and Aquaculture up until then – traded office with Luiz Sérgio – former mayor of Angra dos Reis and licensed federal deputy for Rio de Janeiro (both for PT) and Secretary of Institutional Relations up until that moment.[112] On July 6, Alfredo Nascimento, then Minister of Transportation, left office after allegations that public works were being overbilled.[112] On August 4, Nelson Jobim left the Ministry of Defense after an interview he gave to the Piauí magazine criticizing both Hoffmann and Salvatti.[113] Rousseff named Celso Amorim to replace him.[113] Jobim had previously declared to have voted on José Serra for President.[113] With the changes, the female presence in the cabinet increased to 26%, while the PT presence increased to almost 45%.
Controversy[link]
Rousseff's presidency has seen a concerted push to complete a number of hydroelectric dam projects in the Amazon River Basin, despite appeals from residents of areas that would be flooded, drained or otherwise affected, including indigenous tribes, and pressure from both domestic and international groups to abandon such projects. Opposition to the dam projects, especially the Belo Monte Dam project, is driven by environmental, economic and human rights concerns, the latter concerning both the people to be displaced by the projects and the workers brought in from other parts of Brazil to build the dams. Xingu [disambiguation needed ] (Kayapo) Chief Raoni Metuktire, along with members of other tribes that will be affected by hydroelectric dam projects proposed or already under construction;[114] NGOs based both in Brazil[115] and internationally, including Greenpeace,[116] Amazon Watch[117] and International Rivers;[118] and international celebrities including director James Cameron, actress Sigourney Weaver, and musician Sting[119] are all calling for the Amazon Basin hydroelectric projects to be halted.
Working conditions for laborers involved in these projects — which Rousseff has insisted should continue, and even be accelerated, with some sites seeing multiple work shifts so that construction can continue more than twenty hours per day — are harsh, while pay is low despite high cost of living at the remote construction sites. This has led to strikes and other worker actions at the sites of several hydroelectric projects. In spring of 2012, 17 000 workers at the Jirau Dam site went on strike for over three weeks, and later some began setting fire to dam structures and looting company stores, and even destroying some worker housing. Military troops were eventually deployed to quell the rioting and end the labor strike.[120]
Meanwhile, multiple courts, offices and state governments continue to pursue judicial means of halting dam projects, with the status of the Belo Monte project having been reversed so many times via injunctions and appeals that only the Brazilian Supreme Federal Court remains[121] — along with, theoretically, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights (CIDH), which is the judicial body of the Organization of American States (OAS), and has also called on Brazil to halt Belo Monte and other projects which are accused of human rights violations; but President Rousseff has already recalled the Brazilian ambassador to the OAS, and furthermore is withholding Brazil's annual contribution to the CIDH, approximately US$800 000.[122]
International recognition[link]
See also: List of presidential trips made by Dilma Rousseff




President Rousseff is awarded the Woodrow Wilson Award in New York City.


In October 2010, Rousseff was included in the Forbes' list of the most powerful people in the world, at the 16th position.[123][124] She was the third best placed woman on the list, after Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany, and Sonia Gandhi, President of the Indian National Congress. In August 2011, Rousseff was included in the Forbes' list of the most powerful women in the world, at the 3rd position, behind only Merkel and U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.[125] She climbed from the 95th position on the 2010 list.[126]
On September 20, she received a Woodrow Wilson Public Service Award at the Pierre Hotel in New York City, a distinction which was also given to her predecessor in 2009. On the following day, she became the first woman to open a session of the United Nations General Assembly.[127] Rousseff was featured on the September 26, 2011 cover of Newsweek magazine. During her state visit to Bulgaria, on October 5, 2011, Rousseff was awarded Bulgaria’s highest state honour, the Order of Stara Planina.[128]

References[link]


^ a b c d e f g h Bennett, Allen."Dilma Rousseff biography", Agência Brasil, August 9, 2010.
^ a b c d Ex-Guerrilla to be Brazil's First Female President by Bradley Brooks, Associated Press, October 31, 2010
^ EFE. "Dilma, 1ª mulher presidente e única economista em 121 anos de República". BOL. October 31, 2010.
^ PIZZETTO, Renato. "Nunca vou falar não para o Lula, diz Dilma sobre 2010". Folha da Bahia, April 20, 2008.
^ United States Consulate document about Dilma Rousseff, sent to the U.S. Department of State.
^ Who Is Who: Bulgarian Origins and Relatives of Brazil's Dilma Rousseff
^ LEITÃO, Matheus and RAMOS, Murilo. "Dilma, a poderosa". Época, November 10, 2006.
^ "Габровци пожелаха успех на Дилма Русеф" (in Bulgarian). Дарик Габрово. 2010-10-03. http://dariknews.bg/view_article.php?article_id=596542. Retrieved 3 October 2010. 
^ Инджов, Момчил (2004-09-01). "Братът инж. Любен Русев: Тайно получавах пари от Бразилия" (in Bulgarian). Труд. http://www.hispanoperiodistas.com/text.asp?pub_id=438. Retrieved 3 October 2010. 
^ ДИЛМА РУСЕФ Е ДЯСНАТА РЪКА НА ПРЕЗИДЕНТА ИГНАСИО ЛУЛА ДА СИЛВА[dead link]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s CARVALHO, Luiz Maklouf. "As armas e os varões: A educação política e sentimental de Dilma Roussef". Piauí, number 31 (April 2009), p. 22-31.
^ Constituent assembly vs. Armed struggle[dead link]
^ =http://g1.globo.com/jornal-nacional/noticia/2010/11/dilma-rousseff-concede-entrevista-da-vitoria-na-bancada-do-jn.html
^ O'shaughnessy, Hugh (2010-09-26). "Former guerrilla Dilma Rousseff set to be the world's most powerful woman - Americas, World". London: The Independent. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/the-former-guerrilla-set-to-be-the-worlds-most-powerful-woman-2089916.html. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ 04-05-2009. "Ex-guerrilheira é elogiada por militares e vista como "cérebro" do grupo." Folha de S. Paulo (29.222): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ 04-05-2009. "Aos 19, 20 anos, achava que eu estava salvando o mundo." Folha de S. Paulo (29.222): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ a b "Minc: Dilma não roubou 'cofre do Ademar' em 1969". O Globo. 2008-02-18. http://oglobo.globo.com/pais/mat/2009/02/18/minc-dilma-nao-roubou-cofre-do-ademar-em-1969-754485211.asp. Retrieved 2010-09-28. 
^ 01-15-2003. "O cérebro do roubo ao cofre", Veja.
^ Barrionuevo, Alexei. "The health of a likely presidential candidate comes under Brazil's microscope", The New York Times
^ a b "Aos 19, 20 anos, achava que eu estava salvando o mundo" (05-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.222): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ a b "Grupo de Dilma planejava sequestrar Delfim" (05-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.222): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ "Painel do Leitor" (08-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.225): Caderno A - Opinião.
^ "Para ficar ao abrigo de desmentidos" (12-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.229): Ombudsman.
^ Nassif, Luis (06-04-2009). "Fonte acusa Folha de manipulação"[dead link]. Último Segundo. Página visitada em 13/08/2009.
^ "Espinosa denuncia fraude da "Folha" contra Dilma". Jornal Hora do Povo.
^ "A fraude da Folha(*) e o sequestro de Delfim: Dilma não sabia de nada e não tem do que se defender", Conversa Afiada (06-04-2009).
^ "ISTOÉ Independente - informação não encontrada". Terra.com.br. http://www.terra.com.br/istoe/1887/brasileiros_do_ano/brasileira_do_ano_02.htm. Retrieved 2010-10-03. [dead link]
^ Samarco, Christiane (03-08-2008)."Revoltados com Tarso, militares discutem punir 'terroristas'", O Estado de S. Paulo
^ "Folha Online - Brasil - Dilma diz não ter a mesma cabeça da época em que era guerrilheira; veja a íntegra da entrevista - 05/04/2009". .folha.uol.com.br. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/brasil/ult96u545690.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ a b "Folha Online - Brasil - Presa durante a ditadura, Dilma pediu indenização a 3 Estados - 09/06/2009". .folha.uol.com.br. 2010-08-31. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/brasil/ult96u578599.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ Portal G1 (7 Feb 2007). Torturada na ditadura, Dilma será indenizada.
^ "É simples saber se a ficha é falsa" (05-07-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.313): Ombudsman.
^ "Franklin critica Folha no caso da suposta ficha sobre Dilma" (07-05-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.254): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ "Autenticidade de ficha de Dilma não é provada" (25-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.242): Caderno A - Brasil.
^ "Erramos" (25-04-2009). Folha de S. Paulo (29.242): Caderno A - Opinião.
^ Magalhães, Luiz Antonio. "Folha publicou ficha falsa de Dilma". Observatório da Imprensa. April 25, 2009.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u Carvalho, Luís Maklouf (July 2009). "Mares nunca dantes navegados: Como e por que Dilma Rousseff se tornou a candidata de Lula à sucessão presidencial." Revista Piauí, nº 34, p. 26-33.
^ Kattah, Eduardo (September 16, 2008). "Dilma se emociona em homenagem a vítimas da ditadura", O Estado de S. Paulo.
^ "Site da Casa Civil dizia que Dilma tinha feito mestrado em teoria econômica. Unicamp nega" (in (Portuguese)). Oglobo.globo.com. http://oglobo.globo.com/pais/mat/2009/07/03/site-da-casa-civil-dizia-que-dilma-tinha-feito-mestrado-em-teoria-economica-unicamp-nega-756655236.asp. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ Rodrigues, Fernando. "Veja cronologia da vida de Dilma Rousseff". BOL Notícias. February 21, 2010.
^ "Biography of Dilma". Dilmanaweb.com.br. http://www.dilmanaweb.com.br/biografia/50/. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ Procuradoria Geral do Trabalho. "Procuradores". Porto Alegre: Procuradoria Geral do Trabalho. http://www.prt4.mpt.gov.br/pastas/estrutura_org/procuradores.htm. Retrieved October 8, 2010. 
^ Zero Hora (April 18, 2008). "Filha de Dilma entra na igreja para seu casamento em Porto Alegre". Porto Alegre: Zero Hora. http://zerohora.clicrbs.com.br/zerohora/jsp/default.jsp?uf=1&local=1&newsID=a1833501.xml. Retrieved October 8, 2010. 
^ "Birth to Dilma's first grandchild during the presidential campaign" (in (Portuguese)). Oglobo.globo.com. http://oglobo.globo.com/pais/eleicoes2010/mat/2010/09/09/nasce-neto-de-dilma-rousseff-917588150.asp. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ "Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in Dilma" (in (Portuguese)). Oglobo.globo.com. 2009-04-25. http://oglobo.globo.com/pais/mat/2009/04/25/dilma-rousseff-submetida-tratamento-de-linfoma-755435820.asp. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ "Lula diz que vinha pedindo para Dilma tirar peruca; Alencar afirma que visual está moderno - BOL Notícias". Noticias.bol.uol.com.br. 2009-12-21. http://noticias.bol.uol.com.br/brasil/2009/12/21/lula-diz-que-vinha-pedindo-para-dilma-tirar-peruca-alencar-afirma-que-visual-esta-moderno.jhtm. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "The hair of Dilma". Diariodopara.com.br. 2009-12-21. http://www.diariodopara.com.br/noticiafullv2.php?idnot=72424. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ Barnes, Taylor. "Waiting for the Dilmismo to Begin". Foreign Policy. November 1, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) "Dilma entende aborto como questão de saúde pública, afirma presidente do PT". Zero Hora. October 14, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Borges, Altamiro. "O aborto da "revista" Veja". Blog do Miro. October 10, 2010.
^ a b (Portuguese) Sobrinho, Wanderley Preite. "Dilma pede “punição exemplar” a envolvidos na morte de Eliza Samudio e classifica crime como "bárbaro"". R7. July 8, 2010.
^ a b c (Portuguese) ""Sou a favor da união civil gay", diz Dilma Roussef". A Capa. June 29, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Araújo, Rosa. "Dilma defende união civil entre gays e se diz contra a legalização da maconha". Roma Negócios. July 22, 2010.
^ Kenneth Rapoza. "Brazil's First Lady". The Nation. November 3, 2010.
^ a b (Portuguese) AFP. "Nos EUA, Dilma se manifesta contra privatização de empresas do setor elétrico e da Petrobras". Zero Hora. April 21, 2010.
^ Portal 2014. "Governo Dilma vai privatizar aeroportos paulistas, diz jornal". Portal 2014. January 3, 2011.
^ "''Veja''". Veja.abril.com.br. 2001-06-06. http://veja.abril.com.br/060601/p_036a.html. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ "''Veja''". Veja.abril.com.br. 2004-11-17. http://veja.abril.com.br/171104/p_056.html. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ "Folha Online - Dinheiro - Plataformas com conteúdo nacional devem gerar 30 mil empregos - 31/03/2003". .folha.uol.com.br. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/dinheiro/ult91u65203.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "ANP: ConteĂşdo nacional pesa mais que lance de preĂ§os em leilĂŁo / 2003-03-10 12:22:13 - 1779975 / Investimentos e NotĂ­cias". Indexet.investimentosenoticias.com.br. 2003-03-10. http://indexet.investimentosenoticias.com.br/arquivo/2003/03/10/445/ANP-Conteudo-nacional-pesa-mais-que-lance-de-precos-em-leilao.html. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "Folha Online - Especial - 2003 - Petrobras 50 anos". .folha.uol.com.br. 1970-01-01. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/especial/2003/petrobras50anos/fj0310200310.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "Petrobras anuncia contratos para quatro plataformas - Paraná-Online - Paranaense como você". Parana-online.com.br. http://www.parana-online.com.br/editoria/economia/news/85124/?noticia=PETROBRAS+ANUNCIA+CONTRATOS+PARA+QUATRO+PLATAFORMAS. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ a b Marcelo Cabral do G1, em São Paulo. "G1 > Economia e Negócios - NOTÍCIAS - Petrobras empurra retomada dos estaleiros no Brasil". G1.globo.com. http://g1.globo.com/Noticias/Economia_Negocios/0,,MUL534693-9356,00-PETROBRAS+EMPURRA+RETOMADA+DOS+ESTALEIROS+NO+BRASIL.html. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ Folha de S. Paulo, 29/11/2009, "Indústria naval renasce e já é 6ª do mundo"
^ "Globo.com". Revistagloborural.globo.com. http://revistagloborural.globo.com/EditoraGlobo/componentes/article/edg_article_print/1,3916,642297-1641-1,00.html. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ a b "Folha Online - Dinheiro - Subsídio para universalização será para o consumidor, diz ministra - 19/09/2003". .folha.uol.com.br. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/dinheiro/ult91u73903.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "Folha Online - Dinheiro - Governo estuda mais ajuda ao setor elétrico - 20/09/2003". .folha.uol.com.br. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/folha/dinheiro/ult91u73935.shtml. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ http://www.acendebrasil.com.br/archives/files/20080428_Luzparatodos_FSP.pdf
^ The Economist. What Lies Beneath. Economist.com. Retrieved Apr. 16, 2008, from http://www.economist.com/daily/news/displaystory.cfm?story_id=11043022&top_story=1
^ Estadão (26 de outubro de 2008). "Pedro Simon prevê aliança entre PT e PMDB em 2010".
^ "05BRASILIA1660, LULA'S RIGHT-HAND WOMAN - DILMA ROUSSEFF BECOMES CHIEF OF STAFF". Wikileaks. 2005-06-22. http://wikileaks.ch/cable/2005/06/05BRASILIA1660.html. 
^ Do G1, em São Paulo. "G1 > Política - NOTÍCIAS - EUA fizeram dossiê sobre Dilma, diz jornal". G1.globo.com. http://g1.globo.com/Noticias/Politica/0,,MUL465932-5601,00.html. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ "WRS - Bem-vindo ao cadastro". Zerohora.clicrbs.com.br. http://zerohora.clicrbs.com.br/zerohora/jsp/default2.jsp?uf=1&local=1&source=a1858204.xml&template=3898.dwt&edition=9833. Retrieved 2010-10-03. 
^ Giraldi, Renata and Lourenço, Iolando (Agência Brasil). "PT homologa candidatura de Dilma à Presidência e a indicação de Temer para vice". Exame. June 13, 2010.
^ Wheatley, Jonathan. "Brazil's election: all over bar the voting?". Financial Times. August 24, 2010.
^ Wheatley, Jonathan. "Brazil’s election: who’s your choice?". Financial Times. August 18, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Campanerut, Camila. "Pesquisa CNT/Sensus: Dilma tem 46% das intenções de voto; Serra, 28,1%". BOL. August 24, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Leal, Cláudio. "Dilma paparica Del Toro: "Sem dúvida, ele é muito bonito..."". Terra Magazine. September 18, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) "PS francês anuncia apoio à candidatura de Dilma Rousseff". AFP. June 16, 2010.
^ "Full interview with Oliver Stone, after meeting with Dilma Rousseff" on YouTube. Posted by dilmanaweb.com on June 1, 2010.
^ "Alcione - Veja quem já está com Dilma". Dilma13.com.br. August 7, 2010.
^ "Maria da Conceição Tavares - Veja quem já está com Dilma". Dilma13.com.br. August 12, 2010.
^ "Hildegard Angel - Veja quem já está com Dilma". Dilma13.com.br. August 7, 2010.
^ Toptweets for October 15, 2010. ZMarter.com.
^ "Dilma in Rio - 2010 Presidential Election". Ultimosegundo.ig.com.br. 2010-10-18. http://ultimosegundo.ig.com.br/eleicoes/evento+com+dilma+no+rio+lota+teatro+e+registra+confusao/n1237806181768.html. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ a b (Portuguese) "Militantes verdes franceses lançam manifesto de apoio a Dilma". Carta Maior. October 21, 2010.
^ "É preciso derrotar Serra" (in Portuguese). Brasil de Fato. 13 October 2010. http://www.brasildefato.com.br/node/4416. Retrieved 27 October 2010. 
^ Carta, Mino (2 july 2010). "Por que apoiamos Dilma?" (in Portuguese). CartaCapital. http://www.cartacapital.com.br/app/materia.jsp?a=2&a2=8&i=7214. Retrieved 27 October 2010. 
^ "Dilma Rousseff Becomes First Woman President in Brazil Election". Thenewsoftoday.com. http://thenewsoftoday.com/dilma-rousseff-becomes-first-woman-president-in-brazil-election/4439/. Retrieved 2010-11-01. 
^ Dilma Rousseff profile: former guerrilla primed to become Brazil's first female president, Daily Telegraph, 31 October 2010
^ Bulgaria-Descended Dilma Rousseff Said to Outshine Merkel, Clinton Sofia News Agency. Retrieved on 2010-10-02.
^ a b Eleição no Brasil provoca 'febre Dilma' na Bulgária Folha de São Paulo. Retrieved on 2010-10-02. (Portuguese).
^ Dilma Rousseff: I Feel Like I Am Partly Bulgarian Sofia News Agency. Retrieved on 2010-10-02.
^ [1]
^ a b (Portuguese) EFE. "Primeiro-ministro búlgaro assistirá à posse de Dilma Rousseff". Terra. December 20, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ [2]
^ (Portuguese) Londres, Mariana. "Equipe de Dilma marca dois ensaios para garantir “perfeição” na posse". R7. December 19, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Redação. "Posse de Dilma vai destacar o papel das mulheres na história do Brasil". Correio da Bahia. December 20, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ [3]
^ a b (Portuguese) Folha Online. "Congresso espera 2.000 convidados para cerimônia de posse de Dilma". Agora MS. December 21, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ a b c d (Portuguese) "Posse de Dilma tem 14 chefes de Estado e governo confirmados". Terra. December 17, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Severino Motta. "Hillary e 17 líderes internacionais estarão na posse de Dilma". Último Segundo. December 17, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) Madeira, Sara (Lusa). "José Sócrates vai estar presente na posse de Dilma Rousseff - oficial". Google News. December 17, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ (Portuguese) AFP. "Hillary confirma presença na posse de Dilma". Google News. December 21, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ a b (Portuguese) Andrade, Claudia (Terra). "Festa da posse custará R$ 1,5 mi". Blog do Noblat. December 20, 2010. Retrieved December 22, 2010.
^ a b c d [4]
^ "Diplomada presidenta, Dilma exalta Lula e condição de mulher". Último Segundo. Retrieved 22 December 2010.
^ Lima, Maria (13 December 2010). "Dilma será diplomada com Ministério incompleto". O Globo. Retrieved 22 December 2010.
^ a b (22 December 2010). "Dilma anuncia últimos dois nomes e fecha ministério; confira". Folha de S. Paulo. Retrieved 22 December 2010.
^ [5]
^ [6]
^ a b c d e f [7]
^ a b c [8]
^ Hundreds of Indigenous Protest Belo Monte Dam, Brazilian Government Boycotts Talks Indian Country Today Media Network. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Brazil set to cut forest protection Nature. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Belo Monte Dam Project (slideshow) Greenpeace International official site. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Stop the Belo Monte Monster Dam! Amazon Watch official site. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Belo Monte Dam: A spearhead for Brazil’s dam-building attack on Amazonia? International Rivers official site. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Brazil's Belo Monte dam: a history of celebrity opposition The Telegraph. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Amid Brazil’s Rush to Develop, Workers Resist The New York Times. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ "Brazil court refuses to stop work on Amazon dam". AFP. 9 November 2011. http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gvuxZfyZs0sBsBi8FyWEVisO2I7A?docId=CNG.209ec9a2ad059c4ffb6b615044e67c53.b51. Retrieved 10 May 2012. 
^ "Brazil furious with Human Rights Commission decision cuts all relations". MercoPress / South Atlantic News Agency. 30 April 2012. http://en.mercopress.com/2011/04/30/brazil-furious-with-human-rights-commission-decision-cuts-all-relations. Retrieved 10 May 2012. 
^ Em ranking da 'Forbes', Dilma é a 16ª pessoa mais poderosa do mundo G1.com.br. Retrieved on 2010-11-06. (Portuguese).
^ Dilma Rousseff Forbes magazine. Retrieved on 2010-11-04.
^ Forbes. http://www.forbes.com/wealth/power-women. 
^ [9]
^ Brazilian leader is first-ever woman to open U.N. speeches CNN. Retrieved on 2011-09-21.
^ Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff officially welcomed to Bulgaria The Sofia Echo. Retrieved on 2011-10-05.


External links[link]




Brazil  portal



Biography  portal






Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Dilma Rousseff





Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Dilma Rousseff


Official

(Portuguese) Official website of the Presidency of Brazil
(Portuguese) Official website of Dilma Rousseff
(Portuguese) Official Twitter account
(Portuguese) Official YouTube account
(Portuguese) Official Facebook page
(English) Biography at Portal Brasil

News media

(Portuguese) Interview with Dilma Rousseff at Jornal Nacional on August 9, 2010
(Portuguese) Interview with Dilma Rousseff at Jornal Nacional on October 18, 2010
(English) Article at The New York Times
(English) Article at BBC News
(English) Video report by Democracy Now!
(English) Video report by Democracy Now!
(English) Slideshow by Der Spiegel



Political offices


Preceded by
Francisco Luiz Sibut Gomide
Minister of Mines and Energy
2003–2005
Succeeded by
Silas Rondeau


Preceded by
José Dirceu
Chief of Staff of Brazil
2005–2010
Succeeded by
Erenice Guerra


Preceded by
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
President of Brazil
2011–present
Incumbent


Party political offices


Preceded by
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
Workers' Party nominee for President of Brazil
2010
Most recent







 
Links to related articles
















v
t
e


Presidents of Brazil






Old republic



Deodoro da Fonseca
Floriano Peixoto
Prudente de Morais
Campos Sales
Rodrigues Alves
Afonso Pena
Nilo Peçanha
Hermes da Fonseca
Venceslau Brás
Delfim Moreira
Epitácio Pessoa
Artur Bernardes
Washington Luís
Júlio Prestes








Vargas era



Provisional Military Junta
Getúlio Vargas
José Linhares








Republic of 46



Eurico Gaspar Dutra
Getúlio Vargas
Café Filho
Carlos Luz
Nereu Ramos
Juscelino Kubitschek
Jânio Quadros
Ranieri Mazzilli
João Goulart








Military dictatorship



Ranieri Mazzilli
Humberto Castello Branco
Artur da Costa e Silva
Military Junta
Emílio Médici
Ernesto Geisel
João Figueiredo








New republic



Tancredo Neves
José Sarney
Fernando Collor de Mello
Itamar Franco
Fernando Henrique Cardoso
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
Dilma Rousseff
















v
t
e


Current Leaders of the Group of 20









 Fernández de Kirchner ·  Gillard ·  Rousseff ·  Harper ·  Hu ·  Barroso ·  Hollande ·  Merkel ·  Singh ·


 Yudhoyono ·  Monti ·  Noda ·  Calderón ·  Putin ·  Abdullah ·  Zuma ·  Lee ·  Erdoğan ·  Cameron ·  Obama
















v
t
e


BRICS leaders









Brazil: Dilma Rousseff · Russia: Vladimir Putin · India: Manmohan Singh · China: Hu Jintao · South Africa: Jacob Zuma



















v
t
e


Current leaders of the Union of South American Nations









Fernández de Kirchner (Argentina)
Morales (Bolivia)
Rousseff (Brazil)
Piñera (Chile)
Santos (Colombia)
Correa (Ecuador)
Ramotar (Guyana)
Lugo (Paraguay)
Humala (Peru)
Bouterse (Suriname)
Mujica (Uruguay)
Chávez (Venezuela)

















Persondata


Name
Rousseff, Dilma


Alternative names



Short description
Brazilian politician


Date of birth
December 14, 1947


Place of birth
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais


Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Dilma_Rousseff
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://cs.wn.com/Dilma Rousseffová
http://id.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://es.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://ru.wn.com/Русеф, Дилма
http://pt.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://pl.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://fr.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://de.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff
http://hi.wn.com/डिल्मा रॉसेफ
http://nl.wn.com/Dilma Rousseff


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dilma_Rousseff
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        











For other uses, see Elizabeth II (disambiguation).


Elizabeth II





Elizabeth II in 2007



Queen of the Commonwealth realms

List

United Kingdom (1952–)
Canada (1952–)
Australia (1952–)
New Zealand (1952–)
Pakistan (1952–56)
South Africa (1952–61)
Ceylon (1952–72)
Ghana (1957–60)
Nigeria (1960–63)
Sierra Leone (1961–71)
Tanganyika (1961–62)
Jamaica (1962–)
Trinidad and Tobago (1962–76)
Uganda (1962–63)
Kenya (1963–64)
Malawi (1964–66)
Malta (1964–74)
The Gambia (1965–70)
Guyana (1966–70)
Barbados (1966–)
Mauritius (1968–92)
Fiji (1970–87)
The Bahamas (1973–)
Grenada (1974–)
Papua New Guinea (1975–)
Solomon Islands (1978–)
Tuvalu (1978–)
Saint Lucia (1979–)
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (1979–)
Belize (1981–)
Antigua and Barbuda (1981–)
Saint Kitts and Nevis (1983–)






Reign
6 February 1952 – present


Coronation
2 June 1953


Predecessor
George VI


Heir apparent
Charles, Prince of Wales


Prime Ministers
See list





Spouse
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (m. 1947)



Detail
Issue


Charles, Prince of Wales
Anne, Princess Royal
Prince Andrew, Duke of York
Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex


Full name


Elizabeth Alexandra Mary


House
House of Windsor


Father
George VI


Mother
Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon


Born
(1926-04-21) 21 April 1926 (age 86)
Mayfair, United Kingdom


Religion
Church of England
Church of Scotland


Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; born 21 April 1926[note 1]) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations. She is also head of state of the Crown Dependencies.[1][2]
Elizabeth was born in London, and educated privately at home. Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII. She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. On the death of her father in 1952, she became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon. Her coronation service in 1953 was the first to be televised. Between 1956 and 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. Today, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward. In 1992, which Elizabeth termed her annus horribilis (horrible year), Charles and Andrew separated from their wives, Anne divorced, and a severe fire damaged part of Windsor Castle. Revelations continued on the state of Charles's marriage to Diana, Princess of Wales, and they divorced in 1996. The following year, Diana died in a Paris car crash, and the media criticised the royal family for remaining in seclusion in the days before her funeral. Elizabeth's personal popularity rebounded after she appeared in public and has subsequently remained high.
Her reign of 60 years is the second-longest for a British monarch; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer. Elizabeth's Silver and Golden Jubilees were celebrated in 1977 and 2002; her Diamond Jubilee is being celebrated during 2012.




Contents


1 Early life
2 Heiress presumptive

2.1 Second World War
2.2 Marriage


3 Reign

3.1 Accession and coronation
3.2 Continuing evolution of the Commonwealth
3.3 Silver Jubilee
3.4 1980s
3.5 1990s
3.6 Golden Jubilee

3.6.1 Diamond Jubilee




4 Public perception and character

4.1 Finances


5 Titles, styles, honours, and arms

5.1 Titles and styles
5.2 Arms


6 Issue
7 Ancestry
8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 Bibliography
12 External links




Early life[link]




Princess Elizabeth aged 3, 1929


Elizabeth was the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth. Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was born by Caesarean section at 2.40 am (GMT) on 21 April 1926 at her maternal grandfather's London house: 17 Bruton Street, Mayfair.[3] The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May.[4][note 2] She was named Elizabeth after her mother, Alexandra after George V's mother, who had died six months earlier, and Mary after her paternal grandmother.[5] Her close family called her "Lilibet".[6] George V cherished his granddaughter, and during his serious illness in 1929 her regular visits were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.[7]
Elizabeth's only sibling was Princess Margaret, born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford, who was casually known as "Crawfie".[8] Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature and music.[9] To the dismay of the royal family,[10] in 1950 Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility.[11] Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant."[12] Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved".[13]
Heiress presumptive[link]




Princess Elizabeth aged 7, 1933
Painting by Philip de László


As a granddaughter of the monarch in the male line, Elizabeth's full style at birth was Her Royal Highness Princess Elizabeth of York. She was third in the line of succession to the throne, behind her uncle, Edward, Prince of Wales, and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen as the Prince of Wales was still young and many assumed he would marry and have children of his own.[14] In 1936, when her grandfather, George V, died and her uncle Edward succeeded, she became second in line to the throne after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis.[15] Elizabeth's father became king, and she became heiress presumptive, with the style Her Royal Highness The Princess Elizabeth.[16] If her parents had had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession.[17]
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College,[18] and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses.[19] A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her own age.[20] Later she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.[19]
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and visited the United States. As in 1927, when her parents had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain as her father thought her too young to undertake public tours.[21] Elizabeth "looked tearful" as her parents departed.[22] They corresponded regularly,[22] and on 18 May, she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call.[21]
Second World War[link]
From September 1939, with the outbreak of the Second World War, Elizabeth and Margaret stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk.[23] From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they stayed for most of the next five years.[24] The suggestion by senior politician Lord Hailsham that the two princesses should be evacuated to Canada was rejected by Elizabeth's mother; she declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave."[25] At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments.[26] In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities.[27] She stated:

We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well.[27]

In 1943, at the age of 16, Elizabeth undertook her first solo public appearance on a visit to the Grenadier Guards, of which she had been appointed Colonel-in-Chief the previous year.[28] As she approached her 18th birthday, the law was changed so that she could act as one of five Counsellors of State in the event of her father's incapacity or absence abroad, such as his visit to Italy in July 1944.[29] In February 1945, she joined the Women's Auxiliary Territorial Service, as an honorary Second Subaltern with the service number of 230873.[30] She trained as a driver and mechanic,[31] and was promoted to honorary Junior Commander five months later.[32]


The Royal Family of the
United Kingdom and the
other Commonwealth realms






HM The Queen
HRH The Duke of Edinburgh

HRH The Prince of Wales
HRH The Duchess of Cornwall

HRH The Duke of Cambridge
HRH The Duchess of Cambridge
HRH Prince Harry of Wales


HRH The Duke of York

HRH Princess Beatrice of York
HRH Princess Eugenie of York


HRH The Earl of Wessex
HRH The Countess of Wessex

Viscount Severn
Lady Louise Windsor


HRH The Princess Royal



HRH The Duke of Gloucester
HRH The Duchess of Gloucester
HRH The Duke of Kent
HRH The Duchess of Kent
HRH Prince Michael of Kent
HRH Princess Michael of Kent
HRH Princess Alexandra



Sarah, Duchess of York







v
t
e





During the war, plans were drawn up to quell Welsh nationalism by affiliating Elizabeth more closely with Wales.[33] Welsh politicians proposed that Elizabeth be made Princess of Wales on her 18th birthday. The idea was supported by Home Secretary Herbert Morrison, but rejected by the King because he felt such a title belonged solely to the wife of a Prince of Wales, and the Prince of Wales had always been the heir apparent.[34] In 1946, she was inducted into the Welsh Gorsedd of Bards at the National Eisteddfod of Wales.[35]
At the end of the war in Europe, on Victory in Europe Day, Elizabeth and her sister mingled anonymously with the celebratory crowds in the streets of London. She later said in a rare interview, "we asked my parents if we could go out and see for ourselves. I remember we were terrified of being recognised ... I remember lines of unknown people linking arms and walking down Whitehall, all of us just swept along on a tide of happiness and relief."[36] Two years later, the princess made her first overseas tour, when she accompanied her parents through southern Africa. During the tour, in a broadcast to the British Commonwealth on her 21st birthday, she pledged: "I declare before you all that my whole life, whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service and the service of our great imperial family to which we all belong."[37]
Marriage[link]
Further information: Wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Philip, Duke of Edinburgh
Elizabeth met her future husband, Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark, in 1934 and 1937.[38] After another meeting at the Royal Naval College in Dartmouth in July 1939, Elizabeth – though only 13 years old – fell in love with Philip, and they began to exchange letters.[39] They married on 20 November 1947 at Westminster Abbey. They are second cousins once removed through King Christian IX of Denmark and third cousins through Queen Victoria. Before the marriage, Philip renounced his Greek and Danish titles, converted from Greek Orthodoxy to Anglicanism, and adopted the style Lieutenant Philip Mountbatten, taking the surname of his mother's British family.[40] Just before the wedding, he was created Duke of Edinburgh and granted the style of His Royal Highness.[41]
The marriage was not without controversy: Philip had no financial standing, was foreign-born (though a British subject), and had sisters who had married German noblemen with Nazi links.[42] Marion Crawford wrote, "Some of the King's advisors did not think him good enough for her. He was a prince without a home or kingdom. Some of the papers played long and loud tunes on the string of Philip's foreign origin."[43] Elizabeth's mother was reported, in later biographies, to have opposed the union initially, even dubbing Philip "The Hun".[44] In later life, however, she told biographer Tim Heald that Philip was "an English gentleman".[45]
Elizabeth and Philip received 2500 wedding gifts from around the world,[46] but Britain had not yet completely rebounded from the devastation of the war. Elizabeth still required ration coupons to buy the material for her gown, designed by Norman Hartnell.[47] In post-war Britain, it was not acceptable for the Duke of Edinburgh's German relations to be invited to the wedding, including Philip's three surviving sisters.[48] Edward, the former king, was not invited either.[49]
Elizabeth gave birth to her first child, Prince Charles, on 14 November 1948, less than one month after letters patent were issued by her father allowing her children to use the style and title of a royal prince or princess. They otherwise would not have been entitled to such a status as their father was no longer a royal prince.[50] A second child, Princess Anne, was born in 1950.[51]
Following their wedding, the couple leased Windlesham Moor near Windsor Castle, until 4 July 1949,[46] when they took up residence at Clarence House in London. At various times between 1949 and 1951, the Duke of Edinburgh was stationed in the British Protectorate of Malta as a serving Royal Navy officer. He and Elizabeth lived intermittently, for several months at a time, in the Maltese hamlet of Gwardamanġia, at the Villa Gwardamanġia, the rented home of Philip's uncle, Lord Mountbatten. The children remained in Britain.[52]
Reign[link]
Accession and coronation[link]
George VI's health declined during 1951, and Elizabeth was soon frequently standing in for him at public events. In October of that year, she toured Canada, and visited President Truman in Washington, D.C.; on the trip, her private secretary, Martin Charteris, carried a draft accession declaration for use if the King died while she was on tour.[53] In early 1952, Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of Kenya. On 6 February 1952, they had just returned to their Kenyan home, Sagana Lodge, after a night spent at Treetops Hotel, when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth's father. Philip broke the news to the new queen.[54] Martin Charteris asked her to choose a regnal name; she chose to remain Elizabeth, "of course".[55] She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms, and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom.[56] She and the Duke of Edinburgh moved into Buckingham Palace.[57]




Coronation portrait of Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh, June 1953


With Elizabeth's accession it seemed likely that the royal house would bear her husband's name. Lord Mountbatten thought it would be the House of Mountbatten, as Elizabeth would typically have taken Philip's last name on marriage; however Elizabeth's grandmother Queen Mary and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill favoured the retention of the House of Windsor, and so Windsor it remained. The Duke complained, "I am the only man in the country not allowed to give his name to his own children."[58] After the death of Queen Mary on 24 March 1953 and the resignation of Churchill in 1955, the surname Mountbatten-Windsor was adopted in 1960 for Philip and Elizabeth's male-line descendants who do not carry royal titles.[59]
Amid preparations for the coronation, Princess Margaret informed her sister that she wished to marry Peter Townsend, a divorcee 16 years her senior, with two sons from his previous marriage. The Queen asked them to wait for a year; in the words of Martin Charteris, "the Queen was naturally sympathetic towards the Princess, but I think she thought – she hoped – given time, the affair would peter out."[60] Senior politicians were against the match, and the Church of England did not permit re-marriage after divorce. If Margaret contracted a civil marriage, she would be expected to renounce her right of succession.[61] Eventually, she decided to abandon her plans with Townsend.[62] In 1960, she married Antony Armstrong-Jones, who was created Earl of Snowdon the following year. They were divorced in 1978; she did not remarry.[63]
Despite the death of Queen Mary ten weeks before, the coronation went ahead on 2 June 1953. Before she died, Mary had asked that the coronation not be delayed.[64] The ceremony in Westminster Abbey, except the anointing and communion, was televised for the first time,[65] and the coverage was instrumental in boosting the medium's popularity; the number of television licences in the United Kingdom doubled to 3 million,[66] and many of the more than 20 million British viewers watched television for the first time in the homes of their friends or neighbours.[67] In North America, just under 100 million viewers watched recorded broadcasts.[68] Elizabeth's coronation gown was commissioned from Norman Hartnell and embroidered on her instructions with the floral emblems of Commonwealth countries:[69] English Tudor rose, Scots thistle, Welsh leek, Irish shamrock, Australian wattle, Canadian maple leaf, New Zealand silver fern, South African protea, lotus flowers for India and Ceylon, and Pakistan's wheat, cotton, and jute.[70]
Continuing evolution of the Commonwealth[link]
Further information: Historical development of the Commonwealth realms




Queen Elizabeth with Prime Minister of Australia Robert Menzies during her first visit to Australia in 1954


Elizabeth witnessed, over her life, the ongoing transformation of the British Empire into the Commonwealth of Nations.[71] By the time of her accession in 1952, her role as nominal head of multiple independent states was already established.[72] Spanning 1953–54, the Queen and her husband embarked on a six-month around-the-world tour. She became the first reigning monarch of Australia and New Zealand to visit those nations.[73] During the tour, crowds were immense; three-quarters of the population of Australia were estimated to have seen the Queen.[74] Throughout her reign, Elizabeth has undertaken state visits to foreign countries, and tours of Commonwealth ones. She is the most widely travelled head of state in history.[75]
In 1956, French Prime Minister Guy Mollet and British Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden discussed the possibility of France joining the Commonwealth. The proposal was never accepted, and the following year France signed the Treaty of Rome, which established the European Economic Community, the precursor of the European Union.[76] In November 1956, Britain and France invaded Egypt in an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to capture the Suez Canal. Lord Mountbatten claimed the Queen was opposed to the invasion, though Eden denied it. Eden resigned two months later.[77]
The absence of a formal mechanism within the Conservative Party for choosing a leader meant that, following Eden's resignation, it fell to the Queen to decide whom to commission to form a government. Eden recommended that she consult Lord Salisbury (the Lord President of the Council). Lord Salisbury and Lord Kilmuir (the Lord Chancellor) consulted the Cabinet, Winston Churchill, and the Chairman of the backbench 1922 Committee, as a result of which the Queen appointed their recommended candidate: Harold Macmillan.[78]
The Suez crisis and the choice of Eden's successor led in 1957 to the first major personal criticism of the Queen. In a magazine, which he owned and edited,[79] Lord Altrincham accused her of being "out of touch".[80] Altrincham was denounced by public figures and physically attacked by a member of the public appalled at his comments.[81] Six years later in 1963, Macmillan resigned and advised the Queen to appoint the Earl of Home as prime minister, advice that she followed.[82] The Queen again came under criticism for appointing the Prime Minister on the advice of a small number of ministers, or a single minister.[82] In 1965, the Conservatives adopted a formal mechanism for electing a leader, thus relieving her of involvement.[83]



Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Queen Elizabeth II's Address to the United Nations General Assembly



In 1957, she made a state visit to the United States, where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly. On the same tour, she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament, becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session.[84] Two years later, she revisited the United States as Queen of Canada and toured Canada,[84][85] despite learning upon landing at St. John's, Newfoundland, that she was pregnant with her third child.[86] In 1961, she toured Cyprus, India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Iran.[87] On a visit to Ghana the same year, she dismissed fears for her safety, even though her host President Kwame Nkrumah, who had replaced her as head of state, was a target for assassins.[88] Harold Macmillan wrote: "The Queen has been absolutely determined all through ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as ... a film star ... She has indeed 'the heart and stomach of a man' ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen."[88] Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964, the press reported that extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting the Queen's assassination.[89][90][91] No attempt was made, but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal; the Queen's "calmness and courage in the face of the violence" was noted.[92]




Elizabeth (left) with US First Lady Pat Nixon, 1970; President Nixon is hidden from view, next to British Prime Minister Edward Heath, behind Elizabeth


Elizabeth's pregnancies with Princes Andrew and Edward in 1959 and 1963, respectively, mark the only times she has not performed the State Opening of the British parliament during her reign.[93] In addition to performing traditional ceremonies, she also instituted new practices. Her first royal walkabout, meeting ordinary members of the public, took place during a tour of Australia and New Zealand in 1970.[94]
The 1960s and 1970s saw an acceleration in the decolonisation of Africa and the Caribbean. Over 20 countries gained independence from Britain as part of a planned transition to self-government. In 1965, however, Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith declared unilateral independence in opposition to moves toward majority rule. Although the Queen dismissed Smith in a formal declaration and the international community applied sanctions against Rhodesia, Smith's regime survived for over a decade.[95]
In February 1974, British Prime Minister Edward Heath called a general election in the middle of the Queen's tour of the Austronesian Pacific Rim and she had to fly back to Britain, interrupting the tour.[96] The election resulted in a hung parliament; Heath's Conservatives were not the largest party, but could stay in office if they formed a coalition with the Liberals. Heath only resigned when discussions on forming a coalition government foundered, after which the Queen asked the Leader of the Opposition, Labour's Harold Wilson, to form a government.[97]
A year later, at the height of the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, Australian Prime Minister Gough Whitlam was dismissed from his post by Governor-General Sir John Kerr, after the Opposition-controlled Senate rejected Whitlam's budget proposals.[98] As Whitlam had a majority in the House of Representatives, Speaker Gordon Scholes appealed to the Queen to reverse Kerr's decision. Elizabeth declined, stating that she would not interfere in decisions reserved by the Constitution of Australia for the governor-general.[99] The crisis fuelled Australian republicanism.[98]
Silver Jubilee[link]
In 1977, Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession. Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth, many coinciding with the Queen's associated national and Commonwealth tours. The celebrations re-affirmed the Queen's popularity, despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret's separation from her husband.[100] In 1978, Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania's communist dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu, and his wife Elena,[101] though privately she thought they had "blood on their hands".[102] The following year brought two blows: one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt, former Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures, as a communist spy; the other was the assassination of her relative and in-law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army.[103]
According to Paul Martin, Sr., by the end of the 1970s the Queen was worried the Crown "had little meaning for" Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau.[104] Tony Benn said that the Queen found Trudeau "rather disappointing".[104] Trudeau's supposed republicanism seemed to be confirmed by his antics, such as sliding down banisters at Buckingham Palace and pirouetting behind the Queen's back in 1977, and the removal of various Canadian royal symbols during his term of office.[104] In 1980, Canadian politicians sent to London to discuss the patriation of the Canadian constitution found the Queen "better informed on ... Canada's constitutional case than any of the British politicians or bureaucrats".[104] She was interested in the constitutional debate after the failure of Bill C-60, which would have affected her role as head of state.[104] Patriation removed the role of the British parliament in the Canadian constitution, but the monarchy was retained. Trudeau said in his memoirs: "The Queen favoured my attempt to reform the Constitution. I was always impressed not only by the grace she displayed in public at all times, but by the wisdom she showed in private conversation."[105]
1980s[link]




Elizabeth riding Burmese at a Trooping the Colour ceremony


During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony, and only six weeks before the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Spencer, six shots were fired at the Queen from close range as she rode down The Mall on her horse, Burmese. Police later discovered that the shots were blanks. The 17-year-old assailant, Marcus Sarjeant, was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three.[106] The Queen's composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised.[107] From April to September 1982, the Queen remained anxious[108] but proud[109] of her son, Prince Andrew, who was serving with British forces during the Falklands War. On 9 July, the Queen awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder, Michael Fagan, in the room with her. Remaining calm, and through two calls to the palace police switchboard, she spoke to Fagan while he sat at the foot of her bed until assistance arrived seven minutes later.[110] Though she hosted President Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982, and visited his Californian ranch in 1983, she was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada, one of her Caribbean realms, without her foreknowledge.[111]
Intense media interest in the opinions and private lives of the royal family during the 1980s led to a series of sensational stories in the press, not all of which were entirely true.[112] As Kelvin MacKenzie, editor of The Sun, told his staff: "Give me a Sunday for Monday splash on the Royals. Don't worry if it's not true – so long as there's not too much of a fuss about it afterwards."[113] Newspaper editor Donald Trelford wrote in The Observer of 21 September 1986: "The royal soap opera has now reached such a pitch of public interest that the boundary between fact and fiction has been lost sight of ... it is not just that some papers don't check their facts or accept denials: they don't care if the stories are true or not." It was reported, most notably in The Sunday Times of 20 July 1986, that Elizabeth was worried that British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's economic policies fostered social divisions, and was alarmed by high unemployment, a series of riots, the violence of a miners' strike, and Thatcher's refusal to apply sanctions against the apartheid regime in South Africa. The sources of the rumours included royal aide Michael Shea and Commonwealth Secretary-General Shridath Ramphal, but Shea claimed his remarks were taken out of context and embellished by speculation.[114] Thatcher reputedly said the Queen would vote for the Social Democratic Party – Thatcher's political opponents.[115] Thatcher's biographer John Campbell claimed "... the report was a piece of journalistic mischief-making".[116] Belying reports of acrimony between them, Thatcher later conveyed her personal admiration for the Queen,[117] and after Thatcher's replacement by John Major, Elizabeth gave two honours in her personal gift to Thatcher: appointment to the Order of Merit and the Order of the Garter.[118]
In 1987, the elected Fijian government was deposed in a military coup. Elizabeth, as head of state, supported the attempts of the Governor-General, Ratu Sir Penaia Ganilau, to assert executive power and negotiate a settlement. Coup leader Sitiveni Rabuka deposed Ganilau, abolished the monarchy, and declared Fiji a republic.[119] By the start of 1991, republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of the Queen's private wealth, which were contradicted by the palace, and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family.[120] The involvement of the younger royals in the charity game show It's a Royal Knockout was ridiculed,[121] and the Queen was the target of satire.[122]
1990s[link]
In 1991, in the wake of victory in the Gulf War, Elizabeth became the first British monarch to address a joint session of the United States Congress.[123] The following year, she attempted to save the failing marriage of her eldest son, Charles, by counselling him and his wife, Diana, Princess of Wales, to reconcile.[124]




Prince Philip and Elizabeth II, October 1992


In a speech on 24 November 1992, to mark the 40th anniversary of her accession, the Queen called 1992 her annus horribilis, meaning horrible year.[125] In March, her second son Prince Andrew, Duke of York, and his wife Sarah, Duchess of York, separated. In April, her daughter Anne, Princess Royal, divorced her husband Captain Mark Phillips.[126] During a state visit to Germany in October, angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at her,[127] and in November Windsor Castle suffered severe fire damage. The monarchy received increased criticism and public scrutiny.[128] In an unusually personal speech, Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism, but suggested it be done with "a touch of humour, gentleness and understanding".[129] Two days later, Prime Minister John Major announced reforms of the royal finances that had been planned since the previous year, including the Queen paying income tax for the first time, starting in 1993, and a reduction in the civil list.[130] In December, Charles and Diana formally separated.[131] The year ended with a lawsuit as the Queen sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before its broadcast. The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees, and donated £200,000 to charity.[132]
In the ensuing years, public revelations on the state of Charles and Diana's marriage continued.[133] Even though support for republicanism in Britain seemed higher than at any time in living memory, republicanism remained a minority viewpoint and Elizabeth herself had high approval ratings.[134] Criticism was focused on the institution of monarchy itself and the Queen's wider family rather than the Queen's own behaviour and actions.[135] In consultation with Prime Minister Major, Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey, her private secretary Robert Fellowes, and her husband, she wrote to Charles and Diana at the end of December 1995, saying that a divorce was desirable.[136] A year after the divorce, which took place in 1996, Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997. The Queen was on holiday with her son and grandchildren at Balmoral. Diana's two sons wanted to attend church, and so the Queen and Prince Philip took them that morning.[137] After that single public appearance, for five days the Queen and the Duke shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private.[138] The royal family's seclusion caused public dismay.[139] Pressured by the hostile reaction, the Queen agreed to a live broadcast to the world and returned to London to deliver it on 5 September, the day before Diana's funeral.[140] In the broadcast, she expressed admiration for Diana, and her feelings "as a grandmother" for Princes William and Harry.[141] As a result, much of the public hostility evaporated.[141]
Golden Jubilee[link]




Elizabeth II and George W. Bush share a toast during a state dinner at the White House, 7 May 2007






Elizabeth II (centre, in pink) during a walkabout in Queen's Park, Toronto, 6 July 2010


In 2002, Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee as queen. Her sister and mother died in February and March, respectively, and the media speculated as to whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure.[142] She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms, which began in Jamaica in February, where she called the farewell banquet "memorable" after a power cut plunged the King's House, the official residence of the Governor-General, into darkness.[143] As in 1977, there were street parties and commemorative events, and monuments were named to honour the occasion. A million people attended each day of the three-day main Jubilee celebration in London,[144] and the enthusiasm shown by the public for Elizabeth was greater than many journalists had predicted.[145]
Though generally healthy throughout her life, in 2003 she had keyhole surgery on both knees, and in June 2005 she cancelled several engagements after contracting a bad cold. In October 2006, she missed the opening of the new Emirates Stadium because of a strained back muscle that had been troubling her since the summer.[146] Two months later, she was seen in public with a bandage on her right hand, which led to press speculation of ill health.[147] She had been bitten by one of her corgis while she was separating two that were fighting.[148]
In May 2007, The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported claims from unnamed sources that the Queen was "exasperated and frustrated" by the policies of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, that she had shown concern that the British Armed Forces were overstretched in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that she had raised concerns over rural and countryside issues with Blair repeatedly.[149] She was, however, said to admire Blair's efforts to achieve peace in Northern Ireland.[150] On 20 March 2008, at the Church of Ireland St Patrick's Cathedral, Armagh, the Queen attended the first Maundy service held outside of England and Wales.[151] At the invitation of Irish President Mary McAleese, in May 2011 the Queen made the first state visit to the Republic of Ireland by a British monarch.[152]
Elizabeth addressed the United Nations for a second time in 2010, again in her capacity as queen of all her realms and Head of the Commonwealth.[153] UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon introduced her as "an anchor for our age".[154] During her visit to New York, which followed a tour of Canada, she officially opened a memorial garden for the British victims of the 11 September attacks.[154] The Queen's visit to Australia in October 2011, her 16th visit since 1954, was called her "farewell tour" in the press because of her age.[155]
Diamond Jubilee[link]
Main article: Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II
Elizabeth's Diamond Jubilee in 2012 marks 60 years as queen, with celebrations throughout her realms, the wider Commonwealth, and beyond. In a message released on Accession Day, the Queen stated: "In this special year, as I dedicate myself anew to your service, I hope we will all be reminded of the power of togetherness and the convening strength of family, friendship and good neighbourliness ... I hope also that this Jubilee year will be a time to give thanks for the great advances that have been made since 1952 and to look forward to the future with clear head and warm heart".[156] She and her husband undertook an extensive tour of the United Kingdom, while her children and grandchildren embarked on royal tours of other Commonwealth realms on the Queen's behalf.[157][158][159] On 4 June, Jubilee beacons will be lit around the world.[160]
She is the longest-lived and second-longest-reigning monarch of the United Kingdom, and the second-longest-serving current head of state (after King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand). She does not intend to abdicate,[161] though the proportion of public duties performed by Prince Charles may increase as Elizabeth reduces her commitments.[162]
She is scheduled to open the 2012 Summer Olympics on 27 July and the Paralympics on 29 August in London. Her father, George VI, opened the 1948 London Olympics, and her great-grandfather, Edward VII, opened the 1908 London Olympics. Elizabeth also opened the 1976 Games in Canada, and Prince Philip opened the Melbourne Olympics in 1956.[163]
Public perception and character[link]
Main article: Personality and image of Queen Elizabeth II
Since Elizabeth rarely gives interviews, little is known of her personal feelings. As a constitutional monarch, she has not expressed her own political opinions in a public forum. She does have a deep sense of religious and civic duty, and takes her coronation oath seriously.[164] Aside from her official religious role as Supreme Governor of the established Church of England, she personally worships with that church and with the national Church of Scotland.[165] She has demonstrated support for inter-faith relations, and has met with leaders of other religions, including three popes: John XXIII, John Paul II and Benedict XVI. A personal note about her faith often features in her annual Royal Christmas Message broadcast to the Commonwealth, such as in 2000, when she spoke about the theological significance of the millennium marking the 2000th anniversary of the birth of Jesus Christ:

To many of us, our beliefs are of fundamental importance. For me the teachings of Christ and my own personal accountability before God provide a framework in which I try to lead my life. I, like so many of you, have drawn great comfort in difficult times from Christ's words and example.[166]





Elizabeth II and Ronald Reagan riding at Windsor, 1982


She is the patron of over 600 organisations and charities.[167] Her main leisure interests include equestrianism and dogs, especially her Pembroke Welsh Corgis.[168] Scenes of a relaxed, informal home life are occasionally acted out; she and her family, from time to time, prepare a meal together and do the washing up afterwards.[169]
In the 1950s, as a young woman at the start of her reign, Elizabeth was depicted as a glamorous "fairytale Queen".[170] After the trauma of the war, it was a time of hope, a period of progress and achievement heralding a "new Elizabethan age".[171] Lord Altrincham's accusation in 1957 that her speeches sounded like those of a "priggish schoolgirl" was an extremely rare criticism.[172] In the late 1960s, attempts to portray a more modern image of monarchy were made in the television documentary Royal Family, and by televising Prince Charles's investiture as Prince of Wales.[173] She took to wearing in public clothes that consist mostly of solid-colour overcoats and decorative hats, which allow her to be seen easily in a crowd.[174]
At her Silver Jubilee in 1977, the crowds and celebrations were genuinely enthusiastic,[175] but in the 1980s public criticism of the royal family increased, as the personal and working lives of Elizabeth's children came under media scrutiny.[176] Elizabeth's popularity sank to a low point in the 1990s. Under pressure from public opinion, she began to pay income tax for the first time, and Buckingham Palace was opened to the public.[177] Discontent with the monarchy reached its peak on the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, though the Queen's popularity rebounded after her live broadcast to the world five days after Diana's death.[178]
In November 1999, a referendum in Australia on the future of the Australian monarchy favoured its retention in preference to an indirectly elected head of state.[179] Polls in Britain in 2006 and 2007 revealed strong support for Elizabeth,[180] and referenda in Tuvalu in 2008 and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines in 2009 both rejected proposals to become republics.[181]
Finances[link]
Further information: Finances of the British Royal Family




Sandringham House, Elizabeth's private residence in Sandringham, Norfolk


Elizabeth's personal fortune has been the subject of speculation for many years. Forbes magazine estimated her net worth at around US$450 million in 2010,[182] but official Buckingham Palace statements in 1993 called estimates of £100 million "grossly overstated".[183] Jock Colville, who was her former private secretary and a director of her bank, Coutts, estimated her wealth in 1971 at £2 million (the equivalent of about £21 million today[184]).[185][186] The Royal Collection, which includes artworks and the Crown Jewels, is not owned by the Queen personally and is held in trust,[187] as are the occupied palaces in the United Kingdom such as Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle,[188] and the Duchy of Lancaster, a property portfolio valued at £383 million in 2011.[189] Sandringham House and Balmoral Castle are privately owned by the Queen.[188] The British Crown Estate – with holdings of £7.3 billion in 2011[190] – is held in trust for the nation, and cannot be sold or owned by Elizabeth in a private capacity.[191]
Titles, styles, honours, and arms[link]




Personal Flag of Queen Elizabeth II


Titles and styles[link]
Main article: List of titles and honours of Queen Elizabeth II
Elizabeth has held titles throughout her life, as a granddaughter of the monarch, as a daughter of the monarch, through her husband's titles, and eventually as Sovereign. In common parlance, she is The Queen or Her Majesty. Officially, she has a distinct title in each of her realms: Queen of Canada in Canada, Queen of Australia in Australia, etc. In the Channel Islands and Isle of Man, which are Crown dependencies rather than separate realms, she is known as Duke of Normandy and Lord of Mann respectively. Additional styles include Defender of the Faith and Duke of Lancaster. When in conversation with the Queen, the practice is to initially address her as Your Majesty and thereafter as Ma'am.[192]
She has received honours and awards from around the world, and has held honorary military positions throughout the Commonwealth, both before and after her accession.
Arms[link]
See also: Flags of Elizabeth II
From 21 April 1944, Elizabeth's arms consisted of a lozenge bearing the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom, differenced with a label of three points argent, the centre point bearing a Tudor rose and the first and third a cross of St. George.[193] After her accession as Sovereign, she adopted the royal coat of arms undifferenced. The design of the shield is also used on the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom. Elizabeth has personal flags for use in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, and elsewhere.[194]








Coat of arms of Princess Elizabeth (1944–1947)









Coat of arms of Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh (1947–1952)









Coat of arms of Elizabeth II in the United Kingdom (except Scotland)









Coat of arms of Elizabeth II in Scotland









Coat of arms of Elizabeth II in Canada (one of three versions used in her reign)[note 3]





Issue[link]
See also: Line of succession to the British throne


Name
Birth
Marriage
Children
Grandchildren


Charles, Prince of Wales
14 November 1948
29 July 1981
Divorced 28 August 1996
Lady Diana Spencer
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge
Prince Harry of Wales



9 April 2005
Camilla Parker-Bowles




Anne, Princess Royal
15 August 1950
14 November 1973
Divorced 28 April 1992
Captain Mark Phillips
Peter Phillips
Savannah Phillips
Isla Phillips


Zara Phillips



12 December 1992
Sir Timothy Laurence




Prince Andrew, Duke of York
19 February 1960
23 July 1986
Divorced 30 May 1996
Sarah Ferguson
Princess Beatrice of York
Princess Eugenie of York



Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex
10 March 1964
19 June 1999
Sophie Rhys-Jones
Lady Louise Windsor
James, Viscount Severn



Ancestry[link]
Main articles: Ancestry of Elizabeth II and Descent of Elizabeth II from William I


Ancestors of Elizabeth II






 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

16. Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

8. Edward VII of the United Kingdom

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

17. Victoria of the United Kingdom (niece of 22)



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

4. George V of the United Kingdom

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

18. Christian IX of Denmark



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

9. Princess Alexandra of Denmark

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

19. Princess Louise of Hesse-Kassel



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

2. George VI of the United Kingdom

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

20. Duke Alexander of Württemberg



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

10. Francis, Duke of Teck

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

21. Countess Claudine Rhédey von Kis-Rhéde



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

5. Princess Mary of Teck

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

22. Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge (uncle of 17)



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

11. Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

23. Princess Augusta of Hesse-Kassel



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

1. Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

24. Thomas Lyon-Bowes, Lord Glamis



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

12. Claude Bowes-Lyon, 13th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

25. Charlotte Grimstead



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

6. Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

26. Oswald Smith



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

13. Frances Dora Smith

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

27. Henrietta Mildred Hodgson



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

3. Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

28. Lord Charles Cavendish-Bentinck



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

14. Charles Cavendish-Bentinck

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

29. Anne Wellesley



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

7. Cecilia Cavendish-Bentinck

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

30. Edwyn Burnaby



 




 


 


 


 


 







 

15. Caroline Louisa Burnaby

 




 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 

31. Anne Caroline Salisbury



 




 


 


 


 


 









See also[link]




Commonwealth realms  portal




List of current heads of state and government
List of the richest royals
Royal intermarriage

Notes[link]


^[note 1] See Queen's Official Birthday for an explanation of why her official birthday is not the same as her real one.
^[note 2] Her godparents were: King George V and Queen Mary; Lord Strathmore; Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught (her paternal great-granduncle); Princess Mary, Viscountess Lascelles (her paternal aunt); and Lady Elphinstone (her maternal aunt).[195]
^[note 3] Canada has used three different versions of the arms during her reign. This version was used between 1957 and 1994.[196]


References[link]


^ States of Guernsey Government website http://www.gov.gg/article/1867/Relationship-with-the-Crown
^ Official British Monarchy web site http://www.royal.gov.uk/MonarchUK/QueenandCrowndependencies/ChannelIslands.aspx
^ Bradford, p. 22; Brandreth, p. 103; Marr, p. 76; Pimlott, pp. 2–3; Lacey, pp. 75–76; Roberts, p. 74
^ Hoey, p. 40
^ Brandreth, p. 103
^ Pimlott, p. 12
^ Lacey, p. 56; Nicolson, p. 433; Pimlott, pp. 14–16
^ Crawford, p. 26; Pimlott, p. 20; Shawcross, p. 21
^ Brandreth, p. 124; Lacey, pp. 62–63; Pimlott, pp. 24, 69
^ Brandreth, pp. 108–110; Lacey, pp. 159–161; Pimlott, pp. 20, 163
^ Brandreth, pp. 108–110
^ Brandreth, p. 105; Lacey, p. 81; Shawcross, pp. 21–22
^ Brandreth, pp. 105–106
^ Bond, p. 8; Lacey, p. 76; Pimlott, p. 3
^ Lacey, pp. 97–98
^ e.g. Assheton, Ralph (18 December 1936). "Succession to the Throne". The Times: 10. 
^ Marr, pp. 78, 85; Pimlott, pp. 71–73
^ Brandreth, p. 124; Crawford, p. 85; Lacey, p. 112; Marr, p. 88; Pimlott, p. 51; Shawcross, p. 25
^ a b "Her Majesty The Queen: Education". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HMTheQueen/Education/Overview.aspx. Retrieved 31 May 2010. 
^ Marr, p. 84; Pimlott, p. 47
^ a b Pimlott, p. 54
^ a b Pimlott, p. 55
^ Crawford, pp. 104–114; Pimlott, pp. 56–57
^ Crawford, pp. 114–119; Pimlott, p. 57
^ "Biography of HM Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother: Activities as Queen". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HistoryoftheMonarchy/The%20House%20of%20Windsor%20from%201952/QueenElizabethTheQueenMother/ActivitiesasQueen.aspx. Retrieved 28 July 2009. 
^ Crawford, pp. 137–141
^ a b "Children's Hour: Princess Elizabeth". BBC. 13 October 1940. http://www.bbc.co.uk/archive/princesselizabeth/6600.shtml?all=1&id=6600. Retrieved 22 July 2009. 
^ "Early public life". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HMTheQueen/Publiclife/EarlyPublicLife/Earlypubliclife.aspx. Retrieved 20 April 2010. 
^ Pimlott, p. 71
^ London Gazette: (Supplement) no. 36973. p. 1315. 6 March 1945. Retrieved 5 June 2010.
^ Bradford, p. 45; Lacey, p. 148; Marr, p. 100; Pimlott, p. 75
^ London Gazette: (Supplement) no. 37205. p. 3972. 31 July 1945. Retrieved 5 June 2010.
^ "Royal plans to beat nationalism". BBC. 8 March 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/4329001.stm. Retrieved 15 June 2010. 
^ Pimlott, pp. 71–73
^ "Gorsedd of the Bards". National Museum of Wales. http://www.museumwales.ac.uk/en/911/. Retrieved 17 December 2009. 
^ Bond, p. 10; Pimlott, p. 79
^ "21st birthday speech". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/ImagesandBroadcasts/Historic%20speeches%20and%20broadcasts/21stbirthdayspeech21April1947.aspx. Retrieved 28 July 2009. 
^ Brandreth, pp. 132–139; Lacey, pp. 124–125; Pimlott, p. 86
^ Bond, p. 10; Brandreth, pp. 132–136, 166–169; Lacey, pp. 119, 126, 135
^ Hoey, pp. 55–56; Pimlott, pp. 101, 137
^ London Gazette: no. 38128. p. 5495. 21 November 1947. Retrieved 27 June 2010.
^ Edwards, Phil (31 October 2000). "The Real Prince Philip". Channel 4. http://www.channel4.com/history/microsites/R/real_lives/prince_philip_t.html. Retrieved 23 September 2009. 
^ Crawford, p. 180
^ Davies, Caroline (20 April 2006). "Philip, the one constant through her life". The Daily Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/campaigns/queen80/uqphilip.xml. Retrieved 23 September 2009. 
^ Heald, p. xviii
^ a b "60 Diamond Wedding anniversary facts". Royal Household. 18 November 2007. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Factfiles/60diamondweddinganniversaryfacts.aspx. Retrieved 20 June 2010. 
^ Hoey, p. 58; Pimlott, pp. 133–134
^ Hoey, p. 59; Petropoulos, p. 363
^ Bradford, p. 61
^ Letters Patent, 22 October 1948; Hoey, pp. 69–70; Pimlott, pp. 155–156
^ Pimlott, p. 163
^ Brandreth, pp. 226–238; Pimlott, pp. 145, 159–163, 167
^ Brandreth, pp. 240–241; Lacey, p. 166; Pimlott, pp. 169–172
^ Brandreth, pp. 245–247; Lacey, p. 166; Pimlott, pp. 173–176; Shawcross, p.16
^ Bousfield and Toffoli, p. 72; Charteris quoted in Pimlott, p. 179 and Shawcross, p. 17
^ Pimlott, pp. 178–179
^ Pimlott, pp. 186–187
^ Bradford, p. 80; Brandreth, pp. 253–254; Lacey, pp. 172–173; Pimlott, pp. 183–185
^ London Gazette: (Supplement) no. 41948. p. 1003. 5 February 1960. Retrieved 19 June 2010.
^ Brandreth, pp. 269–271
^ Brandreth, pp. 269–271; Lacey, pp. 193–194; Pimlott, pp. 201, 236–238
^ Bond, p. 22; Brandreth, p. 271; Lacey, p. 194; Pimlott, p. 238; Shawcross, p. 146
^ "Princess Margaret: Marriage and family". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HistoryoftheMonarchy/The%20House%20of%20Windsor%20from%201952/HRHPrincessMargaret/Marriageandfamily.aspx. Retrieved 8 September 2011. 
^ Bradford, p. 82
^ "50 facts about The Queen's Coronation". Royal Household. 25 May 2003. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Pressreleases/2003/50factsaboutTheQueensCoronation.aspx. Retrieved 14 April 2011. 
^ Pimlott, p. 207
^ Briggs, pp. 420 ff.; Pimlott, p. 207; Roberts, p. 82
^ Lacey, p. 182
^ Lacey, p. 190; Pimlott, pp. 247–248
^ Cotton, Belinda; Ramsey, Ron. "By appointment: Norman Hartnell's sample for the Coronation dress of Queen Elizabeth II". National Gallery of Australia. http://www.nga.gov.au/ByAppointment/. Retrieved 4 December 2009. 
^ Marr, p. 272
^ Pimlott, p. 182
^ "Queen and Australia: Royal visits". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/MonarchAndCommonwealth/Australia/Royalvisits.aspx. Retrieved 8 December 2009. 
"Queen and New Zealand: Royal visits". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/MonarchAndCommonwealth/NewZealand/Royalvisits.aspx. Retrieved 8 December 2009. 
Marr, p. 126
^ Brandreth, p. 278; Marr, p. 126; Pimlott, p. 224; Shawcross, p. 59
^ Challands, Sarah (25 April 2006). "Queen Elizabeth II celebrates her 80th birthday". CTV News. http://www.ctv.ca/servlet/ArticleNews/story/CTVNews/20060418/queen_liz_birthday_060418. Retrieved 13 June 2007. 
^ Thomson, Mike (15 January 2007). "When Britain and France nearly married". BBC. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6261885.stm. Retrieved 14 December 2009. 
^ Pimlott, p. 255; Roberts, p. 84
^ Marr, pp. 175–176; Pimlott, pp. 256–260; Roberts, p. 84
^ Lacey, p. 199; Shawcross, p. 75
^ Lord Altrincham in National Review quoted by Brandreth, p. 374 and Roberts, p. 83
^ Brandreth, p. 374; Pimlott, pp. 280–281; Shawcross, p. 76
^ a b Hardman, p. 22; Pimlott, pp. 324–335; Roberts, p. 84
^ Roberts, p. 84
^ a b "Queen and Canada: Royal visits". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/MonarchAndCommonwealth/Canada/Royalvisits.aspx. Retrieved 12 February 2012. 
^ Bradford, p. 114
^ Bousfield, Arthur; Toffoli, Gary (2002), Fifty Years the Queen, Toronto: Dundurn Press, p. 107, ISBN 1-55002-360-8, http://books.google.ca/books?id=w8l5reK7NjoC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_v2_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q=&f=false 
^ Pimlott, p. 303; Shawcross, p. 83
^ a b Macmillan, pp. 466–472
^ Speaight, Robert (1970), Vanier, Soldier, Diplomat, Governor General: A Biography, London: William Collins, Sons and Co. Ltd., ISBN 978-0-00-262252-3 
^ "Courage of the Queen". Canadian Royal Heritage Trust. http://www.crht.ca/LibraryShelf/CourageoftheQueen.html. Retrieved 22 February 2010. 
^ Dubois, Paul (12 October 1964), "Demonstrations Mar Quebec Events Saturday", Montreal Gazette: 1, http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=1946&dat=19641012&id=3K4tAAAAIBAJ&sjid=YZ8FAAAAIBAJ&pg=6599,2340498, retrieved 6 March 2010 
^ Bousfield, p. 139
^ Dymond, Glenn (5 March 2010). "Ceremonial in the House of Lords". House of Lords Library. p. 12. http://www.parliament.uk/documents/documents/upload/lln2010-007.pdf. Retrieved 5 June 2010. 
^ "Public life 1962–1971". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HMTheQueen/Publiclife/PublicLife1962-1971/1962-1971.aspx. Retrieved 1 September 2011. 
^ Bond, p. 66; Pimlott, pp. 345–354
^ Pimlott, p. 418
^ Bradford, p. 181; Marr, p. 256; Pimlott, p. 419; Shawcross, pp. 109–110
^ a b Bond, p. 96; Marr, p. 257; Pimlott, p. 427; Shawcross, p. 110
^ Pimlott, pp. 428–429
^ Pimlott, p. 449
^ Hardman, p. 137; Roberts, pp. 88–89; Shawcross, p. 178
^ Elizabeth to her staff, quoted in Shawcross, p. 178
^ Pimlott, pp. 336–337, 470–471; Roberts, pp. 88–89
^ a b c d e Heinricks, Geoff (29 September 2000). "Trudeau: A drawer monarchist". National Post: B12. 
^ Trudeau, p. 313
^ "Queen's 'fantasy assassin' jailed". BBC. 14 September 1981. http://news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/september/14/newsid_2516000/2516713.stm. Retrieved 21 June 2010. 
^ Lacey, p. 281; Pimlott, pp. 476–477; Shawcross, p. 192
^ Bond, p. 115; Pimlott, p. 487
^ Shawcross, p. 127
^ Lacey, pp. 297–298; Pimlott, p. 491
^ Bond, p. 188; Pimlott, p. 497
^ Pimlott, pp. 488–490
^ Pimlott, p. 521
^ Pimlott, pp. 503–515; see also Neil, pp. 195–207 and Shawcross, pp. 129–132
^ Thatcher to Brian Walden quoted in Neil, p. 207; Andrew Neil quoted in Woodrow Wyatt's diary of 26 October 1990
^ Campbell, p. 467
^ Thatcher, p. 309
^ Roberts, p. 101; Shawcross, p. 139
^ Pimlott, pp. 515–516
^ Pimlott, pp. 519–534
^ Hardman, p. 81; Lacey, p. 307; Pimlott, pp. 522–526
^ Lacey, pp. 293–294; Pimlott, p. 541
^ Pimlott, p. 538
^ Brandreth, p. 349; Lacey, p. 319
^ "Annus horribilis speech, 24 November 1992". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/ImagesandBroadcasts/Historic%20speeches%20and%20broadcasts/Annushorribilisspeech24November1992.aspx. Retrieved 6 August 2009. 
^ Lacey, p. 319; Marr, p. 315; Pimlott, pp. 550–551
^ Stanglin, Doug (18 March 2010). "German study concludes 25,000 died in Allied bombing of Dresden". USA Today. http://content.usatoday.com/communities/ondeadline/post/2010/03/official-german-study-concludes-25000-died-in-allied-bombing-of-dresden/1?csp=34. Retrieved 19 March 2010. 
^ Brandreth, p. 377; Pimlott, pp. 558–559; Roberts, p. 94; Shawcross, p. 204
^ Brandreth, p. 377
^ Bradford, p. 229; Lacey, pp. 325–326; Pimlott, pp. 559–561
^ Bradford, p. 226; Hardman, p. 96; Lacey, p. 328; Pimlott, p. 561
^ Pimlott, p. 562
^ Brandreth, p. 356; Pimlott, pp. 572–577; Roberts, p. 94; Shawcross, p. 168
^ MORI poll for The Independent newspaper, March 1996, quoted in Pimlott, p. 578 and O'Sullivan, Jack (5 March 1996). "Watch out, the Roundheads are back". The Independent. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/watch-out-the-roundheads-are-back-1340396.html. Retrieved 17 September 2011. 
^ Pimlott, p. 578
^ Brandreth, p. 357; Pimlott, p. 577
^ Brandreth, p. 358; Hardman, p. 101; Pimlott, p. 610
^ Bond, p. 134; Brandreth, p. 358; Marr, p. 338; Pimlott, p. 615
^ Bond, p. 134; Brandreth, p. 358; Lacey, pp. 6–7; Pimlott, p. 616; Roberts, p. 98; Shawcross, p. 8
^ Brandreth, pp. 358–359; Lacey, pp. 8–9; Pimlott, pp. 621–622
^ a b Bond, p. 134; Brandreth, p. 359; Lacey, pp. 13–15; Pimlott, pp. 623–624
^ Bond, p. 156; Bradford, pp. 248–249; Marr, pp. 349–350
^ Brandreth, p. 31
^ Bond, pp. 166–167
^ Bond, p. 157
^ "Queen cancels visit due to injury". BBC. 26 October 2006. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6087724.stm. Retrieved 8 December 2009. 
^ Greenhill, Sam; Hope, Jenny (6 December 2006). "Plaster on Queen's hand: minor cut or IV drip?". Daily Mail. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-420950/Plaster-Queens-hand-minor-cut-IV-drip.html. Retrieved 8 December 2009. 
^ Whittaker, Thomas (14 December 2006). "Corgi put the queen in plaster". The Sun. http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/news/article75313.ece. Retrieved 18 August 2011. 
^ Alderson, Andrew (28 May 2007). "Revealed: Queen's dismay at Blair legacy". The Daily Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/1552769/Revealed-Queens-dismay-at-Blair-legacy.html. Retrieved 31 May 2010. 
^ Alderson, Andrew (27 May 2007). "Tony and Her Majesty: an uneasy relationship". The Daily Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2007/05/27/nqueen127.xml. Retrieved 31 May 2010. 
^ "Historic first for Maundy service". BBC. 20 March 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/7305675.stm. Retrieved 12 October 2008. 
^ "Queen's State Visit to Ireland 2011". Foreign and Commonwealth Office. http://www.fco.gov.uk/en/about-us/what-we-do/public-diplomacy/state-visit-ireland-2011. Retrieved 21 June 2011. 
^ "Address to the United Nations General Assembly". Royal Household. 6 July 2010. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Speechesandarticles/2010/AddresstotheUnitedNationsGeneralAssembly6July2010.aspx. Retrieved 6 July 2010. 
^ a b "Queen addresses UN General Assembly in New York". BBC. 7 July 2010. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/10518044.stm. Retrieved 7 July 2010. 
^ "Royal tour of Australia: The Queen ends visit with traditional 'Aussie barbie'". The Daily Telegraph. 29 October 2011. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/queen-elizabeth-II/8857106/Royal-tour-of-Australia-The-Queen-ends-visit-with-traditional-Aussie-barbie.html. Retrieved 30 October 2011. 
^ "The Queen's Diamond Jubilee message". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Pressreleases/2012/TheQueensDiamondJubileemessage.aspx. Retrieved 31 May 2012. 
^ Gower, Eleanor (25 February 2012), "A royal match! Glamorous Prince Edward and Sophie wear co-ordinated outfits as they attend Barbados state dinner", Daily Mail, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2106246/Prince-Edward-Sophie-wear-ordinated-outfits-attend-Barbados-state-dinner.html, retrieved 31 May 2012 
^ "Prince Harry pays tribute to the Queen in Jamaica". BBC. 7 March 2012. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-17281585. Retrieved 31 May 2012. 
^ "Their Royal Highnesses The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall to Undertake a Royal Tour of Canada in 2012". Office of the Governor General of Canada. 14 December 2011. http://www.gg.ca/document.aspx?id=14382. Retrieved 31 May 2012. 
^ Anon. "The Queen's Diamond Jubilee in London". Visit London. London and Partners. http://www.visitlondon.com/events/special/queens-diamond-jubilee-in-london. Retrieved 25 May 2012. 
^ Brandreth, pp. 370–371; Marr, p. 395
^ Owen, Glen; Smith, Martin (18 November 2006). "Key aides move to Windsor ahead of Queen's retirement". The Mail on Sunday. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-417251/Key-aides-Windsor-ahead-Queens-retirement.html. Retrieved 29 March 2012. 
^ "Opening of the Olympic and Paralympic Games". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Pressreleases/2012/OpeningOlympicParalympicGames2012.aspx. Retrieved 1 March 2012. 
^ "Queen 'will do her job for life'". BBC. 19 April 2006. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4921120.stm. Retrieved 4 February 2007. 
Shawcross, pp. 194–195
^ "How we are organised". Church of Scotland. http://www.churchofscotland.org.uk/about_us/how_we_are_organised. Retrieved 4 August 2011. 
^ Elizabeth II (2000). "Historic speeches: Christmas Broadcast 2000". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/ImagesandBroadcasts/TheQueensChristmasBroadcasts/ChristmasBroadcasts/ChristmasBroadcast2000.aspx. Retrieved 28 July 2009. 
Shawcross, pp. 236–237
^ "Queen and Charities". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/HMTheQueen/QueenCharities/Overview.aspx. Retrieved 29 June 2010. 
^ "80 facts about The Queen". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/LatestNewsandDiary/Factfiles/80factsaboutTheQueen.aspx. Retrieved 20 June 2010. 
^ Delacourt, Susan (25 May 2012), "When the Queen is your boss", Toronto Star, http://www.thestar.com/news/canada/article/1193874--when-the-queen-is-your-boss, retrieved 27 May 2012 
^ Bond, p. 22
^ Bond, p. 35; Pimlott, p. 180; Roberts, p. 82; Shawcross, p. 50
^ Bond, p. 35; Pimlott, p. 280; Shawcross, p. 76
^ Bond, pp. 66–67, 84, 87–89; Bradford, pp. 160–163; Hardman, pp. 22, 210–213; Lacey, pp. 222–226; Marr, p. 237; Pimlott, pp. 378–392; Roberts, pp. 84–86
^ Cartner-Morley, Jess (10 May 2007). "Elizabeth II, belated follower of fashion". The Guardian. http://www.guardian.co.uk/g2/story/0,,2076067,00.html. Retrieved 5 September 2011. 
^ Bond, p. 97; Bradford, p. 189; Pimlott, pp. 449–450; Roberts, p. 87; Shawcross, pp. 114–117
^ Bond, p. 117; Roberts, p. 91
^ Bond, p. 134; Pimlott, pp. 556–561, 570
^ Bond, p. 134; Pimlott, pp. 624–625
^ Hardman, p. 310; Lacey, p. 387; Roberts, p. 101; Shawcross, p. 218
^ "Monarchy poll". Ipsos MORI. April 2006. http://www.ipsos-mori.com/researchpublications/researcharchive/poll.aspx?oItemId=378. Retrieved 24 July 2009. 
"Monarchy Survey" (PDF). Populus Ltd. 14–16 December 2007. p. 9. http://populuslimited.com/uploads/download_pdf-160108-The-Discovery-Channel-Monarchy-Survey.pdf. Retrieved 17 August 2010. 
"Poll respondents back UK monarchy". BBC. 28 December 2007. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/7162649.stm. Retrieved 17 August 2010. 
^ "Vincies vote "No"". BBC. 26 November 2009. http://www.bbc.co.uk/caribbean/news/story/2009/11/091126_nib.shtml. Retrieved 26 November 2009. 
^ Serafin, Tatiana (7 July 2010). "The World's Richest Royals". Forbes. http://www.forbes.com/2010/07/07/richest-royals-wealth-monarch-wedding-divorce-billionaire.html. Retrieved 13 January 2011. 
^ Lord Chamberlain Lord Airlie quoted in Hoey, p. 225 and Pimlott, p. 561
^ UK CPI inflation numbers based on data available from Lawrence H. Officer (2010) "What Were the UK Earnings and Prices Then?" MeasuringWorth.
^ "£2m estimate of the Queen's wealth 'more likely to be accurate'". The Times: 1. 11 June 1971. 
^ Pimlott, p. 401
^ "FAQs". Royal Collection. http://www.royalcollection.org.uk/about/frequently-asked-questions. Retrieved 29 March 2012. 
"Royal Collection". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/The%20Royal%20Collection%20and%20other%20collections/TheRoyalCollection/TheRoyalCollection.aspx. Retrieved 9 December 2009. 
^ a b "The Royal Residences: Overview". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/TheRoyalResidences/Overview.aspx. Retrieved 9 December 2009. 
^ "Accounts, Annual Reports and Investments". Duchy of Lancaster. 18 July 2011. http://www.duchyoflancaster.com/management-and-finance-2/accounts-annual-reports-and-investments/. Retrieved 18 August 2011. 
^ "Financial Information". The Crown Estate. 6 July 2011. http://www.thecrownestate.co.uk/about-us/financial-information/. Retrieved 1 September 2011. 
^ "FAQs". Crown Estate. http://www.thecrownestate.co.uk/about-us/faqs/. Retrieved 1 September 2011. 
^ "Greeting a member of The Royal Family". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/ThecurrentRoyalFamily/GreetingamemberofTheRoyalFamily/Overview.aspx. Retrieved 21 August 2009. 
^ "Heraldry Traditions". Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia. 2007. http://www.ltgov.bc.ca/govhouse/heraldry.htm. Retrieved 21 June 2010. 
^ "Personal flags". Royal Household. http://www.royal.gov.uk/MonarchUK/Symbols/Personalflags.aspx. Retrieved 21 June 2010. 
^ Brandreth, p. 103; Hoey, p. 40
^ "Coat of Arms of Canada". Royal Heraldry Society of Canada. 5 February 2009. http://www.heraldry.ca/misc/coatArmsCanada.htm. Retrieved 13 March 2011. 


Bibliography[link]


Bond, Jennie (2006). Elizabeth: Eighty Glorious Years. London: Carlton Publishing Group. ISBN 1-84442-260-7
Bousfield, Arthur; Toffoli, Gary (2002). Fifty Years the Queen. Toronto: Dundurn Press. ISBN 1-55002-360-8
Bradford, Sarah (2012). Queen Elizabeth II: Her Life in Our Times. London: Penguin. ISBN 978-0-670-91911-6
Brandreth, Gyles (2004). Philip and Elizabeth: Portrait of a Marriage. London: Century. ISBN 0-7126-6103-4
Briggs, Asa (1995). The History of Broadcasting in the United Kingdom: Volume 4. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-212967-8
Campbell, John (2003). Margaret Thatcher: The Iron Lady. London: Jonathan Cape. ISBN 0-224-06156-9
Crawford, Marion (1950). The Little Princesses. London: Cassell & Co.
Hardman, Robert (2011). Our Queen. London: Hutchinson. ISBN 978-0-09-193689-1
Heald, Tim (2007). Princess Margaret: A Life Unravelled. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. ISBN 978-0-297-84820-2
Hoey, Brian (2002). Her Majesty: Fifty Regal Years. London: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-653136-9
Lacey, Robert (2002). Royal: Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. London: Little, Brown. ISBN 0-316-85940-0
Macmillan, Harold (1972). Pointing The Way 1959–1961 London: Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-12411-1
Marr, Andrew (2011). The Diamond Queen: Elizabeth II and Her People. London: Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-230-74852-1
Neil, Andrew (1996). Full Disclosure. London: Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-64682-7
Nicolson, Sir Harold (1952). King George the Fifth: His Life and Reign. London: Constable & Co.
Petropoulos, Jonathan (2006). Royals and the Reich: the princes von Hessen in Nazi Germany. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-516133-5
Pimlott, Ben (2001). The Queen: Elizabeth II and the Monarchy. London: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-255494-1
Roberts, Andrew; Edited by Antonia Fraser (2000). The House of Windsor. London: Cassell & Co. ISBN 0-304-35406-6
Shawcross, William (2002). Queen and Country. Toronto: McClelland & Stewart. ISBN 0-7710-8056-5
Thatcher, Margaret (1993). The Downing Street Years. London: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-255049-0
Trudeau, Pierre Elliott (1993). Memoirs. Toronto: McLelland & Stewart. ISBN 0-7710-8588-5
Wyatt, Woodrow; Edited by Sarah Curtis (1999). The Journals of Woodrow Wyatt: Volume II. London: Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-77405-1


External links[link]


Find more about Elizabeth II on Wikipedia's sister projects:



Images and media from Commons



Learning resources from Wikiversity



News stories from Wikinews



Quotations from Wikiquote



Source texts from Wikisource



Textbooks from Wikibooks



Official British website
Official Canadian website
Archival material relating to Elizabeth II listed at the UK National Register of Archives
Portraits of Queen Elizabeth II at the National Portrait Gallery, London
Queen Elizabeth II at the Internet Movie Database



Titles and succession 




Elizabeth II
House of Windsor
Cadet branch of the House of Wettin
Born: 21 April 1926


Regnal titles


Preceded by
George VI
Queen of the United Kingdom
1952–present
Incumbent
Heir apparent:
Charles, Prince of Wales


Preceded by
George VI
as King of the British Dominions beyond the Seas
Queen of Canada
1952–present


Queen of Australia
1952–present


Queen of New Zealand
1952–present


Queen of Pakistan
1952–1956
End of title


Queen of South Africa
1952–1961


Queen of Ceylon
1952–1972


Preceded by
Herself
as Queen of the United Kingdom
Queen of Ghana
1957–1960


Queen of Nigeria
1960–1963


Queen of Sierra Leone
1961–1971


Queen of Tanganyika
1961–1962


Queen of Jamaica
1962–present
Incumbent
Heir apparent:
Charles, Prince of Wales


Queen of Trinidad and Tobago
1962–1976
End of title


Queen of Uganda
1962–1963


Queen of Kenya
1963–1964


Queen of Malawi
1964–1966


Queen of Malta
1964–1974


Queen of the Gambia
1965–1970


Queen of Guyana
1966–1970


Queen of Barbados
1966–present
Incumbent
Heir apparent:
Charles, Prince of Wales


Queen of Mauritius
1968–1992
End of title


Queen of Fiji
1970–1987


Queen of the Bahamas
1973–present
Incumbent
Heir apparent:
Charles, Prince of Wales


Queen of Grenada
1974–present


Preceded by
Herself
as Queen of Australia
Queen of Papua New Guinea
1975–present


Preceded by
Herself
as Queen of the United Kingdom
Queen of the Solomon Islands
1978–present


Queen of Tuvalu
1978–present


Queen of Saint Lucia
1979–present


Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1979–present


Queen of Belize
1981–present


Queen of Antigua and Barbuda
1981–present


Queen of Saint Kitts and Nevis
1983–present


Political offices


Preceded by
George VI
Head of the Commonwealth
1952–present
Incumbent


Military offices


Preceded by
The Earl Jellicoe
as First Lord of the Admiralty
Lord High Admiral
1964–2011
Succeeded by
The Duke of Edinburgh


British royalty


Preceded by
Prince Albert, Duke of York
later King George VI
Heir to the Throne
as heiress presumptive
1936–1952
Succeeded by
Charles, Prince of Wales


Order of precedence


First
Orders of precedence in the United Kingdom
as the Sovereign
Succeeded by
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh


Order of Precedence in Canada
as the Sovereign
Succeeded by
David Johnston
as Governor General









 
Queen Elizabeth II navigational boxes
















v
t
e


Queen Elizabeth II






Monarchies



Queen of Antigua and Barbuda
Queen of Australia
Queen of the Bahamas
Queen of Barbados
Queen of Belize
Queen of Canada
Queen of Grenada
Queen of Jamaica
Queen of New Zealand (Cook Islands)
Queen of Papua New Guinea
Queen of Saint Kitts and Nevis
Queen of Saint Lucia
Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Queen of the Solomon Islands
Queen of Tuvalu
Queen of the United Kingdom
Prime Ministers











Titles and honours



List of titles and honours
Head of the Commonwealth
List of things named for Queen Elizabeth II








Overseas visits



State visits
Commonwealth visits








Public celebrations



Wedding to Philip, Duke of Edinburgh
Coronation
Silver Jubilee
Golden Jubilee
Diamond Jubilee
Queen's Official Birthday
















v
t
e


English, Scottish and British monarchs














Monarchs of England before 1603
Monarchs of Scotland before 1603








Alfred the Great
Edward the Elder
Ælfweard
Athelstan the Glorious
Edmund the Magnificent
Eadred
Eadwig the Fair
Edgar the Peaceable
Edward the Martyr
Æthelred the Unready
Sweyn Forkbeard
Edmund Ironside
Cnut
Harold Harefoot
Harthacnut
Edward the Confessor
Harold Godwinson
Edgar the Ætheling
William I
William II
Henry I
Stephen
Matilda
Henry II
Henry the Young King
Richard I
John
Henry III
Edward I
Edward II
Edward III
Richard II
Henry IV
Henry V
Henry VI
Edward IV
Edward V
Richard III
Henry VII
Henry VIII
Edward VI
Jane
Mary I with Philip
Elizabeth I






Kenneth I MacAlpin
Donald I
Constantine I
Áed
Giric
Eochaid
Donald II
Constantine II
Malcolm I
Indulf
Dub
Cuilén
Amlaíb
Kenneth II
Constantine III
Kenneth III
Malcolm II
Duncan I
Macbeth
Lulach
Malcolm III Canmore
Donald III
Duncan II
Donald III
Edgar
Alexander I
David I
Malcolm IV
William I
Alexander II
Alexander III
Margaret
(First Interregnum)
John
(Second Interregnum)
Robert I
David II
Edward
Robert II
Robert III
James I
James II
James III
James IV
James V
Mary I
James VI




















Monarchs of England and Scotland after the Union of the Crowns in 1603









James I & VI
Charles I
(Commonwealth)
Charles II
James II & VII
William III & II and Mary II
Anne
















British monarchs after the Acts of Union 1707









Anne
George I
George II
George III
George IV
William IV
Victoria
Edward VII
George V
Edward VIII
George VI
Elizabeth II












Debatable or disputed rulers are in italics.














v
t
e


Monarchs of Canada






Dominion of Canada (1867–1931)




Victoria
Edward VII
George V








Canada (1931–present)




George V
Edward VIII
George VI
Elizabeth II
















v
t
e


Heads of state of the European Union member states









Fischer (AT)
Albert II (BE)
Plevneliev (BG)
Christofias (CY)
Klaus (CZ)
Margrethe II (DK)
Ilves (EE)
Niinistö (FI)
Hollande (FR)
Gauck (DE)
Papoulias (GR)
Áder (HU)
Higgins (IE)
Napolitano (IT)
Bērziņš (LV)
Grybauskaitė (LT)
Henri (LU)
Abela (MT)
Beatrix (NL)
Komorowski (PL)
Cavaco Silva (PT)
Băsescu (RO)
Gašparovič (SK)
Türk (SI)
Juan Carlos I (ES)
Carl XVI Gustaf (SE)
Elizabeth II (UK)
















v
t
e


Current heads of state in Central American countries









Elizabeth II (Belize)
Laura Chinchilla (Costa Rica)
Mauricio Funes (El Salvador)
Otto Pérez Molina (Guatemala)
Porfirio Lobo (Honduras)
Daniel Ortega (Nicaragua)
Ricardo Martinelli (Panama)
















v
t
e


British princesses







The generations indicate descent from George I, who formalised the use of the titles prince and princess for members of the British Royal Family. Where a princess may have been or is descended from George I more than once, her most senior descent, by which she bore or bears her title, is used.






1st generation



Queen Sophia Dorothea, Queen in Prussia








2nd generation



Princess Anne, Princess Royal and Princess of Orange
Princess Amelia
Princess Caroline
Princess Mary, Landgravine of Hesse-Cassel
Queen Louise, Queen of Denmark and Norway








3rd generation



Princess Augusta, Duchess of Brunswick
Princess Elizabeth
Princess Louisa
Queen Caroline Matilda, Queen of Denmark and Norway








4th generation



Princess Charlotte, Princess Royal and Queen of Württemberg
Princess Augusta Sophia
Princess Elizabeth, Landgravine of Hesse-Homburg
Princess Sophia of Gloucester
Princess Sophia
Princess Amelia
Princess Caroline of Gloucester
Princess Mary, Duchess of Gloucester








5th generation



Princess Charlotte Augusta, Princess Leopold of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld
Princess Charlotte of Clarence
Princess Elizabeth of Clarence
Queen Victoria
Princess Augusta, Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck








6th generation



Princess Victoria, Princess Royal and German Empress
Princess Alice, Grand Duchess of Hesse
Princess Helena, Princess Christian of Schleswig-Holstein
Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll
Princess Beatrice, Princess Henry of Battenberg
Princess Frederica, Baroness Alfons von Pawel-Rammingen
Princess Marie of Hanover








7th generation



Princess Louise, Princess Royal and Duchess of Fife
Princess Victoria
Queen Maud, Queen of Norway
Queen Marie, Queen of Romania
Princess Victoria Melita, Grand Duchess of Hesse
Princess Alexandra, Princess of Hohenlohe-Langenburg
Princess Beatrice, Duchess of Galliera
Princess Margaret, Crown Princess of Sweden
Princess Patricia of Connaught
Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone
Princess Marie Louise, Princess Maximilian of Baden
Princess Alexandra, Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Schwerin
Princess Olga of Hanover








8th generation



Princess Mary, Princess Royal and Countess of Harewood
Princess Alexandra, Duchess of Fife
Princess Maud, Countess of Southesk
Princess Sibylla, Duchess of Västerbotten
Princess Caroline Mathilde of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Queen Frederica, Queen of the Hellenes








9th generation



Queen Elizabeth II
Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon
Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy








10th generation



Princess Anne, Princess Royal








11th generation



Princess Beatrice of York
Princess Eugenie of York
Lady Louise Windsor
















v
t
e


Charles, Prince of Wales






Titles



Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester
Duke of Cornwall
Duke of Rothesay
Earl of Carrick
Baron of Renfrew
Lord of the Isles
Prince and Great Steward of Scotland
more













Family



Diana, Princess of Wales (first wife)
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge (elder son)
Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge (daughter-in-law)
Prince Harry of Wales (younger son)
Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall (second wife)
Elizabeth II (mother)
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (father)
Anne, Princess Royal (sister)
Prince Andrew, Duke of York (brother)
Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex (brother)








Events



Investiture of the Prince of Wales
First wedding (guest list)
Divorce
Second wedding








Charities



The Prince's Charities/The Prince's Carities Canada
Mutton Renaissance Campaign








Miscellaneous



Duchy Originals from Waitrose
Poundbury
















v
t
e


Time Persons of the Year









Mohammad Mosaddegh (1951)
Elizabeth II (1952)
Konrad Adenauer (1953)
John Foster Dulles (1954)
Harlow Curtice (1955)
Hungarian Freedom Fighter (1956)
Nikita Khrushchev (1957)
Charles de Gaulle (1958)
Dwight D. Eisenhower (1959)
U.S. Scientists (1960)

George Beadle
Charles Draper
John Enders
Donald A. Glaser
Joshua Lederberg
Willard Libby
Linus Pauling
Edward Purcell
Isidor Rabi
Emilio Segrè
William Shockley
Edward Teller
Charles Townes
James Van Allen
Robert Woodward


John F. Kennedy (1961)
Pope John XXIII (1962)
Martin Luther King, Jr. (1963)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1964)
William Westmoreland (1965)
Baby boomers (1966)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1967)
The Apollo 8 Astronauts (1968)

William Anders
Frank Borman
Jim Lovell


The Middle Americans (1969)
Willy Brandt (1970)
Richard Nixon (1971)
Henry Kissinger

Richard Nixon (1972)


John Sirica (1973)
King Faisal (1974)
American Women (1975)

Susan Brownmiller
Kathleen Byerly
Alison Cheek
Jill Conway
Betty Ford
Ella Grasso
Carla Hills
Barbara Jordan
Billie Jean King
Carol Sutton
Susie Sharp
Addie L. Wyatt













Complete roster
1927–1950
1951–1975
1976–2000
2001–present


















Authority control: PND: 118529889 | LCCN: n80126296 | VIAF: 20471592 | WorldCat






Persondata


Name
Elizabeth II


Alternative names
Elizabeth Alexandra Mary


Short description
Queen regnant of the Commonwealth realms


Date of birth
21 April 1926


Place of birth
London, United Kingdom


Date of death



Place of death



    

http://wn.com/Elizabeth_II
Related pages:
http://de.wn.com/Elisabeth II.
http://es.wn.com/Isabel II del Reino Unido
http://ru.wn.com/Елизавета II
http://cs.wn.com/Alžběta II.
http://pt.wn.com/Isabel II do Reino Unido
http://pl.wn.com/Elżbieta II
http://hi.wn.com/एलिज़ाबेथ द्वितीय (संयुक्त राजशाही)
http://it.wn.com/Elisabetta II del Regno Unito
http://id.wn.com/Elizabeth II dari Britania Raya
http://nl.wn.com/Elizabeth II van het Verenigd Koninkrijk
http://fr.wn.com/Élisabeth II du Royaume-Uni


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_II
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        













"Barack" and "Obama" redirect here. For other uses, see Barak (disambiguation) and Obama (disambiguation). For President Obama's father, the Kenyan economist, see Barack Obama, Sr.


Barack Obama





44th President of the United States


Incumbent


Assumed office
January 20, 2009


Vice President
Joe Biden


Preceded by
George W. Bush


United States Senator
from Illinois


In office
January 3, 2005 – November 16, 2008


Preceded by
Peter Fitzgerald


Succeeded by
Roland Burris


Member of the Illinois Senate
from the 13th District


In office
January 8, 1997 – November 4, 2004


Preceded by
Alice Palmer


Succeeded by
Kwame Raoul


Personal details


Born
Barack Hussein Obama II
(1961-08-04) August 4, 1961 (age 50)[1]
Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.[2]


Political party
Democratic


Spouse(s)
Michelle Robinson (1992–present)


Children
Malia (born 1998)
Sasha (born 2001)


Residence
White House (Official)
Chicago, Illinois (Private)


Alma mater
Occidental College
Columbia University (B.A.)
Harvard Law School (J.D.)


Profession
Community organizer
Lawyer
Constitutional law professor
Author


Religion
Christianity[3]


Awards
Nobel Peace Prize


Signature



Website
barackobama.com





This article is part of a series on
Barack Obama




Background
Illinois Senate
US Senate


Political positions
Public image
Family


2008 primaries
Obama–Biden campaign


Transition
Inauguration
Electoral history
Presidency

Timeline '09
'10
'11
'12


First 100 days
Nobel Peace Prize
Re-election campaign




Barack Hussein Obama II (i/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/; born August 4, 1961) is the 44th and current President of the United States. He is the first African American to hold the office. In January 2005, Obama was sworn in as a U.S. Senator in the state of Illinois. He would hold this office until November 2008, when he resigned following his victory in the 2008 presidential election.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he was the president of the Harvard Law Review. He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law degree. He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004.
Following an unsuccessful bid against the Democratic incumbent for a seat in the United States House of Representatives in 2000, Obama ran for the United States Senate in 2004. Several events brought him to national attention during the campaign, including his victory in the March 2004 Illinois Democratic primary for the Senate election and his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. He won election to the U.S. Senate in Illinois in November 2004. His presidential campaign began in February 2007, and after a close campaign in the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won his party's nomination. In the 2008 presidential election, he defeated Republican nominee John McCain, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. In April 2011, he announced that he would be running for re-election in 2012.
As president, Obama signed economic stimulus legislation in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. Other domestic policy initiatives include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010, and the Budget Control Act of 2011. In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. president to openly support legalizing same-sex marriage. In foreign policy, he ended the war in Iraq, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, signed the New START arms control treaty with Russia, ordered U.S. involvement in the 2011 Libya military intervention, and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.




Contents


1 Early life and career

1.1 Chicago community organizer and Harvard Law School
1.2 University of Chicago Law School and civil rights attorney


2 Legislative career: 1997–2008

2.1 State Senator: 1997–2004
2.2 U.S. Senate campaign
2.3 U.S. Senator: 2005–2008

2.3.1 Legislation
2.3.2 Committees




3 Presidential campaigns

3.1 2008 presidential campaign
3.2 2012 presidential campaign


4 Presidency

4.1 First days
4.2 Domestic policy

4.2.1 Economic policy
4.2.2 Health care reform
4.2.3 Gulf of Mexico oil spill


4.3 Foreign policy

4.3.1 Iraq War
4.3.2 War in Afghanistan
4.3.3 Israel
4.3.4 War in Libya
4.3.5 Osama bin Laden


4.4 2010 midterm election


5 Cultural and political image
6 Family and personal life

6.1 Religious views


7 Notes
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links




Early life and career[link]
Main article: Early life and career of Barack Obama
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiʻolani Maternity & Gynecological Hospital (now Kapiʻolani Medical Center for Women and Children) in Honolulu, Hawaii,[2][4][5] and is the first President to have been born in Hawaii.[6] His mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, was born in Wichita, Kansas, and was of mostly English ancestry,[7] along with Scottish, Irish, German, and Swiss.[8][9][10][11][12] His father, Barack Obama, Sr., was a Luo from Nyang’oma Kogelo, Nyanza Province, Kenya. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian class at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, where his father was a foreign student on scholarship.[13][14] The couple married on February 2, 1961,[15] separated when Obama Sr. went to Harvard University on scholarship, and divorced in 1964.[13] Obama Sr. remarried and returned to Kenya, visiting Barack in Hawaii only once, in 1971. He died in an automobile accident in 1982.[16]
After her divorce, Dunham married Indonesian Lolo Soetoro, who was attending college in Hawaii. When Suharto, a military leader in Soetoro's home country, came to power in 1967, all Indonesian students studying abroad were recalled, and the family moved to the Menteng neighborhood of Jakarta.[4][17] From ages six to ten, Obama attended local schools in Jakarta, including Besuki Public School and St. Francis of Assisi School.[18]

File:Ann Dunham with father and children.jpg
Barack Obama with his half-sister Maya Soetoro-Ng, mother Ann Dunham and grandfather Stanley Dunham, in Hawaii


In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Armour Dunham, and with the aid of a scholarship attended Punahou School, a private college preparatory school, from fifth grade until his graduation from high school in 1979.[19] Obama's mother returned to Hawaii in 1972, remaining there until 1977 when she went back to Indonesia to work as an anthropological field worker. She finally returned to Hawaii in 1994 and lived there for one year before dying of ovarian cancer.[15][20]
Of his early childhood, Obama recalled, "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind."[14] He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.[21] Reflecting later on his years in Honolulu, Obama wrote: "The opportunity that Hawaii offered—to experience a variety of cultures in a climate of mutual respect—became an integral part of my world view, and a basis for the values that I hold most dear."[22] Obama has also written and talked about using alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine during his teenage years to "push questions of who I was out of my mind."[23] At the 2008 Civil Forum on the Presidency, Obama described his high-school drug use as a great moral failure.[24]
Following high school, Obama moved to Los Angeles in 1979 to attend Occidental College. In February 1981, he made his first public speech, calling for Occidental to divest from South Africa in response to its policy of apartheid.[25] In mid-1981, Obama traveled to Indonesia to visit his mother and sister Maya, and visited the families of college friends in Pakistan and India for three weeks.[25] Later in 1981, he transferred to Columbia University in New York City, where he majored in political science with a specialty in international relations[26] and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1983. He worked for a year at the Business International Corporation,[27] then at the New York Public Interest Research Group.[28][29]
Chicago community organizer and Harvard Law School[link]
Two years after graduating, Obama was hired in Chicago as director of the Developing Communities Project (DCP), a church-based community organization originally comprising eight Catholic parishes in Roseland, West Pullman, and Riverdale on Chicago's South Side. He worked there as a community organizer from June 1985 to May 1988.[29][30] He helped set up a job training program, a college preparatory tutoring program, and a tenants' rights organization in Altgeld Gardens.[31] Obama also worked as a consultant and instructor for the Gamaliel Foundation, a community organizing institute.[32] In mid-1988, he traveled for the first time in Europe for three weeks and then for five weeks in Kenya, where he met many of his paternal relatives for the first time.[33] He returned to Kenya in August 2006 for a visit to his father's birthplace, a village near Kisumu in rural western Kenya.[34]
In late 1988, Obama entered Harvard Law School. He was selected as an editor of the Harvard Law Review at the end of his first year,[35] and president of the journal in his second year.[31][36] During his summers, he returned to Chicago, where he worked as an associate at the law firms of Sidley Austin in 1989 and Hopkins & Sutter in 1990.[37] After graduating with a J.D. magna cum laude[38] from Harvard in 1991, he returned to Chicago.[35] Obama's election as the first black president of the Harvard Law Review gained national media attention[31][36] and led to a publishing contract and advance for a book about race relations,[39] which evolved into a personal memoir. The manuscript was published in mid-1995 as Dreams from My Father.[39]
University of Chicago Law School and civil rights attorney[link]
In 1991, Obama accepted a two-year position as Visiting Law and Government Fellow at the University of Chicago Law School to work on his first book.[39][40] He then taught at the University of Chicago Law School for twelve years—as a Lecturer from 1992 to 1996, and as a Senior Lecturer from 1996 to 2004—teaching constitutional law.[41]
From April to October 1992, Obama directed Illinois's Project Vote, a voter registration campaign with ten staffers and seven hundred volunteer registrars; it achieved its goal of registering 150,000 of 400,000 unregistered African Americans in the state, leading Crain's Chicago Business to name Obama to its 1993 list of "40 under Forty" powers to be.[42] In 1993, he joined Davis, Miner, Barnhill & Galland, a 13-attorney law firm specializing in civil rights litigation and neighborhood economic development, where he was an associate for three years from 1993 to 1996, then of counsel from 1996 to 2004. His law license became inactive in 2002.[43]
From 1994 to 2002, Obama served on the boards of directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago, which in 1985 had been the first foundation to fund the Developing Communities Project; and of the Joyce Foundation.[29] He served on the board of directors of the Chicago Annenberg Challenge from 1995 to 2002, as founding president and chairman of the board of directors from 1995 to 1999.[29]
Legislative career: 1997–2008[link]
State Senator: 1997–2004[link]
Main article: Illinois Senate career of Barack Obama
Obama was elected to the Illinois Senate in 1996, succeeding State Senator Alice Palmer as Senator from Illinois's 13th District, which at that time spanned Chicago South Side neighborhoods from Hyde Park – Kenwood south to South Shore and west to Chicago Lawn.[44] Once elected, Obama gained bipartisan support for legislation that reformed ethics and health care laws.[45] He sponsored a law that increased tax credits for low-income workers, negotiated welfare reform, and promoted increased subsidies for childcare.[46] In 2001, as co-chairman of the bipartisan Joint Committee on Administrative Rules, Obama supported Republican Governor Ryan's payday loan regulations and predatory mortgage lending regulations aimed at averting home foreclosures.[47]
Obama was reelected to the Illinois Senate in 1998, defeating Republican Yesse Yehudah in the general election, and was reelected again in 2002.[48] In 2000, he lost a Democratic primary run for the U.S. House of Representatives to four-term incumbent Bobby Rush by a margin of two to one.[49]
In January 2003, Obama became chairman of the Illinois Senate's Health and Human Services Committee when Democrats, after a decade in the minority, regained a majority.[50] He sponsored and led unanimous, bipartisan passage of legislation to monitor racial profiling by requiring police to record the race of drivers they detained, and legislation making Illinois the first state to mandate videotaping of homicide interrogations.[46][51] During his 2004 general election campaign for U.S. Senate, police representatives credited Obama for his active engagement with police organizations in enacting death penalty reforms.[52] Obama resigned from the Illinois Senate in November 2004 following his election to the U.S. Senate.[53]
U.S. Senate campaign[link]




County results of the 2004 U.S. Senate race in Illinois. Counties in blue were won by Obama.


In May 2002, Obama commissioned a poll to assess his prospects in a 2004 U.S. Senate race; he created a campaign committee, began raising funds, and lined up political media consultant David Axelrod by August 2002. Obama formally announced his candidacy in January 2003.[54]
Obama was an early opponent of the George W. Bush administration's 2003 invasion of Iraq.[55] On October 2, 2002, the day President Bush and Congress agreed on the joint resolution authorizing the Iraq War,[56] Obama addressed the first high-profile Chicago anti-Iraq War rally,[57] and spoke out against the war.[58] He addressed another anti-war rally in March 2003 and told the crowd that "it's not too late" to stop the war.[59]
Decisions by Republican incumbent Peter Fitzgerald and his Democratic predecessor Carol Moseley Braun to not participate in the election resulted in wide-open Democratic and Republican primary contests involving fifteen candidates.[60] In the March 2004 primary election, Obama won in an unexpected landslide—which overnight made him a rising star within the national Democratic Party, started speculation about a presidential future, and led to the reissue of his memoir, Dreams from My Father.[61] In July 2004, Obama delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention,[62] seen by 9.1 million viewers. His speech was well received and elevated his status within the Democratic Party.[63]
Obama's expected opponent in the general election, Republican primary winner Jack Ryan, withdrew from the race in June 2004.[64] Six weeks later, Alan Keyes accepted the Republican nomination to replace Ryan.[65] In the November 2004 general election, Obama won with 70 percent of the vote.[66]
U.S. Senator: 2005–2008[link]
Main article: United States Senate career of Barack Obama
Obama was sworn in as a senator on January 3, 2005,[67] becoming the only Senate member of the Congressional Black Caucus.[68] CQ Weekly characterized him as a "loyal Democrat" based on analysis of all Senate votes in 2005–2007. Obama announced on November 13, 2008, that he would resign his Senate seat on November 16, 2008, before the start of the lame-duck session, to focus on his transition period for the presidency.[69]
Legislation[link]
See also: List of bills sponsored by Barack Obama in the United States Senate
Obama cosponsored the Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act.[70] He introduced two initiatives that bore his name: Lugar–Obama, which expanded the Nunn–Lugar cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons;[71] and the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, which authorized the establishment of USAspending.gov, a web search engine on federal spending.[72] On June 3, 2008, Senator Obama—along with Senators Tom Carper, Tom Coburn, and John McCain—introduced follow-up legislation: Strengthening Transparency and Accountability in Federal Spending Act of 2008.[73]
Obama sponsored legislation that would have required nuclear plant owners to notify state and local authorities of radioactive leaks, but the bill failed to pass in the full Senate after being heavily modified in committee.[74] Regarding tort reform, Obama voted for the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which grants immunity from civil liability to telecommunications companies complicit with NSA warrantless wiretapping operations.[75]




Obama and U.S. Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN) visit a Russian facility for dismantling mobile-missiles (August 2005).[76]


In December 2006, President Bush signed into law the Democratic Republic of the Congo Relief, Security, and Democracy Promotion Act, marking the first federal legislation to be enacted with Obama as its primary sponsor.[77] In January 2007, Obama and Senator Feingold introduced a corporate jet provision to the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act, which was signed into law in September 2007.[78] Obama also introduced Deceptive Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act, a bill to criminalize deceptive practices in federal elections,[79] and the Iraq War De-Escalation Act of 2007,[80] neither of which was signed into law.
Later in 2007, Obama sponsored an amendment to the Defense Authorization Act to add safeguards for personality-disorder military discharges.[81] This amendment passed the full Senate in the spring of 2008.[82] He sponsored the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act supporting divestment of state pension funds from Iran's oil and gas industry, which has not passed committee; and co-sponsored legislation to reduce risks of nuclear terrorism.[83] Obama also sponsored a Senate amendment to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, providing one year of job protection for family members caring for soldiers with combat-related injuries.[84]
Committees[link]
Obama held assignments on the Senate Committees for Foreign Relations, Environment and Public Works, and Veterans' Affairs through December 2006.[85] In January 2007, he left the Environment and Public Works committee and took additional assignments with Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.[86] He also became Chairman of the Senate's subcommittee on European Affairs.[87] As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Obama made official trips to Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa. He met with Mahmoud Abbas before Abbas became President of the Palestinian National Authority, and gave a speech at the University of Nairobi in which he condemned corruption within the Kenyan government.[88]
Presidential campaigns[link]
2008 presidential campaign[link]
Main articles: United States presidential election, 2008, Barack Obama presidential primary campaign, 2008, and Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2008




Obama stands on stage with his wife and daughters just before announcing his presidential candidacy in Springfield, Illinois, February 10, 2007.






President George W. Bush meets with President-elect Obama in the Oval Office on November 10, 2008.


On February 10, 2007, Obama announced his candidacy for President of the United States in front of the Old State Capitol building in Springfield, Illinois.[89][90] The choice of the announcement site was viewed as symbolic because it was also where Abraham Lincoln delivered his historic "House Divided" speech in 1858.[89][91] Obama emphasized issues of rapidly ending the Iraq War, increasing energy independence, and providing universal health care,[92] in a campaign that projected themes of "hope" and "change".[93]
A large number of candidates entered the Democratic Party presidential primaries. The field narrowed to a duel between Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton after early contests, with the race remaining close throughout the primary process but with Obama gaining a steady lead in pledged delegates due to better long-range planning, superior fundraising, dominant organizing in caucus states, and better exploitation of delegate allocation rules.[94] On June 7, 2008, Clinton ended her campaign and endorsed Obama.[95]
On August 23, Obama announced his selection of Delaware Senator Joe Biden as his vice presidential running mate.[96] Biden was selected from a field speculated to include former Indiana Governor and Senator Evan Bayh and Virginia Governor Tim Kaine.[97] At the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colorado, Hillary Clinton called for her supporters to endorse Obama, and she and Bill Clinton gave convention speeches in his support.[98] Obama delivered his acceptance speech, not at the center where the Democratic National Convention was held, but at Invesco Field at Mile High to a crowd of over 75,000; the speech was viewed by over 38 million people worldwide.[99][100]
During both the primary process and the general election, Obama's campaign set numerous fundraising records, particularly in the quantity of small donations.[101] On June 19, 2008, Obama became the first major-party presidential candidate to turn down public financing in the general election since the system was created in 1976.[102]
McCain was nominated as the Republican candidate and the two engaged in three presidential debates in September and October 2008.[103] On November 4, Obama won the presidency with 365 electoral votes to 173 received by McCain.[104] Obama won 52.9 percent of the popular vote to McCain's 45.7 percent.[105] He became the first African American to be elected president.[106] Obama delivered his victory speech before hundreds of thousands of supporters in Chicago's Grant Park.[107]
2012 presidential campaign[link]
Main articles: United States presidential election, 2012 and Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2012
On April 4, 2011, Obama announced his re-election campaign for 2012 in a video titled "It Begins with Us" that he posted on his website and filed election papers with the Federal Election Commission.[108][109][110] As the incumbent president he ran almost unopposed in the Democratic Party presidential primaries,[111] and on April 3, 2012, Obama had secured the 2778 convention delegates needed to win the Democratic nomination.[112]
Presidency[link]
Main article: Presidency of Barack Obama
See also: Confirmations of Barack Obama's Cabinet and List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama
First days[link]




Barack Obama takes the oath of office as President of the United States.


The inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th President, and Joe Biden as Vice President, took place on January 20, 2009. In his first few days in office, Obama issued executive orders and presidential memoranda directing the U.S. military to develop plans to withdraw troops from Iraq.[113] He ordered the closing of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp,[114] but Congress prevented the closure by refusing to appropriate the required funds.[115][116][117] Obama reduced the secrecy given to presidential records,[118] and changed procedures to promote disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.[119] He also reversed George W. Bush's ban on federal funding to foreign establishments that allow abortions.[120]
Domestic policy[link]
The first bill signed into law by Obama was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, relaxing the statute of limitations for equal-pay lawsuits.[121] Five days later, he signed the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to cover an additional 4 million uninsured children.[122] In March 2009, Obama reversed a Bush-era policy which had limited funding of embryonic stem cell research and pledged to develop "strict guidelines" on the research.[123]




Barack Obama speaking at Joint session of Congress with Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on February 24, 2009


Obama appointed two women to serve on the Supreme Court in the first two years of his Presidency. Sonia Sotomayor, nominated by Obama on May 26, 2009, to replace retiring Associate Justice David Souter, was confirmed on August 6, 2009,[124] becoming the first Hispanic to be a Supreme Court Justice.[125] Elena Kagan, nominated by Obama on May 10, 2010, to replace retiring Associate Justice John Paul Stevens, was confirmed on August 5, 2010, bringing the number of women sitting simultaneously on the Court to three, for the first time in American history.[126]
On September 30, 2009, the Obama administration proposed new regulations on power plants, factories and oil refineries in an attempt to limit greenhouse gas emissions and to curb global warming.[127][128]
On October 8, 2009, Obama signed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, a measure that expands the 1969 United States federal hate-crime law to include crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability.[129][130]
On March 30, 2010, Obama signed the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, a reconciliation bill which ends the process of the federal government giving subsidies to private banks to give out federally insured loans, increases the Pell Grant scholarship award, and makes changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.[131][132]
In a major space policy speech in April 2010, Obama announced a planned change in direction at NASA, the U.S. space agency. He ended plans for a return of human spaceflight to the moon and development of the Ares I rocket, Ares V rocket and Constellation program, in favor of funding Earth science projects, a new rocket type, and research and development for an eventual manned mission to Mars, and ongoing missions to the International Space Station.[133]
On December 22, 2010, Obama signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010, fulfilling a key promise made in the 2008 presidential campaign[134][135] to end the Don't ask, don't tell policy of 1993 that had prevented gay and lesbian people from serving openly in the United States Armed Forces.[136]
President Obama's 2011 State of the Union Address focused on themes of education and innovation, stressing the importance of innovation economics to make the United States more competitive globally. He spoke of a five-year freeze in domestic spending, eliminating tax breaks for oil companies and reversing tax cuts for wealthy Americans, banning congressional earmarks, and reducing healthcare costs. He promised that the United States would have one million electric vehicles on the road by 2015 and would be 80% reliant on "clean" electricity.[137][138]
As a candidate for the Illinois state senate Obama had said in 1996 that he favored legalizing same-sex marriage;[139] but by the time of his run for the U.S. senate in 2004, he said that while he supported civil unions and domestic partnerships for same-sex partners, for strategic reasons he opposed same-sex marriages.[140] On May 9, 2012, shortly after the official launch of his campaign for re-election as president, Obama said his views had evolved, and he publicly affirmed his personal support for the legalization of same-sex marriage, becoming the first sitting U.S. president to do so.[141][142]
Economic policy[link]
Main article: Economic policy of Barack Obama








Obama presents his first weekly address as President of the United States on January 24, 2009, discussing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.


On February 17, 2009, Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, a $787 billion economic stimulus package aimed at helping the economy recover from the deepening worldwide recession.[143] The act includes increased federal spending for health care, infrastructure, education, various tax breaks and incentives, and direct assistance to individuals,[144] which is being distributed over the course of several years.
In March, Obama's Treasury Secretary, Timothy Geithner, took further steps to manage the financial crisis, including introducing the Public-Private Investment Program for Legacy Assets, which contains provisions for buying up to $2 trillion in depreciated real estate assets.[145] Obama intervened in the troubled automotive industry[146] in March 2009, renewing loans for General Motors and Chrysler to continue operations while reorganizing. Over the following months the White House set terms for both firms' bankruptcies, including the sale of Chrysler to Italian automaker Fiat[147] and a reorganization of GM giving the U.S. government a temporary 60 percent equity stake in the company, with the Canadian government shouldering a 12 percent stake.[148] In June 2009, dissatisfied with the pace of economic stimulus, Obama called on his cabinet to accelerate the investment.[149] He signed into law the Car Allowance Rebate System, known colloquially as "Cash for Clunkers", that temporarily boosted the economy.[150][151][152]
Although spending and loan guarantees from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department authorized by the Bush and Obama administrations totaled about $11.5 trillion, only $3 trillion had been spent by the end of November 2009.[153] However, Obama and the Congressional Budget Office predicted that the 2010 budget deficit will be $1.5 trillion or 10.6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product (GDP) compared to the 2009 deficit of $1.4 trillion or 9.9 percent of GDP.[154][155] For 2011, the administration predicted the deficit will slightly shrink to $1.34 trillion, while the 10-year deficit will increase to $8.53 trillion or 90 percent of GDP.[156] The most recent increase in the U.S. debt ceiling to $16.4 trillion was signed into law on January 26, 2012.[157] On August 2, 2011, after a lengthy congressional debate over whether to raise the nation's debt limit, Obama signed the bipartisan Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation enforces limits on discretionary spending until 2021, establishes a procedure to increase the debt limit, creates a Congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose further deficit reduction with a stated goal of achieving at least $1.5 trillion in budgetary savings over 10 years, and establishes automatic procedures for reducing spending by as much as $1.2 trillion if legislation originating with the new joint select committee does not achieve such savings.[158] By passing the legislation, Congress was able to prevent an unprecedented U.S. government default on its obligations.[159]




Employment statistics (changes in unemployment rate and net jobs per month) during Obama's tenure as U.S. President[160][161]


The unemployment rate rose in 2009, reaching a peak in October at 10.1 percent and averaging 10.0 percent in the fourth quarter. Following a decrease to 9.7 percent in the first quarter of 2010, the unemployment rate fell to 9.6 percent in the second quarter, where it remained for the rest of the year.[162] Between February and December 2010, employment rose by 0.8 percent, which was less than the average of 1.9 percent experienced during comparable periods in the past four employment recoveries.[163] GDP growth returned in the third quarter of 2009, expanding at a rate of 1.6 percent, followed by a 5.0 percent increase in the fourth quarter.[164] Growth continued in 2010, posting an increase of 3.7 percent in the first quarter, with lesser gains throughout the rest of the year.[164] In July 2010, the Federal Reserve expressed that although economic activity continued to increase, its pace had slowed, and Chairman Ben Bernanke stated that the economic outlook was "unusually uncertain."[165] Overall, the economy expanded at a rate of 2.9 percent in 2010.[166]
The Congressional Budget Office and a broad range of economists credit Obama's stimulus plan for economic growth.[167][168] The CBO released a report stating that the stimulus bill increased employment by 1–2.1 million,[168][169][170][171] while conceding that "It is impossible to determine how many of the reported jobs would have existed in the absence of the stimulus package."[167] Although an April 2010 survey of members of the National Association for Business Economics showed an increase in job creation (over a similar January survey) for the first time in two years, 73 percent of 68 respondents believed that the stimulus bill has had no impact on employment.[172]
Within a month of the 2010 midterm elections, Obama announced a compromise deal with the Congressional Republican leadership that included a temporary, two-year extension of the 2001 and 2003 income tax rates, a one-year payroll tax reduction, continuation of unemployment benefits, and a new rate and exemption amount for estate taxes.[173] The compromise overcame opposition from some in both parties, and the resulting $858 billion Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 passed with bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress before Obama signed it on December 17, 2010.[174]
Health care reform[link]
Main article: Health care reform in the United States




Barack Obama signs the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act at the White House, March 23, 2010


Obama called for Congress to pass legislation reforming health care in the United States, a key campaign promise and a top legislative goal.[175] He proposed an expansion of health insurance coverage to cover the uninsured, to cap premium increases, and to allow people to retain their coverage when they leave or change jobs. His proposal was to spend $900 billion over 10 years and include a government insurance plan, also known as the public option, to compete with the corporate insurance sector as a main component to lowering costs and improving quality of health care. It would also make it illegal for insurers to drop sick people or deny them coverage for pre-existing conditions, and require every American carry health coverage. The plan also includes medical spending cuts and taxes on insurance companies that offer expensive plans.[176][177]
On July 14, 2009, House Democratic leaders introduced a 1,017-page plan for overhauling the U.S. health care system, which Obama wanted Congress to approve by the end of 2009.[175] After much public debate during the Congressional summer recess of 2009, Obama delivered a speech to a joint session of Congress on September 9 where he addressed concerns over the proposals.[178] In March 2009, Obama lifted a ban on stem cell research.[179]

File:PPACA Premium Chart.jpg
Maximum Out-of-Pocket Premium as Percentage of Family Income and federal poverty level, under Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, starting in 2014. (Source: CRS)


On November 7, 2009, a health care bill featuring the public option was passed in the House.[180][181] On December 24, 2009, the Senate passed its own bill—without a public option—on a party-line vote of 60–39.[182] On March 21, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act passed by the Senate in December was passed in the House by a vote of 219 to 212.[183] Obama signed the bill into law on March 23, 2010.[184]
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes health-related provisions to take effect over four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility for people making up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) starting in 2014,[185] subsidizing insurance premiums for people making up to 400 percent of the FPL ($88,000 for family of four in 2010) so their maximum "out-of-pocket" payment for annual premiums will be from 2 to 9.5 percent of income,[186][187] providing incentives for businesses to provide health care benefits, prohibiting denial of coverage and denial of claims based on pre-existing conditions, establishing health insurance exchanges, prohibiting annual coverage caps, and support for medical research. According to White House and Congressional Budget Office figures, the maximum share of income that enrollees would have to pay would vary depending on their income relative to the federal poverty level.[186][188]
The costs of these provisions are offset by taxes, fees, and cost-saving measures, such as new Medicare taxes for those in high-income brackets, taxes on indoor tanning, cuts to the Medicare Advantage program in favor of traditional Medicare, and fees on medical devices and pharmaceutical companies;[189] there is also a tax penalty for those who do not obtain health insurance, unless they are exempt due to low income or other reasons.[190] In March, 2010, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the net effect of both laws will be a reduction in the federal deficit by $143 billion over the first decade.[191]
In March 2012, the Supreme Court heard arguments by a coalition of 26 states maintaining that it is unconstitutional to force individuals to buy health insurance.[192]
Gulf of Mexico oil spill[link]
On April 20, 2010, an explosion destroyed an offshore drilling rig at the Macondo Prospect in the Gulf of Mexico, causing a major sustained oil leak. The well's operator, BP, initiated a containment and cleanup plan, and began drilling two relief wells intended to stop the flow. Obama visited the Gulf on May 2 among visits by members of his cabinet, and again on May 28 and June 4. On May 22, he announced a federal investigation and formed a bipartisan commission to recommend new safety standards, after a review by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and concurrent Congressional hearings. On May 27, he announced a 6-month moratorium on new deepwater drilling permits and leases, pending regulatory review.[193] As multiple efforts by BP failed, some in the media and public expressed confusion and criticism over various aspects of the incident, and stated a desire for more involvement by Obama and the federal government.[194]
Foreign policy[link]
Main articles: Foreign policy of the Barack Obama administration and Barack Obama foreign policy




Barack Obama speaking on "A New Beginning" at Cairo University on June 4, 2009


In February and March, Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made separate overseas trips to announce a "new era" in U.S. foreign relations with Russia and Europe, using the terms "break" and "reset" to signal major changes from the policies of the preceding administration.[195] Obama attempted to reach out to Arab leaders by granting his first interview to an Arab cable TV network, Al Arabiya.[196]
On March 19, Obama continued his outreach to the Muslim world, releasing a New Year's video message to the people and government of Iran.[197] This attempt at outreach was rebuffed by the Iranian leadership.[198] In April, Obama gave a speech in Ankara, Turkey, which was well received by many Arab governments.[199] On June 4, 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University in Egypt calling for "a new beginning" in relations between the Islamic world and the United States and promoting Middle East peace.[200]
On June 26, 2009, in response to the Iranian government's actions towards protesters following Iran's 2009 presidential election, Obama said: "The violence perpetrated against them is outrageous. We see it and we condemn it."[201] On July 7, while in Moscow, he responded to a Vice President Biden comment on a possible Israeli military strike on Iran by saying: "We have said directly to the Israelis that it is important to try and resolve this in an international setting in a way that does not create major conflict in the Middle East."[202]




British Prime Minister David Cameron and Barack Obama, during the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit.


On September 24, 2009, Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to preside over a meeting of the United Nations Security Council.[203]
In March 2010, Obama took a public stance against plans by the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to continue building Jewish housing projects in predominantly Arab neighborhoods of East Jerusalem.[204][205] During the same month, an agreement was reached with the administration of Russian President Dmitry Medvedev to replace the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with a new pact reducing the number of long-range nuclear weapons in the arsenals of both countries by about one-third.[206] The New START treaty was signed by Obama and Medvedev in April 2010, and was ratified by the U.S. Senate in December 2010.[207]
On December 6, 2011, he instructed agencies to consider LGBT rights when issuing financial aid to foreign countries.[208]
Iraq War[link]
On February 27, 2009, Obama declared that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months. His remarks were made to a group of Marines preparing for deployment to Afghanistan. Obama said, "Let me say this as plainly as I can: By August 31, 2010, our combat mission in Iraq will end."[209] The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010, decreasing troops levels from 142,000 while leaving a transitional force of 35,000 to 50,000 in Iraq until the end of 2011. On August 19, 2010, the last United States combat brigade exited Iraq. The plan is to transition the mission of the remaining troops from combat operations to counter-terrorism and the training, equipping, and advising of Iraqi security forces.[210][211] On August 31, 2010, Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over.[212] On October 21, 2011 President Obama announced that all U.S. troops would leave Iraq in time to be, "home for the holidays".[213]
War in Afghanistan[link]
Main article: War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
Early in his presidency, Obama moved to bolster U.S. troop strength in Afghanistan.[214] He announced an increase to U.S. troop levels of 17,000 in February 2009 to "stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan", an area he said had not received the "strategic attention, direction and resources it urgently requires".[215] He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan, General David D. McKiernan, with former Special Forces commander Lt. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal in May 2009, indicating that McChrystal's Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war.[216] On December 1, 2009, Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30,000 military personnel to Afghanistan.[217] He also proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date.[218][219] McChrystal was replaced by David Petraeus in June 2010, after McChrystal's staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article.[220]
Israel[link]




Obama meeting with Israeli President Shimon Peres, 2009


During the initial years of the Obama administration, the U.S. increased military cooperation with Israel, including a record number of U.S. troops participating in military exercises in the country, increased military aid, the re-establishment of the U.S.-Israeli Joint Political Military Group and the Defense Policy Advisory Group, and an increase in visits among high-level military officials of both countries, including Ehud Barak and Admiral Mike Mullen.[221]
In 2011, the United States vetoed a Security Council resolution condemning Israeli settlements, with the United States being the only nation to do so.[222] Obama supports the two-state solution to the Arab–Israeli conflict based on the 1967 borders with land swaps.[223]
War in Libya[link]
Main article: 2011 military intervention in Libya
In March 2011, as forces loyal to Muammar Gaddafi advanced on rebels across Libya, calls for a no-fly zone came from around the world, including Europe, the Arab League, and a resolution[224] passed unanimously by the U.S. Senate.[225] In response to the unanimous passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 on March 17, Gaddafi who had previously vowed to "show no mercy" to the citizens of Benghazi[226]—announced an immediate cessation of military activities,[227] yet reports came in that his forces continued shelling Misrata. The next day, on Obama's orders, the U.S. military took a lead role in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government's air defense capabilities in order to protect civilians and enforce a no-fly-zone,[228] including the use of Tomahawk missiles, B-2 Spirits, and fighter jets.[229][230][231] Six days later, on March 25, by unanimous vote of all of its 28 members, NATO took over leadership of the effort, dubbed Operation Unified Protector.[232] Some Representatives[233] questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost, structure and aftermath.[234][235]
Osama bin Laden[link]




Obama and the U.S. national security team gathered in the Situation Room to monitor the military operation resulting in the death of Osama bin Laden on May 1, 2011.


Main article: Death of Osama bin Laden
See also: The Situation Room (photograph)
Starting with information received in July 2010, intelligence developed by the CIA over the next several months determined what they believed to be the location of Osama bin Laden in a large compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, a suburban area 35 miles from Islamabad.[236] CIA head Leon Panetta reported this intelligence to President Obama in March 2011.[236] Meeting with his national security advisers over the course of the next six weeks, Obama rejected a plan to bomb the compound, and authorized a "surgical raid" to be conducted by United States Navy SEALs.[236] The operation took place on May 1, 2011, resulting in the death of bin Laden and the seizure of papers and computer drives and disks from the compound.[237][238] Bin Laden's body was identified through DNA testing,[239] and buried at sea several hours later.[240] Within minutes of the President's announcement from Washington, DC, late in the evening on May 1, there were spontaneous celebrations around the country as crowds gathered outside the White House, and at New York City's Ground Zero and Times Square.[237][241] Reaction to the announcement was positive across party lines, including from former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush,[242] and from many countries around the world.[243]
2010 midterm election[link]
Obama called the November 2, 2010 election, where the Democratic Party lost 63 seats in, and control of, the House of Representatives,[244] "humbling" and a "shellacking".[245] He said that the results came because not enough Americans had felt the effects of the economic recovery.[246]
Cultural and political image[link]
Main article: Public image of Barack Obama
See also: International media reaction to the United States presidential election, 2008




Obama conducting the first completely virtual interview from the White House in 2012[247]


Obama's family history, upbringing, and Ivy League education differ markedly from those of African American politicians who launched their careers in the 1960s through participation in the civil rights movement.[248] Obama is also not a descendant of American slaves.[249] Expressing puzzlement over questions about whether he is "black enough", Obama told an August 2007 meeting of the National Association of Black Journalists that "we're still locked in this notion that if you appeal to white folks then there must be something wrong".[250] Obama acknowledged his youthful image in an October 2007 campaign speech, saying: "I wouldn't be here if, time and again, the torch had not been passed to a new generation."[251]
Obama is frequently referred to as an exceptional orator.[252] During his pre-inauguration transition period and continuing into his presidency, Obama has delivered a series of weekly Internet video addresses.[253]
According to the Gallup Organization, Obama began his presidency with a 68 percent approval rating[254] before gradually declining for the rest of the year, and eventually bottoming out at 41 percent in August 2010,[255] a trend similar to Ronald Reagan's and Bill Clinton's first years in office.[256] He experienced a small poll bounce shortly after the death of Osama bin Laden, which lasted until around June 2011, when his approval numbers dropped back to where they were prior to the operation.[257][258][259] Polls show strong support for Obama in other countries,[260] and before being elected President he has met with prominent foreign figures including then-British Prime Minister Tony Blair,[261] Italy's Democratic Party leader and then Mayor of Rome Walter Veltroni,[262] and French President Nicolas Sarkozy.[263]




Obama talks with pub-goers as the First Lady draws a pint of stout at the Ollie Hayes pub in Moneygall, Ireland, in 2011


In a February 2009 poll conducted by Harris Interactive for France 24 and the International Herald Tribune, Obama was rated as the most respected world leader, as well as the most powerful.[264] In a similar poll conducted by Harris in May 2009, Obama was rated as the most popular world leader, as well as the one figure most people would pin their hopes on for pulling the world out of the economic downturn.[265][266]
Obama won Best Spoken Word Album Grammy Awards for abridged audiobook versions of Dreams from My Father in February 2006 and for The Audacity of Hope in February 2008.[267] His concession speech after the New Hampshire primary was set to music by independent artists as the music video "Yes We Can", which was viewed 10 million times on YouTube in its first month[268] and received a Daytime Emmy Award.[269] In December 2008, Time magazine named Obama as its Person of the Year for his historic candidacy and election, which it described as "the steady march of seemingly impossible accomplishments".[270]
On October 9, 2009, the Norwegian Nobel Committee announced that Obama had won the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize "for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples".[271] Obama accepted this award in Oslo, Norway on December 10, 2009, with "deep gratitude and great humility."[272] The award drew a mixture of praise and criticism from world leaders and media figures.[273][274] Obama is the fourth U.S. president to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and the third to become a Nobel laureate while in office.
Family and personal life[link]
Main article: Family of Barack Obama




Barack Obama posing in the White House with wife Michelle and daughters Sasha and Malia in 2009


In a 2006 interview, Obama highlighted the diversity of his extended family: "It's like a little mini-United Nations", he said. "I've got relatives who look like Bernie Mac, and I've got relatives who look like Margaret Thatcher."[275] Obama has a half-sister with whom he was raised, Maya Soetoro-Ng, the daughter of his mother and her Indonesian second husband and seven half-siblings from his Kenyan father's family – six of them living.[276] Obama's mother was survived by her Kansas-born mother, Madelyn Dunham,[277] until her death on November 2, 2008,[278] two days before his election to the Presidency. Obama also has roots in Ireland; he met with his Irish cousins in Moneygall in May 2011.[279] In Dreams from My Father, Obama ties his mother's family history to possible Native American ancestors and distant relatives of Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War.[280]
Obama was known as "Barry" in his youth, but asked to be addressed with his given name during his college years.[281] Besides his native English, Obama speaks Indonesian at the conversational level, having learned the language during his four childhood years in Jakarta.[282] He plays basketball, a sport he participated in as a member of his high school's varsity team.[283]




Obama taking a shot during a game on the White House basketball court, 2009


Obama is a well known supporter of the Chicago White Sox, and threw out the first pitch at the 2005 ALCS when he was still a senator.[284] In 2009, he threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the all star game while wearing a White Sox jacket.[285] He is also primarily a Chicago Bears fan in the NFL, but in his childhood and adolescence was a fan of the Pittsburgh Steelers, and recently rooted for them ahead of their victory in Super Bowl XLIII 12 days after Obama took office as President.[286] In 2011, Obama invited the 1985 Bears to the White House; in 1986, the team did not attend due to the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.[287]
In June 1989, Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin.[288] Assigned for three months as Obama's adviser at the firm, Robinson joined him at group social functions, but declined his initial requests to date.[289] They began dating later that summer, became engaged in 1991, and were married on October 3, 1992.[290] The couple's first daughter, Malia Ann, was born on July 4, 1998,[291] followed by a second daughter, Natasha ("Sasha"), on June 10, 2001.[292] The Obama daughters attended the private University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. When they moved to Washington, D.C., in January 2009, the girls started at the private Sidwell Friends School.[293] The Obamas have a Portuguese Water Dog named Bo, a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy.[294]
Applying the proceeds of a book deal, the family moved in 2005 from a Hyde Park, Chicago condominium to a $1.6 million house in neighboring Kenwood, Chicago.[295] The purchase of an adjacent lot—and sale of part of it to Obama by the wife of developer, campaign donor and friend Tony Rezko—attracted media attention because of Rezko's subsequent indictment and conviction on political corruption charges that were unrelated to Obama.[296]
In December 2007, Money magazine estimated the Obama family's net worth at $1.3 million.[297] Their 2009 tax return showed a household income of $5.5 million—up from about $4.2 million in 2007 and $1.6 million in 2005—mostly from sales of his books.[298][299] On his 2010 income of $1.7 million, he gave 14 percent to non-profit organizations, including $131,000 to Fisher House Foundation, a charity assisting wounded veterans' families, allowing them to reside near where the veteran is receiving medical treatments.[300][301]
As per the latest financial disclosure, Obama may be worth as much as $10 million.[302]
Obama tried to quit smoking several times, sometimes using nicotine replacement therapy, and, in early 2010, Michelle Obama said that he had successfully quit smoking.[303][304]
Religious views[link]
Obama is a Christian whose religious views developed in his adult life. He wrote in The Audacity of Hope that he "was not raised in a religious household". He described his mother, raised by non-religious parents (whom Obama has specified elsewhere as "non-practicing Methodists and Baptists"), to be detached from religion, yet "in many ways the most spiritually awakened person that I have ever known". He described his father as "raised a Muslim", but a "confirmed atheist" by the time his parents met, and his stepfather as "a man who saw religion as not particularly useful". Obama explained how, through working with black churches as a community organizer while in his twenties, he came to understand "the power of the African-American religious tradition to spur social change".[305]
In an interview with the evangelical periodical Christianity Today, Obama stated: "I am a Christian, and I am a devout Christian. I believe in the redemptive death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. I believe that that faith gives me a path to be cleansed of sin and have eternal life."[306]
On September 27, 2010, Obama released a statement commenting on his religious views saying "I'm a Christian by choice. My family didn't—frankly, they weren't folks who went to church every week. And my mother was one of the most spiritual people I knew, but she didn't raise me in the church. So I came to my Christian faith later in life, and it was because the precepts of Jesus Christ spoke to me in terms of the kind of life that I would want to lead—being my brothers' and sisters' keeper, treating others as they would treat me."[307][308]
Obama was baptized at the Trinity United Church of Christ, a black liberation church, in 1988, and was an active member there for two decades.[309] Obama resigned from Trinity during the Presidential campaign after controversial statements made by Rev. Jeremiah Wright became public.[310] After a prolonged effort to find a church to attend regularly in Washington, Obama announced in June 2009 that his primary place of worship would be the Evergreen Chapel at Camp David.[311]
Notes[link]


^ "President Barack Obama". Washington, D.C.: The White House. 2008. http://www.whitehouse.gov/administration/president-obama. Retrieved December 12, 2008. 
^ a b "Certificate of Live Birth: Barack Hussein Obama II, August 4, 1961, 7:24 pm, Honolulu". Department of Health, State of Hawaii. The White House. April 27, 2011. http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/rss_viewer/birth-certificate-long-form.pdf. Retrieved April 27, 2011. 
^ "American President: Barack Obama". Charlottesville, VA: Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia. 2009. http://millercenter.org/academic/americanpresident/obama. Retrieved January 23, 2009. "Religion: Christian" 

"The Truth about Barack's Faith". Obama for America. http://www.fightthesmears.com/file_download/2/baracksfaith.pdf. Retrieved April 8, 2011. 
Miller, Lisa (July 18, 2008). "Finding his faith". Newsweek. http://www.newsweek.com/id/145971. Retrieved February 4, 2010. "He is now a Christian, having been baptized in the early 1990s at Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago." 
Barakat, Matthew (November 17, 2008). "Obama's church choice likely to be scrutinized; D.C. churches have started extending invitations to Obama and his family". Associated Press. MSNBC. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/27775757. Retrieved January 20, 2009. "The United Church of Christ, the denomination from which Obama resigned when he left Wright's church, issued a written invitation to join a UCC denomination in Washington and resume his connections to the church." .
"Barack Obama, long time UCC member, inaugurated forty-fourth U.S. President". News. United Church of Christ. January 20, 2009. http://www.ucc.org/news/obama-inauguration.html. Retrieved January 21, 2009. "Barack Obama, who spent more than 20 years as a UCC member, is the forty-fourth President of the United States." 
Sullivan, Amy (June 29, 2009). "The Obama's find a church home—away from home". Time. http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1907610,00.html. Retrieved February 5, 2010. "instead of joining a congregation in Washington, D.C., he will follow in George W. Bush's footsteps and make his primary place of worship Evergreen Chapel, the nondenominational church at Camp David." .
Kornblut, Anne E. (February 4, 2010). "Obama's spirituality is largely private, but it's influential, advisers say". The Washington Post: p. A6. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/02/03/AR2010020303619.html. Retrieved February 5, 2010. "Obama prays privately ... And when he takes his family to Camp David on the weekends, a Navy chaplain ministers to them, with the daughters attending a form of Sunday school there." 


^ a b Maraniss, David (August 24, 2008). "Though Obama had to leave to find himself, it is Hawaii that made his rise possible". The Washington Post: p. A22. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/08/23/AR2008082301620.html. Retrieved October 28, 2008. 
^ Nakaso, Dan (December 22, 2008). "Twin sisters, Obama on parallel paths for years". The Honolulu Advertiser: p. B1. http://the.honoluluadvertiser.com/article/2008/Dec/22/ln/hawaii812220320.html. Retrieved January 22, 2011. 
^ Rudin, Ken (December 23, 2009). "Today's Junkie segment On TOTN: a political review Of 2009". Talk of the Nation (Political Junkie blog). NPR. http://www.npr.org/blogs/politicaljunkie/2009/12/todays_junkie_segment_on_totn_5.html. Retrieved April 18, 2010. "We began with the historic inauguration on January 20—yes, the first president ever born in Hawaii" 
^ for Stanley Ann's first name, see Obama (1995, 2004), p. 19.
^ Ewen MacAskill in Washington and Nicholas Watt (May 20, 2011). "Obama looks forward to rediscovering his Irish roots on European tour". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/may/20/obama-irish-roots-european-tour. Retrieved August 3, 2011. 
^ Mason, Jeff (May 23, 2011). "Obama visits family roots in Ireland". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/05/23/us-obama-ireland-idUSTRE74M09F20110523. Retrieved August 3, 2011. 
^ "Obama urged to create own tartan". BBC News. January 20, 2009. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/7838208.stm. Retrieved April 9, 2012. 
^ "Researchers: Obama has German roots". USA Today. June 4, 2009. http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2009-06-04-obama-roots_N.htm. Retrieved April 9, 2012. 
^ "Honorary citizenship papers sent to Obama". Swissinfo.ch. July 14, 2010. http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/swiss_news/Honorary_citizenship_papers_sent_to_Obama.html?cid=17963746. Retrieved April 9, 2012. 
^ a b Jones, Tim (March 27, 2007). "Barack Obama: Mother not just a girl from Kansas; Stanley Ann Dunham shaped a future senator". Chicago Tribune: p. 1 (Tempo). Archived from the original on February 21, 2009. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/obama/chi-0703270151mar27-archive,0,5853572,full.story. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
^ a b Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 9–10.
^ a b Ripley, Amanda (April 9, 2008). "The story of Barack Obama's mother". Time. http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1729524,00.html. Retrieved April 9, 2007. 
^ Ochieng, Philip (November 1, 2004). "From home squared to the US Senate: how Barack Obama was lost and found". The EastAfrican. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070927223905/http://www.nationmedia.com/EastAfrican/01112004/Features/PA2-11.html. Retrieved June 25, 2008. 

Merida, Kevin (December 14, 2007). "The ghost of a father". The Washington Post: p. A12. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/story/2007/12/13/ST2007121301893.html. Retrieved June 25, 2008. 


^ Karana, Kinanti Pinta (December 9, 2009). "Statue of a young Obama to watch over Indonesian capital". Jakarta Globe. http://thejakartaglobe.com/home/statue-of-us-president-barack-obama-to-be-unveiled-in-jakarta-park/346178. Retrieved December 8, 2009. 

Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 44–45.


^ Pickler, Nedra (January 24, 2007). "Obama debunks claim about Islamic school". The Washington Post. Associated Press. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/01/24/AR2007012400371_pf.html. Retrieved December 31, 2009. 

"Statue of boy Obama erected in Jakarta". Xinhua News Agency. December 10, 2009. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2009-12/10/content_12624443.htm. Retrieved December 31, 2009. 


^ Serafin, Peter (March 21, 2004). "Punahou grad stirs up Illinois politics". Honolulu Star-Bulletin. http://archives.starbulletin.com/2004/03/21/news/story4.html. Retrieved March 20, 2008. 

Scott, Janny (March 14, 2008). "A free-spirited wanderer who set Obama's path". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/14/us/politics/14obama.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved November 18, 2011. 
Obama (1995, 2004), Chapters 3 and 4.


^ Suryakusuma, Julia (November 29, 2006). "Obama for President... of Indonesia". The Jakarta Post. http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2006/11/29/obama-president-indonesia.html. Retrieved June 25, 2008. 
^ Serrano, Richard A. (March 11, 2007). "Obama's peers didn't see his angst". Los Angeles Times: p. A20. http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-na-obamahawaii11-2007mar11,0,199085,full.story. Retrieved March 13, 2007. 

Obama (1995, 2004), Chapters 4 and 5.


^ Reyes, B.J. (February 8, 2007). "Punahou left lasting impression on Obama". Honolulu Star-Bulletin. http://archives.starbulletin.com/2007/02/08/news/story02.html. Retrieved February 10, 2007. "As a teenager, Obama went to parties and sometimes sought out gatherings on military bases or at the University of Hawaii that were mostly attended by blacks." 
^ Elliott, Philip (November 21, 2007). "Obama gets blunt with N.H. students". The Boston Globe. Associated Press: p. 8A. http://articles.boston.com/2007-11-21/news/29233371_1_barack-obama-education-plan-campaign-trail. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 

Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 93–94.
for analysis of the political impact of the quote and Obama's more recent admission that he smoked marijuana as a teenager ("When I was a kid, I inhaled"), see:
Seelye, Katharine Q. (October 24, 2006). "Obama offers more variations from the norm". The New York Times: p. A21. http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9D07E2DB173FF937A15753C1A9609C8B63. Retrieved October 29, 2006. 
Romano, Lois (January 3, 2007). "Effect of Obama's candor remains to be seen". The Washington Post: p. A1. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/01/02/AR2007010201359.html. Retrieved January 14, 2007. 


^ Hornick, Ed (August 17, 2008). "Obama, McCain talk issues at pastor's forum". CNN. http://www.cnn.com/2008/POLITICS/08/16/warren.forum/. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
^ a b Gordon, Larry (January 29, 2007). "Occidental recalls 'Barry' Obama". Los Angeles Times: p. B1. http://articles.latimes.com/2007/jan/29/local/me-oxy29. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 

Possley, Maurice (March 30, 2007). "Activism blossomed in college". Chicago Tribune: p. 20. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/chi-0703291042mar30-archive,0,1533921.story. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Kovaleski, Serge F. (February 9, 2008). "Old friends say drugs played bit part in Obama's young life". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/09/us/politics/09obama.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Rohter, Larry (April 10, 2008). "Obama says real-life experience trumps rivals' foreign policy credits". The New York Times: p. A18. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/10/us/politics/10obama.html. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Goldman, Adam; Tanner, Robert (May 15, 2008). "Old friends recall Obama's years in LA, NYC". USA Today. Associated Press. http://www.usatoday.com/news/politics/2008-05-15-3144401415_x.htm. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Helman, Scott (August 25, 2008). "Small college awakened future senator to service". The Boston Globe: p. 1A. http://www.boston.com/news/politics/2008/articles/2008/08/25/small_college_awakened_future_senator_to_service/?page=full. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Jackson, Brooks (June 5, 2009). "More 'birther' nonsense: Obama's 1981 Pakistan trip". FactCheck.org. http://www.factcheck.org/2009/06/more-birther-nonsense-obamas-1981-pakistan-trip. Retrieved May 12, 2010. 
Remnick, David (2010). The Bridge: The Life and Rise of Barack Obama. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. pp. 98–112. ISBN 978-1-4000-4360-6. 
Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 92–112.
Mendell (2007), pp. 55–62.


^ Boss-Bicak, Shira (January 2005). "Barack Obama '83". Columbia College Today. ISSN 0572-7820. http://www.college.columbia.edu/cct_archive/jan05/cover.php. Retrieved October 1, 2006. 
^ Obama, Barack (1998). "Curriculum vitae". The University of Chicago Law School. Archived from the original on May 9, 2001. http://web.archive.org/web/20010509024017/http://www.law.uchicago.edu/faculty/obama/cv.html. Retrieved October 1, 2006. 

Issenberg, Sasha (August 6, 2008). "Obama shows hints of his year in global finance; Tied markets to social aid". The Boston Globe: p. 1A. http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2008/08/06/obama_shows_hints_of_his_year_in_global_finance/?page=1. Retrieved August 6, 2008. 


^ Scott, Janny (July 30, 2007). "Obama's account of New York often differs from what others say". The New York Times: p. B1. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/30/us/politics/30obama.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved July 31, 2007. 

Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 133–140.
Mendell (2007), pp. 62–63.


^ a b c d Chassie, Karen, ed. (2007). Who's Who in America, 2008. New Providence, NJ: Marquis Who's Who. p. 3468. ISBN 978-0-8379-7011-0. 
^ Lizza, Ryan (March 19, 2007). "The agitator: Barack Obama's unlikely political education". The New Republic 236 (12): 22–26, 28–29. ISSN 0028-6583. http://www.tnr.com/article/the-agitator-barack-obamas-unlikely-political-education. Retrieved August 21, 2007. 

Secter, Bob; McCormick, John (March 30, 2007). "Portrait of a pragmatist". Chicago Tribune: p. 1. Archived from the original on December 14, 2009. http://web.archive.org/web/20091214172131/http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/chi-0703300121mar30-archive,0,2491692,full.story. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 140–295.
Mendell (2007), pp. 63–83.


^ a b c Matchan, Linda (February 15, 1990). "A Law Review breakthrough". The Boston Globe: p. 29. http://www.boston.com/news/politics/2008/articles/1990/02/15/a_law_review_breakthrough. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 

Corr, John (February 27, 1990). "From mean streets to hallowed halls" (paid archive). The Philadelphia Inquirer: p. C01. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_multi=PI%7CDN%7C&p_product=PHNP&p_theme=phnp&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_trackval=PHNP&s_dispstring=Author%28John%20Corr%29%20AND%20date%2802/27/1990%20to%2002/27/1990%29%20AND%20date%28all%29&p_field_advanced-0=Author&p_text_advanced-0=%28John%20Corr%29&p_bool_advanced-1=AND&p_params_advanced-1=date:B,E&p_field_advanced-1=YMD_date&p_text_advanced-1=%2802/27/1990%20to%2002/27/1990%29&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 6, 2008. 


^ Obama, Barack (August–September 1988). "Why organize? Problems and promise in the inner city". Illinois Issues 14 (8–9): 40–42. ISSN 0738-9663.  reprinted in:
Knoepfle, Peg, ed. (1990). After Alinsky: community organizing in Illinois. Springfield, IL: Sangamon State University. pp. 35–40. ISBN 0-9620873-3-5. "He has also been a consultant and instructor for the Gamaliel Foundation, an organizing institute working throughout the Midwest." 
^ Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 299–437.
^ Gnecchi, Nico (February 27, 2006). "Obama receives hero's welcome at his family's ancestral village in Kenya". Voice of America. Archived from the original on March 21, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080321161040/http://www.voanews.com/english/archive/2006-08/2006-08-27-voa17.cfm. Retrieved June 25, 2008. 
^ a b Levenson, Michael; Saltzman, Jonathan (January 28, 2007). "At Harvard Law, a unifying voice". The Boston Globe: p. 1A. http://www.boston.com/news/local/articles/2007/01/28/at_harvard_law_a_unifying_voice/?page=full. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 

Kantor, Jodi (January 28, 2007). "In law school, Obama found political voice". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/28/us/politics/28obama.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Mundy, Liza (August 12, 2007). "A series of fortunate events". The Washington Post: p. W10. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/08/08/AR2007080802038_pf.html. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Mendell (2007), pp. 80–92.


^ a b Butterfield, Fox (February 6, 1990). "First black elected to head Harvard's Law Review". The New York Times: p. A20. http://www.nytimes.com/1990/02/06/us/first-black-elected-to-head-harvard-s-law-review.html. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 

Ybarra, Michael J (February 7, 1990). "Activist in Chicago now heads Harvard Law Review". Chicago Tribune: p. 3. http://articles.chicagotribune.com/1990-02-07/news/9001110408_1_ann-dunham-chicago-housing-authority-barack-obama. Retrieved October 29, 2011. 
Drummond, Tammerlin (March 12, 1990). "Barack Obama's law; Harvard Law Review's first black president plans a life of public service" (paid archive). Los Angeles Times: p. E1. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/latimes/access/60017156.html?dids=60017156:60017156&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Evans, Gaynelle (March 15, 1990). "Opening another door: The saga of Harvard's Barack H. Obama". Black Issues in Higher Education 7 (1): 5. ISSN 0742-0277. http://diverseeducation.com/article/11791/. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
Pugh, Allison J. (April 18, 1990). "Law Review's first black president aims to help poor". The Miami Herald. Associated Press: p. C01. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_multi=MH%7C&p_product=MH&p_theme=realcities2&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_site=miami&s_trackval=MH&s_search_type=keyword&s_dispstring=Law%20Review%27s%20first%20black%20president%20aims%20to%20help%20poor%20AND%20date%28all%29&p_field_advanced-0=&p_text_advanced-0=%28Law%20Review%27s%20first%20black%20president%20aims%20to%20help%20poor%29&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 


^ Aguilar, Louis (July 11, 1990). "Survey: Law firms slow to add minority partners". Chicago Tribune: p. 1 (Business). http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/28774085.html?dids=28774085:28774085&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
^ Adams, Richard (May 9, 2007). "Barack Obama". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2007/may/09/barackobama.uselections20081. Retrieved October 26, 2008. 

Barack Obama at Encyclopædia Britannica


^ a b c Scott, Janny (May 18, 2008). "The story of Obama, written by Obama". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/18/us/politics/18memoirs.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 

Obama (1995, 2004), pp. xiii–xvii.


^ Merriner, James L. (June 2008). "The friends of O". Chicago 57 (6): 74–79, 97–99. ISSN 0362-4595. http://www.chicagomag.com/Chicago-Magazine/June-2008/Obamas-Chicago-Posse/The-Friends-of-O/index.php?cp=2&si=1. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 

Zengerle, Jason (July 30, 2008). "Con law; What the University of Chicago right thinks of Obama". The New Republic 239 (1): 7–8. ISSN 0028-6583. http://www.tnr.com/article/con-law?id=86dd0277-c6ee-4e3c-83e9-0bb468c5c40d&p=1. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 
Kantor, Jodi (July 30, 2008). "Teaching law, testing ideas, Obama stood slightly apart". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/30/us/politics/30law.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 
Gray, Steven (September 10, 2008). "Taking professor Obama's class". Time. http://www.time.com/time/politics/article/0,8599,1835238-2,00.html. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 
Starr, Alexandra (September 21, 2008). "Case study". The New York Times Magazine: p. 76. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/21/magazine/21obama-t.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 
Hundley, Tom (March 22, 2009). "Ivory tower of power". Chicago Tribune Magazine: p. 6. http://www.chicagotribune.com/features/chi-mxa0322magazineobamapg6mar22,0,4802888,full.story. Retrieved January 30, 2010. 


^ "Statement regarding Barack Obama". University of Chicago Law School. March 27, 2008. http://www.law.uchicago.edu/media/index.html. Retrieved June 5, 2008. 

Miller, Joe (March 28, 2008). "Was Barack Obama really a constitutional law professor?". FactCheck.org. http://factcheck.org/2008/03/obama-a-constitutional-law-professor/. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
Holan, Angie Drobnic (March 7, 2008). "Obama's 20 years of experience". PolitiFact.com. http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2008/mar/07/obamas-20-years-experience. Retrieved June 10, 2008. 


^ White, Jesse, ed. (2000). Illinois Blue Book, 2000, Millennium ed.. Springfield, IL: Illinois Secretary of State. p. 83. OCLC 43923973. Archived from the original on April 16, 2004. http://web.archive.org/web/20040416120057/www.sos.state.il.us/bb/sec4_71_132.pdf. Retrieved June 6, 2008. 

Jarrett, Vernon (August 11, 1992). "'Project Vote' brings power to the people" (paid archive). Chicago Sun-Times: p. 23. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=CSTB&p_theme=cstb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_dispstring=(Vernon%20Jarrett)%20AND%20date(8/11/1992%20to%208/11/1992)&p_field_date-0=YMD_date&p_params_date-0=date:B,E&p_text_date-0=8/11/1992%20to%208/11/1992)&p_field_advanced-0=&p_text_advanced-0=(Vernon%20Jarrett)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 6, 2008. 
Reynolds, Gretchen (January 1993). "Vote of confidence". Chicago 42 (1): 53–54. ISSN 0362-4595. http://www.chicagomag.com/Chicago-Magazine/January-1993/Vote-of-Confidence. Retrieved June 6, 2008. 
Anderson, Veronica (September 27 – October 3 1993). "40 under Forty: Barack Obama, Director, Illinois Project Vote". Crain's Chicago Business 16 (39): 43. ISSN 0149-6956. 


^ Robinson, Mike (February 20, 2007). "Obama got start in civil rights practice". The Boston Globe. Associated Press. http://www.boston.com/news/education/higher/articles/2007/02/20/obama_got_start_in_civil_rights_practice. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 

Pallasch, Abdon M. (December 17, 2007). "As lawyer, Obama was strong, silent type; He was 'smart, innovative, relentless,' and he mostly let other lawyers do the talking" (paid archive). Chicago Sun-Times: p. 4. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=CSTB&p_theme=cstb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_dispstring=(Pallasch)_AND_date(12/17/2007_to_12/17/2007)&p_field_date-0=YMD_date&p_params_date-0=date:B,E&p_text_date-0=December_17,_2007_to_12/17/2007)&p_field_advanced-0=&p_text_advanced-0=(Pallasch)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Morain, Dan (April 6, 2008). "Obama's law days effective but brief". Los Angeles Times: p. A14. http://articles.latimes.com/2008/apr/06/nation/na-obamalegal6. Retrieved February 14, 2010. 
"People" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 9 (Business). June 27, 1993. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/24302659.html?dids=24302659:24302659&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
"Business appointments" (paid archive). Chicago-Sun-Times: p. 40. July 5, 1993. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=CSTB&p_theme=cstb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_dispstring=(Business%20appointments)%20AND%20date(7/5/1993%20to%207/5/1993)&p_field_date-0=YMD_date&p_params_date-0=date:B,E&p_text_date-0=7/5/1993%20to%207/5/1993)&p_field_advanced-0=&p_text_advanced-0=(Business%20appointments)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Ripley, Amanda (November 3, 2004). "Obama's ascent". Time. http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,750742,00.html. Retrieved February 13, 2010. 
"About us". Miner, Barnhill & Galland – Chicago, Illinois. 2008. http://www.lawmbg.com/index.cfm/PageID/2711. Retrieved June 15, 2008. 
Reardon, Patrick T. (June 25, 2008). "Obama's Chicago". Chicago Tribune: p. 1 (Tempo). http://www.chicagotribune.com/travel/chi-obama-chicago-htmlstory,0,506256.htmlstory. Retrieved February 13, 2010. 
Obama (1995, 2004), pp. 438–439.
Mendell (2007), pp. 104–106.


^ Jackson, David; Ray Long (April 3, 2007). "Obama Knows His Way Around a Ballot". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 11, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081011054057/http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/obama/chi-070403obama-ballot-archive,0,5693903.story. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 

White, Jesse (2001). "Legislative Districts of Cook County, 1991 Reapportionment". Illinois Blue Book 2001–2002. Springfield: Illinois Secretary of State. p. 65. http://web.archive.org/web/20080226221919/http://www.sos.state.il.us/publications/02bluebook/legislative_branch/legdistrictmaps.pdf. Retrieved July 16, 2011.  State Sen. District 13 = State Rep. Districts 25 & 26.


^ Slevin, Peter (February 9, 2007). "Obama Forged Political Mettle in Illinois Capitol". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/02/08/AR2007020802262.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. Helman, Scott (September 23, 2007). "In Illinois, Obama dealt with Lobbyists". The Boston Globe. http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2007/09/23/in_illinois_obama_dealt_with_lobbyists/. Retrieved April 20, 2008.  See also:"Obama Record May Be Gold Mine for Critics". CBS News. Associated Press. January 17, 2007. http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2007/01/17/politics/main2369157.shtml. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
^ a b Scott, Janny (July 30, 2007). "In Illinois, Obama Proved Pragmatic and Shrewd". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/30/us/politics/30obama.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
^ Allison, Melissa (December 15, 2000). "State takes on predatory lending; Rules would halt single-premium life insurance financing" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 1 (Business). http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/65214450.html?dids=65214450:65214450&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 1, 2008. Long, Ray; Allison, Melissa (April 18, 2001). "Illinois OKs predatory loan curbs; State aims to avert home foreclosures." (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 1. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/71459393.html?dids=71459393:71459393&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 1, 2008. 
^ "13th District: Barack Obama". Illinois State Senate Democrats. August 24, 2000. Archived from the original on April 12, 2000. http://web.archive.org/web/20000824102110/http://www.senatedem.state.il.us/obama/index.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. "13th District: Barack Obama". Illinois State Senate Democrats. October 9, 2004. Archived from the original on August 2, 2004. http://web.archive.org/web/20040802233730/http://www.senatedem.state.il.us/obama/index.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
^ "Federal Elections 2000: U.S. House Results – Illinois". Federal Election Commission. http://www.fec.gov/pubrec/fe2000/ilh.htm. Retrieved April 24, 2008. 

Gonyea, Dan (September 19, 2007). "Obama's Loss May Have Aided White House Bid". http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=14502364. Retrieved January 30, 2011. 
Scott, Janny (September 9, 2007). "A Streetwise Veteran Schooled Young Obama". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/09/us/politics/09obama.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
McClelland, Edward (February 12, 2007). "How Obama Learned to Be a Natural". Salon. http://www.salon.com/news/feature/2007/02/12/obama_natural/. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
Wolffe, Richard; Daren Briscoe (July 16, 2007). "Across the Divide". Newsweek. http://www.newsweek.com/id/33156. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
Helman, Scott (October 12, 2007). "Early Defeat Launched a Rapid Political Climb". The Boston Globe. http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2007/10/12/early_defeat_launched_a_rapid_political_climb/. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
Wills, Christopher (October 24, 2007). "Obama learned from failed Congress run". USA Today. http://www.usatoday.com/news/politics/2007-10-24-3157940059_x.htm. Retrieved November 15, 2010. 


^ Calmes, Jackie (February 23, 2007). "Statehouse Yields Clues to Obama". Wall Street Journal. http://online.wsj.com/public/article/SB117219748197216894-Sn6oV_4KLQHp_xz7CjYLuyjv3Jg_20070324.html. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
^ Tavella, Anne Marie (April 14, 2003). "Profiling, taping plans pass Senate" (paid archive). Daily Herald: p. 17. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=ADHB&p_theme=adhb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&p_text_search-0=Profiling,%20AND%20taping%20AND%20plans%20AND%20pass%20AND%20Senate&s_dispstring=Profiling,%20taping%20plans%20pass%20Senate%20AND%20date(April_4,_2003%20to%204/4/2003)&p_field_date-0=YMD_date&p_params_date-0=date:B,E&p_text_date-0=4_April_2003%20to%204/4/2003)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved June 1, 2008. Haynes, V. Dion (June 29, 2003). "Fight racial profiling at local level, lawmaker says; U.S. guidelines get mixed review" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 8. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/352884461.html?dids=352884461:352884461&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 1, 2008. Pearson, Rick (July 17, 2003). "Taped confessions to be law; State will be 1st to pass legislation" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 1 (Metro). http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/370136121.html?dids=370136121:370136121&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved June 1, 2008. 
^ Youngman, Sam; Aaron Blake (March 14, 2007). "Obama's Crime Votes Are Fodder for Rivals". The Hill. http://thehill.com/homenews/news/11316-obamas-crime-votes-are-fodder-for-rivals. Retrieved May 18, 2012.  See also:"US Presidential Candidate Obama Cites Work on State Death Penalty Reforms". International Herald Tribune. Associated Press. November 12, 2007. Archived from the original on June 7, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080607111231/http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2007/11/12/america/NA-POL-US-Obama-Death-Penalty.php. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
^ Coffee, Melanie (November 6, 2004). "Attorney Chosen to Fill Obama's State Senate Seat". Associated Press. HPKCC. http://www.hydepark.org/hpkccnews/raoul.htm#ap. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
^ Helman, Scott (October 12, 2007). "Early defeat launched a rapid political climb". The Boston Globe: p. 1A. http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2007/10/12/early_defeat_launched_a_rapid_political_climb. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 
^ Strausberg, Chinta (September 26, 2002). "Opposition to war mounts" (paid archive). Chicago Defender: p. 1. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P3-220062931.html. Retrieved February 3, 2008. 
^ Office of the Press Secretary (October 2, 2002). "President, House leadership agree on Iraq resolution". The White House. http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/news/releases/2002/10/20021002-7.html. Retrieved February 18, 2008. 

Tackett, Michael (October 3, 2002). "Bush, House OK Iraq deal; Congress marches with Bush" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 1. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/203569641.html?dids=203569641:203569641&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved February 3, 2008. 


^ Glauber, Bill (October 3, 2003). "War protesters gentler, but passion still burns" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 1. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/203569621.html?dids=203569621:203569621&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved February 3, 2008. 

Strausberg, Chinta (October 3, 2002). "War with Iraq undermines U.N". Chicago Defender: p. 1. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P3-220379051.html. Retrieved October 28, 2008. "Photo caption: Left Photo: Sen. Barack Obama along with Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke to nearly 3,000 anti-war protestors (below) during a rally at Federal Plaza Wednesday." 
Katz, Marilyn (October 2, 2007). "Five years since our first action". Chicagoans Against War & Injustice. Archived from the original on July 21, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110721192331/http://www.noiraqwar-chicago.org/?p=127. Retrieved February 18, 2008. 
Bryant, Greg; Vaughn, Jane B. (October 3, 2002). "300 attend rally against Iraq war" (paid archive). Daily Herald (Arlington Heights): p. 8. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=ADHB&p_theme=adhb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&p_text_search-0=300%20AND%20attend%20AND%20rally%20AND%20against%20AND%20Iraq%20AND%20war&s_dispstring=300%20attend%20rally%20against%20Iraq%20war%20AND%20date(10/3/2002%20to%2010/3/2002)&p_field_date-0=YMD_date&p_params_date-0=date:B,E&p_text_date-0=10/3/2002%20to%2010/3/2002)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved October 28, 2008. 
Mendell (2007), pp. 172–177.


^ Obama, Barack (October 2, 2002). "Remarks of Illinois State Sen. Barack Obama against going to war with Iraq". BarackObama.com. Archived from the original on January 30, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080130204029/http://www.barackobama.com/2002/10/02/remarks_of_illinois_state_sen.php. Retrieved February 3, 2008. 

McCormick, John (October 3, 2007). "Obama marks '02 war speech; Contender highlights his early opposition in effort to distinguish him from his rivals" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune: p. 7. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/1351610621.html?dids=1351610621:1351610621&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved October 28, 2008. "The top strategist for Sen. Barack Obama has just 14 seconds of video of what is one of the most pivotal moments of the presidential candidate's political career. The video, obtained from a Chicago TV station, is of Obama's 2002 speech in opposition to the impending Iraq invasion." 
Pallasch, Abdon M. (October 3, 2007). "Obama touts anti-war cred; Kicks off tour 5 years after speech critical of going to Iraq" (paid archive). Chicago Sun-Times: p. 26. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=CSTB&p_theme=cstb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_dispstring=headline(Obama%20touts%20anti-war%20cred)%20AND%20date(all)&p_field_advanced-0=title&p_text_advanced-0=(Obama%20touts%20anti-war%20cred)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved October 28, 2008. 


^ Ritter, Jim (March 17, 2003). "Anti-war rally here draws thousands" (paid archive). Chicago Sun-Times: p. 3. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=CSTB&p_theme=cstb&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&s_dispstring=headline(Anti-war%20rally%20here%20draws%20thousands)%20AND%20date(all)&p_field_advanced-0=title&p_text_advanced-0=(Anti-war%20rally%20here%20draws%20thousands)&xcal_numdocs=20&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&xcal_useweights=no. Retrieved February 3, 2008. 

Office of the Press Secretary (March 16, 2003). "President Bush: Monday 'moment of truth' for world on Iraq". The White House. http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/news/releases/2003/03/20030316-3.html. Retrieved February 18, 2008. 


^ Davey, Monica (March 7, 2004). "Closely watched Illinois Senate race attracts 7 candidates in millionaire range". The New York Times: p. 19. Archived from the original on May 14, 2006. http://web.archive.org/web/20060514152430/http://www.nytimes.com/2004/03/07/politics/campaign/07ILLI.html. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 
^ Mendell, David (March 17, 2004). "Obama routs Democratic foes; Ryan tops crowded GOP field; Hynes, Hull fall far short across state". Chicago Tribune: p. 1. http://www.chicagotribune.com/technology/chi-0403170332mar17,0,6048572.story. Retrieved March 1, 2009. 

Davey, Monica (March 18, 2004). "As quickly as overnight, a Democratic star is born". The New York Times: p. A20. http://www.nytimes.com/2004/03/18/us/as-quickly-as-overnight-a-democratic-star-is-born.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved March 1, 2009. 
Howlett, Debbie (March 19, 2004). "Dems see a rising star in Illinois Senate candidate". USA Today: p. A04. http://www.usatoday.com/news/politicselections/nation/2004-03-18-obama-usat_x.htm. Retrieved March 1, 2009. 
Scheiber, Noam (May 31, 2004). "Race against history. Barack Obama's miraculous campaign". The New Republic 230 (20): 21–22, 24–26 (cover story). http://www.tnr.com/article/race-against-history-0. Retrieved March 24, 2009. 
Finnegan, William (May 31, 2004). "The Candidate. How far can Barack Obama go?". The New Yorker 20 (14): 32–38. http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2004/05/31/040531fa_fact1?currentPage=all. Retrieved March 24, 2009. 
Dionne Jr., E.J. (June 25, 2004). "In Illinois, a star prepares". The Washington Post: p. A29. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A4062-2004Jun24.html. Retrieved March 24, 2009. 
Scott, Janny (May 18, 2008). "The story of Obama, written by Obama". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/18/us/politics/18memoirs.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved January 9, 2010. 
Mendell (2007), pp. 235–259.


^ Bernstein, David (June 2007). "The Speech". Chicago Magazine. http://www.chicagomag.com/Chicago-Magazine/June-2007/The-Speech. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 
^ "Star Power. Showtime: Some are on the rise; others have long been fixtures in the firmament. A galaxy of bright Democratic lights". Newsweek: pp. 48–51. August 2, 2004. http://www.newsweek.com/id/54728/output/print. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 

Samuel, Terence (August 2, 2004). "A shining star named Obama. How a most unlikely politician became a darling of the Democrats". U.S. News & World Report: p. 25. http://www.usnews.com/usnews/news/articles/040802/2obama.htm. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Lizza, Ryan (September 2004). "Why is Barack Obama generating more excitement among Democrats than John Kerry?". The Atlantic Monthly: pp. 30, 33. http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200409/lizza. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Davey, Monica (July 26, 2004). "A surprise Senate contender reaches his biggest stage yet". The New York Times: p. A1. http://www.nytimes.com/2004/07/26/us/the-speaker-a-surprise-senate-contender-reaches-his-biggest-stage-yet.html. Retrieved November 25, 2010. 
Leibovich, Mark (July 27, 2004). "The other man of the hour". The Washington Post: p. C1. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A16606-2004Jul26.html. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Milligan, Susan (July 27, 2004). "In Obama, Democrats see their future". The Boston Globe: p. B8. http://www.boston.com/news/local/articles/2004/07/27/in_obama_democrats_see_their_future/. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Seelye, Katharine Q. (July 28, 2004). "Illinois Senate nominee speaks of encompassing unity". The New York Times: p. A1. Archived from the original on June 24, 2006. http://web.archive.org/web/20060624052131/http://www.nytimes.com/2004/07/28/politics/campaign/28blacks.html. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Broder, David S. (July 28, 2004). "Democrats focus on healing divisions; Addressing convention, newcomers set themes". The Washington Post: p. A1. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A17865-2004Jul27.html. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Bing, Jonathan; McClintock, Pamela (July 29, 2004). "Auds resist charms of Dem stars". Daily Variety: p. 1. http://www.variety.com/article/VR1117908388.html?categoryid=1077&cs=1. Retrieved November 15, 2008. 
Mendell (2007), pp. 272–285.


^ "Ryan drops out of Senate race in Illinois". CNN. June 25, 2004. http://www.cnn.com/2004/ALLPOLITICS/06/25/il.ryan/. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 

Mendell (2007), pp. 260–271.


^ Lannan, Maura Kelly (August 9, 2004). "Alan Keyes enters U.S. Senate race in Illinois against rising Democratic star". Union-Tribune. Associated Press (San Diego). http://legacy.signonsandiego.com/news/politics/20040809-0849-illinoissenate.html. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 
^ "America Votes 2004: U.S. Senate / Illinois". CNN. 2005. http://www.cnn.com/ELECTION/2004/pages/results/states/IL/S/01/index.html. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 

Slevin, Peter (November 13, 2007). "For Obama, a handsome payoff in political gambles". The Washington Post: p. A3. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/11/12/AR2007111201945.html. Retrieved April 13, 2008. 
Chase, John; Mendell, David (November 3, 2004). "Obama scores a record landslide". Chicago Tribune: p. 1. http://www.noticiasdot.com/publicaciones/2004/1104/0311/noticias031104/presidenciales-usa/images/usa/chicago_tribune/chicago_tribune_031104.pdf. Retrieved April 3, 2009. 
Fornek, Scott (November 3, 2004). "Obama takes Senate seat in a landslide". Chicago Sun-Times: p. 6. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P2-1553596.html. Retrieved April 3, 2009. 


^ Barack Obama at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Retrieved October 12, 2011
^ "Member Info". Congressional Black Caucus. Archived from the original on July 9, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080709114659/http://www.house.gov/kilpatrick/cbc/member_info.html. Retrieved June 25, 2008. 
^ Mason, Jeff (November 16, 2008). "Obama resigns Senate seat, thanks Illinois". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/politicsNews/idUSTRE4AF1MJ20081116. Retrieved March 10, 2009. 

Sidoti, Liz (November 13, 2008). "Obama to Resign Senate Seat on Sunday". Time (Time Inc.). http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1859020,00.html. Retrieved November 22, 2008. 


^ U.S. Senate, 109th Congress, 1st Session (May 12, 2005). "S. 1033, Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act". Thomas. http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:SN01033:. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Lugar–Obama Nonproliferation Legislation Signed into Law by the President". Richard Lugar U.S. Senate Office. January 11, 2007. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218154746/http://obama.senate.gov/press/070111-lugar-obama_non/. Retrieved April 27, 2008.  See also:Lugar, Richard G.; Barack Obama (December 3, 2005). "Junkyard Dogs of War". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/12/02/AR2005120201509.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ McCormack, John (December 21, 2007). "Google Government Gone Viral". Weekly Standard. http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/014/502njiqx.asp. Retrieved April 27, 2008.  See also:"President Bush Signs Coburn–Obama Transparency Act". Tom Coburn U.S. Senate Office. September 26, 2006. Archived from the original on May 1, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080501233103/http://coburn.senate.gov/ffm/index.cfm?FuseAction=LegislativeFloorAction.Home&ContentRecord_id=eb582f19-802a-23ad-41db-7a7cb464cfdb. Retrieved April 27, 2008.  and USAspending.gov
^ "S. 3077: Strengthening Transparency and Accountability in Federal Spending Act of 2008: 2007–2008 (110th Congress)". Govtrack.us. June 3, 2008. http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/110/s3077. Retrieved May 18, 2012. 
^ McIntire, Mike (February 3, 2008). "Nuclear Leaks and Response Tested Obama in Senate". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/03/us/politics/03exelon.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Fisher, Daniel (August 11, 2008). "November Election A Lawyer's Delight". Forbes. http://www.forbes.com/2008/08/08/obama-mccain-torts-biz-beltway-cz_df_0811torts.html. Retrieved January 11, 2009. 
^ "Nunn–Lugar Report" (PDF). Richard Lugar U.S. Senate Office. August 2005. Archived from the original on May 1, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080501002134/http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/pdf/trip_report_2005.pdf. Retrieved April 30, 2008. 
^ "Democratic Republic of the Congo". United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. April 2006. Archived from the original on January 8, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110108193726/http://www.usccb.org/sdwp/international/drc0406.shtml. Retrieved January 26, 2012. "The IRC Welcomes New U.S. Law on Congo". International Rescue Committee. January 5, 2007. http://www.theirc.org/news/the-irc-welcomes-new-us-law.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Weixel, Nathaniel (November 15, 2007). "Feingold, Obama Go After Corporate Jet Travel". The Hill. http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/feingold-obama-go-after-corporate-jet-travel-2007-11-15.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. Weixel, Nathaniel (December 5, 2007). "Lawmakers Press FEC on Bundling Regulation". The Hill. http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/lawmakers-press-fec-on-bundling-regulation-2007-12-05.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008.  See also:"Federal Election Commission Announces Plans to Issue New Regulations to Implement the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007". Federal Election Commission. September 24, 2007. http://www.fec.gov/press/press2007/20070924travel.shtml. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Stern, Seth (January 31, 2007). "Obama–Schumer Bill Proposal Would Criminalize Voter Intimidation". CQPolitics.com. http://www.nytimes.com/cq/2007/01/31/cq_2213.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. U.S. Senate, 110th Congress, 1st Session (January 31, 2007). "S. 453, Deceptive Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act of 2007". Thomas. http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d110:SN00453:. Retrieved April 27, 2008.  See also:"Honesty in Elections" (editorial). The New York Times. January 31, 2007. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/31/opinion/31wed1.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Krystin, E. Kasak (February 7, 2007). "Obama Introduces Measure to Bring Troops Home". Medill News Service. http://www.nwitimes.com/news/local/article_c7147a5d-31bc-5497-abdd-a99c0cd6c189.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Obama, Bond Hail New Safeguards on Military Personality Disorder Discharges, Urge Further Action". Kit Bond U.S. Senate Office. October 1, 2007. Archived from the original on December 5, 2010. http://web.archive.org/web/20101205075008/http://bond.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressRoom.NewsReleases&ContentRecord_id=5C1EBFEB-1321-0E36-BA7D-04630AEFAD31. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Obama, Bond Applaud Senate Passage of Amendment to Expedite the Review of Personality Disorder Discharge Cases". March 14, 2008. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218154824/http://obama.senate.gov/press/080314-obama_bond_appl/. 
^ "Obama, Schiff Provision to Create Nuclear Threat Reduction Plan Approved". Barack Obama U.S. Senate Office. December 20, 2007. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218154751/http://obama.senate.gov/press/071220-obama_schiff_pr/. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Senate Passes Obama, McCaskill Legislation to Provide Safety Net for Families of Wounded Service Members". Barack Obama U.S. Senate Office. August 2, 2007. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218154819/http://obama.senate.gov/press/070802-senate_passes_o_1/. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Committee Assignments". Barack Obama U.S. Senate Office. December 9, 2006. Archived from the original on December 9, 2006. http://web.archive.org/web/20061209190827/obama.senate.gov/committees/. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ "Obama Gets New Committee Assignments". Associated Press. Barack Obama U.S. Senate Office. November 15, 2006. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218154741/http://obama.senate.gov/news/061115-obama_gets_new/. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Baldwin, Tom (December 21, 2007). "Stay-At-Home Barack Obama Comes Under Fire for a Lack of Foreign Experience". Sunday Times (UK). http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article3080794.ece. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
^ Larson, Christina (September 2006). "Hoosier Daddy: What Rising Democratic Star Barack Obama Can Learn from an Old Lion of the GOP". Washington Monthly. http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2006/0609.larson.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 

Goudie, Chuck (January 12, 2006). "Obama Meets with Arafat's Successor". WLS-TV. http://abclocal.go.com/wls/story?section=news/local&id=3806933. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
"Obama Slates Kenya for Fraud". News24.com. August 28, 2006. Archived from the original on June 5, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080605213213/http://www.news24.com/News24/Africa/News/0,,2-11-1447_1989646,00.html. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
Wamalwa, Chris (September 2, 2006). "Envoy Hits at Obama Over Graft Remark". The Standard (Nairobi). Archived from the original on October 10, 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20071010050740/http://www.eastandard.net/archives/cl/hm_news/news.php?articleid=1143957666. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 
Moracha, Vincent; Mangoa Mosota (September 4, 2006). "Leaders Support Obama on Graft Claims". The Standard (Nairobi). Archived from the original on October 7, 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20071007115436/http://www.eastandard.net/archives/cl/hm_news/news.php?articleid=1143957752. Retrieved April 27, 2008. 


^ a b Pearson, Rick; Long, Ray (February 10, 2007). "Obama: I'm running for president". Chicago Tribune. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/chi-070210obama-pearson1-story,0,3768114.story. Retrieved September 20, 2008. 
^ "Obama Launches Presidential Bid". BBC News. February 10, 2007. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/6349081.stm. Retrieved January 14, 2008. 
^ Parsons, Christi (February 10, 2007). "Obama's launch site: Symbolic Springfield: Announcement venue evokes Lincoln legacy". Chicago Tribune. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-159132539.html. Retrieved June 12, 2009. 
^ "Barack Obama on the Issues: What Would Be Your Top Three Overall Priorities If Elected?". The Washington Post. http://projects.washingtonpost.com/2008-presidential-candidates/issues/candidates/barack-obama/#top-priorities. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  See also:

Thomas, Evan (2009). A Long Time Coming. New York: PublicAffairs. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-58648-607-5. 
Falcone, Michael (December 21, 2007). "Obama's 'One Thing'". The New York Times. http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2007/12/21/obamas-one-thing/. Retrieved April 14, 2008. 


^ "The Obama promise of hope and change". The Independent (London). November 1, 2008. Archived from the original on May 15, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110515091856/http://www.independent.co.uk/opinion/leading-articles/leading-article-the-obama-promise-of-hope-and-change-981761.html. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Tumulty, Karen (May 8, 2008). "The Five Mistakes Clinton Made". Time. http://www.time.com/time/politics/article/0,8599,1738331,00.html. Retrieved November 11, 2008. 

Baker, Peter and Rutenberg, Jim (June 8, 2008). "The Long Road to a Clinton Exit". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/08/us/politics/08recon.html. Retrieved November 29, 2008. 


^ Nagourney, Adam; Zeleny, Jeff (June 5, 2008). "Clinton to End Bid and Endorse Obama". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/05/us/politics/04cnd-campaign.html. Retrieved November 20, 2010. 
^ Nagourney, Adam; Zeleny, Jeff (August 23, 2008). "Obama Chooses Biden as Running Mate". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/24/us/politics/24biden.html. Retrieved September 20, 2008. 
^ "Sources: High court selection process down to finalists". CNN. May 13, 2009. http://articles.cnn.com/2008-08-21/politics/obama.vice.president_1_obama-selection-process-joe-biden?_s=PM:POLITICS. 
^ Tom Baldwin (August 27, 2008). "Hillary Clinton: 'Barack is my candidate'". The Times (London). http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/us_elections/article4616719.ece. Retrieved August 27, 2008. 

Nagourney, Adam (August 27, 2008). "Obama Wins Nomination as Biden and Bill Clinton Rally the Party". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/28/us/politics/28DEMSDAY.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved August 27, 2008. 


^ Liasson, Mara; Norris, Michele (July 7, 2008). "Obama To Accept Nomination At Mile High Stadium". NPR. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=92301409. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ "Obama accepts Democrat nomination". BBC News. August 29, 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7586375.stm. Retrieved August 29, 2008. 

Marks, Alexandra (August 29, 2008). "Soaring speech from Obama, plus some specifics". The Christian Science Monitor. Archived from the original on March 14, 2010. http://web.archive.org/web/20100314121702/http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2008/0829/soaring-speech-from-obama-plus-some-specifics. Retrieved September 20, 2008. 


^ Malone, Jim (July 2, 2007). "Obama Fundraising Suggests Close Race for Party Nomination". Voice of America. Archived from the original on September 14, 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070914032004/http://voanews.com/english/archive/2007-07/2007-07-02-voa52.cfm. Retrieved January 14, 2008. 

Cummings, Jeanne (September 26, 2007). "Small Donors Rewrite Fundraising Handbook". Politico. http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=3ECB3515-3048-5C12-004D622CB6F4E214. Retrieved January 14, 2008. 
Cadei, Emily (February 21, 2008). "Obama Outshines Other Candidates in January Fundraising". CQ Politics. Archived from the original on June 13, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080613213513/http://www.cqpolitics.com/wmspage.cfm?docID=news-000002674309. Retrieved February 24, 2008. 


^ Salant, Jonathan D. (June 19, 2008). "Obama Won't Accept Public Money in Election Campaign". Bloomberg. http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601070&sid=aNi.G0PhWnFw. Retrieved June 19, 2008. 
^ "Commission on Presidential Debates Announces Sites, Dates, Formats and Candidate Selection Criteria for 2008 General Election". Commission on Presidential Debates. November 19, 2007. Archived from the original on July 6, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080706070658/http://www.debates.org/pages/news_111907.html. Retrieved July 6, 2008. 

"Gun Ruling Reverberates". Hartford Courant. June 27, 2008. http://www.courant.com/topic/. Retrieved July 6, 2008. 


^ Johnson, Alex (November 4, 2008). "Barack Obama elected 44th president". MSNBC. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/27531033/. Retrieved February 20, 2009. 

"CNN Electoral Map Calculator—Election Center 2008". CNN. 2008. http://www.cnn.com/ELECTION/2008/results/president/. Retrieved December 14, 2008. 


^ "General Election: McCain vs. Obama". Real Clear Politics. http://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2008/president/us/general_election_mccain_vs_obama-225.html. Retrieved February 20, 2009. 
^ "Obama wins historic US election". BBC. November 5, 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/us_elections_2008/7709978.stm. Retrieved November 5, 2008. 

Nagourney, Adam (November 4, 2008). "Obama Elected President as Racial Barrier Falls". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/05/us/politics/05elect.html?pagewanted=all. Retrieved November 5, 2008. 
"Obama: 'This is your victory'". CNN. November 5, 2008. http://www.cnn.com/2008/POLITICS/11/04/election.president/index.html. Retrieved November 5, 2008. 


^ Johnson, Wesley (November 5, 2008). "Change has come, says President-elect Obama". The Independent (UK). http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/change-has-come-says-presidentelect-obama-992930.html. Retrieved November 5, 2008. 
^ Shear, Michael D. (April 4, 2011), "Obama Begins Re-Election Facing New Political Challenges", The New York Times, http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/04/04/obama-launches-re-election-facing-new-political-challenges/, retrieved April 5, 2011. 
^ "Obama announces re-election bid", United Press International, April 4, 2011, http://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2011/04/04/Obama-announces-re-election-bid/UPI-95081301905800/?dailybrief, retrieved April 5, 2011. 
^ Zeleny, Jeff; Calmes, Jackie (April 4, 2011), "Obama Opens 2012 Campaign, With Eye on Money and Independent Voters", The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/04/05/us/politics/05obama.html?scp=1&sq=obama%202012&st=cse, retrieved April 5, 2011. 
^ Yoon, Robert (April 3, 2012). "Leading presidential candidate to clinch nomination Tuesday". CNN. http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2012/04/03/leading-presidential-candidate-to-clinch-nomination-tuesday/. Retrieved May 2, 2012. 
^ "Obama clinches Democratic nomination". CNN. April 3, 2012. http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2012/04/03/breaking-obama-clinches-democratic-nomination/. Retrieved April 3, 2012. 
^ "Obama asks Pentagon for responsible Iraq drawdown". China Daily. January 23, 2009. http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/world/2009-01/23/content_7423535.htm. Retrieved September 4, 2009. 
^ Glaberson, William (January 21, 2009). "Obama Orders Halt to Prosecutions at Guantánamo". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/22/washington/22gitmo.html. Retrieved February 3, 2009. 
^ "Senate blocks transfer of Gitmo detainees", Associated Press, MSNBC, May 20, 2009, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/30826649/ns/politics-capitol_hill/, retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ Obama, Barack (December 15, 2009), "Presidential Memorandum—Closure of Detention Facilities at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base", whitehouse.gov, http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/presidential-memorandum-closure-dentention-facilities-guantanamo-bay-naval-base, retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ Serbu, Jared (January 7, 2011), "Obama signs Defense authorization bill", Federal News Radio, http://federalnewsradio.com/?sid=2226350&nid=35, retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ "Executive Order—Presidential Records". http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/ExecutiveOrderPresidentialRecords/. Retrieved January 22, 2009. 
^ Doyle, Michael (January 23, 2009). "Obama restores some of the 'Freedom' to FOIA". McClatchy Newspapers. http://www.mcclatchydc.com/251/story/60661.html. Retrieved January 24, 2009. 
^ Gerstein, Josh (January 24, 2009). "Obama: End Abortion 'Politicization'". Politico. http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0109/17898.html. 
^ "Obama Signs Equal-Pay Legislation". The New York Times. January 30, 2009. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/us/politics/30ledbetter-web.html. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ Levey, Noam N.. "Obama signs into law expansion of SCHIP health care program for children". Chicago Tribune. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/chi-kids-health-care_thufeb05,0,30310.story. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ "Obama overturns Bush policy on stem cells". CNN. March 9, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/03/09/obama.stem.cells/index.html. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ "Senate confirms Sotomayor for Supreme Court". CNN. August 6, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/08/06/sonia.sotomayor/. Retrieved August 6, 2009. 
^ Obama nominates Sotomayor to Supreme Court, CNN, Retrieved May 26, 2009.
^ Sherman, Mark (October 4, 2010). "New Era Begins on High Court: Kagan Takes Place as Third Woman". Associated Press. http://www.theledger.com/article/20101004/news/10045042. Retrieved November 13, 2010. 
^ Broder, John M. (October 1, 2009). "E.P.A. Moves to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/01/science/earth/01epa.html. 
^ "US moves to limit industrial greenhouse gas emissions". Google News. Agence France-Presse. October 1, 2009. http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5ip53lrBGDBrm5QYg-npRkHn4ggRA. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ "President Barack Obama signs hate crimes legislation into law". Bay Windows. October 28, 2009. Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110722003600/http://www.baywindows.com/index.php?ch=news&sc=glbt&sc2=news&sc3=&id=98285. Retrieved October 12, 2011. 
^ "Obama signs hate crimes bill into law". CNN. October 28, 2009. http://articles.cnn.com/2009-10-28/politics/hate.crimes_1_crimes-gay-rights-human-rights-campaign?_s=PM:POLITICS. Retrieved October 12, 2011. 
^ Parsons, Christi (March 30, 2010). "Obama signs student loan reforms into law". Los Angeles Times. http://articles.latimes.com/2010/mar/30/nation/la-na-obama-college31-2010mar31. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ Branigin, William. "Obama signs higher-education measure into law". The Washington Post. http://voices.washingtonpost.com/44/2010/03/obama-signs-higher-education-m.html. Retrieved April 12, 2010. 
^ Robert Block and Mark K. Matthews (January 27, 2010). "White House won't fund NASA moon program". LA Times. http://articles.latimes.com/2010/jan/27/nation/la-na-nasa-budget27-2010jan27. Retrieved January 30, 2011. "President Obama's budget proposal includes no money for the Ares I and Ares V rocket or Constellation program. Instead, NASA would be asked to monitor climate change and develop a new rocket" 
^ "'Don't ask, don't tell' repealed as Obama signs landmark law". The Guardian (London). December 22, 2010. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/22/obama-repeals-dont-ask-dont-tell. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ "Obama to delay 'don't ask, don't tell' repeal". Washington Times. November 21, 2008. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/nov/21/obama-to-delay-repeal-of-dont-ask-dont-tell/. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Jesse Lee. "The President Signs Repeal of "Don't Ask Don't Tell": "Out of Many, We Are One"". Whitehouse.gov. http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2010/12/22/president-signs-repeal-dont-ask-dont-tell-out-many-we-are-one. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Albanesius, Chloe (January 25, 2011). "Obama Pushes Innovation in Tech-Heavy State of the Union". PCMag.com. http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2376242,00.asp. Retrieved May 17, 2011. 
^ Kornblut, Anne E.; Wilson, Scott (January 26, 2011). "State of the Union 2011: 'Win the future,' Obama says". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/25/AR2011012504068.html. Retrieved May 18, 2011. 
^ Baim, Tracy (January 14, 2009). "Windy City Times exclusive: Obama's Marriage Views Changed. WCT Examines His Step Back". Windy City Times. http://www.windycitymediagroup.com/lgbt/Windy-City-Times-exclusive-Obamas-Marriage-Views-Changed-WCT-Examines-His-Step-Back/20524.html. Retrieved May 10, 2012. 
^ Baim, Tracy (February 4, 2004). "Obama Seeks U.S. Senate seat". Windy City Times. http://www.windycitymediagroup.com/gay/lesbian/news/ARTICLE.php?AID=3931. Retrieved May 10, 2012. 
^ "Obama backs same-sex marriage". CBS News. May 9, 2012. http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-57431122-503544/obama-backs-same-sex-marriage/. Retrieved May 9, 2012. 
^ Sam Stein (May 9, 2012). "Obama Backs Gay Marriage". The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/05/09/obama-gay-marriage_n_1503245.html. 
^ "Stimulus package en route to Obama's desk". CNN. February 14, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/02/13/stimulus/index.html. Retrieved March 29, 2009. 
^ "Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, Stimulus Watch". http://stimulus.org/. Retrieved April 9, 2011. 

"Obama's remarks on signing the stimulus plan". CNN. February 17, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/02/17/obama.stimulus.remarks/. Retrieved February 17, 2009. 


^ Andrews, Edmund L.; Dash, Eric (March 23, 2009). "U.S. Expands Plan to Buy Banks' Troubled Assets". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/24/business/economy/24bailout.html. Retrieved April 12, 2010. 

"Wall Street soars 7% on bank plan debut". REUTERS. March 23, 2009. http://www.reuters.com/article/businessNews/idUSTRE52H2FA20090323?feedType=RSS&feedName=businessNews. 


^ "White House questions viability of GM, Chrysler". The Huffington Post. March 30, 2009. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/03/30/obama-denies-bailout-fund_n_180563.html. 
^ Bunkley, Nick; Vlasic, Bill (April 27, 2009). "Chrysler and Union Agree to Deal Before Federal Deadline". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/27/business/27chrysler.html. Retrieved April 12, 2010. 
^ John Hughes, Caroline Salas, Jeff Green, and Bob Van Voris (June 1, 2009). "GM Begins Bankruptcy Process With Filing for Affiliate". Bloomberg. http://bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601087&sid=aw4F_L7E4xYg. 
^ Conkey, Christopher; Radnofsky, Louise (June 9, 2009). "Obama Presses Cabinet to Speed Stimulus Spending". The Wall Street Journal. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124445867883193821.html. 
^ Dana Hedgpeth (August 21, 2009). "U.S. Says 'Cash for Clunkers' Program Will End on Monday". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/08/20/AR2009082002699.html. Retrieved March 26, 2010. 
^ Joseph R. Szczesny (August 26, 2009). "Was Cash for Clunkers a Success?". Time. http://www.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1918692,00.html. Retrieved March 26, 2010. 
^ Mian, Atif R.; Sufi, Amir (September 1, 2010). "The Effects of Fiscal Stimulus: Evidence from the 2009 'Cash for Clunkers' Program". SSRN Electronic Journal (SSRN). DOI:10.2139/ssrn.1670759. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1670759. Retrieved September 9, 2010. 
^ Goldman, David (April 6, 2009). "CNNMoney.com's bailout tracker". Bailout tracker 06: 20. http://money.cnn.com/news/storysupplement/economy/bailouttracker/. Retrieved March 26, 2010. 
^ Montgomery, Lori (July 24, 2010). "Federal budget deficit to exceed $1.4 trillion in 2010 and 2011". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/23/AR2010072304101.html. Retrieved July 29, 2010. 
^ Bull, Alister; Mason, Jeff (February 1, 2010). "Obama's 2010 budget: deficit soars amid job spending". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE60U00220100201. Retrieved July 29, 2010. 
^ Dickson, David M. (March 26, 2010). "CBO report: Debt will rise to 90% of GDP". Washington Times. Associated Press. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/mar/26/cbos-2020-vision-debt-will-rise-to-90-of-gdp/?page=1. Retrieved July 29, 2010. 
^ "Senate Vote Approves Rise in Debt Limit" (January 26, 2012). Reuters. Retrieved April 25, 2012.
^ By NBC's Sylvie Stein. "First Read — A breakdown of the debt-limit legislation". MSNBC. http://firstread.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/08/02/7231805-a-breakdown-of-the-debt-limit-legislation. Retrieved August 3, 2011. 
^ "House passes debt ceiling bill". MSNBC. March 8, 2011. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/43967924/ns/politics-capitol_hill/. Retrieved August 3, 2011. 
^ "Unemployment Rate". Bureau of Labor Statistics. http://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS14000000. Retrieved February 6, 2012. 
^ "Unemployment Rate". Bureau of Labor Statistics. http://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES0000000001?output_view=net_1mth. Retrieved February 16, 2012. 
^ Theodossiou, Eleni; Hipple, Steven F. (2011). "Unemployment Remains High in 2010". Monthly Labor Review (Bureau of Labor Statistics) 134 (3): 3–22. http://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2011/03/art1full.pdf. Retrieved April 7, 2011. 
^ Eddlemon, John P. (2011). "Payroll Employment Turns the Corner in 2010". Monthly Labor Review (Bureau of Labor Statistics) 134 (3): 23–32. http://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2011/03/art2full.pdf. Retrieved April 7, 2011. 
^ a b "Percent Change in Real Gross Domestic Product (Quarterly)". National Income and Product Accounts Table. Bureau of Economic Analysis. http://bea.gov/national/nipaweb/TableView.asp?SelectedTable=1&ViewSeries=NO&Java=no&Request3Place=N&3Place=N&FromView=YES&Freq=Qtr&FirstYear=2009&LastYear=2010&3Place=N&Update=Update&JavaBox=no#Mid. Retrieved April 7, 2011. 
^ Harding, Robin (July 28, 2010). "Beige Book survey reports signs of slowdown". Financial Times. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dac3245a-9a7b-11df-87fd-00144feab49a.html. Retrieved July 29, 2010. 
^ "Percent Change in Real Gross Domestic Product (Annual)". National Income and Product Accounts Table. Bureau of Economic Analysis. http://bea.gov/national/nipaweb/TableView.asp?SelectedTable=1&ViewSeries=NO&Java=no&Request3Place=N&3Place=N&FromView=YES&Freq=Year&FirstYear=2009&LastYear=2010&3Place=N&Update=Update&JavaBox=no#Mid. Retrieved April 7, 2011. 
^ a b "Estimated Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Employment and Economic Output". Congressional Budget Office. http://www.cbo.gov/publication/42715. Retrieved February 21, 2012. 
^ a b Calmes, Jackie; Cooper, Michael (November 20, 2009). "New Consensus Sees Stimulus Package as Worthy Step". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/21/business/economy/21stimulus.html. Retrieved December 21, 2010. 
^ "CBO: Stimulus created as many as 2.1 million jobs". February 23, 2010. http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/83253-cbo-stimulus-created-as-many-as-21-million-jobs. Retrieved April 25, 2010. 
^ Krugman, Paul (November 2, 2009). "Too Little of a Good Thing". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/02/opinion/02krugman.html. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Isidore, Chris (January 29, 2010). "Best economic growth in six years". CNN. http://money.cnn.com/2010/01/29/news/economy/gdp/index.htm. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ "New NABE Survey Shows Business Recovery Gaining Momentum, with More Jobs Ahead". http://www.nabe.com/publib/indsum.html. Retrieved April 26, 2010. 
^ Herszenhorn, David M.; Stolberg, Sheryl Gay (December 7, 2010). "Democrats Skeptical of Obama on New Tax Plan". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/08/us/politics/08cong.html. 
^ "Obama signs tax deal into law". CNN. December 17, 2010. http://www.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/12/17/tax.deal/index.html. Retrieved December 17, 2010. 
^ a b Sweet, Lynn, "Obama July 22, 2009 press conference. Transcript", Chicago Sun-Times, July 22, 2009
^ Stolberg, Sheryl Gay; Zeleny, Jeff (September 9, 2009). "Obama, Armed With Details, Says Health Plan Is Necessary". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/10/us/politics/10obama.html. 
^ "Obama will hedge on public option". Politico. http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0909/26907.html. Retrieved September 9, 2009. 
^ "Obama calls for Congress to face health care challenge". CNN. September 9, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/09/09/obama.speech/index.html. Retrieved September 9, 2009. 
^ "Stem cell". The Guardian, Retrieved March 19, 2011
^ Hulse, Carl; Robert Pear (November 7, 2009). "Sweeping Health Care Plan Passes House". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/08/health/policy/08health.html. Retrieved November 8, 2009. 
^ Herszenhorn, David M.; Jackie Calmes (December 7, 2009). "Abortion Was at Heart of Wrangling". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/08/health/policy/08scene.html. Retrieved December 6, 2009. 
^ Hensley, Scott (December 24, 2009). "Senate Says Yes To Landmark Health Bill". NPR. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=121854289. Retrieved December 24, 2009. 
^ "Health Care Reform, at Last". The New York Times. March 21, 2010. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/22/opinion/22mon5.html. Retrieved March 22, 2010. 
^ Gay Stolberg, Sheryl (March 23, 2010). "Obama Signs Landmark Health Care Bill". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/24/health/policy/24health.html. Retrieved March 23, 2010. 
^ "5 key things to remember about health care reform". CNN. March 25, 2010. http://www.cnn.com/2010/HEALTH/03/25/health.care.law.basics/index.html. 
^ a b "Policies to Improve Affordability and Accountability". The White House. http://www.whitehouse.gov/health-care-meeting/proposal/whatsnew/affordability. 
^ "Health Care Reform Bill 101". The Christian Science Monitor. http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2010/0320/Health-care-reform-bill-101-Who-gets-subsidized-insurance. 
^ "An Analysis of Health Insurance Premiums Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act" (PDF). http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/107xx/doc10781/11-30-premiums.pdf. Retrieved April 9, 2012. 
^ Peter Grier, Health care reform bill 101: Who will pay for reform?, Christian Science Monitor (March 21, 2010).
^ Grier, Peter (March 19, 2010). "Health care reform bill 101: Who must buy insurance?". The Christian Science Monitor (Washington, D.C.). http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2010/0319/Health-care-reform-bill-101-Who-must-buy-insurance. Retrieved April 7, 2010. 
^ Congressional Budget Office, Cost Estimates for H.R. 4872, Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Final Health Care Legislation) (March 20, 2010).
^ Mears, Bill (March 27, 2012). "Supreme Court divided over Health Care Mandate". http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/27/justice/scotus-health-care/index.html. Retrieved May 15, 2012. 
^ "Obama Halts Drilling Projects, Defends Actions". National Public Radio. May 27, 2010. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=127205462&ps=rs. 
^ Jonsson, Patrik (May 29, 2010). "Gulf oil spill: Obama's big political test". The Christian Science Monitor. http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2010/0529/Gulf-oil-spill-Obama-s-big-political-test. Retrieved June 6, 2010. 
^ "Biden vows break with Bush era foreign policy". http://www.canada.com/news/unveils+changes+foreign+policy/1265065/story.html. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 

Ghattas, Kim (March 8, 2009). "Clinton's gaffes and gains on tour". BBC News. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7931699.stm. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 


^ "Obama reaches out to Muslim world on TV". MSNBC. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/28869185/. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ DeYoung, Karen (April 9, 2009). "Nation U.S. to Join Talks on Iran's Nuclear Program". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/08/AR2009040802254.html. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ "Iranian Leaders Ignore Obama's Outstretched Hand". Fox News Channel. March 20, 2009. http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/03/20/iranian-leaders-ignore-obamas-outstretched-hand/. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ "Obama speech draws praise in Mideast". The Guardian (London). January 23, 2008. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/feedarticle/8443248. Retrieved June 15, 2009. 
^ "Obama in Egypt reaches out to Muslim world". CNN. June 4, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/06/04/egypt.obama.speech. Retrieved January 30, 2011. 
^ "Obama dismisses Ahmadinejad apology request". The Washington Times. June 26, 2009. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/jun/26/obama-dismisses-ahmadinejad-apology-request/. 
^ Obama: No green light for Israel to attack Iran, CNN, July 7, 2009
^ Chidanand Rajghatta, "Barack 'No Bomb' Obama pushes for world without nukes", The Times of India, September 24, 2009.
^ Robert Berger, "Israel Refuses to Halt Construction in East Jerusalem", Voice of America, March 26, 2010.
^ Kershner, Isabel (March 24, 2010). "Israel Confirms New Building in East Jerusalem". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/25/world/middleeast/25jerusalem.html. Retrieved April 26, 2010. 
^ Peter Baker, "Obama Seals Arms Control Deal With Russia", The New York Times, March 26, 2010.
^ Baker, Peter (December 22, 2010). "Senate Passes Arms Control Treaty With Russia, 71–26". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/23/world/europe/23treaty.html. 
^ "Gay rights must be criterion for US aid allocations, instructs Obama" The Guardian (London). December 6, 2011. Retrieved May 20, 2012.
^ Feller, Ben (February 27, 2009). "Obama sets firm withdrawal timetable for Iraq". The Detroit News. Associated Press. http://www.detnews.com/article/20090228/POLITICS/902280332/Obama+sets+firm+Iraq+withdrawal. Retrieved March 3, 2009. 
^ Athena Johnes Obama announces Iraq plan. February 27, 2009. msnbc.com.
^ BBC News: "Last US combat brigade exits Iraq", August 19, 2010 Last updated at 17:56 GMT.
^ MacAskill, Ewen (September 1, 2010). "Barack Obama ends the war in Iraq. 'Now it's time to turn the page'". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/sep/01/obama-formally-ends-iraq-war. 
^ All U.S. troops out of Iraq by end of year, msnbc.com, October 21, 2011
^ "Obama Calls for U.S. Military to Renew Focus on Afghanistan". NewsHour with Jim Lehrer. PBS. July 15, 2008. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/politics/july-dec08/obama_07-15.html. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ Hodge, Amanda (February 19, 2009). "Obama launches Afghanistan Surge". The Australian. http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,25074581-2703,00.html. 
^ "Top U.S. Commander in Afghanistan Is Fired". The Washington Post. May 12, 2009. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/05/11/AR2009051101864.html. 

"New U.S. Commander Brings Counterinsurgency Experience to Afghanistan". Fox News Channel. May 13, 2009. http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/05/13/new-commander-brings-counterinsurgency-experience-afghanistan/. 


^ "Obama to announce war strategy" Associated Press. msnbc.com. December 1, 2009.
^ Associated Press. (December 1, 2009). "Obama details Afghan war plan, troop increases" msnbc.com.
^ President Obama's Afghanistan Speech pt.1, December 1, 2009 on YouTube
^ "Gates says he agrees with Obama decision on McChrystal". CNN. June 24, 2010. http://www.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/06/24/mcchrystal.gates.support/. Retrieved September 18, 2010. 
^ "U.S., Israel Build Military Cooperation", Charles Levinson. Wall Street Journal. August 14, 2010. Accessed March 1, 2011
^ "United States vetoes Security Council resolution on Israeli settlements", United Nations News Centre. February 18, 2011. Accessed March 1, 2011
^ Levy, Elior. "PA challenges Netanyahu to accept 1967 lines." Ynetnews. May 22, 2011. May 22, 2011.
^ "Floor Statement by Senator McCain Introducing the Senate Resolution Calling for a No-Fly Zone in Libya". Senate.gov. March 14, 2011. http://mccain.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressOffice.FloorStatements&ContentRecord_id=b63b7b6f-a466-ba23-dea8-7bc024f54655. Retrieved March 28, 2011. 
^ "Senate Passes Resolution Calling for No-Fly Zone Over Libya". National Journal. March 1, 2011. http://nationaljournal.com/congress/senate-passes-resolution-calling-for-no-fly-zone-over-libya-20110301?page=1. Retrieved March 28, 2011. 
^ Winnett, Robert (March 17, 2011). "Libya: UN approves no-fly zone as British troops prepare for action". The Daily Telegraph (London). http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/libya/8389565/Libya-UN-approves-no-fly-zone-as-British-troops-prepare-for-action.html. Retrieved April 7, 2011. 
^ "Libya declares ceasefire". New Statesman. UK. http://www.newstatesman.com/blogs/the-staggers/2011/03/fly-zone-ceasefire-libya. Retrieved July 16, 2011. 
^ "Obama: US to Transfer Lead Role in Libya". RTT Newswire. http://www.rttnews.com/Content/GeneralNews.aspx?Id=1580433&SM=1. Retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ "Obama says US efforts in Libya have saved lives, control of operation can be turned over soon". Ventura County Star. Associated Press. http://www.vcstar.com/news/2011/mar/23/ap-news-in-brief/. Retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ Ian Pannell (March 21, 2011). "Gaddafi 'not targeted' by allied strikes". BBC. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-12813757. Retrieved July 3, 2011. 
^ Jones, Sam (March 22, 2011). "F-15 fighter jet crashes in Libya". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/mar/22/f15-fighter-crash-libya. Retrieved March 23, 2011. 
^ "NATO No-Fly Zone over Libya Operation UNIFIED PROTECTOR". NATO. March 25, 2011. http://www.nato.int/nato_static/assets/pdf/pdf_2011_03/20110325_110325-unified-protector-no-fly-zone.pdf. 
^ Montopoli, Brian (March 22, 2011). "Is Obama's Libya offensive constitutional?". CBS News. http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20045927-503544.html. Retrieved March 22, 2011. 
^ Stein, Sam (March 21, 2011). "Obama's Libya Policy Makes Strange Bedfellows Of Congressional Critics". The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/20/obama-libya_n_838219.html. Retrieved March 26, 2011. 
^ "Obama juggles Libya promises, realities". CNN. March 25, 2011. http://www.cnn.com/2011/POLITICS/03/25/obama.libya/index.html?hpt=T1. Retrieved March 26, 2011. 
^ a b c Mazzetti, Mark; Helene Cooper, Peter Baker (May 3, 2011). "Clues Gradually Led to the Location of Osama bin Laden". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/03/world/asia/03intel.html?hp=&pagewanted=all. Retrieved May 4, 2011. 
^ a b "Osama bin Laden is killed by U.S. forces in Pakistan" – washingtonpost.com Retrieved May 2, 2011
^ "Official offers details of bin Laden raid" – newsday.com Retrieved May 2, 2011
^ Schabner, Dean; Karen Travers (May 1, 2011). "Osama bin Laden Killed by U.S. Forces in Pakistan". ABC News. http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/osama-bin-laden-killed/story?id=13505703. Retrieved May 3, 2011. 
^ Baker, Peter; Helene Cooper, Mark Mazzetti (May 2, 2011). "Bin Laden Is Dead, Obama Says". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/02/world/asia/osama-bin-laden-is-killed.html. Retrieved May 3, 2011. 
^ Walsh, Declan; Richard Adams and Ewen MacAskill (May 2, 2011). "Osama bin Laden is dead, Obama announces". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/may/02/osama-bin-laden-dead-obama. Retrieved May 3, 2011. 
^ Dorning, Mike (May 2, 2011). "Death of Bin Laden May Strengthen Obama's Hand in Domestic, Foreign Policy". Bloomberg News. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/death-of-bin-laden-may-strengthen-obama-s-hand-in-domestic-foreign-policy.html. Retrieved May 4, 2011. 
^ "World Reaction To Osama Bin Laden's Death". NPR. May 2, 2011. http://www.npr.org/2011/05/02/135919728/world-reaction-to-osama-bin-ladens-death. Retrieved May 4, 2011. 
^ Paul Harris in Oakland and Ewen MacAskill in Washington (November 3, 2010). "US midterm election results herald new political era as Republicans take House". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/nov/03/us-midterm-election-results-tea-party. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ "Obama calls midterm elections a 'shellacking' for Democrats". The Christian Science Monitor. November 4, 2010. http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/Vox-News/2010/1104/Obama-calls-midterm-elections-a-shellacking-for-Democrats. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ "See Obama's first paragraph of his transcript". All Things Considered. NPR. November 3, 2010. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=131048554. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ "President Obama Hangs Out With America", The White House, January 30, 2012.
^ Wallace-Wells, Benjamin (November 2004). "The Great Black Hope: What's Riding on Barack Obama?". Washington Monthly. http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2004/0411.wallace-wells.html. Retrieved April 7, 2008.  See also:Scott, Janny (December 28, 2007). "A Member of a New Generation, Obama Walks a Fine Line". International Herald Tribune. http://www.iht.com/articles/2007/12/28/america/obama.php. Retrieved April 7, 2008. 
^ Harris, Paul (March 4, 2007). "Obama told of family's slave-owning history in deep South". The Observer (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2007/mar/04/uselections2008.barackobama. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ Payne, Les (August 19, 2007). "In One Country, a Dual Audience" (paid archive). Newsday (New York). http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/newsday/access/1322008241.html?dids=1322008241:1322008241&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT. Retrieved April 7, 2008. 
^ Dorning, Mike (October 4, 2007). "Obama Reaches Across Decades to JFK" (paid archive). Chicago Tribune. http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/chicagotribune/access/1353513781.html?dids=1353513781:1353513781&FMT=ABS&FMTS=ABS:FT&type=current&date=Oct+4%2C+2007&author=Mike+Dorning. Retrieved April 7, 2008.  See also:Harnden, Toby (October 15, 2007). "Barack Obama is JFK Heir, Says Kennedy Aide". The Daily Telegraph (London). http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/1565992/Barack-Obama-is-JFK-heir%2C-says-Kennedy-aide.html. Retrieved April 7, 2008. 
^ Holmes, Stephanie (November 30, 2008). "Obama: Oratory and originality". The Age (Melbourne). http://www.theage.com.au/world/a-classic-orator-obama-learnt-from-the-masters-20081129-6nf1.html. Retrieved December 11, 2008. 

Gallo, Carmine (March 3, 2008). "How to Inspire People Like Obama Does". BusinessWeek. http://www.businessweek.com/smallbiz/content/mar2008/sb2008033_156351.htm. Retrieved February 21, 2009. 
Zlomislic, Diana (December 11, 2008). "New emotion dubbed 'elevation". Toronto Star. http://www.thestar.com/living/article/551538. Retrieved December 11, 2008. 
Greene, Richard (January 25, 2011). "Obama Is America's Third Greatest Presidential Orator in Modern Era". The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/richard-greene/obama-is-americas-3rd-gre_b_813868.html. Retrieved July 2, 2011. 


^ "YouTube – ChangeDotGov's Channel". Youtube. http://www.youtube.com/user/ChangeDotGov. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ "Obama Starts With 68% Job Approval". Gallup.com. January 24, 2009. http://www.gallup.com/poll/113962/obama-starts-job-approval.aspx. Retrieved June 19, 2011. 
^ "Obama hits low point in Gallup Poll – 41%". USA Today. April 15, 2011. http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2011/04/obama-hits-low-point-in-gallup-poll/1. Retrieved June 19, 2011. 
^ Jon Terbush (December 9, 2010). "Approval By Numbers: How Obama Compares To Past Presidents". Tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com. http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/12/approval-by-numbers-how-obama-compares-to-past-presidents.php. Retrieved June 19, 2011. 
^ Oliphant, James (May 11, 2011). "Bin Laden bounce? New poll shows jump in Obama approval", Los Angeles Times. Accessed June 7, 2011
^ Balz, Dan; Cohen, John (June 6, 2011). "Obama loses bin Laden bounce; Romney on the move among GOP contenders", The Washington Post. Accessed June 7, 2011
^ Henningsen, Patrick (May 23, 2011). "Washington Still Working Hard to Plug Gaps in The Bin Laden Story", 21st Century Wire. Accessed June 7, 2011
^ "World wants Obama as president: poll". Reuters. ABC News. September 9, 2008. http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2008/09/09/2360240.htm. 
^ "Obama to visit nuclear, biological weapons destruction facilities in former Soviet Union" (Press release). Obama.senate.gov. August 24, 2005. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20081218122125/http://obama.senate.gov/press/050823-obama_to_visit/. Retrieved October 12, 2011. 
^ Scherer, Steve (September 12, 2007). "Rome Mayor's Leadership Bid May Lead to Early Italian Elections". Bloomberg. http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601085&sid=aea6jJJwShpQ&refer=europe. Retrieved May 21, 2011. 
^ Pedder, Sophie (February 20, 2008). "Sarkozy, Obama and McCain". The Economist. http://www.economist.com/blogs/certainideasofeurope/2008/02/sarkozy_obama_and_mccain.cfm. Retrieved November 20, 2008. 
^ Freed, John C. (February 6, 20009). "Poll shows Obama atop list of most respected". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/world/americas/06iht-poll.4.19983290.html. Retrieved January 22, 2012. 
^ "Obama Most Popular Leader, Poll Finds". The New York Times. May 29, 2009. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/29/world/europe/29iht-poll.html. Retrieved January 22, 2012. 
^ "Obama remains a popular symbol of hope". France 24. June 2, 2009. Archived from the original on May 13, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110513050036/http://www.france24.com/en/20090529-obama-remains-popular-symbol-hope-harris-interactive-poll-world-leaders. Retrieved January 22, 2012. 
^ Goodman, Dean (February 10, 2008). "Obama or Clinton? Grammys go for Obama". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/musicNews/idUSN0852813420080210. Retrieved November 24, 2008. 
^ Strange, Hannah (March 5, 2008). "Celebrities join YouTube revolution". The Times (London). http://entertainment.timesonline.co.uk/tol/arts_and_entertainment/film/article3491460.ece. Retrieved December 18, 2008. 
^ Wappler, Margaret (June 20, 2008). "Emmys give knuckle bump to will.i.am; more videos on the way". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on May 16, 2011. http://web.archive.org/web/20110516090327/http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/soundboard/2008/06/emmys-give-knuc.html. Retrieved January 26, 2012. 
^ Von Drehle, David (December 16, 2008). "Why History Can't Wait". Time. http://www.time.com/time/specials/2008/personoftheyear/article/0,31682,1861543_1865068,00.html. Retrieved December 17, 2008. 
^ "The Nobel Peace Prize 2009". Nobel Foundation. http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/2009/. Retrieved October 9, 2009. 
^ "Obama: 'Peace requires responsibility'". CNN. December 10, 2009. http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/12/10/obama.transcript/index.html. Retrieved May 21, 2011. 
^ Philp, Catherine (October 10, 2009). "Barack Obama's peace prize starts a fight". The Times (London). http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article6868905.ece. Retrieved October 10, 2009. 
^ Samuelsohn, Darren (October 9, 2009). "Obama Wins Nobel Prize in Part for Confronting 'Great Climatic Challenges'". The New York Times. Greenwire. http://www.nytimes.com/gwire/2009/10/09/09greenwire-obama-wins-nobel-prize-in-part-for-confronting-55250.html. Retrieved April 18, 2010. 
^ "Keeping Hope Alive: Barack Obama Puts Family First". The Oprah Winfrey Show. October 18, 2006. http://www.oprah.com/slideshow/oprahshow/oprahshow1_ss_20061018/10. Retrieved June 24, 2008. 
^ Fornek, Scott (September 9, 2007). "Half Siblings: 'A Complicated Family'". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on January 18, 2010. http://www.webcitation.org/5msGZ6sKn. Retrieved June 24, 2008.  See also:"Interactive Family Tree". Chicago Sun-Times. September 9, 2007. Archived from the original on July 3, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080703042659/http://www.suntimes.com/images/cds/special/family_tree.html. Retrieved June 24, 2008. 
^ Fornek, Scott (September 9, 2007). "Madelyn Payne Dunham: 'A Trailblazer'". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on May 14, 2009. http://www.webcitation.org/5gm7oJqn9. Retrieved June 24, 2008. 
^ "Obama's grandmother dies after battle with cancer". CNN. November 3, 2008. http://www.cnn.com/2008/POLITICS/11/03/obama.grandma/index.html. Retrieved November 4, 2008. 
^ Smolenyak, Megan (May 9, 2011). "Tracing Barack Obama's Roots to Moneygall". The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/megan-smolenyak-smolenyak/tracing-barack-obamas-roo_b_859151.html. 
^ Obama (1995, 2004), p. 13. For reports on Obama's maternal genealogy, including slave owners, Irish connections, and common ancestors with George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, and Harry Truman, see:Nitkin, David; Harry Merritt (March 2, 2007). "A New Twist to an Intriguing Family History". Baltimore Sun. Archived from the original on September 30, 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070930033339/http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/nationworld/politics/bal-te.obama02mar02,0,3453027.story. Retrieved June 24, 2008. Jordan, Mary (May 13, 2007). "Tiny Irish Village Is Latest Place to Claim Obama as Its Own". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/05/12/AR2007051201551.html. Retrieved June 24, 2008. "Obama's Family Tree Has a Few Surprises". CBS 2 (Chicago). Associated Press. September 8, 2007. Archived from the original on June 2, 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080602215833/http://cbs2chicago.com/topstories/Barack.Obama.family.2.339709.html. Retrieved June 24, 2008. 
^ "When Barry Became Barack". Newsweek. March 31, 2008. http://www.newsweek.com/id/128633. Retrieved November 6, 2008. 
^ Zimmer, Benjamin (2009). "Obama's Indonesian Redux". Language Log. http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=1025. Retrieved March 12, 2009. 

Obama: Saya Kangen Nasi Goreng, Bakso, dan Rambutan


^ Kantor, Jodi (June 1, 2007). "One Place Where Obama Goes Elbow to Elbow". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/01/us/politics/01hoops.html. Retrieved April 28, 2008.  See also: "The Love of the Game" (video). Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel (HBO). April 15, 2008. http://www.hbo.com/real-sports-with-bryant-gumbel/episodes#/real-sports-with-bryant-gumbel/episodes/0/133-april-15-2008/index.html. Retrieved October 12, 2011. 
^ "Barack Obama: White Sox 'serious' ball". The Swamp. August 25, 2008. http://www.swamppolitics.com/news/politics/blog/2008/08/barack_obama_white_sox_serious.html. Retrieved December 6, 2009. 
^ "Barack Obama Explains White Sox Jacket, Talks Nats in All-Star Booth Visit". MLB Fanhouse. July 14, 2009. http://mlb.fanhouse.com/2009/07/14/barack-obama-explains-white-sox-jacket-talks-nats-in-all-star-b/. Retrieved December 6, 2009. 
^ Branigin, William (January 30, 2009). "Steelers Win Obama's Approval". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/29/AR2009012903196.html. "But other than the Bears, the Steelers are probably the team that's closest to my heart." 
^ "1985 Bears honored by President Obama". Chicagobears.com. 2011-10-07. http://www.chicagobears.com/news/NewsStory.asp?story_id=8232. Retrieved 2012-05-29. 
^ Obama (2006), pp. 327–332. See also:Brown, Sarah (December 7, 2005). "Obama '85 masters balancing act". The Daily Princetonian. http://www.dailyprincetonian.com/2005/12/07/14049. Retrieved February 9, 2009. 
^ Obama (2006), p. 329.
^ Fornek, Scott (October 3, 2007). "Michelle Obama: 'He Swept Me Off My Feet'". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on January 18, 2010. http://www.webcitation.org/5msGZDbMO. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
^ Martin, Jonathan (July 4, 2008). "Born on the 4th of July". Politico. http://www.politico.com/blogs/jonathanmartin/0708/Born_on_the_4th_of_July.html. Retrieved July 10, 2008. 
^ Obama (1995, 2004), p. 440, and Obama (2006), pp. 339–340. See also:"Election 2008 Information Center: Barack Obama". Gannett News Service. http://www.gannettnewsservice.com/?cat=153. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
^ "Obamas choose private Sidwell Friends School", International Herald Tribune, November 22, 2008
^ Cooper, Helene (April 13, 2009). "One Obama Search Ends With a Puppy Named Bo". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/13/us/politics/13obama.html. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Zeleny, Jeff (December 24, 2005). "The first time around: Sen. Obama's freshman year". Chicago Tribune. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/chi-051224obama,0,1779783,full.story. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
^ Slevin, Peter (December 17, 2006). "Obama says he regrets land deal with fundraiser". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/12/16/AR2006121600729.html. Retrieved June 10, 2008. 

Robinson, Mike (June 4, 2008). "Rezko found guilty in corruption case". Associated Press. MSNBC. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/24973282/. Retrieved June 24, 2008. 


^ Harris, Marlys (December 7, 2007). "Obama's Money". CNNMoney.com. http://money.cnn.com/galleries/2007/moneymag/0712/gallery.candidates.moneymag/5.html. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
See also:Goldfarb, Zachary A (March 24, 2007). "Measuring Wealth of the '08 Candidates". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/03/24/AR2007032400305.html. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
^ Zeleny, Jeff (April 17, 2008). "Book Sales Lifted Obamas' Income in 2007 to a Total of $4.2 Million". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/17/us/politics/17obama.html. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
^ Shear, Michael D.; Hilzenrath, David S. (April 16, 2010). "Obamas report $5.5 million in income on 2009 tax return". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/15/AR2010041504485.html. Retrieved December 22, 2010. 
^ Solman, Paul (April 18, 2011). "How Much Did President Obama Make in 2010?". PBS NewsHour. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/businessdesk/2011/04/how-much-did-president-obama-m.html. Retrieved January 27, 2012. 
^ Solman, Paul (April 27, 2011). "The Obamas Gave $131,000 to Fisher House Foundation in 2010; What Is It?". PBS NewsHour. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2011/04/the-obamas-gave-131000-to-the-fisher-house-foundation-last-year-what-is-it.html. Retrieved January 27, 2012. 
^ Jackson, David (May 15, 2012). "Obama worth as much as $10 million". USA Today. Retrieved May 15, 2012.
^ Elsner, Alan (December 7, 2008). Obama says he won't be smoking in White House". Reuters. Retrieved February 28, 2010.
^ Zengerle, Patricia (February 8, 2011). "Yes, he did: first lady says Obama quit smoking". Reuters. Retrieved May 9, 2011.
^ Obama (2006), pp. 202–208. Portions excerpted in:Obama, Barack (October 16, 2006). "My Spiritual Journey". Time. http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1546579,00.html. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 

Obama, Barack (June 28, 2006). "'Call to Renewal' Keynote Address". Barack Obama: U.S. Senator for Illinois. Archived from the original on January 4, 2009. http://web.archive.org/web/20090104231501/http://obama.senate.gov/speech/060628-call_to_renewal/. Retrieved June 16, 2008. 


^ Christianity Today: "Q&A: Barack Obama" Interview by Sarah Pulliam and Ted Olsen, January 23, 2008
^ Obama 'Christian By Choice': President Responds To Questioner by Charles Babington and Darlene Superville, Associated Press, September 28, 2010
^ Video – President Obama: "I am a Christian By Choice" by ABC News, September 29, 2010.
^ Kantor, Jodi (April 30, 2007). "Barack Obama's search for faith". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/30/world/americas/30iht-30obama.5501905.html. Retrieved April 30, 2007. 
^ "Obama's church choice likely to be scrutinized". Associated Press. MSNBC. November 17, 2008. Retrieved January 20, 2009.
^ Sullivan, Amy (June 29, 2009.) "The Obamas Find a Church Home—Away from Home". Time. Retrieved December 14, 2009.


References[link]

Mendell, David (2007). Obama: From Promise to Power. New York: Amistad/HarperCollins. ISBN 0-06-085820-6. 
Obama, Barack (1995, 2004). Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance. New York: Three Rivers Press. ISBN 1-4000-8277-3. 
Obama, Barack (2006). The Audacity of Hope: Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream. New York: Crown Publishing Group. ISBN 0-307-23769-9. 

Further reading[link]

Graff, Garrett. "The Legend of Barack Obama", Washingtonian, November 1, 2006. Retrieved January 14, 2008.
Koltun, Dave (2005) "The 2004 Illinois Senate Race: Obama Wins Open Seat and Becomes National Political "Star"" in "The Road to Congress 2004" Editors: Sunil Ahuja (Youngstown State University) and Robert Dewhirst (Truman State University), Nova Science Publishers, Hauppauge, New York, 2005, ISBN 1-59454-360-7
Lizza, Ryan. "Above the Fray", GQ, September 2007. Retrieved October 27, 2010.
MacFarquhar, Larissa. "The Conciliator: Where is Barack Obama Coming From?", New Yorker, May 7, 2007. Retrieved January 14, 2008.
McClelland, Edward, Young Mr. Obama: Chicago and the Making of a Black President, Bloomsbury Press, 2010.
Zutter, Hank De. "What Makes Obama Run?", Chicago Reader, December 8, 1995. Retrieved January 14, 2008.

External links[link]

Listen to this article (info/dl)

200px





This audio file was created from a revision of the "Barack Obama" article dated 2012-04-24, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
More spoken articles






Barack Obama  portal



Biography  portal



Government of the United States  portal



Illinois  portal





Find more about Barack Obama on Wikipedia's sister projects:



Images and media from Commons



News stories from Wikinews



Quotations from Wikiquote



Source texts from Wikisource



Official


President Barack Obama White House official website
BarackObama.com (official re-election campaign website)


Other


Biography at WhoRunsGov.com at The Washington Post
Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress
Voting record maintained by The Washington Post
Biography, voting record, and interest group ratings at Project Vote Smart
Congressional profile at GovTrack
Issue positions and quotes at On the Issues
Financial information at OpenSecrets.org
Staff salaries, trips and personal finance at LegiStorm.com
Campaign finance reports and data at the Federal Election Commission
Campaign contributions at the National Institute for Money in State Politics
Appearances on C-SPAN programs
Appearances on Charlie Rose
Appearances at the Internet Movie Database
Collected news and commentary at The New York Times
Collected news and commentary at The Wall Street Journal
Collected news and commentary at The Guardian
Works by or about Barack Obama in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Collected news and commentary at the Chicago Tribune
Barack Obama at the Open Directory Project



            Offices and distinctions





Illinois Senate


Preceded by
Alice Palmer
Illinois State Senator
from the 13th district
1997–2004
Succeeded by
Kwame Raoul


Party political offices


Preceded by
Carol Moseley Braun
Democratic nominee for Senator from Illinois
(Class 3)
2004
Succeeded by
Alexi Giannoulias


Preceded by
Harold Ford
Keynote Speaker of the Democratic National Convention
2004
Succeeded by
Mark Warner


Preceded by
John Kerry
Democratic nominee for President of the United States
2008
Most recent


United States Senate


Preceded by
Peter Fitzgerald
United States Senator (Class 3) from Illinois
2005–2008
Served alongside: Dick Durbin
Succeeded by
Roland Burris


Preceded by
George Allen
Chairperson of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs
2007–2008
Succeeded by
Jeanne Shaheen


Political offices


Preceded by
George W. Bush
President of the United States
2009–present
Incumbent


Awards and achievements


Preceded by
Martti Ahtisaari
Nobel Peace Prize Laureate
2009
Succeeded by
Liu Xiaobo













v
t
e


Barack Obama







August 4, 1961










Life and politics



Early life and career
Illinois Senate elections
Illinois Senate career
Illinois-1st elections, 2000
2004 Democratic National Convention
U.S. Senate election in Illinois, 2004
U.S. Senate career
2008 presidential primary campaign
Obama–Biden 2008
Electoral history
Political positions

Economic
Social
Energy
Foreign/Administration foreign policy


Nobel Peace Prize
2012 presidential re-election campaign
West Wing Week











Presidency



Transition
Inauguration
Timeline

2009
2010
2011
2012


Judiciary

Supreme Court candidates


Foreign policy

Obama Doctrine


First 100 days
Health care reform
Presidential trips

2009
2010
2011
2012


People pardoned
Death of Osama bin Laden








Books



Dreams from My Father
The Audacity of Hope
Of Thee I Sing








Speeches



"The Audacity of Hope" (2004)
"A More Perfect Union" (2008)
"Change Has Come to America" (2008)
"A New Birth of Freedom" (2009)
Joint session of Congress (February 2009)
"A New Beginning" (2009)
Joint session of Congress (health care reform) (September 2009)
State of the Union address: 2010, 2011, 2012
Barack Obama Tucson memorial speech (2011)
Joint session of Congress (jobs) (2011)








Family



Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama (spouse)
Stanley Ann Dunham (mother)
Barack Hussein Obama, Sr. (father)
Lolo Soetoro (step-father)
Maya Soetoro-Ng (half-sister)
Stanley Armour Dunham (grandfather)
Madelyn Payne Dunham (grandmother)
Marian Shields Robinson (mother-in-law)
Craig Robinson (brother-in-law)
Bo (family dog)















 
Public image






News and
political events



Oprah Winfrey's endorsement
Citizenship conspiracy theories

litigation
legislation


Religion conspiracy theories
Bill Ayers controversy
Jeremiah Wright controversy
Republican and conservative support (2008)
Barack Obama assassination threats
2008 assassination scare in Denver
2008 assassination scare in Tennessee
Inauguration invitations
Inaugural Celebration at the Lincoln Memorial
Citizen's Briefing Book
Tea Party protests
New Energy for America
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
Gates-Crowley Rose Garden meeting
Resignation of Shirley Sherrod








Books about



Self-authored

Dreams from My Father
The Audacity of Hope


Obama: From Promise to Power
Barack Obama – Der schwarze Kennedy
The Case Against Barack Obama
The Obama Nation
Culture of Corruption
Catastrophe
Barack and Michelle
The Speech
The Obama Story
Game Change








Music



Obama Girl

"I Got a Crush... on Obama"


"Barack the Magic Negro"
will.i.am

"Yes We Can"
"We Are the Ones"


"There's No One as Irish as Barack O'Bama"
"Sí Se Puede Cambiar"
"My President"
"Deadheads for Obama"
"Air and Simple Gifts"
Change Is Now
Hope! – Das Obama Musical








Other media



@BarackObama
Artists for Obama
"Hope" poster
"Joker" poster
The Situation Room (photograph)
Obama logo
In comics








Miscellaneous



Places named after Obama
Obama Day (Kenya)











 Book
 Category
 Portal



















v
t
e


Presidents of the United States












George Washington
John Adams
Thomas Jefferson
James Madison
James Monroe
John Quincy Adams
Andrew Jackson
Martin Van Buren
William Henry Harrison
John Tyler
James K. Polk
Zachary Taylor
Millard Fillmore
Franklin Pierce
James Buchanan
Abraham Lincoln
Andrew Johnson
Ulysses S. Grant
Rutherford B. Hayes
James A. Garfield
Chester A. Arthur
Grover Cleveland
Benjamin Harrison
Grover Cleveland
William McKinley
Theodore Roosevelt
William Howard Taft
Woodrow Wilson
Warren G. Harding
Calvin Coolidge
Herbert Hoover
Franklin D. Roosevelt
Harry S. Truman
Dwight D. Eisenhower
John F. Kennedy
Lyndon B. Johnson
Richard Nixon
Gerald Ford
Jimmy Carter
Ronald Reagan
George H. W. Bush
Bill Clinton
George W. Bush
Barack Obama



















v
t
e


United States presidential election, 2008









United States elections, 2008
Candidates
Comparison)
Debates
Congressional support
Fundraising
Ballot access
Timeline
Super Tuesday
Potomac primary
Super Tuesday II
General polls
Statewide general polls
International polls
International reaction








Democratic Party



Convention
Primary polls
General polls
Debates
Primaries
Primary results
Superdelegates








Democratic candidates



Nominee: Barack Obama
(campaign
positions)


VP nominee: Joe Biden
(positions)


Other candidates:
Evan Bayh (campaign)
Joe Biden (campaign)
Hillary Rodham Clinton (campaign)
Chris Dodd (campaign)
John Edwards (campaign)
Mike Gravel (campaign)
Dennis Kucinich (campaign)
Bill Richardson (campaign)
Tom Vilsack (campaign)








Republican Party



Convention
Primary polls
General polls
Debates
Primaries
Primary results








Republican candidates



Nominee: John McCain
(campaign
positions)


VP nominee: Sarah Palin
(positions)


Other candidates:
Sam Brownback
John Cox
Jim Gilmore (campaign)
Rudy Giuliani (campaign)
Mike Huckabee (campaign)
Duncan Hunter (campaign)
Alan Keyes (campaign)
Ray McKinney
Ron Paul (campaign)
Mitt Romney (campaign)
Tom Tancredo (campaign)
Fred Thompson (campaign)
Tommy Thompson (campaign)








Draft movements



Democratic Party:
Al Gore
Mark Warner (movement)


Republican Party:
Newt Gingrich
Condoleezza Rice (movement)


Independent:
Michael Bloomberg (movement)












 
Third party and independent candidates






Constitution Party:
Convention



Nominee: Chuck Baldwin (campaign)
VP nominee: Darrell Castle
Candidates:
Daniel Imperato
Alan Keyes (campaign)








Green Party:
Convention



Nominee: Cynthia McKinney
(campaign
positions)
VP nominee: Rosa Clemente


Candidates:
Elaine Brown
Jesse Johnson
Kent Mesplay
Kat Swift








Libertarian Party:
Convention



Nominee: Bob Barr
(campaign
positions)
VP nominee: Wayne Allyn Root


Candidates:
Mike Gravel (campaign)
Daniel Imperato
Michael Jingozian
Steve Kubby
Wayne Allyn Root
Mary Ruwart
Doug Stanhope








American Party



Nominee: Diane Beall Templin








America's Independent Party



Nominee: Alan Keyes (campaign)
VP nominee: Brian Rohrbough








Boston Tea Party



Nominee: Charles Jay








New American Independent Party



Nominee: Frank McEnulty








Objectivist Party



Nominee: Tom Stevens








Peace and Freedom Party



Nominee: Ralph Nader (campaign)
VP nominee: Matt Gonzalez


Candidates:
Gloria LaRiva
Cynthia McKinney (campaign)
Brian Moore (campaign)








Prohibition Party



Nominee: Gene Amondson








Reform Party



Nominee: Ted Weill
VP nominee: Frank McEnulty








Socialism and Liberation Party



Nominee: Gloria La Riva
VP nominee: Eugene Puryear








Socialist Party



Nominee: Brian Moore (campaign)
VP nominee: Stewart Alexander


Candidates:
Eric Chester








Socialist Workers Party



Nominee: Róger Calero
Alternate nominee: James Harris
VP nominee: Alyson Kennedy








Independent / Other



Earl Dodge
Bradford Lyttle
Frank Moore
Joe Schriner
Jonathon Sharkey














Other 2008 elections:
House
Senate
Gubernatorial
















v
t
e


United States presidential election, 2012









United States elections, 2012
Fundraising
National polls
Statewide polls
Timeline
General election debates








Democratic Party

Convention
Primaries

Newspaper endorsements









Incumbent and presumptive nominee: Barack Obama (campaign)
Incumbent and presumptive VP nominee: Joe Biden











Challengers: Bob Ely
Keith Russell Judd
Warren Mosler
Darcy Richardson
Jim Rogers
Vermin Supreme
Randall Terry
John Wolfe











Republican Party

Convention
Primaries
Debates

Statewide polls
National polls

Straw polls

Newspaper endorsements









Presumptive nominee: Mitt Romney (campaign)


Candidates: Michele Bachmann (campaign)
Herman Cain (campaign)
Jack Fellure
Newt Gingrich (campaign)
Stewart Greenleaf
Jon Huntsman (campaign)
Gary Johnson (campaign)
Fred Karger
Andy Martin
Thaddeus McCotter (campaign)
Jimmy McMillan
Roy Moore
Ron Paul (campaign)
Tim Pawlenty (campaign)
Rick Perry (campaign)
Buddy Roemer (campaign)
Rick Santorum (campaign)
Jonathon Sharkey











Libertarian Party
Convention







Nominee: Gary Johnson (campaign)
VP Nominee: Jim Gray


Candidates: Jim Duensing
RJ Harris
Carl Person
Sam Sloan
Bill Still
R. Lee Wrights











Green Party
Convention










Candidates: Stewart Alexander
Roseanne Barr
Kent Mesplay
Jill Stein















 
Other Third party and independent candidates






American Third Position Party



Nominee: Merlin Miller
VP Nominee: Virginia Abernethy








America's Party



Nominee: Tom Hoefling








Boston Tea Party



Nominee: Jim Duensing








Constitution Party



Nominee: Virgil Goode
VP Nominee: Jim Clymer


Candidates: Darrell Castle
Laurie Roth
Robby Wells








Freedom Socialist Party



Nominee: Stephen Durham








Justice Party



Nominee: Rocky Anderson








Objectivist Party



Nominee: Tom Stevens








Party for Socialism and Liberation



Nominee: Peta Lindsay








Peace and Freedom Party



Candidates: Stewart Alexander
Rocky Anderson
Stephen Durham
Peta Lindsay








Prohibition Party



Nominee: Jack Fellure


Candidates: James Hedges








Reform Party USA



Candidates: Andre Barnett
Laurence Kotlikoff
Buddy Roemer (campaign)
Robert David Steele
Robby Wells








Socialist Equality Party



Nominee: Jerry White








Socialist Party USA



Nominee: Stewart Alexander (campaign)
VP Nominee: Alejandro Mendoza








Independents



Candidates: Lee Abramson
Randy Blythe
Robert Burck
Terry Jones
Joe Schriner








Draft movements



Michael Bloomberg (movement)














Other 2012 elections: House
Senate
Gubernatorial











Authority control: PND: 132522136 | LCCN: n94112934 | VIAF: 52010985 | WorldCat





Persondata


Name
Obama, Barack


Alternative names



Short description
American politician, 44th President of the United States


Date of birth
August 4, 1961


Place of birth
Honolulu, Hawaii, United States


Date of death



Place of death



       

http://wn.com/Barack_Obama
Related pages:
http://de.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://es.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://ru.wn.com/Обама, Барак
http://cs.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://pt.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://pl.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://hi.wn.com/बराक ओबामा
http://it.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://id.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://nl.wn.com/Barack Obama
http://fr.wn.com/Barack Obama


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barack_Obama
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        











For the Hero of the Russian Federation, see Dmitry Gennadyevich Medvedev.  For the Soviet partisan and Hero of the Soviet Union, see Dmitry Nikolayevich Medvedev.
This name uses Eastern Slavic naming customs; the patronymic is Anatolyevich and the family name is Medvedev.


Dmitry Medvedev
Дмитрий Медведев





Prime Minister of Russia


Incumbent


Assumed office
8 May 2012


President
Vladimir Putin


Deputy
Igor Shuvalov


Preceded by
Viktor Zubkov (Acting)


President of Russia


In office
7 May 2008 – 7 May 2012


Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin


Preceded by
Vladimir Putin


Succeeded by
Vladimir Putin


Parliamentary leader of United Russia in the Duma


Incumbent


Assumed office
24 September 2011


Preceded by
Boris Gryzlov


Leader of United Russia


Incumbent


Assumed office
26 May 2012


Preceded by
Vladimir Putin


First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia


In office
14 November 2005 – 12 May 2008


Prime Minister
Mikhail Fradkov
Viktor Zubkov


Preceded by
Mikhail Kasyanov


Succeeded by
Igor Shuvalov


Personal details


Born
Dmitry Anatolyevich Medvedev
(1965-09-14) 14 September 1965 (age 46)
Leningrad, Soviet Union
(now Saint Petersburg, Russia)


Political party
Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Before 1991)
Independent (1991–2011)[1]
United Russia (2011–present)


Spouse(s)
Svetlana Linnik


Children
Ilya Medvedev


Alma mater
Leningrad State University


Religion
Russian Orthodox


Signature



Website
Official website


Dmitry Anatolyevich Medvedev (Russian: Дми́трий Анато́льевич Медве́дев, tr. Dmitriy Anatolyevich Medvedev; IPA: [ˈdmʲitrʲɪj ɐnɐˈtolʲjɪvʲɪtɕ mʲɪˈdvʲedʲɪf] ( listen); born 14 September 1965) is a Russian politician who has been Prime Minister of Russia since 2012.[2][3] He previously served as President of Russia from 2008 to 2012.
Born to a family of academics, Medvedev graduated from the Law Department of Leningrad State University in 1987. He defended his dissertation in 1990 and worked as a docent at his alma mater, now renamed to Saint Petersburg State University, where he taught civil and Roman law until 1999. Medvedev's political career began as the election campaign manager and later an adviser of St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak. During this time, Medvedev befriended Vladimir Putin. In November 1999, Medvedev was hired in the Russian presidential administration, where he worked as deputy chief of staff. In the 2000 Presidential elections, Medvedev was Putin's campaign manager. On 14 November 2005, Medvedev was appointed First Deputy Prime Minister and was tasked with overseeing National Priority Projects. He also worked as the Chairman of Gazprom's board of directors, a post which he held until 2008.
On 10 December 2007, Medvedev was informally endorsed as a candidate for the forthcoming presidential elections by four political parties: United Russia, Fair Russia, Agrarian Party of Russia and Civilian Power, and was officially endorsed by United Russia on 17 December 2007. Medvedev's candidacy was backed by the popular outgoing President Vladimir Putin, giving a significant boost to his popularity. The 2008 presidential election, held on 2 March 2008, was won by Medvedev with 70.28% of the popular vote, and he was inaugurated on 7 May 2008. Although he did not run for a second term as President, Medvedev was appointed Prime Minister by Putin, who won the 2012 presidential election. In May 26, 2012 he also was appointed officially as the Leader of United Russia Party.[4]
Widely regarded as more liberal than his predecessor, Medvedev's top agenda as President was a wide-ranging modernisation programme, aiming at modernising Russia's economy and society, and lessening the country's reliance on oil and gas. During Medvedev's tenure, Russia emerged victorious in the 2008 South Ossetia war and recovered from the late-2000s recession. Recognising corruption as one of Russia's most severe problems, Medvedev has launched an anti-corruption campaign and initiated a substantial law enforcement reform. In foreign policy, his main achievements include the signing of the New START treaty, a "reset" of the Russia – United States relations which were severely strained following Russia's war with Georgia, as well as increasing Russia's cooperation with the BRICS-countries, as well as the Russia's admission into the WTO in 2011.




Contents


1 Background

1.1 Early life
1.2 Student years and academic career


2 Early career

2.1 Career in St Petersburg
2.2 Career in the central government
2.3 Presidential candidate


3 2008 presidential elections

3.1 Election campaign
3.2 Election victory


4 Presidency

4.1 Inauguration
4.2 Personnel appointments
4.3 "Tandem rule"
4.4 Main external events

4.4.1 2008 South Ossetia war
4.4.2 2008–2009 Economic crisis


4.5 Domestic policy

4.5.1 Economy
4.5.2 Police reform
4.5.3 Anti-corruption campaign
4.5.4 Education
4.5.5 Development of the political system

4.5.5.1 Election reform




4.6 Foreign policy
4.7 Relationship with Putin
4.8 2012 presidential elections


5 Premiership
6 Personal life
7 Publications
8 References
9 Literature
10 External links




Background[link]
Early life[link]




Dmitry Medvedev in 1967 at the approximate age of 2.


Dmitry Medvedev was born on 14 September 1965 in Leningrad, Soviet Union. His father, Anatoly Afanasyevich Medvedev (November 1926 – 2004), was an expert in chemical processing and taught at the Leningrad State Institute of Technology.[5][6] Dmitry's mother, Yulia Veniaminovna Medvedeva (née Shaposhnikova, born 21 November 1939),[7] studied languages at Voronezh University and taught Russian at Herzen State Pedagogical University. Later she would also work as a tour guide at Pavlovsk Palace. The Medvedevs lived in a 40 m² apartment at 6 Bela Kun Street in the Kupchino district of Leningrad.[8][9] Dmitry was his parents' only child. The Medvedevs were regarded as a fairly typical Soviet intelligentsia family of the time.[9] His maternal grandparents were Ukrainians, whose surname was Kovalev, originally Koval. Medvedev traces his family roots to the Belgorod region.[10]
As a child, Medvedev was bookish and studious, described by his first grade teacher Vera Smirnova as a "dreadful why-asker". After school, he would only spend a short while playing with his friends before hurrying home to work with his assignments. In the third grade he studied the ten-volume Small Soviet Encyclopedia belonging to his father.[9] In the second and third grades, he was very interested in dinosaurs and memorized all of Earth's geologic development periods, from the Archean up to the Cenozoic. In the fourth and fifth grades, he became interested in chemistry, enjoying conducting experiments; after that, he picked up sports, practicing three or four times a week.[8][9] In the seventh grade, he became romantically involved with Svetlana Linnik, his future wife, who was studying at the same school in a parallel class.[9] The romance negatively affected Medvedev's school performance. Medvedev calls the school's final exams in 1982 a "tough period when I had to mobilize my abilities to the utmost for the first time in my life."[8][11]
Student years and academic career[link]




The Faculty of Law building of Saint Petersburg State University, The place where Medvedev studied and later taught.


In the autumn of 1982, the 17-year old Medvedev enrolled at the Leningrad State University to study law. Although he also considered studying linguistics, Medvedev later said he never regretted his choice, finding his chosen subject increasingly fascinating as his studies progressed, and said he was lucky "to have chosen a field that genuinely interested [him] and that was really [his] thing".[8][9] Fellow students described Medvedev as a correct and diplomatic person, who in debates presented his arguments firmly but without offending his opponent.[9] During his student years, Medvedev was a fan of the English rock bands Black Sabbath and Deep Purple. He was also fond of sports and participated in academic competitions in rowing and weight-lifting.[12]
He graduated from the Law Department of Leningrad State University in 1987 (together with Ilya Yeliseyev, Anton Ivanov, Nikolay Vinnichenko and Konstantin Chuychenko, who later became his associates). After graduating, Medvedev considered joining the prosecutor's office and becoming an investigator; however, he took an opportunity to pursue graduate studies as the civil law chair, Medvedev's specialisation, and decided to accept three budget-funded post-graduate students to work later at the chair itself.[8] In 1990, Medvedev defended his dissertation, titled "Problems of realisation of civil juridical personality of state enterprise" and received his Candidate of Sciences degree in private law.[12]
Anatoly Sobchak, a major democratic politician of the 1980s and 1990s, was one of Medvedev's professors at the university. In 1988, Medvedev joined Sobchak's team of democrats and served as the de facto head of Sobchak's successful campaign for a seat in the new Soviet parliament, the Congress of People's Deputies of the USSR.[13]
After Sobchak's election campaign, Medvedev continued his academic career, getting a position of docent at his alma mater, now renamed to Saint Petersburg State University.[14] There, he taught civil and roman law until 1999. According to one student, Medvedev was a popular teacher, "strict but not harsh". During his tenure, Medvedev co-wrote a popular three-volume civil law textbook which over the years has sold a million copies.[9] Medvedev also worked at a small law consultancy firm which he had founded with his friends Ilya Yeliseyev and Anton Ivanov, to supplement his academic salary.[9]
Early career[link]
Career in St Petersburg[link]




Facade of the Smolny Institute, meeting place of the City Hall's Committee for Foreign Affairs where Medvedev worked as a consultant.


In 1990, Anatoly Sobchak returned from Moscow and became Chairman of the Leningrad City Council. Sobchak hired Medvedev, who had previously headed his election campaign, as his adviser. Another of Sobchak's former students, Vladimir Putin, also arrived to help him. The next summer, Sobchak was elected Mayor of the city, and Medvedev became an expert consultant to the City Hall's Committee for Foreign Affairs, which was headed by Putin. The Committee met at the Smolny Institute and Medvedev dropped by once or twice a week to help Putin. During this time, Putin and Medvedev became friends. Putin sometimes took Medvedev to his family dacha on weekends, and invited Medvedev to some of working travels abroad.[8][9]
In November 1993, Medvedev became the legal affairs director of Ilim Pulp Enterprise (ILP), a St. Petersburg-based timber company. Medvedev aided to company in developing its strategy as the firm launched a significant expansion. Medvedev also received 20% of the company's stock. In the next seven years, Ilim Pulp Enterprise became Russia's largest lumber company with an annual revenue of around $500 million. Medvedev sold his shares in ILP in 1999, before his first job at the central government of Russia. The amount of profits Medvedev may potentially have received from his stock is unknown.[9]
Career in the central government[link]




Medvedev with Vladimir Putin on 27 March 2000 after Putin's victory in the Presidential election the day before.


In June 1996, Medvedev's former colleague Vladimir Putin was brought into the Russian presidential administration, and three years later, on 16 August 1999, became Prime Minister of Russia. In November 1999, Medvedev became one of several people from St. Petersburg brought by Vladimir Putin to top government positions in Moscow. In December of the same year, he was appointed deputy head of the presidential staff. Medvedev became one of the politicians closest to President Putin, and during the 2000 Presidential elections he was Putin's campaign manager. Putin won the election with 52.94% of the popular vote. Medvedev has said he thoroughly enjoyed the work and the responsibility, calling it "a test of strength".[9]
As President, Putin launched a campaign against corrupt oligarchs and economic mismanagement. For this purpose, he appointed Medvedev Chairman of Gazprom's board of directors in 2000. Together with Alexei Miller, Medvedev managed to put an end to the large-scale tax evasion and asset stripping that was going on in the company by the previous corrupt management.[15] Medvedev then served as deputy chair from 2001 to 2002, becoming chair for the second time in June 2002,[8] a position which he held until his ascension to Presidency in 2008.[16] During Medvedev's tenure, Gazprom's debts were restructured[17] and the company's market capitalisation grew from $7.8 billion[18] in 2000 to $300 billion in early 2008. Medvedev also headed Russia's negotiations with Ukraine and Belarus during gas price disputes.[17]
In October 2003, Medvedev replaced Alexander Voloshin as presidential chief of staff. In November 2005, Medvedev moved from the presidential administration to the government when Putin appointed him as the First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia. In particular, Medvedev was made responsible for the implementation of the National Priority Projects, focusing on improving public health, education, housing and agriculture. The program achieved some major results, such as increase of wages in healthcare and education and construction of new apartments, but its funding, 4% of the federal budget, was not enough to significantly overhaul Russia's infrastructure. According to opinion polls, most Russians believed the money invested in the projects had been spent ineffectively.[9]
In December 2005, Medvedev was named Person of the Year by Expert magazine, a Russian business weekly. He shared the title with Alexei Miller, CEO of Gazprom.
Presidential candidate[link]




Medvedev with Vladimir Putin


Following his appointment as First Deputy Prime Minister, many political observers began to regard Medvedev as a potential candidate for the 2008 presidential elections,[19] although Western observers widely believed Medvedev was too liberal and too pro-Western for Putin to endorse him as a candidate. Instead, Western observers expected the candidate to arise from the ranks of the so-called siloviki, security and military officials many of whom were appointed to high positions during Putin's presidency.[9] The silovik Sergei Ivanov and the administrator-specialist Viktor Zubkov were seen as the strongest candidates.[20] In opinion polls which asked Russians to pick their favourite successor to Putin from a list of candidates not containing Putin himself, Medvedev often came out first, beating Ivanov and Zubkov as well as the opposition candidates.[21] In November 2006, Medvedev's trust rating was 17%, more than double than that of Ivanov. Medvedev's popularity was probably boosted by his high-profile role in the National Priority Projects.[22]
Many observers were surprised when on 10 December 2007, President Putin announced that Medvedev was his preferred successor. The announcement was staged on TV with four parties suggesting Medvedev's candidature to Putin, and Putin then giving his endorsement. The four pro-Kremlin parties were United Russia, Fair Russia, Agrarian Party of Russia and Civilian Power.[20] United Russia held its party congress on 17 December 2007 where by secret ballot of the delegates, Medvedev was officially endorsed as their candidate in the 2008 presidential election.[23] He formally registered his candidacy with the Central Election Commission on 20 December 2007 and said he would step down as chairman of Gazprom, since under the current laws, the president is not permitted to hold another post.[24] His registration was formally accepted as valid by the Russian Central Election Commission on 21 January 2008.[25] Describing his reasons for endorsing Medvedev, Putin said:

I am confident that he will be a good president and an effective manager. But besides other things, there is this personal chemistry: I trust him. I just trust him.[9]

2008 presidential elections[link]
Election campaign[link]




Medvedev's election campaign took advantage of Putin's high popularity and his endorsement of Medvedev.


Main article: Russian presidential election, 2008
As the 2 March 2008 election approached, outgoing President Vladimir Putin remained the country's most popular politician. An opinion poll by Russia's independent polling organization, the Levada Center,[26] conducted over the period 21–24 December 2007 indicated that when presented a list of potential candidates, 79% of Russians were ready to vote for Medvedev if the election was immediately held.[27][28][29] The other main contenders, the Communists Gennady Zyuganov and the LDPR's Vladimir Zhirinovsky both received in 9% in the same poll.[30][31] Much of Putin's popularity transferred to his chosen candidate, with 42% of the survey responders saying that that Medvedev's strength came from Putin's support to him.[32][33]
In his first speech after being endorsed, Medvedev announced that, as president, he would appoint Vladimir Putin to the post of prime minister to head the Russian government.[34] Although constitutionally barred from a third consecutive presidential term, such a role would allow Putin to continue as an influential figure in Russian politics.[35] Putin pledged that he would accept the position of prime minister should Medvedev be elected president. Although Putin had pledged not to change the distribution of authority between the president and prime minister, many analysts expected a shift in the center of power from the presidency to the prime minister post when Putin assumed the latter under a Medvedev presidency.[36] Election posters portrayed the pair side-by-side with the slogan "Together We Win"[37] ("Вместе победим").[38] Medvedev vowed to work closely with Putin once elected.[39]
In December 2007, in preparation for his election campaign, Medvedev announced that funding of the National Priority Projects would be raised by 260 billion rubles for 2008. Medvedev's election campaign was relatively low-key and, like his predecessor, Medvedev refused to take part in televised debates, citing his high workload as first deputy prime minister as the reason. Instead, Medvedev preferred to present his views on his election website <http://www.medvedev2008.ru>.[40]
In January 2008, Medvedev launched his campaign with stops in the oblasts.[41] On 22 January 2008, Medvedev held what was effectively his first campaign speech at Russia's second Civic Forum, advocating a liberal-conservative agenda for modernising Russia. Medvedev argued that Russia needed "decades of stable development" because the country had "exhausted its share of revolutions and social upheavals back in the twentieth century". Medvedev therefore emphasised liberal modernisation while still aiming to continue his predecessor's agenda of stabilisation.[42] On 15 February 2008, Medvedev held a keynote speech at the Fifth Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum, saying that:

"Freedom is better than non-freedom – this principle should be at the core of our politics. I mean freedom in all its manifestations – personal freedom, economic freedom and, finally, freedom of expression.[42]

In the Krasnoyarsk speech, Medvedev harshly condemned Russia's "legal nihilism" and highlighted the need to ensure independence of the country's juridicial system and the need for an anti-corruption program. In economy, Medvedev advocated private property, economic deregulation and lower taxes. According to him, Russia's economy should be modernised by focusing on four "I"s: institutions, infrastructure, innovation and investment.[42][43][44]
Election victory[link]




Medvedev with Putin on election day on 2 March 2008


Medvedev was elected President of Russia on 2 March 2008. According to the final election results, he won 70.28% (52,530,712) of votes with a turnout of over 69.78% of registered voters. The main other contenders, Gennady Zyuganov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, received 17.72% and 9.35%, respectively. At least 3/4 of Medvedev's vote was Putin's electorate. According to surveys, had Putin and Medvedev both run for president in the same elections, Medvedev would have received 9% of the vote.[45]
The fairness of the election was disputed by many western observers and officials. Andreas Gross, head of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) mission, stated that the elections were "neither free nor fair". Moreover, the few western vote monitors bemoaned the inequality of candidate registration and the abuse of administrative resources by Medvedev allowing blanket television coverage.[46] Russian programmer Shpilkin, analyzed the results of Medvedev's election and came to the conclusion that the results were falsified by the election committees. However, after the correction for the alleged falsification factor, Medvedev still came out as the winner, although with 63% of the vote instead of 70%.[47]
According to John P. Willerton, the 2008 presidential elections and Medvedev's inauguration "represented an unprecedented moment in the over thousand-year history of the Russian state, as a politically strong and healthy 55-year old president willingly turned powers to a similarly vigorous leader." At the time of the elections, President Putin was on the height of his popularity. With United Russia's substantial majority in the State Duma, Putin could have easily amended the constitution to allow him to serve a third consecutive term, yet he refused to do so.[17]
Presidency[link]
Inauguration[link]




Taking the Presidential Oath in the Grand Kremlin Palace on 7 May 2008


On 7 May 2008, Dmitry Medvedev took an oath as the third President of the Russian Federation in a ceremony held in Kremlin Palace.[48] After taking the oath of office and receiving a gold chain of double-headed eagles symbolizing the presidency, he stated:[49]

"I believe my most important aims will be to protect civil and economic freedoms....We must fight for a true respect of the law and overcome legal nihilism, which seriously hampers modern development."[49]

As his inauguration coincided with the celebration of the Victory Day on 9 May, he attended the military parade at Red Square and signed a decree to provide housing to war veterans.[50]
Personnel appointments[link]




Medvedev appointed Sergei Naryshkin as the new head of the presidential administration.


See also: Vladimir Putin's Second Cabinet
On 8 May 2008, Dmitry Medvedev appointed Vladimir Putin Prime Minister of Russia as he had promised during his election campaign. The nomination was approved by the State Duma with a clear majority of 392–56, with only communist deputees voting against.[17]
On 12 May 2008, Putin proposed the list of names for his new cabinet, which Medvedev approved.[51] Most of the personnel remained unchanged from the times of Putin's presidency, but there were a couple of high-profile changes. Minister of Justice Vladimir Ustinov was replaced by Aleksandr Konovalov; Minister of Energy Viktor Khristenko was replaced with Sergei Shmatko; Minister of Communications Leonid Reiman was replaced with Igor Shchegolev and Vitaliy Mutko received the newly created position of Minister of Sports, Tourism and Youth policy.[17]
In the presidential administration, Medvedev replaced Sergei Sobyanin with Sergei Naryshkin as the head of the administration. The head of the Federal Security Service Nikolai Patrushev was replaced with Alexander Bortnikov.[17] Medvedev's economic adviser Arkady Dvorkovich and his Press Attaché Natalya Timakova became part of the President's core team. Medvedev's old classmate from his student years, Konstantin Chuichenko, became his personal assistant.[22]
Medvedev was careful not to upset the balance of different factions in the Presidential administration and in the government. However, the influence of the powerful siloviki weakened after Medvedev's inauguration for the first time in 20 years. In their place, Medvedev brought in the so-called civiliki, a network of St. Petersburg civil law scholars preferred by Medvedev for high positions.[22][52]
"Tandem rule"[link]




Medvedev with Putin in 2008


From the beginning of Medvedev's tenure, the nature of his Presidency and his relationship with Vladimir Putin was subject to considerable media speculation. In a unique situation in the Russian Federation's political history, the constitutionally powerful President was now flanked with a highly influential Prime Minister (Putin), who also remained the country's most popular politician. Previous Prime Ministers had proven to be almost completely subordinate to the President and none of them had enjoyed strong public approval, with Putin's previous tenure (1999–2000) as Prime Minister under Boris Yeltsin being the only exception.[17] Journalists quickly dubbed the new system with a practically dual-headed executive as "government by tandem" or "tandemocracy", with Medvedev and Putin called the "ruling tandem".[9]
Professor Daniel Treisman has argued that early in Medvedev's Presidency, Prime Minister Putin seemed ready to disengage and started withdrawing to the background. In the first year of Medvedev's Presidency, two external events threatening Russia—the Late-2000s financial crisis and the 2008 South Ossetia war—changed Putin's plans and caused him resume a stronger role in Russian politics.[9]
Main external events[link]
2008 South Ossetia war[link]
Main article: 2008 South Ossetia war




Military operations in the 2008 South Ossetia war






Presidential decree recognising South Ossetia's independence, signed by Medvedev on 26 August 2008


The long-lingering conflict between Georgia and the separatist regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which were supported by Russia, escalated during the summer of 2008. In the night of 7–8 August, Georgia launched a surprise attack, codenamed "Operation Clear Field", against South Ossetia with 10,000–11,000 soldiers and 75 tanks. Several Russian peacekeepers were killed in the attack, and many South Ossetians who had Russian citizenship.[53][54]
At the time of the attack, Medvedev was on vacation and Prime Minister Putin was attending the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.[55] At about 1:00 a.m on 8 August, Medvedev held a telephone conversation with Defence Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov. It is likely that during this conversation, Medvedev authorised the use of force against Georgia.[56] The next day, Medvedev released a statement, in which he said:

Last night, Georgian troops committed what amounts to an act of aggression against Russian peacekeepers and the civilian population in South Ossetia ... In accordance with the Constitution and the federal laws, as President of the Russian Federation it is my duty to protect the lives and dignity of Russian citizens wherever they may be. It is these circumstances that dictate the steps we will take now. We will not allow the deaths of our fellow citizens to go unpunished. The perpetrators will receive the punishment they deserve.
—Dmitry Medvedev on 8 August 2008[57]

In the early hours of 8 August, Russian military forces launched a counter-offensive against Georgian troops. After five days of heavy fighting, all Georgian forces were routed from South Ossetia and Abkhazia. On 12 August, Medvedev announced an end to the Russian military operation, entitled "Operation to force Georgia into peace". Later on the same day, a peace deal brokered by EU President Nicolas Sarkozy was signed between the warring parties. On 26 August, after being unanimously passed by the State Duma, Medvedev signed a decree recognising South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent states. The five-day conflict cost the lives of 48 Russian soldiers, including 10 peacekeepers, while the casualties for Georgia totaled 170 soldiers and 14 policemen.[58]
The Russian popular opinion of the military intervention was broadly positive, not just among the supporters of the government, but across the political spectrum.[59] Medvedev's popularity ratings soared by around 10 percentage points to over 70%,[60] due to what was seen as his effective handling of the war.[61] Although Putin also had a visible role during the conflict, hurrying, for example, home from the Beijing Olympics to meet refugees arriving from the conflict zone, it was Medvedev who made the key decisions, authorising the use of force and leading the peace negotiations.[62] Western media coverage of the war was, however, very critical of Russia. Especially the American media was quick to take the side of Georgia. For example, early reporting by the New York Times credited Georgian claims blaming Russia for starting the war, which later turned out to be unreliable. In September 2009, an international fact-finding mission headed by Swiss diplomat Heidi Tagliavini confirmed that it was Georgia who started war, although according to it Russia responded with "disproportionate" measures.[59]
2008–2009 Economic crisis[link]
In September 2008, Russia was hit by repercussions of the global financial crisis. Before this, Russian officials, such as Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, had said they believed Russia would be safe, due to its stable macroeconomic situation and substantial reserves accumulated during the years of growth. Despite this, the recession proved to be the worst in the history of Russia, and the country saw its GDP fall by over 8% in 2009.[63] The government's response was swift and decisive: it used over a trillion rubles (more than $40 billion) to help troubled banks,[64] and initiated a large-scale stimulus program, lending $50 billion to struggling companies.[63][64] No major banks collapsed, and minor failures were handled in an effective way. The economic situation stabilised in 2009, but substantial growth did not resume until 2010. Medvedev's approval ratings declined in wave of the crisis, dropping from 83% in September 2008 to 68% in April 2009, before recovering to 72% in October 2009 following improvements in the economy.[65][66]
According to some analysts, the economic crisis, together with the 2008 South Ossetia war, delayed Medvedev's liberal program. Instead of launching the reforms, the government and the Presidency had to focus their efforts on anti-crisis measures and handling the foreign policy implications of the war.[67][68]
Domestic policy[link]
Economy[link]
Main article: Medvedev modernisation programme




Model of a GLONASS-K satellite. Medvedev has made space technology and telecommunications one of the priority areas of his modernisation programme


In the economic sphere, Medvedev has launched a modernisation programme which aims at modernising Russia's economy and society, decreasing the country's dependency on oil and gas revenues and creating a diversified economy based on high technology and innovation.[69] The programme is based on the top 5 priorities for the country's technological development: efficient energy use; nuclear technology; information technology; medical technology and pharmaceuticals; and space technology in combination with telecommunications.[70] For Medvedev, the modernisation programme has become one of the most ambitious and important agendas of his presidency.
In November 2010, on his annual speech to the Federal Assembly Medvedev stressed for greater privatization of unneeded state assets both at the federal and regional level, and that Russia's regions must sell-off non-core assets to help fund post-crisis spending, following in the footsteps of the state's planned $32 billion 3-year asset sales. Medvedev said the money from privatisation should be used to help modernise the economy and the regions should be rewarded for finding their own sources of cash.[71][72]
Medvedev has named technological innovation one of the key priorities of his presidency. In May 2009, Medvedev established the Presidential Commission on Innovation, which he will personally chair every month. The commission comprises almost the entire Russian government and some of the best minds from academia and business.[73] Medvedev has also said that giant state corporations will inevitably be privatized, and although the state had increased its role in the economy in recent years, this should remain a temporary move.[74]
On 7 August 2009, Dmitry Medvedev instructed Prosecutor General Yury Chayka and Chief of the Audit Directorate of the Presidential Administration of Russia Konstantin Chuychenko to probe state corporations, a new highly privileged form of organizations earlier promoted by President Putin, to question their appropriateness.[75][76]
In June 2010, he visited the Twitter headquarters in Silicon Valley declaring a mission to bring more high-tech innovation and investment to the country.[77]
Police reform[link]
Main article: Russian police reform
Medvedev has made reforming Russia's law enforcement one of his top agendas. Medvedev initiated the reform at the end of 2009, with a presidential decree issued on 24 December ordering the government to start planning the reform. In early August 2010 a draft law was posted on the Internet at the address http://www.zakonoproekt2010.ru for public discussion. The website was popular, with more than 2,000 comments posted within 24 hours of its opening.[78] Based on citizen feedback, several modifications to the draft were made. On 27 October 2010, President Medvedev submitted the draft to the lower house of the State Duma.[79] The lower house of the Duma voted to approve the bill on 28 January 2011, and the upper house followed suit on 2 February 2011. On 7 February 2011, President Medvedev signed the bill into law.[80] The changes came into effect on 1 March 2011.[81]
Under the reform, the salaries of Russian police officers will be increased by 30%, Interior Ministry personnel will be cut and financing and jurisdiction over the police will be centralised.[82] Around 217 billion rubles ($7 billion) have been allocated to the police reform from the federal budget for the time frame 2012–2013.[83]
Anti-corruption campaign[link]
Main article: Russian anti-corruption campaign




Medvedev chairing a meeting the Anti-Corruption Council on 30 September 2008


Fighting corruption has been one of the key areas of Medvedev's presidency. On 19 May 2008, Medvedev signed a decree on anti-corruption measures, which included creation of an Anti-Corruption Council.[84] In the first meeting of the Council on 30 September 2008, Medvedev said:[85]

"I will repeat one simple, but very painful thing. Corruption in our country has become rampant. It has become commonplace and characterises the life of the Russian society."

In July 2008, Medvedev's National Anti-Corruption Plan was published in the official Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspaper. It suggested measures aimed at making sanctions for corruption more severe, such as legislation to disqualify state and municipal officials who commit minor corruption offences and making it obligatory for officials to report corruption. The plan ordered the government to prepare anti-corruption legislation based on these suggestions.[86][87] The bill that followed, called On Corruption Counteraction was signed into law on 25 December 2008 as Federal Law N 273-FZ.[88] According to Professor Richard Sakwa, "Russia now at last had serious, if flawed, legislation against corruption, which in the context was quite an achievement, although preliminary results were meagre."[85] Russia's score in Corruption Perceptions Index rose from 2.1 in 2008 to 2.2 in 2009, which "could be interpreted as a mildly positive response to the newly-adopted package of anti-corruption legislation initiated and promoted by president Medvedev and passed by the Duma in December 2008", according to Transparency International's CPI 2009 Regional Highlights report.[89]
On 13 April 2010, Medvedev signed presidential decree No. 460 which introduced the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, a midterm government policy, while the plan is updated every two years. The new strategy stipulated increased fines, greater public oversight of government budgets and sociological research.[90][91] According to Georgy Satarov, president of the Indem think tank, the latest decree "probably reflected Medvedev's frustration with the fact that the 2008 plan had yielded little result."[90]
In January 2011, President Medvedev admitted that the government had so far failed in its anti-corruption measures.[92]
On 4 May 2011, Medvedev continued his anti-corruption efforts by signing the Federal Law On Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences of the Russian Federation to Improve State Anti-Corruption Management.[93] The bill raised fines for corruption to up to 100 times the amount of the bribe given or received, with the maximum fine being 500 million rubles ($18.3 million).[94]
Education[link]



This section requires expansion.


President Medvedev initiated new policy called "Our New School" and instructed the government to present a review on the implementation of the initiative every year.[95]
Development of the political system[link]




A Just Russia's Sergey Mironov was very critical of the 2009 regional elections


Regional elections held on 1 March 2009 were followed by accusations of administrative resources being used in support of United Russia candidates, with the leader of A Just Russia Sergey Mironov being especially critical. Responding to this, Medvedev met with Chairman of the Central Election Commission of Russia, Vladimir Churov, and called for moderation in the use of administrative resources.[96] In August 2009, Medvedev promised to break the near-dominant position of United Russia party in national and regional legislatures, stating that "New democratic times are beginning".[97] The next regional elections were held on 11 October 2009 and won by United Russia with 66% of the vote. The elections were again harshly criticised for the use of administrative resources in favour of United Russia candidates. Communist, LDPR and A Just Russia parliamentary deputies staged an unprecedented walkout on 14–15 October 2009 as a result.[96] Professor Richard Sakwa has noted, that although Medvedev has often promised to stand up for more political pluralism, after the 2009 regional elections, a gulf had formed between Medvedev's words and the worsening situation, with the question arising "whether Medvedev had the desire or ability to renew Russia's political system."[96]
On 26 October 2009, the First Deputy Chief of Staff Vladislav Surkov, warned that democratic experiments could result in more instability and that more instability "could rip Russia apart".[98] On 6 November 2010, Medvedev vetoed a recently passed bill which restricted antigovernment demonstrations. The bill, passed on 22 October, notably prohibited anyone who had previously been convicted of organizing an illegal mass rally from seeking permission to stage a demonstration.[99]
In late November 2010, Medvedev made a public statement about the damage being done to Russia's politics by the dominance of the United Russia party. He claimed that the country faced political stagnation if the ruling party would "degrade" if not challenged; "this stagnation is equally damaging to both the ruling party and the opposition forces." In the same speech, he said Russian democracy was "imperfect" but improving. BBC Russian correspondents reported that this came on the heels of discontent in political circles and opposition that the authorities, in their view, had too much control over the political process.[100]
In his first address to the Russian parliament on 5 November 2008,[101] Medvedev proposed to change the Constitution of Russia in order to increase the terms of the President and State Duma from four to six and five years respectively (see 2008 Amendments to the Constitution of Russia).
Medvedev on 8 May 2009, proposed to the legislature and on 2 June signed into law an amendment whereby the chairperson of the Constitutional Court and his deputies would be proposed to the parliament by the president rather than elected by the judges, as was the case before.[102]
In May 2009, Medvedev set up the Presidential Commission of the Russian Federation to Counter Attempts to Falsify History to the Detriment of Russia's Interests.[103]
In a speech on 15 September 2009, Medvedev stated that he approved of the 2004 abolition of direct popular elections of regional leaders, effectively in favor of their appointment by the Kremlin, and added that he didn't see a possibility of a return to direct elections even in 100 years.[104][105]
Election reform[link]




News conference following Russian-Cypriot talks in Nicosia, Cyprus


In 2009, Medvedev proposed an amendment to the election law which would decrease the State Duma election threshold from 7% to 5%. The amendment was signed into law in Spring 2009. Parties receiving more than 5% but less than 6% of the votes will now be guaranteed one seat, while parties receiving more than 6% but less than 7% will get two seats. These seats will be allocated before the seats for parties with over 7% support.[106]
The Russian election law stipulates that parties with representatives in the State Duma (currently United Russia, Communist Party of the Russian Federation, Liberal Democratic Party of Russia and A Just Russia) are free to put forward a list of candidates for the Duma elections, while parties with no current representation need first to collect signatures. Under the 2009 amendments initiated by Medvedev, the amount of signatures required was lowered from 200,000 to 150,000 for the 2011 Duma elections. In subsequent elections, only 120,000 signatures will be required.[106]
In response to the largest demonstrations since the end of the Soviet Union – reported in over 60 cities across Russia in early December 2011 in response to widely reported alleged violations in parliamentary elections and the barring of opposition parties from them – President Medvedev has publicly ordered an investigation of fraud reports.
Foreign policy[link]
Main article: List of presidential trips made by Dmitry Medvedev




With President of Argentina Cristina Fernández on April 2010






The first meeting between Dmitry Medvedev and Barack Obama, before the G20 summit in London on 1 April 2009






Dmitri Medvedev meeting with Kim Jong-il, former President of North Korea, in Sosnovy Bor, 2011






BRICS leaders in 2011 – Manmohan Singh, Dmitry Medvedev, Hu Jintao, Dilma Rousseff and Jacob Zuma.






President Dmitry Medvedev and Abdelaziz Bouteflika in Algiers


In August, during the third month of Medvedev's presidency, Russia took part in the 2008 South Ossetia war with Georgia, which drove tension in Russian-American relations to a post-Cold War high. On 26 August, following a unanimous vote of the Federal Assembly of Russia, Medvedev issued a presidential decree officially recognizing Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states,[107] an action condemned by the G7.[108] On 31 August 2008, Medvedev announced a shift in the Russian foreign policy under his government, built around five main principles:[109]

Fundamental principles of international law are supreme.
The world will be multipolar.
Russia will not seek confrontation with other nations.
Russia will protect its citizens wherever they are.
Russia will develop ties in friendly regions.

In his address to the parliament on 5 November 2008 he also promised to deploy the Iskander missile system and radar-jamming facilities in Kaliningrad Oblast to counter the U.S. missile defence system in Eastern Europe.[110] Following U.S. President Barack Obama's announcement on 17 September 2009, that Washington would not deploy missile-defense elements in the Czech Republic and Poland, Dmitry Medvedev said he decided against deploying Iskander missiles in Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast.[111]
On 21 November 2011, Medvedev claimed that the war on Georgia had prevented further NATO expansion.[112]
Relationship with Putin[link]
Although the Russian constitution clearly apportions the majority of power to the president, speculation arose over the question of whether it was Medvedev or Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who actually wielded the most power.[113] According to The Daily Telegraph, "Kremlin-watchers" note that Medvedev uses the more formal form of 'you' (Вы, 'vy') when addressing Putin, while Putin addresses Medvedev with the more informal 'ty' (ты).[113] According to a poll conducted in September 2009 by the Levada Center in which 1,600 Russians from across Russia took part, 13% believed Medvedev held the most power, 32% Putin, and 48% both (7% failed to answer).[114] However Medvedev has affirmed his position of strength, stating, "I am the leader of this state, I am the head of this state, and the division of power is based on this."[115]
2012 presidential elections[link]
As both Putin and Medvedev could run for President in the 2012 general elections, there is a view from some analysts that some of Medvedev's recent actions and comments are designed to separate his image from Putin's: examples noted by the BBC included his dealings in late 2010 with NATO and America, possibly designed to show himself as being better able to deal with the Western nations,[116] and comments in November about the need for a stronger opposition in Russian politics, to present himself as a moderniser. The BBC also noted that other analysts believe the split is exaggerated, and Medvedev and Putin are "trying to maximise support for the authorities by appealing to different parts of society".[100] There is belief that the court verdict on former oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky and his partner Platon Lebedev, both of whom funded opposition parties before their arrests, will indicate whether or not Putin "is still calling all the shots".[117]
On 24 September 2011, while speaking at the United Russia party congress, Medvedev announced that he would recommend the party to nominate Vladimir Putin as its presidential candidate and that the two men had long ago cut a deal to allow Mr Putin to return to the presidency in 2012 after he was forced to stand down in 2008 by term limits."[118] Medvedev said he himself would be ready to perform "practical work in the government".[119] Putin accepted Medvedev's offer the same day, and backed him for the position of the Prime Minister of Russia in case the United Russia, whose list of candidates in the elections Medvedev agreed to head, would win in the upcoming Russian legislative election.[120] The same day the Russian Orthodox Church endorsed the proposal by President Medvedev to let Putin return to the post of President of Russia.[121]
On 22 December 2011, in his last state of the nation address in Moscow, Medvedev called for comprehensive reform of Russia’s political system — including restoring the election of regional governors and allowing half the seats in the State Duma to be directly elected in the regions. "I want to say that I hear those who talk about the need for change, and understand them", Medvedev said in an address to the Duma. "We need to give all active citizens the legal chance to participate in political life." However, the opposition to the ruling United Russia party of Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin dismissed the proposals as political posturing that failed to adequately address protesters who claimed the December 4 election was rigged.[122] On May 7, on his last day in office, Medvedev signed the last documents as the head of state: in the sphere of civil society, protection of human rights and modernization. He approved the list of instructions by the results of the meeting with the Presidential council on Civil Society and Human Rights, which was held on April 28. Medvedev also approved with his decree "Presidential programme for raising skills of engineers for 2012–2014" for modernization and technological development of the Russian economy.[123]
Premiership[link]
Main article: Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet
On 7 May 2012, the same day he ceased to be the President of Russia, Dimitry Medvedev was nominated by President Vladimir Putin to the office of Prime Minister.[124][125] On 8 May 2012, the State Duma of the Russian Federation voted on the nomination submitted by the new President, and confirmed the choice of Medvedev to the post. Putin's United Russia party, now led by Medvedev, secured a majority of the Duma's seats in the 2011 legislative election, winning 49% of the vote, and 238 of the 450 seats. Medvedev's nomination to the office of Prime Minister was approved by the State Duma in a 299–144 vote.[126]
Medvedev took office as Prime Minister of Russia also on 8 May 2012, after President Vladimir Putin signed the decree formalizing his appointment to the office.[127]
In May 19, 2012 Dmitry Medvedev took part in G-8 Summit in Camp David, USA, replacing President Putin, who decided not to represent Russia, in the summit. Medvedev was the first Prime Minister to represent Russia in G-8, instead the President of Russia. In May 21, 2012 his Cabinet was appointed and approved by the President. In May 26, he was approved and officially appointed as the Chairman of United Russia, the ruling Party. Earlier in the same week Medvedev was officially joined to the party and thereby becoming Russia’s first prime minister affiliated to a political party.[128]
Personal life[link]
Medvedev is married and has a son named Ilya Dmitrevich Medvedev (born 1995). His wife, Svetlana Vladimirovna Medvedeva, was both his childhood friend and school sweetheart. They married several years after their graduation from secondary school in 1982.[129]




Dmitry Medvedev and his wife Svetlana Medvedeva


Medvedev is a devoted fan of British hard rock, listing Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd, and Deep Purple as his favorite bands. He is a collector of their original vinyl records and has previously said that he has collected all of the recordings of Deep Purple.[130][131] As a youth, he was making copies of their records, although these bands were then on the official state-issued blacklist.[132] In February 2008, Medvedev and Sergei Ivanov attended a Deep Purple concert in Moscow together.[133]
During a visit to Serbia, Medvedev received the highest award of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Order of St. Sava, for "his contribution to the unity of the world Orthodoxy and his love to the Serbian people."[134]
Despite a busy schedule, Medvedev always reserves an hour each morning and again each evening to swim[131] and weight train. He swims 1,500 metres (4,900 ft) twice a day. He also jogs, plays chess, and practices yoga. Among his hobbies are reading the works of Mikhail Bulgakov and he is also a fan of the Harry Potter series after asking J. K. Rowling for her autograph when they met during the G-20 London Summit in April 2009.[135] He is also a fan of football and follows his hometown professional football team, FC Zenit Saint Petersburg.[136]




Medvedev with current members of Deep Purple in 2011


Medvedev is an avid amateur photographer. In January 2010, one of his photographs was sold at a charity auction for 51 million rubles (US$1,750,000), making it one of the most expensive ever sold.[137]
Medvedev keeps an aquarium in his office and cares for his fish himself.[138] Medvedev owns a Neva Masquerade male cat named Dorofei. Dorofei used to fight with a cat belonging to Mikhail Gorbachev—who was Medvedev's neighbor—so the Medvedevs had to have Dorofei neutered.[139]
Medvedev's reported 2007 annual income is $80,000, and he reported approximately the same amount as bank savings. Medvedev's wife reported no savings or income. They live in an upscale apartment house "Zolotye Klyuchi" in Moscow.[citation needed]
On the Runet, Medvedev is sometimes associated with the Medved meme, linked to padonki slang, which resulted in many ironical and satirical writings and cartoons that blend Medvedev with a bear. (The word medved means "bear" in Russian and the surname "Medvedev" is a patronymic which means "of the bears"). Medvedev is familiar with this phenomenon and takes no offence, stating that the web meme has the right to exist.[140][141][142][143]
Medvedev is competent in English, but due in part to protocol, he only speaks Russian in interviews.[144]
Publications[link]








Medvedev videoblog posted after his visit to Latin America in November 2008


Medvedev wrote two short articles on the subject of his doctoral dissertation in Russian law journals. He is also one of the authors of a textbook on civil law for universities first published in 1991 (the 6th edition of Civil Law. In 3 Volumes. was published in 2007). He is the author of a textbook for universities entitled, Questions of Russia's National Development, first published in 2007, concerning the role of the Russian state in social policy and economic development. He is also the lead co-author of a book of legal commentary entitled, A Commentary on the Federal Law "On the State Civil Service of the Russian Federation", scheduled for publication in 2008. This work considers the Russian Federal law on the Civil service,[145] which went into effect on 27 July 2004, from multiple perspectives — scholarly, jurisprudential, practical, enforcement- and implementation-related.[146]
In October 2008, President Medvedev began posting a videoblog at the presidential website kremlin.ru (English).[147] His videoblog posts have also been posted in the official LiveJournal community "blog_medvedev"[dead link][148] since 21 April 2009 by the Kremlin administration. In June 2011 Medvedev participated in launching of the "Eternal Values" project of RIA Novosti together with Russian Chapter of Wikimedia Foundation. RIA Novosti granted free CC-BY-SA-3 licenses to a one hundred of its images while Medvedev registered as Dmitry Medvedev for RIAN personally uploaded one of those photographs to Wikimedia Commons.[149][150]
On 13 April 2009, Medvedev gave a major interview to the Novaya Gazeta newspaper. The interview was the first one he had ever given to a Russian print publication and covered such issues as civil society and the social contract, transparency of public officials and Internet development.[151] jurisprudential, practical, enforcement- and implementation-related.[152]
References[link]


^ First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev Endorsed for the Next President’s Post[dead link], Voice of Russia, 10 December 2007.
^ Russian Parliament approves Medvedev’s candidacy for premiership, RT
^ Medvedev becomes Russia’s PM: Voice of Russia. The Voice of Russia (2012-05-08). Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Russia PM Medvedev set to be elected United Russia leader, BBC, 26 May 2012
^ Медведев Дмитрий Анатольевич Viperson.ru
^ Потомок пахарей и хлеборобов Ekspress Gazeta 4 April 2008
^ "Transcript interview, First Deputy Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev" (in Russian). Government of the Russian Federation. 24 January 2008. http://www.rost.ru/official/2008/01/240000_12571.shtml. Retrieved 26 July 2008. 
^ a b c d e f g "Dmitry Medvedev: Biography". Kremlin.ru. 2008. http://eng.medvedev.kremlin.ru/biography. 
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q Treisman, Daniel (2011). The Return: Russia's Journey from Gorbachev to Medvedev. Free Press. pp. 123–163. ISBN 978-1-4165-6071-5. 
^ "Ukrainian media interviews President Medvedev". Russia Today. http://rt.com/Politics/2010-05-16/medvedev-ukraine-relations-interview.html. Retrieved 16 May 2010. 
^ Andreyev, Sergey. "Почему Медведев?". http://www.planputina2012.ru/2010/10/04/%D0%BF%D0%BE%D1%87%D0%B5%D0%BC%D1%83-%D0%BC%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%B2/. 
^ a b "Who is Dmitry Medvedev?". Russia Today. 4 March 2008. http://rt.com/politics/who-is-dmitry-medvedev-2008-03-04/. 
^ Umland, Andreas (11 December 2007). "The Democratic Roots of Putin's Choice". Washington Post. http://washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/12/10/AR2007121001560.html. Retrieved 10 May 2008; Galina Kozhevnikova and Vladimir Pribylovskii Rossiiskaia vlast' v biografiiakh I: Vysshie dolzhnostnye litsa RF v 2004 g. Stuttgart: ibidem-Verlag, 2007, p. 117. 
^ Levy, Clifford J.; p. A18
^ Goldmann, Marshall (2008). Petrostate: Putin, Power and the New Russia. Oxford University Press. pp. 141–142. ISBN 978-0-19-534073-0. 
^ "Zubkov replaces Medvedev as Gazprom chairman". The New York Times. 27 June 2008. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/27/business/worldbusiness/27iht-27gaz.14046892.html. 
^ a b c d e f g Willerton, John (2010). "Semi-presidentialism and the evolving executive". In White, Stephen. Developments in Russian Politics. 7. Duke University Press. 
^ "Shares". Gazprom. http://www.gazprom.com/investors/stock/. 
^ Russia: President's Potential Successor Debuts At Davos. 31 January 2007.
^ a b "Дмитрий Медведев выдвинут в президенты России" (in Russian). Lenta.Ru. 10 December 2007. http://lenta.ru/news/2007/12/10/medvedev/. Retrieved 30 November 2008. 
^ Treisman, Daniel (2011). The Return: Russia's Journey from Gorbachev to Medvedev. Free Press. pp. 240–261. ISBN 978-1-4165-6071-5. 
^ a b c Sakwa, Richard (2011). The Crisis of Russian Democracy: Dual State, Factionalism and the Medvedev Succession. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-14522-0. 
^ United Russia endorses D Medvedev as candidate for presidency[dead link] ITAR-TASS, 17 December 2007.
^ Medvedev Registers for Russian Presidency, Will Leave Gazprom, Bloomberg, 20 December 2007.
^ (Russian) О регистрации Дмитрия Анатольевича Медведева кандидатом на должность Президента Российской Федерации[dead link], Decision No. 88/688-5 of the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation, 21 January 2008.
^ Yuri Levada, The Times, 21 November 2006.
^ 27.12.2007. Последние президентские рейтинги 2007 года, The Levada Center, 27 December 2007. (In the same poll, when presented with the question of who they would vote for without a list of potential candidates, only 55% of those polled volunteered that they would vote for Medvedev, but another 24% said that they would vote for Putin. However, it should be noted that Putin is constitutionally ineligible for a consecutive presidential term.)
^ Poll says Putin's protégé more popular than president, Russian News & Information Agency, 27 December 2007.
^ Putin's Chosen Successor, Medevedev, Starts Campaign (Update2), Bloomberg.com, 11 January 2008.
^ Sakwa 2011, p.282
^ Последние президентские рейтинги 2007 года Ledada Center, 27 December 2007
^ Medvedev's Strength Is Putin: Poll The Moscow Times, 16 January 2008.
^ Sakwa 2011, p. 275
^ Speech by Dmitry A. Medvedev, New York Times, 11 December 2007
^ Drive Starts to Make Putin 'National Leader'[dead link] The Moscow Times, 8 November 2007
^ Putin seeks prime minister's post[dead link] Associated Press, 17 December 2007.
^ "Moscow Times". 64.233.183.104. http://64.233.183.104/search?q=cache:DxPsLpTTXOQJ:www.moscowtimes.ru/article/1010/42/361987.htm+%22we+will+be+victorious%22+putin&hl=pl&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=pl&client=firefox-a. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "World | Europe | Profile: Dmitry Medvedev". BBC News. 7 May 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/7136556.stm. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "New Russian president: I will work with Putin=CNN". Archived from the original on 5 March 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080305024307/http://edition.cnn.com/2008/WORLD/europe/03/03/russia.election/index.html. Retrieved 3 March 2008. 
^ Sakwa 2011, pp.282–283
^ Putin's successor dismisses fears of state "grab"[dead link], Reuters, 17 January 2008.
^ a b c Sakwa 2011, p.287
^ Foreign investors expect reforms from Russia's Medvedev[dead link]
^ Flintoff, Corey. "Focus Shifts to How Medvedev Will Run Russia". NPR. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=87809345. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ Sakwa 2011, pp.284–275
^ "Europe Offers Congratulations and Criticism to Medvedev". Deutsche Welle. 3 March 2008. http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,2144,3164312,00.html. Retrieved 13 April 2009. 
^ Dmitri Medvedev votes were rigged, says computer boffin The Times 18 April 2008
^ "ABC Live". Abclive.in. http://abclive.in/abclive_global/dmitry-medvedev-russia.html. Retrieved 28 September 2010. [dead link]
^ a b Stott, Michael (7 May 2008). "www.reuters.com, Russia's Medvedev takes power, pledges freedom". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/gc07/idUSL0649335020080507. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ Medvedev decrees to provide housing to war veterans[dead link] – ITAR-TASS, 07.05.2008, 15.27
^ "Prime Minister Putin appoints new government – 2". RIA Novosti. 12 May 2008. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20080512/107180100.html. 
^ "All the Next President's Men". Russia Profile. 19 December 2007. http://russiaprofile.org/politics/a1198058207.html. 
^ "EU report, volume II". Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Conflict in Georgia. 30 September 2009. http://www.ceiig.ch/pdf/IIFFMCG_Volume_II.pdf. Retrieved 30 September 2009. 
^ Nicoll, Alexander; Sarah Johnstone (September 2008). "Russia's rapid reaction". International Institute for Strategic Studies. http://www.iiss.org/EasysiteWeb/getresource.axd?AssetID=20268&type=full&servicetype=Attachment. Retrieved 9 December 2009. 
^ China still on-side with Russia Asia Times, 6 September 2008
^ Lavrov, Anton (2010). Ruslan Pukhov. ed. The Tanks of August. Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies. p. 49. ISBN 978-5-9902320-1-3. 
^ Statement on the Situation in South Ossetia Website of the President of Russia, 8 August 2008.
^ Treisman, p.153
^ a b Treisman, p.154
^ Treisman, p.259
^ Sakwa 2011, p.343
^ Developments in Russian Politics 7. p. 242. ISBN 978-0-230-22449-0. 
^ a b Guriev, Sergei; Tsyvinski, Aleh (2010). "Challenges Facing the Russian Economy after the Crisis". In Anders Åslund, Sergei Guriev, Andrew C. Kuchins. Russia After the Global Economic Crisis. Peterson Institute for International Economics; Centre for Strategic and International Studies; New Economic School. pp. 9–39. ISBN 978-0-88132-497-6. 
^ a b Treisman, p.149
^ "President's performance in office — Trends". Levada Center. May 2011. http://www.russiavotes.org/president/presidency_performance_trends.php#190. 
^ Treisman, Daniel (2010). "Russian Politics in a Time of Turmoil". In Anders Åslund, Sergei Guriev, Andrew C. Kuchins. Russia After the Global Economic Crisis. Peterson Institute for International Economics; Centre for Strategic and International Studies; New Economic School. pp. 39–59. ISBN 978-0-88132-497-6. 
^ Treisman, p.155
^ "Dmitry Medvedev's three years in office: achievements, results and influence". RIA Novosti. 11 May 2011. http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20110511/163967901.html. 
^ "Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: 2009 – Russia's Year in Review". Russia Profile. 31 December 2009. http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=Experts%27+Panel&articleid=a1262277858. [dead link]
^ Presidential Commission on the modernisation and technological development of the Russian economy Official site. (Russian)
^ "Russia tells regions to join privatisation drive". Forexpros.com. 30 November 2010. http://www.forexpros.com/news/financial-news/russia-tells-regions-to-join-privatisation-drive-177837. Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
^ "Privatization in regions to yield tens of billions of rbls-Kremlin". Itar-tass.com. http://www.itar-tass.com/eng/level2.html?NewsID=15731844&PageNum=0. Retrieved 19 February 2011. [dead link]
^ "Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Medvedev's Quest for Innovation". Russia Profile. 5 June 2009. http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=Experts%27+Panel&articleid=a1244223567. Retrieved 30 June 2009. [dead link]
^ "Medvedev says giant state corporations to go private". RIA Novosti. 5 June 2009. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20090605/155178001.html. Retrieved 30 June 2009. 
^ "Ъ-Online – Генпрокуратура приступила к проверке госкорпораций". Kommersant.ru. http://www.kommersant.ru/doc.aspx?DocsID=1226991. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "Medvedev orders look at activity of Russian state-run businesses | Russia | RIA Novosti". En.rian.ru. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20090807/155754700.html. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "Dmitry Medvedev visits Twitter HQ and tweets", The Telegraph. 24 June 2010. Accessed 14 June 2011
^ "Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Will Police Reform Result in Name Change Only?". Russia Profile. 27 August 2010. http://russiaprofile.org/experts_panel/a1282921466.html. 
^ "Medvedev submits draft police law to Russian lower house". RIA Novosti. 27 October 2010. http://en.beta.rian.ru/russia/20101027/161109261.html. 
^ "Medvedev signs police reform bill into law". RIA Novosti. 7 February 2011. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20110207/162489621.html. 
^ "Will Russian police reforms be more than a name change?". RIA Novosti. 18 March 2011. http://en.rian.ru/video/20110318/163081341.html. 
^ "Russia's rebranded police initiated with major layoffs". Russia Today. 1 March 2011. http://rt.com/politics/police-reform-major-layoff/. 
^ "Russia to spend around $7 billion on police reform in 2012–2013". RIA Novosti. 9 September 2010. http://en.beta.rian.ru/russia/20100909/160525031.html. 
^ Medvedev signs decree on measures to counter corruption RIA Novosti 19 May 2008
^ a b Sakwa 2011, p.329
^ Medvedev’s Anti-Corruption Crusade Russia Profile, 8 July 2008
^ National Anti-Corruption Plan Website of the President of Russia, 31 July 2008.
^ The Russian Federation Federal Law On Corruption Counteraction, 25 December 2008, N 273-FZ Website of President Of Russia
^ Grafting the Future Russia Profile, 29 November 2009
^ a b Nikolaus von Twickel (16 April 2010). "Medvedev Redefines Anti-Corruption Drive". The Moscow Times. http://www.themoscowtimes.com/news/article/medvedev-redefines-anti-corruption-drive/403966.html. 
^ National Anti-Corruption Strategy (Approved by Decree of the President of the Russian Federation №460 of 13 April 2010) Website of the President of Russia.
^ Russian president admits failure in fighting corruption Xianhuanet 13 January 2011
^ Amendments to bolster anti-corruption legislation Website of the President of Russia
^ Medvedev signs landmark anti-corruption law RIA Novosti 3 May 2011
^ Itar Tass, "Pres to launch education modernization project in few days"
^ a b c Sakwa 2011, p.327
^ Polls show Russians back crisis plan: Putin's party Reuters, 12 October 2009
^ Kremlin warns against wrecking Russia with democracy, Kyiv Post (26 October 2009)
^ "Medvedev vetoes law restricting protests". Yahoo! News. 6 November 2010. http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20101106/wl_afp/russiaprotestrightsparliament_20101106070207. Retrieved 4 December 2010. [dead link]
^ a b Steve Rosenberg (24 November 2010). "Medvedev warns of political 'stagnation' in Russia". BBC. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-11828222. Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
^ "Full text in English". Kremlin.ru. http://kremlin.ru/eng/speeches/2008/11/05/2144_type70029type82917type127286_208836.shtml. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "Itar-Tass". Itar-Tass. http://itar-tass.com/eng/level2.html?NewsID=14005381&PageNum=99. Retrieved 28 September 2010. [dead link]
^ Andrew Osborn. Medvedev Creates History Commission, Wall Street Journal, 21 May 2009.
^ "St. Petersburg Times". Times.spb.ru. 18 September 2009. http://www.times.spb.ru/index.php?action_id=2&story_id=29784. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "No change to method of appointing regional governors – Medvedev | Valdai Club | RIA Novosti". En.rian.ru. 15 September 2009. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20090915/156137520.html. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ a b "How the Duma electoral system works". Levada Center. http://www.russiavotes.org/duma/duma_election_law.php?S776173303132=732d47538b10f64be14861adc60c411e. 
^ Russia recognises Georgian rebels, BBC, 26 August 2008. Retrieved 27 August 2008.
^ Russia faces fresh condemnation, BBC, 27 August 2008. Retrieved 29 August 2008.
^ "Medvedev outlines five main points of future foreign policy". En.rian.ru. http://en.rian.ru/world/20080831/116422749.html. Retrieved 24 December 2008. 
^ Steve Gutterman and Vladimir Isachenkov. Medvedev: Russia to deploy missiles near Poland[dead link], Associated Press, 5 November 2008.
^ Russia never placed Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad – Navy chief, RIA Novosti, 1 October 2009.
^ "Russia’s 2008 war with Georgia prevented NATO growth – Medvedev." RIA Novosti, 21 November 2011.
^ a b Osborn, Andrew (7 March 2010). "Dmitry Medvedev's Russia still feels the cold hand of Vladimir Putin, Telegraph". The Daily Telegraph (UK). http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/7386448/Dmitry-Medvedevs-Russia-still-feels-the-cold-hand-of-Vladimir-Putin.html. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ Poll: Medvedev and Putin: who holds the power? Levada Center Retrieved on 12 March 2010
^ "Medvedev insists he's the boss". Television New Zealand. 30 March 2009. http://tvnz.co.nz/world-news/medvedev-insists-hes-boss-2595589. Retrieved 28 September 2011. 
^ "Russia 'to work with Nato on missile defence shield'". BBC News. 20 November 2010. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-11803931. Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
^ Ostalski, Andrei (15 December 2010). "Russia's most important court trial". BBC News. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-11994591. Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
^ Osborn, Andrew (24 September 2011). "Vladimir Putin on course to be Russia's next president as Dmitry Medvedev steps aside". The Daily Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/8786314/Vladimir-Putin-on-course-to-be-Russias-next-president-as-Dmitry-Medvedev-steps-aside.html. Retrieved 25 September 2011. 
^ "Medvedev backs Putin for Russian president". RIA Novosti. 24 September 2011. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20110924/167090260.html. Retrieved 25 September 2011. 
^ "Russia's Putin set to return as president in 2012". BBC News. 24 September 2011. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-15045816. Retrieved 25 September 2011. 
^ "Церковь одобрила решение Путина вернуться на пост президента России". Gazeta.ru. 24 September 2011. http://www.gazeta.ru/news/lenta/2011/09/24/n_2023289.shtml. Retrieved 24 September 2011. 
^ "Russia's Medvedev tries to appease protesters". http://news.yahoo.com/russias-medvedev-says-backs-political-reform-084520020.html. Retrieved 22 December 2011. 
^ (Russian) "Putin signs first decree as president", Itar Tass, May 7, 2012. Itar-tass.com. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Putin returns as Russia's president amid protests – CNN.com. Edition.cnn.com (2012-05-07). Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Putin Proposes Medvedev As Russian Prime Minister. Rttnews.com (2012-05-07). Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Putin hands Medvedev prime minister role amidst sustained unrest. The Globe and Mail (2012-05-08). Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ Medvedev becomes Russia’s PM: Voice of Russia. :. Retrieved on 2012-05-10.
^ United Russia to face reforms, May 26, 2012, The Voice of Russia
^ (Russian) Из школы, где учился Дмитрий Медведев, похищены его фото Factnews.ru
^ Russian 'bear' who loves Black Sabbath set to succeed Putin RIA Novosti
^ a b Putin's Purple reign man Guardian Unlimited, 10 December 2007
^ Medvedev Will Run Russia to Tune of Hard-Rock Band Deep Purple. Retrieved 8 March 2008.
^ Times Online. How Deep Purple conquered the Kremlin in night of metal mayhem
^ "Russian President Dmitry Medvedev awarded by the Serbian Orthodox Church : Department for External Church Relations of the Russian Orthodox Church". Mospat.ru. 21 October 2009. http://www.mospat.ru/en/2009/10/21/news6825/. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ "Russian President Harry Potter fan, asks for Rowling's autograph /". Mosnews.com. http://www.mosnews.com/culture/2009/04/03/harrypotter/. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ Nicholas II, FC Zenit, Black Sabbath – Medvedev's favorite things[dead link], ITAR-TASS, 11 December 2007.
^ "Снимок Медведева стал четвертым в списке самых дорогих фотографий мира". Lenta.ru. http://lenta.ru/news/2010/01/18/photo/. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ Baby-faced Dmitry Medvedev keeps fish tank in his office and listens to Black Sabbath, Pravda, 12 December 2007.
^ (Russian) Преемником Кони стал Дорофей[dead link] Moskovsky Komsomolets 15 March 2008
^ A Soft-Spoken, 'Smart-Kid' Lawyer[dead link], The Moscow Times, 2 November 2007.
^ (Russian) Дмитрий Медведев: учите олбанский!, Lenta.ru, 5 March 2007.
^ (Russian) Превед, Медвед, Polit.ru, 18 December 2007.
^ Medvedev palatable to Russian liberals and western states, Financial Times, 11 December 2007.
^ "Medvedev shows media-savvy side". BBC News. 29 March 2008. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/7970525.stm. Retrieved 31 March 2009. 
^ (Russian) Законы РФ / Федеральный закон от 27 июля 2004 г. N 79-ФЗ "О государственной гражданской службе Российской Федерации" (с изменениями от 2 февраля 2006 г., 2 марта, 12 апреля, 1 декабря 2007 г.)[dead link], Garant Database of Laws with Commentary.
^ (Russian) Дмитрий Анатольевич Медведев, Ozon.ru
^ "Видеоблог Президента России". Kremlin.ru. http://blog.kremlin.ru/. Retrieved 12 January 2009. 
^ Дмитрий Медведев завел ЖЖ – Lenta.ru
^ "Медведев запустил проект, открывающий доступ к фотоархиву РИА Новости". RIA Novosti. 23 June 2011. http://www.rian.ru/news_company/20110623/391887496.html. Retrieved 30 June 2011. 
^ "RIA Novosti celebrates 70th anniversary, uploads 100 images to Wikimedia Commons". WikiNews. 23 June 2011. http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/RIA_Novosti_celebrates_70th_anniversary_and_gifts_images_to_Wikimedia. Retrieved 30 June 2011. 
^ Muratov, Dmitry (15 April 2009). "Декларация Медведева. Год 2009 (Interview with Dmitri Medvedev)" (in Russian). Novaya Gazeta N39. http://www.novayagazeta.ru/data/2009/039/01.html. Retrieved 15 April 2009. 
^ (Russian) Дмитрий Анатольевич Медведев, quadmarket.ru


Literature[link]

Svanidze, Nikolai; Svanidze, Marina (2008). Medvedev. Saint Petersburg: Amfora. ISBN 978-5-367-00743-5. 
Sakwa, Richard (2011). The Crisis of Russian Democracy: Dual State, Factionalism and the Medvedev Succession. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-14522-0. 
Treisman, Daniel (2011). The Return: Russia's Journey from Gorbachev to Medvedev. Free Press. ISBN 978-1-4165-6071-5. 
White, Stephen, ed. (2010). Developments in Russian Politics 7. New York: Palgrave McMillan. ISBN 978-0-230-22449-0. 

External links[link]



Wikisource has original works written by or about:
Dmitry Medvedev






Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Dmitry Medvedev



Personal website (English)
personal video-blog (Russian)
Materials (photos, texts, videos, audios, etc.) of the official website of President of Russia for free usage under a Creative Commons license



Political offices


Preceded by
Alexander Voloshin
Chairman of the Presidential Administration
2003–2005
Succeeded by
Sergey Sobyanin


Preceded by
Mikhail Kasyanov
First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia
2005–2008
Succeeded by
Igor Shuvalov


Preceded by
Vladimir Putin
President of Russia
2008–2012
Succeeded by
Vladimir Putin


Preceded by
Viktor Zubkov
Acting
Prime Minister of Russia
2012–present
Incumbent


Party political offices


Preceded by
Vladimir Putin
Leader of United Russia
2012–present
Incumbent










v
t
e


Presidents of Russia






Presidents



Boris Yeltsin (1991–1999)
Vladimir Putin (2000–2008)
Dmitry Medvedev (2008–2012)
Vladimir Putin (2012–present)











Vice Presidents
(abolished 1993)



Alexander Rutskoy (1991–1993)








Acting Presidents



Alexander Rutskoy (1993)
Viktor Chernomyrdin (1996)
Vladimir Putin (1999–2000)











 Presidents of Russian Soviet Republic
Presidents of the USSR
















v
t
e


Prime Ministers of Russia







Acting prime ministers shown in italics.






Russian Empire

Vorontsov  · Rumyantsev  · Vyazmitinov  · Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov  · Lopukhin  · Kochubey  · Novosiltsev  · Vasilchikov  · Levashov  · Chernyshov  · Orlov  · Bludov  · Gagarin  · Ignatyev  · Valuyev  · Reutern  · Bunge  · Durnovo  · Witte · Goremykin · Stolypin · Kokovtsov · Goremykin · Stürmer · Trepov · Golitsyn












Russian Republic

Lvov · Kerensky






Russian SFSR

Lenin · Rykov · Syrtsov · Sulimov · Bulganin · Vakhrushev · Khokhlov · Kosygin · Rodionov · Chernousov · Puzanov · Yasnov · Kozlov · Polyansky · Voronov · Solomentsev · Vorotnikov · Vlasov · Silayev · Lobov · Yeltsin






Russian Federation

Yeltsin · Gaidar · Chernomyrdin · Kiriyenko · Chernomyrdin · Primakov · Stepashin · Putin · Kasyanov · Khristenko · Fradkov · Zubkov · Putin  · Zubkov · Medvedev







 Premiers of the USSR  ·  Council of Ministers of Russia  ·  Heads of Government














v
t
e


Chairmen of United Russia







Sergey Shoygu · Boris Gryzlov · Vladimir Putin · Dmitry Medvedev‎














v
t
e


Dmitry Medvedev







14 September, 1965










Political Activities



Presidential Election
Presidency
Premiership











Inrernal Policy



Medvedev modernisation programme
Amendments to the Constitution
Skolkovo Innovation Center
Police reform
Military reform
Anti-corruption campaign








Foreign Policy



Russia-Georgia War
List of presidential trips
The Third Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty








Family and Public Image



Svetlana (spouse)
Ilya Medvedev son
Dorofei (family cat)
@DmitryMedvedevRussia
Places named after Medvedev
Medvedev St.











 Category













Persondata


Name
Medvedev, Dmitry Anatolyevich


Alternative names
Медведев, Дмитрий Анатольевич (Russian)


Short description
Politician, businessman, lawyer


Date of birth
14 September 1965


Place of birth
Leningrad, Russia, Soviet Union


Date of death



Place of death



vep:Medvedev Dmitrii

http://wn.com/Dmitry_Medvedev
Related pages:
http://de.wn.com/Dmitri Anatoljewitsch Medwedew
http://es.wn.com/Dmitri Medvédev
http://ru.wn.com/Медведев, Дмитрий Анатольевич
http://cs.wn.com/Dmitrij Medveděv
http://pt.wn.com/Dmitri Medvedev
http://pl.wn.com/Dmitrij Miedwiediew
http://it.wn.com/Dmitrij Anatol'evič Medvedev
http://id.wn.com/Dmitry Medvedev
http://nl.wn.com/Dmitri Medvedev
http://fr.wn.com/Dmitri Medvedev


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dmitry_Medvedev
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
















The neutrality of this article is disputed. Please see the discussion on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (May 2012)


This name uses Eastern Slavic naming customs; the patronymic is Vladimirovich and the family name is Putin.


Vladimir Putin
Владимир Путин





President of Russia


Incumbent


Assumed office
7 May 2012


Prime Minister
Viktor Zubkov (Acting)
Dmitry Medvedev


Preceded by
Dmitry Medvedev


In office
7 May 2000 – 7 May 2008
Acting: 31 December 1999 – 7 May 2000


Prime Minister
Mikhail Kasyanov
Viktor Khristenko
Mikhail Fradkov
Viktor Zubkov


Preceded by
Boris Yeltsin


Succeeded by
Dmitry Medvedev


Prime Minister of Russia


In office
8 May 2008 – 7 May 2012


President
Dmitry Medvedev


Deputy
Igor Shuvalov


Preceded by
Viktor Zubkov


Succeeded by
Viktor Zubkov (Acting)


In office
16 August 1999 – 7 May 2000
Acting: 9 August 1999 – 16 August 1999


President
Boris Yeltsin


Deputy
Viktor Khristenko
Mikhail Kasyanov


Preceded by
Sergei Stepashin


Succeeded by
Mikhail Kasyanov


Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Union State


Incumbent


Assumed office
27 May 2008


Preceded by
Position established


Leader of United Russia


In office
1 January 2008 – 26 May 2012


Preceded by
Boris Gryzlov


Succeeded by
Dmitry Medvedev


Personal details


Born
(1952-10-07) 7 October 1952 (age 59)
Leningrad, Soviet Union
(now Saint Petersburg, Russia)


Political party
Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Before 1991)
Independent (1991–1995)
Our Home-Russia (1995–1999)
Unity (1999–2001)
Independent (2001–2008)
United Russia (2008–2012)
Independent (2012–present)


Spouse(s)
Lyudmila Aleksandrovna


Children
Mariya
Yekaterina


Alma mater
Leningrad State University


Signature



Website
Official website


Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin (Russian: Влади́мир Влади́мирович Пу́тин; IPA: [vɫɐˈdʲimʲɪr vɫɐˈdʲimʲɪrəvʲɪtɕ ˈputʲɪn] ( listen); born 7 October 1952) is a Russian politician who has been the President of Russia since 7 May 2012. Putin previously served as President from 2000 to 2008 and as Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000, and again from 2008 to 2012. Putin also serves as chairman of United Russia and Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Union of Russia and Belarus. He became acting President on 31 December 1999, when president Boris Yeltsin resigned in a surprising move. Putin won the 2000 presidential election; in 2004 he was re-elected for a second term lasting until 7 May 2008.
Because of constitutionally mandated term limits, Putin was ineligible to run for a third consecutive presidential term. After his successor Dmitry Medvedev won the 2008 presidential election, Putin was nominated by Medvedev to be Russia's Prime Minister; Putin took office on 8 May 2008 and a period of so-called "tandemocracy"[1] followed. In September 2011, Putin and Medvedev agreed he should seek a third, non-consecutive term in the 2012 presidential election, which he won in the first round on 4 March 2012.[2][3]
Putin claims to have overseen a return of political stability and economic progress to Russia, ending the crisis of the 1990s.[4] During his presidency, the Russian economy grew for nine straight years, seeing GDP increase by 72% in PPP (sixfold in nominal),[5][6] poverty decrease by more than 50%,[7][8] and average monthly salaries increase from $80 to $640.[5][9] These achievements have been ascribed by analysts to strong macroeconomic management, important fiscal policy reforms, surging capital inflows, access to low-cost external financing and a five-fold increase in price of oil and gas which are the majority of Russian exports.[10][11][12][13] The fast formation of the modern middle class in the country, the 2.3 times increase in real incomes between 2000-2011 as well as improvements in healthcare and public order allowed Russia to achieve the highest level of life expectancy in its history.[14]
As Russia's president, Putin passed into law a flat income tax of 13%, a reduced profits tax, and new land and legal codes.[12][15] As Prime Minister, Putin oversaw large scale military reform and police reform. His energy policy has affirmed Russia's position as an energy superpower.[16][17] Putin established a number of national champions, i.e. state corporations which oversaw the restoration of high-tech industries in the country (such as nuclear industry and defence industry). A significant rise in foreign investment[18] contributed to a boom in such sectors as the automotive industry. Economic megaprojects which Putin endorsed have included the construction of major export pipelines, the restoration of the global satellite navigation system GLONASS, and the building of infrastructure for international events held in Russia.
In Russia, Putin's leadership has mostly enjoyed considerable popularity, with generally high approval ratings;[19] as Prime Minister, Putin's approval rating was 52 percent in January 2012, according to the state-run pollster VTSIOM.[20] However, many of his actions have been characterised by the domestic opposition as undemocratic.[21] Western observers and organisations have also voiced criticism of Putin's leadership. The 2011 Democracy Index stated that Russia has been in "a long process of regression culminated in a move from a hybrid to an authoritarian regime" under Putin,[22] and American diplomatic cables leaked by WikiLeaks allege that Russia has become a "virtual mafia state" due to systematic corruption in Putin's governance,[23][24] allegations which Putin adamantly denies.
In the media, Putin often projects an adventurous, macho image, demonstrating his physical capabilities and taking part in unusual or dangerous activities; some of these publicity stunts have occasionally been criticised. A keen practitioner of martial arts, Putin has played a major role in development of sport in Russia, notably, helping Sochi to win the bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics.




Contents


1 Ancestry, early life and education
2 KGB career
3 Early political career

3.1 Saint Petersburg administration
3.2 Moscow career
3.3 Accusations of plagiarism


4 First Premiership (1999–2000)

4.1 Acting Presidency


5 First Presidency (2000–2004)
6 Second Presidency (2004–2008)
7 Second Premiership (2008–2012)
8 Third Presidency (since 2012)
9 Policies

9.1 Domestic policies
9.2 Economic policy
9.3 Industrial development
9.4 Energy policy
9.5 Arctic policy
9.6 Environmental policy
9.7 Religious and national policy
9.8 Sports development
9.9 Military development
9.10 Foreign policy

9.10.1 Relations with NATO and the West
9.10.2 Relations with the U.K.
9.10.3 Relations with China and SCO
9.10.4 Relations with Iran
9.10.5 Relations with Australasia, Latin America
9.10.6 Relations with post-Soviet states
9.10.7 Eurasian policy




10 Programmes

10.1 Long-term strategies
10.2 Programme articles


11 Speeches and catch phrases

11.1 Addresses to the Federal Assembly
11.2 Speeches abroad
11.3 Outdoor speeches
11.4 Putinisms


12 Public image

12.1 Ratings and polls
12.2 Assessments
12.3 Brands
12.4 Adventures and image
12.5 Singing and painting
12.6 In popular culture


13 Personal life

13.1 Family
13.2 Languages
13.3 Religion
13.4 Martial arts
13.5 Other sports
13.6 Biking
13.7 Personal wealth and residences
13.8 Pets


14 Recognition
15 References and notes
16 Bibliography
17 Further reading
18 External links




Ancestry, early life and education[link]




Putin with his mother, Maria Ivanovna, in July 1958


Putin was born on October 7, 1952, in Leningrad, RSFSR, USSR (now Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation),[25] to parents Vladimir Spiridonovich Putin (1911–1999) and Maria Ivanovna Putina (1911–1998). His mother was a factory worker, and his father was a conscript in the Soviet Navy, where he served in the submarine fleet in the early 1930s.[26] Two elder brothers were born in the mid-1930s; one died within a few months of birth, while the second succumbed to diphtheria during the siege of Leningrad.
Vladimir Putin's paternal grandfather, Spiridon Ivanovich Putin (1879–1965), was employed at Vladimir Lenin's dacha at Gorki as a cook, and after Lenin's death in 1924, he continued to work for Lenin's wife, Nadezhda Krupskaya. He would later cook for Joseph Stalin when the Soviet leader visited one of his dachas in the Moscow region. Spiridon later was employed at a dacha belonging to the Moscow City Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, at which the young Putin would visit him.[27]
The ancestry of Vladimir Putin has been described as a mystery with no records surviving of any ancestors of any people with the surname "Putin" beyond his grandfather Spiridon Ivanovich. It has been suggested that the Putin's are descended from the royal Tverskoy family. The 'family book' of the Tver region where Spiridon was from mentions the name of Putyanin who it claims were a clan of Russian aristocrats descended from Mikhail of Tver, the Grand Prince of Tver in the Middle Ages. It became common practice for family names associated with the former aristocracy to be abbreviated, e.g. Repnin becoming "Pnin" and, perhaps, Putyanin becoming "Putin".[28]
His autobiography, Ot Pervogo Litsa (English: In the First Person),[26] which is based on Putin's interviews, speaks of humble beginnings, including early years in a communal apartment in Leningrad. On 1 September 1960, he started at School No. 193 at Baskov Lane, just across from his house. By fifth grade he was one of a few in a class of more than 45 pupils who was not yet a member of the Pioneers, largely because of his rowdy behavior. In sixth grade he started taking sport seriously in the form of sambo and then judo. In his youth, Putin was eager to emulate the intelligence officer characters played on the Soviet screen by actors such as Vyacheslav Tikhonov and Georgiy Zhzhonov.[29]
Putin graduated from the International Law branch of the Law Department of the Leningrad State University in 1975, writing his final thesis on international law.[30] His PhD thesis was titled "The Strategic Planning of Regional Resources Under the Formation of Market Relations" and it argued that Russian economic success would depend on creating national energy champions.[31] While at university he became a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and remained a member until the party was dissolved in December 1991.[32] Also at the University he met Anatoly Sobchak who later played an important role in Putin's career. Anatoly Sobchak was at the time an Assistant Professor and lectured Putin's class on Business Law (khozyaystvennoye pravo).[33]
KGB career[link]




Putin in KGB uniform


Putin joined the KGB in 1975 upon graduation, and underwent a year's training at the 401st KGB school in Okhta, Leningrad. He then went on to work briefly in the Second Chief Directorate (counter-intelligence) before he was transferred to the First Chief Directorate, where among his duties was the monitoring of foreigners and consular officials in Leningrad.[34][35]
From 1985 to 1990, the KGB stationed Putin in Dresden, East Germany.[36] Following the collapse of the East German government, Putin was recalled to the Soviet Union and returned to Leningrad, where in June 1991 he assumed a position with the International Affairs section of Leningrad State University, reporting to Vice-Rector Yuriy Molchanov.[35] In his new position, Putin maintained surveillance on the student body and kept an eye out for recruits. It was during his stint at the university that Putin grew reacquainted with his former professor Anatoly Sobchak, then mayor of Leningrad.[37]
Putin finally resigned from the active state security services with the rank of Lieutenant colonel on 20 August 1991 (with some attempts to resign made earlier),[38] on the second day of the KGB-supported abortive putsch against Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.[39] Putin later explained his decision: "As soon as the coup began, I immediately decided which side I was on", though he also noted that the choice was hard because he had spent the best part of his life with "the organs".[40]
Early political career[link]
Saint Petersburg administration[link]
In May 1990, Putin was appointed Mayor Sobchak's advisor on international affairs. On 28 June 1991, he was appointed head of the Committee for External Relations of the Saint Petersburg Mayor's Office, with responsibility for promoting international relations and foreign investments. The Committee also registered business ventures in Saint Petersburg. Less than one year later, Putin was investigated by a commission of the city legislative council. Commission deputies Marina Salye and Yury Gladkov concluded that Putin understated prices and permitted the export of metals valued at $93 million, in exchange for foreign food aid that never arrived.[41][42] Despite the commission's recommendation that Putin be fired, Putin remained head of the Committee for External Relations until 1996.[43][44]
From 1994 to 1997, Putin was appointed to other positions in Saint Petersburg. In March 1994, he became first deputy head of the city administration. From 1995 through June 1997, he led the Saint Petersburg branch of the pro-government Our Home Is Russia political party.[45] From 1995 through June 1997 he was also the head of the Advisory Board of the JSC Newspaper Sankt-Peterburgskie Vedomosti.[45]
Moscow career[link]




Putin as FSB director, 1998


In 1996, Anatoly Sobchak lost the Saint Petersburg mayoral election to Vladimir Yakovlev. Putin was called to Moscow and in June 1996 became a Deputy Chief of the Presidential Property Management Department headed by Pavel Borodin. He occupied this position until March 1997. During his tenure Putin was responsible for the foreign property of the state and organized transfer of the former assets of the Soviet Union and Communist Party to the Russian Federation.[33]
On 26 March 1997, President Boris Yeltsin appointed Putin deputy chief of Presidential Staff, which he remained until May 1998, and chief of the Main Control Directorate of the Presidential Property Management Department (until June 1998). His predecessor on this position was Alexei Kudrin and the successor was Nikolai Patrushev both future prominent politicians and Putin's associates.[33]
On 25 May 1998, Putin was appointed First Deputy Chief of Presidential Staff for regions, replacing Viktoriya Mitina; and, on 15 July, the Head of the Commission for the preparation of agreements on the delimitation of power of regions and the federal center attached to the President, replacing Sergey Shakhray. After Putin's appointment, the commission completed no such agreements, although during Shakhray's term as the Head of the Commission there were 46 agreements signed.[46] Later, after becoming President Putin canceled all those agreements.[33]
On 25 July 1998, Yeltsin appointed Vladimir Putin head of the FSB (one of the successor agencies to the KGB), the position Putin occupied until August 1999. He became a permanent member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation on 1 October 1998 and its Secretary on 29 March 1999.
Accusations of plagiarism[link]
On 27 June 1997, at the Saint Petersburg Mining Institute Putin defended his Candidate of Science dissertation in economics titled "The Strategic Planning of Regional Resources Under the Formation of Market Relations".[47] According to Clifford G Gaddy, a senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, 16 of the 20 pages that open a key section of Putin’s 218-page thesis were copied either word for word or with minute alterations from a management study, Strategic Planning and Policy, written by US professors William King and David Cleland and translated into Russian by a KGB-related institute in the early 1990s.[48][49] 6 diagrams and tables were also copied.[50] Gaddy doesn't believe that the plagiarism was really intentional "in the sense that if you had wanted to hide where the text came from you wouldn’t even list this work in the bibliography."[51] The dissertation committee disagreed with Gaddy's claims. Chairman of the committee Natalia Pashkevich, accused Gaddy of not reading the dissertation very well. "There are references to the article mentioned. Everything is done correctly... It is only a plus for Vladimir Putin that he used not only Russian authors, but foreign ones as well." Anatoly Suslov, provost of economics at the Mining Institute, who was present at Putin dissertation defense, recalled "The opponent was someone from Moscow. The defense went calmly. There were many questions, of course, since it was a candidate's dissertation, but there was no question of plagiarism. No one uncovered anything of the kind. Vladimir Putin defended himself, and he prepared his own work. All those conversations about dissertations being bought are untrue. Ours isn't the kind of institute where you can do that."[52]
First Premiership (1999–2000)[link]
On 9 August 1999, Vladimir Putin was appointed one of three First Deputy Prime Ministers, which enabled him later on that day, as the previous government led by Sergei Stepashin had been sacked, to be appointed acting Prime Minister of the Government of the Russian Federation by President Boris Yeltsin.[53] Yeltsin also announced that he wanted to see Putin as his successor. Later, that same day, Putin agreed to run for the presidency.[54] On 16 August, the State Duma approved his appointment as Prime Minister with 233 votes in favour (vs. 84 against, 17 abstained),[55] while a simple majority of 226 was required, making him Russia's fifth PM in fewer than eighteen months. On his appointment, few expected Putin, virtually unknown to the general public, to last any longer than his predecessors. He was initially regarded as a Yeltsin loyalist; like other prime ministers of Boris Yeltsin, Putin did not choose ministers himself, his cabinet being determined by the presidential administration.[56]
Yeltsin's main opponents and would-be successors, Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov and former Chairman of the Russian Government Yevgeniy Primakov, were already campaigning to replace the ailing president, and they fought hard to prevent Putin's emergence as a potential successor. Putin's law-and-order image and his unrelenting approach to the renewed crisis in the North Caucasus, which started when the Islamic International Brigade based in Chechnya invaded a neighboring region starting the War in Dagestan, soon combined to raise Putin's popularity and allowed him to overtake all rivals.




Acting President Vladimir Putin arrived in Grozny on a Su-27 fighter jet, 20 March 2000.


While not formally associated with any party, Putin pledged his support to the newly formed Unity Party,[57] which won the second largest percentage of the popular vote (23.3%) in the December 1999 Duma elections, and in turn he was supported by it.
Acting Presidency[link]
On 31 December 1999, Yeltsin unexpectedly resigned and, according to the constitution, Putin became Acting President of the Russian Federation. On assuming this role, Putin went on a previously scheduled visit to Russian troops in Chechnya.[citation needed]
The first decree that Putin signed, on 31 December 1999, was titled "On guarantees for former president of the Russian Federation and members of his family".[58][59] This ensured that "corruption charges against the outgoing President and his relatives" would not be pursued, although this claim is not strictly verifiable.[clarification needed][60] Later on 12 February 2001 Putin signed a federal law on guarantees for former presidents and their families, which replaced the similar decree.
While his opponents had been preparing for an election in June 2000, Yeltsin's resignation resulted in the Presidential elections being held within three months, on 26 March 2000; Putin won in the first round with 53% of the vote.[61]
First Presidency (2000–2004)[link]
Vladimir Putin was inaugurated president on 7 May 2000. He appointed Minister of Finance Mikhail Kasyanov as his Prime minister. Having announced his intention to consolidate power in the country into a strict vertical, in May 2000 he issued a decree dividing 89 federal subjects of Russia between 7 federal districts overseen by representatives of him in order to facilitate federal administration.




Vladimir Putin taking the Presidential Oath on 7 May 2000 with Boris Yeltsin looking on.


During his first term in office, he moved to curb the political ambitions of some of the Yeltsin-era oligarchs such as former Kremlin insider Boris Berezovsky, who had "helped Mr. Putin enter the family, and funded the party that formed Mr. Putin's parliamentary base", according to BBC profile.[62][63] At the same time, according to Vladimir Solovyev, it was Alexey Kudrin who was instrumental in Putin's assignment to the Presidential Administration of Russia to work with Pavel Borodin,[64] and according to Solovyev, Berezovsky was proposing Igor Ivanov rather than Putin as a new president.[65] A new group of business magnates, such as Gennady Timchenko, Vladimir Yakunin, Yuriy Kovalchuk, Sergey Chemezov, with close personal ties to Putin, emerged.
Russia's legal reform continued productively during Putin's first term. In particular, Putin succeeded in the codification of land law and tax law, where progress had been slow during Yeltsin's administration, because of Communist and oligarch opposition, respectively. Other legal reforms included new codes on labour, administrative, criminal, commercial and civil procedural law, as well as a major statute on the Bar.[15]
The first major challenge to Putin's popularity came in August 2000, when he was criticised for his alleged mishandling of the Kursk submarine disaster.[66]
In December 2000, Putin sanctioned the law to change the National Anthem of Russia. At the time the Anthem had music by Glinka and no words. The change was to restore (with a minor modification) the music of the post-1944 Soviet anthem by Alexandrov, while the new text was composed by Sergey Mikhalkov, who previously had authored the lyrics of the two versions of the Soviet anthem.[67][68]
Many in the Russian press and in the international media warned that the death of some 130 hostages in the special forces' rescue operation during the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis would severely damage President Putin's popularity. However, shortly after the siege had ended, the Russian president was enjoying record public approval ratings – 83% of Russians declared themselves satisfied with Putin and his handling of the siege.[69]
A few months before the elections, Putin fired Kasyanov's cabinet and appointed Mikhail Fradkov to his place. Sergey Ivanov became the first civilian in Russia to take Defense Minister position.
In 2003, a referendum was held in Chechnya adopting a new constitution which declares the Republic as a part of Russia. Chechnya has been gradually stabilized with the establishment of the parliamentary elections and a regional government.[70][71] Throughout the war Russia has severely disabled the Chechen rebel movement, although sporadic violence continued to occur throughout the North Caucasus.[72]
Second Presidency (2004–2008)[link]




Putin speaking on the 2005 Victory Day Parade on Red Square. Saint Basil's Cathedral is on the background.


On 14 March 2004, Putin was re-elected to the presidency for a second term, receiving 71% of the vote.[61]
The Beslan school hostage crisis took place in September 2004, in which hundreds died. Among the administrative measures taken after that terrorist act, Putin launched an initiative to replace the direct election of the Governors and Presidents of the Federal subjects of Russia with a system whereby they would be nominated by the President and approved or disapproved by regional legislatures.[73][74] In 2005 Putin created the Public Chamber of Russia.
In 2005, the National Priority Projects were launched to improve Russia's health care, education, housing and agriculture. The most high-profile change within the national priority project frameworks was probably the 2006 across-the-board increase in wages in healthcare and education, as well as the decision to modernise equipment in both sectors in 2006 and 2007.[75] In his May 2006 annual speech, Putin announced increasing maternity benefits and state support of prenatal care for women. By 2012 the demographic programmes of the government led to a 45% increase in second child births by women, and a 60% increase in third, fourth etc. births.[76]
The continued criminal prosecution of Russia's then richest man, President of YUKOS company Mikhail Khodorkovsky, for fraud and tax evasion was seen by the international press as a retaliation for Khodorkovsky's donations to both liberal and communist opponents of the Kremlin. The government said that Khodorkovsky was corrupting a large segment of the Duma to prevent tax code changes such as taxes on windfall profits and closing offshore tax evasion vehicles. Khodorkovsky was arrested, Yukos was bunkrupted and the company's assets were auctioned at below-market value, with the largest share acquired by the state company Rosneft.[77] The fate of Yukos was seen in the West as a sign of a broader shift of Russia towards a system of state capitalism.[78][79]
A study by Bank of Finland's Institute for Economies in Transition (BOFIT) in 2008 found that state intervention had made a positive impact on the corporate governance of many companies in Russia: the governance was better in companies with state control or with a stake held by the government.[80]




George W. Bush and Vladimir Putin take a sunset walk on a pier along the Black Sea, April 5, 2008


Putin was criticized in the West and also by Russian liberals for what many observers considered a wide-scale crackdown on media freedom in Russia. On 7 October 2006, Anna Politkovskaya, a journalist who exposed corruption in the Russian army and its conduct in Chechnya, was shot in the lobby of her apartment building. The death of Politkovskaya triggered an outcry in Western media, with accusations that, at best, Putin has failed to protect the country's new independent media.[81][82] When asked about the Politkovskaya murder in his interview with the German TV channel ARD, Putin said that her murder brings much more harm to the Russian authorities than her writing.[83] By 2012 the performers of the murder were arrested and named Boris Berezovsky and Akhmed Zakayev as a possible clients.[84]
In 2007, "Dissenters' Marches" were organized by the opposition group The Other Russia,[85] led by former chess champion Garry Kasparov and national-Bolshevist leader Eduard Limonov. Following prior warnings, demonstrations in several Russian cities were met by police action, which included interfering with the travel of the protesters and the arrests of as many as 150 people who attempted to break through police lines.[86] The Dissenters' Marches have received little support among the Russian general public, according to polls.[87]
On 12 September 2007, Putin dissolved the government upon the request of Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov. Fradkov commented that it was to give the President a "free hand" in the run-up to the parliamentary election. Viktor Zubkov was appointed the new prime minister.[88]
In December 2007, United Russia won 64.24% of the popular vote in their run for State Duma according to election preliminary results.[89] Their closest competitor, the Communist Party of Russia, won approximately 12% of votes.[90] United Russia's victory in December 2007 elections was seen by many as an indication of strong popular support of the then Russian leadership and its policies.[91][92]
On 8 February 2008, Putin delivered a speech before the expanded session of the State Council headlined "On the Strategy of Russia's Development until 2020".[93] In his last days in office Putin was reported to have taken a series of steps to re-align the regional bureaucracy to make the governors report to the prime minister rather than the president.[94][95] The presidential site explained that "the changes... bear a refining nature and do not affect the essential positions of the system. The key role in estimating the effectiveness of activity of regional authority still belongs to President of the Russian Federation."
Second Premiership (2008–2012)[link]
Main article: Vladimir Putin's Second Cabinet




Vladimir Putin with Dmitry Medvedev


Putin was barred from a third term by the Constitution. First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was elected his successor. On 8 May 2008, only a day after handing the presidency to Medvedev, Putin was appointed Prime Minister of Russia, maintaining his political dominance.[96]
The 2008-2009 world crisis hit the Russian economy especially hard, interrupting the flow of cheap Western credit and investments. This coincided with tension in relationships with the EU and the U.S. following the 2008 South Ossetia war, in which Russia defeated the U.S. and NATO ally Georgia.
However, the large financial reserves, accumulated in the Stabilization Fund of Russia in the previous period of high oil prices, alongside the strong management helped the country to cope with the crisis and resume economic growth since mid-2009. The Russian government's anti-crisis measures have been praised by the World Bank, which said in its Russia Economic Report from November 2008: "prudent fiscal management and substantial financial reserves have protected Russia from deeper consequences of this external shock. The government's policy response so far—swift, comprehensive, and coordinated—has helped limit the impact."[97] Putin himself named the overcoming of consequences of the world economic crisis one of the two main achievements of his 2nd Premiership[76] (the other named achievement being the stabilisation of the size of Russia's population between 2008-2011 following the long period of demographic collapse started in the 1990s).[76]
At the United Russia Congress in Moscow on 24 September 2011, Medvedev officially proposed that Putin stand for the Presidency in 2012; an offer which Putin accepted. Given United Russia's near-total dominance of Russian politics, many observers believe that Putin is all but assured of a third term. The move is expected to see Medvedev stand on the United Russia ticket in the parliamentary elections in December, with a goal of becoming Prime Minister at the end of his presidential term.[98]
After the parliamentary elections on 4 December 2011, tens of thousands Russians engaged in protests against alleged electoral fraud, the largest protests in Putin's time; protesters criticized Putin and United Russia and demanded annulment of the election results.[99] However those protests, organized by the leaders of the Russian "non-systemic opposition", sparked the fear of a colour revolution in society, and a number of "anti-Orange" counter-protests (the name alludes to the Orange Revolution in Ukraine) and rallies of Putin supporters were carried out, surpassing in scale the opposition protests.[100][101][102]
Third Presidency (since 2012)[link]




Vladimir Putin taking the Presidential Oath on 7 May 2012, his 3rd inauguration ceremony


On 4 March 2012 Putin won the 2012 Russian presidential elections in the first round, with 63.6 % of the vote.[61] While extraordinary measures were taken to make the elections transparent, including the usage of webcams on the vast majority of polling stations, the vote was criticized by Russian opposition and some international bodies for perceived irregularities.[citation needed]
Putin was inaugurated in the Kremlin on 7 May 2012. Massive public protests had taken place in Moscow on 6 May with estimated 8,000[103]-20,000 protesters taking part.[104] 80 people were injured in confrontations with police (including over 30 policemen)[105] and 450 arrests were made on 6 May[106] with 120 more arrests taking place in protests the following day.[106]
On his first day as President, Putin issued 14 Presidential decrees, including a lengthy one stating wide-ranging goals for the Russian economy. Other decrees concerned education, housing, skilled-labor training, relations with the European Union, the defense industry, inter-ethnic relations, and other policy areas dealt with in Putin's programme articles issued during the Presidential campaign.[107][108]
Policies[link]
Domestic policies[link]
See also: Sovereign democracy and Putinism
Putin's domestic policies, especially early in his first presidency, were aimed at creating a strict "vertical of power". On 13 May 2000, he issued a decree dividing the 89 federal subjects of Russia between 7 federal districts overseen by representatives named by himself in order to facilitate federal administration. Putin also pursued a policy of enlargement of federal subjects: their number was reduced from 89 in 2000 to the present 83 after the autonomous okrugs of Russia were merged with their parent subjects.




On 13 May 2000, Putin divided Russia into 7 federal districts. On 19 January 2010, the new 8th North Caucasian Federal District was split from Southern Federal District.


According to Stephen White, Russia under the presidency of Putin made it clear that it had no intention of establishing a "second edition" of the American or British political system, but rather a system that was closer to Russia's own traditions and circumstances.[109] Putin's administration has often been described as a "sovereign democracy".[110] First proposed by Vladislav Surkov in February 2006, the term quickly gained currency within Russia and arguably unified various political elites around it. According to its proponents, the government's actions and policies ought above all to enjoy popular support within Russia itself and not be determined from outside the country.[111][112]
In July 2000, according to a law proposed by him and approved by the Federal Assembly of Russia, Putin gained the right to dismiss heads of the federal subjects. In 2004, the direct election of governors by popular vote was ended. This was seen by Putin as a necessary move to stop separatist tendencies and get rid of those governors who were connected with organised crime.[113] The measure proved to be temporary: in 2012, as proposed by Putin's successor Dmitry Medvedev, the direct election of governors was re-introduced.[114] Along with the return of elected governors, Medvedev's reforms also simplified the registration of political parties and reduced the number of signatures required by non-parliamentary parties and independent candidates to participate in elections,[114] thus reverting or further loosening the restrictions imposed by previous Putin-endorsed legislation. Notably, the tough electoral legislation has been among the government actions effected under Putin's presidency that have been criticised by many independent Russian media outlets and Western commentators as anti-democratic.[115][116]
During his first term in office, Putin moved to curb the political ambitions of some of the Yeltsin-era oligarchs, resulting in the exile or imprisonment of such people as Boris Berezovsky, Vladimir Gusinsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky; other oligarchs soon joined Putin's camp.[citation needed]
Putin presided over an intensified fight with organised crime and terrorism that resulted in two times lower murder rates by 2011,[117] as well as significant reduction in the numbers of terrorist acts by the late 2000s.[118]
Putin succeeded in codifying land law and tax law and promulgated new codes on labour, administrative, criminal, commercial and civil procedural law.[15] Under Medvedev's presidency, Putin's government implemented some key reforms in the area of state security, the Russian police reform and the Russian military reform.
Economic policy[link]
See also: Economy of Russia




Russian GDP since the end of the Soviet Union. The Russian term for GDP is ВВП (VVP) which coincides with the initials of Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin and is often used as a shortcut when writing or speaking about him.


Under the Putin administration the economy made real gains of an average 7% per year (2000: 10%, 2001: 5.1%, 2002: 4.7%, 2003: 7.3%, 2004: 7.2%, 2005: 6.4%, 2006: 8.2%, 2007: 8.5%),[119] making it the 7th largest economy in the world in purchasing power. Russia's nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased 6 fold, climbing from 22nd to 10th largest in the world. In 2007, Russia's GDP exceeded that of Russian SFSR in 1990, meaning it has overcome the devastating consequences of the 1998 financial crisis and preceding recession in the 1990s.[7]
During Putin's eight years in office, industry grew by 76%, investments increased by 125%,[7] and agricultural production and construction increased as well. Real incomes more than doubled and the average monthly salary increased sevenfold from $80 to $640.[5][8] From 2000 to 2006 the volume of consumer credit increased 45 times[120][121] and the middle class grew from 8 million to 55 million. The number of people living below the poverty line decreased from 30% in 2000 to 14% in 2008.[7][122]
In 2001, Putin, who has advocated liberal economic policies, introduced flat tax rate of 13%;[123][124] the corporate rate of tax was also reduced from 35 percent to 24 percent;[123] Small businesses also get better treatment. The old system with high tax rates has been replaced by a new system where companies can choose either a 6 percent tax on gross revenue or a 15 percent tax on profits.[123] Overall tax burden is lower in Russia than in most European countries.[125]
A central concept in Putin's economic thinking was the creation of so-called National champions, vertically integrated companies in strategic sectors that are expected not only to seek profit, but also to "advance the interests of the nation". Examples of such companies include Gazprom, Rosneft and United Aircraft Corporation.[126]
Before the Putin era, in 1998, over 60% of industrial turnover in Russia was based on barter and various monetary surrogates. The use of such alternatives to money has now fallen out of favour, which has boosted economic productivity significantly. Besides raising wages and consumption, Putin's government has received broad praise also for eliminating this problem.[127]
Some oil revenue went to stabilization fund established in 2004. The fund accumulated oil revenue, which allowed Russia to repay all of the Soviet Union's debts by 2005. In early 2008, it was split into the Reserve Fund (designed to protect Russia from possible global financial shocks) and the National Welfare Fund, whose revenues will be used for a pension reform.[7]
Inflation remained a problem however, as between 1999–2007 it was kept at the forecast ceiling only twice, and in 2007 the inflation exceeded that of 2006, continuing an upward trend at the beginning of 2008.[7] The Russian economy is still commodity-driven despite its growth. Payments from the fuel and energy sector in the form of customs duties and taxes accounted for nearly half of the federal budget's revenues. The large majority of Russia's exports are made up by raw materials and fertilizers,[7] although exports as a whole accounted for only 8.7% of the GDP in 2007, compared to 20% in 2000.[128]
In December 2011, after 15 years of negotiations, Russia finally joined the World Trade Organisation. The accession to WTO is expected to be ratified by Russian Parliament in the spring of 2012.
Industrial development[link]
See also: Automotive industry in Russia, Petroleum industry in Russia, Aircraft industry of Russia, and Shipbuilding in Russia




Putin promotes the Lada Kalina brand driving through the recently opened Amur Highway in 2010. The construction of the Amur Highway connected the Russian federal highways into a single system.


To boost the market share of locally produced vehicles and support the Russia's automotive industry, the government under Putin implemented several protectionist measures and launched programs to attract foreign producers into the country. In late 2005, the government enacted legislation to create special economic zones (SEZ) with the aim of encouraging investments by foreign automotive companies. The benefits of operating in the special economic zones include tax allowances, abolishment of asset and land taxes and protection against changes in the tax regime. Some regions also provide extensive support for large investors (over $100 million.) These include Saint Petersburg/Leningrad Oblast, Kaluga Oblast and Kaliningrad Oblast.[129] Under Putin as President and Premier, most of the world's largest automotive companies opened plants in Russia, including Ford Motor Company, Toyota, General Motors, Nissan, Hyundai Motor, Suzuki, Magna International, Scania and MAN SE.
In 2005, Putin initiated an industry consolidation programme to bring the main aircraft producing companies under a single umbrella organization, the United Aircraft Corporation (UAC). The aim was optimize production lines and minimise losses. The programme was divided in three parts: reorganization and crisis management (2007–2010), evolution of existing projects (2010–2015) and further progress within the newly created structure (2015–2025).[130]
The UAC, one of the so-called national champions and comparable to EADS in Europe, enjoyed considerable financial support from the Russian government, and injected money to the companies it had acquired to improve their financial standing. The deliveries of civilian aircraft increased to 6 in 2005, and in 2009 the industry delivered 15 civilian aircraft, worth 12.5 billion roubles, mostly to domestic customers.[131] Since then Russia has successfully tested the fifth generation jet fighter, Sukhoi PAK FA, and started the commercial production of the regional airliner Sukhoi Superjet 100, as well as started developing a number of other major projects.
In a similar fashion, Putin created the United Shipbuilding Corporation in 2007, which led to the recovery[citation needed] of shipbuilding in Russia. Since 2006, much efforts were put into consolidation and development of the Rosatom Nuclear Energy State Corporation, which led to the renewed construction of nuclear power plants in Russia as well as a vast activity of Rosatom abroad, buying huge shares in world's leading uranium production companies and building nuclear power plants in in many countries, including Iran, China, Vietnam and Belarus.[citation needed] In 2007, the Russian Nanotechnology Corporation was established, aimed to boost the science and technology and high-tech industry in Russia.[132]
Energy policy[link]
Main article: Energy policy of Russia
See also: Energy in Russia, Oil industry of Russia, and Nuclear power in Russia




Under Putin, Russia strengthened its position as a key oil and gas supplier to much of Europe.


In the 2000s Russia's oil and gas wealth was transformed into the country's well-being and international influence, and Russia was frequently been described in the media as an energy superpower.[16][17] Putin oversaw that the growing taxation of oil and gas exports filled in the Russian budget, while oil and gas prices, production, and exports all significantly grew.
Putin sought to Russia's large share on the European energy market by building the submerged gas pipelines bypassing Ukraine and the New Europe (the countries which were often seen as non-reliable transit partners by Russia, especially following Russia-Ukraine gas disputes of the late 2000s). The pipeline projects backed by Putin include the Blue Stream from Russia to Turkey (build on the Black Sea bed), Nord Stream from Russia to Germany (the longest sub-sea pipeline in the world, built through the Baltic Sea) and the planned South Stream from Russia to the Balkans and Italy (via the Black Sea). Russia also undermined the rival pipeline project Nabucco by buying the Turkmen gas and redirecting it into Russian pipelines.
On the other hand Russia diversified its export markets by building the Trans-Siberian oil pipeline to the markets of China, Japan and Korea, as well as the Sakhalin–Khabarovsk–Vladivostok gas pipeline in the Russian Far East. Russia has built LNG plant on Sakhalin and is building another one in Primorye, aiming to increase the overseas gas exports. Meanwhile, in the Gulf of Finland Russia has built a major Ust-Luga port connected to the Baltic Pipeline System-II, which allowed to export oil without transit through the ports of the Baltic states. The share of processed oil slowly grows with major oil refineries being built in Tatarstan and other regions of Russia.
Putin also presided over resuming the construction of major hydropower plants, such as the Bureya Dam and the Boguchany Dam, as well as the restoration of the nuclear industry of Russia, with some 1 trillion rubles ($42.7 billion) allocated from the federal budget to nuclear power and industry development before 2015.[133] A large number of nuclear power stations and units are currently being constructed by the state corporation Rosatom in Russia and abroad.
Arctic policy[link]
Main article: Arctic policy of Russia




Putin aboard the battlecruiser Pyotr Velikiy during the Northern Fleet manoeuvres in the Barents Sea, 2005.


Putin has sought to increase Russian military and economic presence in the Arctic. In August 2007, a Russian expedition named Arktika 2007, led by Artur Chilingarov, planted a Russian flag on the seabed below the North Pole.[134] to underline Russia's 2001 claim submission.[134] In June 2008 General Vladimir Shamanov announced that Russia would increase the operational radius of its Northern Fleet submarines.[135] and in July 2011, Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov announced plans for two brigades to be stationed in the Arctic.[136]
A construction program of floating nuclear power plants will provide power to Russian Arctic coastal cities and gas rigs. A 21,500-ton barge with twin 35-megawatt reactors, the Akademik Lomonosov, will go into operation in 2012.[137][138] The Prirazlomnoye field, an offshore oilfield in the Pechora Sea that will include up to 40 wells, is currently under construction and drilling is expected to start in early 2012. It will have the world's first ice-resistant oil platform and will also be the first offshore Arctic platform.[139][140]
In August 2011 Rosneft, a Russian government-operated oil company, signed a deal with ExxonMobil to receive oil assets in exchange for the joint development of Russian Arctic resources by both companies.[141] The agreement includes a $3.2 billion hydrocarbon exploration of the Kara and Black seas,[142] as well as joint development of ice-resistant drilling platforms and other Arctic technologies.[143] "The scale of the investment is very large. It’s scary to utter such huge figures" said Putin on signing the deal.[141]
Environmental policy[link]
Main article: Environment of Russia




Putin uses a tranquiliser gun to sedate an Amur Tiger in the Ussuri Nature Reserve in Primorsky Krai, 2008.


In 2004, President Putin signed the Kyoto Protocol treaty designed to reduce greenhouse gases.[144] However Russia did not face mandatory cuts, because the Kyoto Protocol limits emissions to a percentage increase or decrease from 1990 levels and Russia's greenhouse-gas emissions fell well below the 1990 baseline due to a drop in economic output after the breakup of the Soviet Union.[145]
Putin personally supervises and/or promotes a number of protection programmes for rare and endangered animals in Russia:

The Amur Tiger Programme[146]
The White Whale Programme[147]
The Polar Bear Programme[148]
The Snow Leopard Programme[149]

Religious and national policy[link]
Main article: Religion in Russia
Orthodox Christianity, Islam, Buddhism and Judaism, defined by law as Russia's traditional religions and a part of Russia's "historical heritage"[150] enjoyed limited state support in the Putin era. The vast construction and restoration of temples, started in 1990s, continued under Putin, and the state allowed the teaching of religion in schools (parents are provided with a choice for their children to learn the basics of one of the traditional religions or secular ethics).




Putin meeting with religious leaders of Russia in 2001


Putin regularly attends the most important services of the Russian Orthodox Church on the main Orthodox Christian holidays. He established good relationship with Patriarchs of the Russian Church, the late Alexy II of Moscow and the current Kirill of Moscow. As President, he took an active personal part in promoting the Act of Canonical Communion with the Moscow Patriarchate signed 17 May 2007 that restored relations between the Moscow-based Russian Orthodox Church and the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia after the 80-year schism.[151]
Putin and United Russia enjoy high electoral support in the national republics of Russia, in particular in the Muslim-majority republics of Povolzhye and the North Caucasus. According to the JTA, Putin is popular amongst the Russian Jewish community, who see him as a force for stability. Russia's chief rabbi, Berel Lazar, said Putin "paid great attention to the needs of our community and related to us with a deep respect."[152]
Sports development[link]
Main article: Sport in Russia








Vladimir Putin addressing the International Olympic Committee in Guatemala City in 2007, on behalf of the successful bid of Sochi for the 2014 Winter Olympics.


On 4 July 2007 Putin made a full fluent English speech while addressing delegates at the 119th International Olympic Committee Session in Guatemala City on behalf of the successful bid of Sochi for the 2014 Winter Olympics and the 2014 Winter Paralympics,[153] the first Winter Olympic Games in Russia. In 2008, the city of Kazan won the bid for the 2013 Summer Universiade, and in on the 2 December 2010 Russia won the right to host the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup and 2018 FIFA World Cup, also for the first time in Russia.
Other major tournaments which the country has been chosen to host include the 2013 World Championships in Athletics in Moscow and the 2015 World Aquatics Championships in Kazan (both events never held in Russia so far), the Russian Grand Prix (a new race of the Formula One since 2014, to be held in Sochi) and the 2016 IIHF World Championship. Preparations for major international events, in particular in the cases of Sochi and Kazan, include the revamping and build-up of the infrastructure of entire regions of Russia, not only sport venues but transport, energy, communications, housing and public utilities.
Putin personally practices and promotes many sports, including martial arts of sambo, judo[154] and karate[155] (in the first two he was a Champion of Leningrad, in the second two he holds black belts). Putin often is seen on outdoor activities with Dmitry Medvedev, propagandizing sports and healthy way of life among Russians: they were seen alpine skiing in Krasnaya Polyana,[156] playing badminton (Medvedev's favorite sport), bicycling, fishing,[157] and drinking milk together.[158] Putin also started to learn ice skating and playing ice hockey after he promised to do so on a meeting with the Russia men's national junior ice hockey team who had won the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships.[159] Putin tested a Formula 1 car on 7 November 2010 in Saint Petersburg, reaching a maximum speed of 240 km per hour[160] and performed scuba diving at the archaeological site of the ancient Greek colony of Phanagoria in the Taman Bay on 11 August 2011.[161] On his trip to Tuva in August 2007, Putin demonstrated his muscled torso to the cameras while riding horses, rafting, fishing and swimming in a cold Siberian river.[162]
Military development[link]
Main article: Russian military reform
The resumption of long-distance flights of Russia's strategic bombers was followed by the announcement by Russian Defense Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov during his meeting with Putin on 5 December 2007, that 11 ships, including the aircraft carrier Kuznetsov, would take part in the first major navy sortie into the Mediterranean since Soviet times.[163] The sortie was to be backed up by 47 aircraft, including strategic bombers.[164]




Putin in the cockpit of a Tupolev Tu-160 strategic bomber before the flight, August 2005.


While from the early 2000s Russia started pumping more money into its military and defence industry, it was only in 2008 that the full-scale Russian military reform began, aimed to modernize Russian Armed Forces and made them significantly more effective. The reform was largely carried by Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov during Medvedev's Presidency, under supervision of both Putin, as the Head of Government, and Medvedev, as the Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Armed Forces.
Key elements of the reform included reducing the armed forces to a strength of one million; reducing the number of officers; centralising officer training from 65 military schools into 10 'systemic' military training centres; creating a professional NCO corps; reducing the size of the central command; introducing more civilian logistics and auxiliary staff; elimination of cadre-strength formations; reorganising the reserves; reorganising the army into a brigade system; reorganising air forces into an air base system instead of regiments.[165]
The number of Russia's military districts was reduced to just 4. The term of draft service was reduced from two years to one, which put an end to the old harassment traditions in the army, since all conscripts became very close by draft age. The gradual transition to the majority professional army by the late 2010s was announced, and a large programme of supplying the Armed Forces with new military equipment and ships was started. The Russian Space Forces were replaced on 1 December 2011 with the Russian Aerospace Defence Forces.
Foreign policy[link]
Main articles: Foreign policy of Russia, Foreign policy of Vladimir Putin, and List of presidential trips made by Vladimir Putin
Relations with NATO and the West[link]




U.S. President George W. Bush and Putin at the 33rd G8 summit, June 2007.


Main articles: NATO–Russia relations and Russia–United States relations
Putin's Russia relationships with NATO and the U.S. have passed several stages. When Putin first became President, the relations were cautious. After the 9/11 attacks when Putin quickly supported U.S. in the War on Terror, the opportunity for partnership appeared.[166] However, the U.S. responded by further expansion of NATO to Russia's borders and by unilateral withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.[166] Since 2003, when Russia did not support the Iraq War and when Putin became ever more distant from the West in his internal and external policies, the relations continued to deteriorate. According to Russia scholar Stephen F. Cohen, the narrative of the mainstream U.S. media, following that of the White House, became profoundly anti-Putin, full of accusations that Putin had caused problems which actually stem from the 1990s, and illogical assertions that Putin was personally responsible for any murders of his Russian political opponents, such as the journalist Anna Politkovskaya and the supposed KGB defector in London, Aleksandr Litvinenko.[166] In an interview with Michael Stürmer, Putin was quoted saying that there were three questions which most concerned Russia and Eastern Europe; namely the status of Kosovo, the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty and American plans to build missile defence sites in Poland and the Czech Republic, and suggested that all three were some way linked.[167] In Putin's view, concesssions on one of these questions on the Western side might be met with concessions from Russia on another.[168]




Putin with Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, 2008.


In February 2007, at the annual Munich Conference on Security Policy, Putin openly criticized what he called the United States' monopolistic dominance in global relations, and "almost uncontained hyper use of force in international relations". He said the result of it is that "no one feels safe! Because no one can feel that international law is like a stone wall that will protect them. Of course such a policy stimulates an arms race."[169] In this speech, which became known as Munich Speech, Putin called for a "fair and democratic world order that would ensure security and prosperity not only for a select few, but for all".[169] His remarks however were met with criticism by some delegates[170] such as former NATO secretary Jaap de Hoop Scheffer who called his speech, "disappointing and not helpful."[171] Previously, in a January 2007 interview Putin said Russia is in favor of a democratic multipolar world and of strengthening the systems of international law.[172] The months following Putin's Munich speech[169] were marked by tension and a surge in rhetoric on both sides of the Atlantic. Both Russian and American officials, however, denied the idea of a new Cold War.[173]
Putin publicly opposed plans for the U.S. missile shield in Europe, and presented President George W. Bush with a counterproposal on 7 June 2007 of modernising and sharing the use of the Soviet-era Gabala radar station in Azerbaijan rather than building a new system in the Czech Republic[174] Putin proposed it would not be necessary to place interceptor missiles in Poland then, but interceptors could be placed in NATO member Turkey or Iraq. Putin suggested also equal involvement of interested European countries in the project.[175] The proposal was declined. Russia suspended its participation in the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe on 11 December 2007.[176]
Vladimir Putin strongly opposes the secession of Kosovo from Serbia. He called any support for this act "immoral" and "illegal".[177] He described Kosovo's declaration of independence a "terrible precedent" that will come back to hit the West "in the face".[178] He stated that the Kosovo precedent will de facto destroy the whole system of international relations, developed over centuries.[179]
Putin's relations with former American President George W. Bush, former German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, former French President Jacques Chirac, and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi are reported to be personally friendly. Putin's "cooler" and "more business-like" relationship with Germany's new Chancellor, Angela Merkel is often attributed to Merkel's upbringing in the former DDR, where Putin was stationed when he was a KGB agent.[180]
Relations with the U.K.[link]
Main article: Russia–United Kingdom relations




Putin, Koni and British Prime Minister Tony Blair in 2005


By mid-2000s, the crisis escalated in the relations between Russia and the United Kingdom as originating with Britain's decision[opinion] to grant Putin's former patron, oligarch Boris Berezovsky, political asylum in 2003.[181] Since then, located in London, Berezovsky often called for the overthrow of Putin[181] and allegedly directed anti-Putin activities in Russia. The United Kingdom also granted asylum to the Chechen rebel leader Akhmed Zakayev and other people who fled from Russia.
In 2006 it became known that Britain spied on Russia using a fake rock, which was located on a street and contained electronic equipment that allowed British diplomats to receive and transmit information.[182] The Russian security service FSB linked the rock with allegations that British were making secret payments to pro-democracy and human rights groups, and the same year President Putin introduced a law which restricted non-governmental organisations (NGOs) from getting funding from foreign governments. This resulted in many NGOs closing.[182] In 2006, the Russian liberal opposition met the media reports on "spy rock" with contempt, alleging that it was made-up by FSB,[183] but in 2012 Jonathan Powell, ex-chief of staff of the U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair, confessed that the story with the rock was true.[182]
The end of 2006 brought very strained relations in the wake of the death by polonium poisoning[184][185] of Alexander Litvinenko in London. Litvinenko's friends Andrei Nekrasov and Alex Goldfarb (the chairman of Boris Berezovsky's International Foundation for Civil Liberties), made contradicting claims that Litvinenko had either dictated a statement either to his lawyer or to Goldfarb, or agreed with a statement composed by Goldfarb, in which Putin was allegedly accused of directing the assassination.[186][187][188] Critics have doubted that Litvinenko is the true author of the released statement.[189][190][191] When asked about the Litvinenko accusations, Putin said that a statement released after death of its author "naturally deserves no comment", and stated his belief it was being used for political purposes.[192] In 2012, when Litvinenko's widow admitted that her husband had worked for British intelligence services, Litvininko's father said that the Russian secret services had a right to kill traitors,[184] and regretted "his participation in the smear campaign against Russia in general and [current] Prime Minister Putin in particular".[184]
In 2007, the crisis in relations involved expelling four Russian envoys over Russia's refusal to extradite a former KGB bodyguard Andrei Lugovoi to face charges on the alleged murder of Litvinenko,[181] since the Russian constitution prohibits the extradition of Russian nationals to third countries. Mirroring the British actions, Russia expelled UK diplomats and announced that it would suspend issuing visas to UK officials and froze cooperation on counterterrorism in response to Britain suspending contacts with their Federal Security Service.[181] Lugovi subsequently became an MP in the Russian Duma, giving him immunity from prosecution within Russia. On 10 December 2007, the British Ambassador in Moscow, Tony Brenton, reacted by saying: "It is a pity that a man wanted for murder gains political recognition. It does Russia no good at all to have Lugovoy there in the parliament. It continues the suspicion."[193] The same day, Russia ordered the British Council to halt work at its regional offices in the country.[194]
Relations with China and SCO[link]
Main articles: People's Republic of China-Russia relations and Shanghai Cooperation Organisation




Vladimir Putin and Hu Jintao at the 2003 APEC Summit in Thailand


Putin's Russia maintains strong and positive relations with other BRIC countries. The country has sought to strengthen ties especially with the People's Republic of China by signing the Treaty of Friendship as well as building the Trans-Siberian oil pipeline geared toward growing Chinese energy needs.[195] The mutual-security cooperation of the two countries and their central Asian neighbours is facilitated by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation which was founded in 2001 in Shanghai by the leaders of China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.
The announcement made during the SCO summit that Russia resumes on a permanent basis the long-distance patrol flights of its strategic bombers (suspended in 1992)[196][197] in the light of joint Russian-Chinese military exercises, first-ever in history held on Russian territory,[198] made some experts believe that Putin is inclined to set up an anti-NATO bloc or the Asian version of OPEC.[199] When presented with the suggestion that "Western observers are already likening the SCO to a military organisation that would stand in opposition to NATO", Putin answered that "this kind of comparison is inappropriate in both form and substance".[196]
Relations with Iran[link]
Main article: Iran-Russia relations




Putin with Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, 2007


On 16 October 2007 Putin visited Iran to participate in the Second Caspian Summit in Tehran,[200][201] where he met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.[202] Other participants were leaders of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan.[203] This is the first visit of a Soviet or Russian leader to Iran since Joseph Stalin's participation in the Tehran Conference in 1943.[204] At a press conference after the summit Putin said that "all our (Caspian) states have the right to develop their peaceful nuclear programmes without any restrictions".[205]
Subsequently, under Medvedev's presidency, Iran-Russia relations were uneven: Russia did not fulfill the contract of selling to Iran the S-300, one of the most potent anti-aircraft missile systems currently existing. However, Russian specialists completed the construction of Iran and the Middle East's first civilian nuclear power facility, the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant, and Russia has continuously opposed the imposition of economic sanctions on Iran by the U.S. and the EU, as well as warning against a military attack on Iran. Putin was quoted as describing Iran as a "partner",[206] though he expressed concerns over the Iranian nuclear programme.[206]
Relations with Australasia, Latin America[link]
Main articles: Australia–Russia relations, Russia–Venezuela relations, Cuba–Russia relations, and Brazil–Russia relations




Putin with Fidel Castro in 2000, re-establishing close ties between Russia and Cuba.


Putin and his successor Medvedev have enjoyed warm relations with Hugo Chávez of Venezuela. Much of this has been through the sale of military equipment; since 2005, Venezuela has purchased more than $4 billion worth of arms from Russia.[207] In September 2008, Russia sent Tupolev Tu-160 bombers to Venezuela to carry out training flights.[208] In November 2008, both countries held a joint naval exercise in the Caribbean.[209] Earlier in 2000, Putin had re-established stronger ties with Fidel Castro's Cuba.
In September 2007, Putin visited Indonesia and in doing so became the first Russian leader to visit the country in more than 50 years.[210] In the same month, Putin also attended the APEC meeting held in Sydney, Australia where he met with Australian Prime Minister John Howard and signed a uranium trade deal. This was the first visit by a Russian president to Australia.
Relations with post-Soviet states[link]
Main articles: Color revolutions, Russia–Ukraine gas disputes, Russia–Ukraine relations, Belarus–Russia relations, Georgia–Russia relations, and Kyrgyzstan–Russia relations
A series of the so called color revolutions in the post-Soviet states, namely the Rose Revolution in Georgia in 2003, the Orange Revolution in Ukraine in 2004 and the Tulip Revolution in Kyrgyzstan in 2005 led to frictions in the relations of those countries with Russia. In December 2004 Putin criticised the Rose and Orange Revolution, according to him: "If you have permanent revolutions you risk plunging the post-Soviet space into endless conflict".[211] During the protests following the 2011 Russian elections (in December 2011) Putin named the Orange Revolution an infamous foreknowledge for Russia.[212]

File:Rus Ukr gasdeal 2009.jpg
Signing of the gas deal reached at the Moscow summit on January 19, 2009, by Oleh Dubyna and Alexei Miller (with Yulia Tymoshenko, Vladimir Putin and Igor Sechin standing in the background)


Apart from a clash of nationalist rhetorics[clarification needed] with the common historical legacies of the Soviet Union and the Russian Empire[citation needed], a number of economic disputes erupted between Russia and some neighbours, such as the Russian import ban of Georgian wine. And in some cases, such as the Russia–Ukraine gas disputes, the economic conflicts affected other European countries, for example when a January 2009 gas dispute with Ukraine led state-controlled Russian company Gazprom to halt its deliveries of natural gas to Ukraine,[213] which left a number of European states, to which Ukraine transits Russian gas, to have serious shortages of natural gas in January 2009.[213] In an interview with the German historian Michael Stürmer about the Russian shut-down of gas to Ukraine in early 2005, Putin linked the shut-down to the Orange revolution, saying: "This has a price [the Orange revolution]. In spite of so much frustration we have stablizied the situation. In old days we concluded agreements with Ukraine year after year, and then included transit fees. The West Europeans had no idea that their energy security was a cliffhanger. By now we have a five-year agreement for transit to the E.U. This is an important step in the direction of European energy security".[214]
The disputes typically arose because of inabilities of Ukraine to pay higher prices for natural gas and pay debts in time. In 2009 the Russia–Ukraine dispute was resolved by a long-term agreement on price formula, agreed by Prime Ministers Vladimir Putin of Russia and Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Tymoshenko[213][215] (later, when the rising global oil prices prompted the rising gas prizes[216] the agreement turned very unfavourable for Ukraine; in October 2011 Tymoshenko was found guilty of abuse of office when brokering the 2009 deal and was sentenced to seven years in prison).[217]
The plans of Georgia and Ukraine to become members of NATO have caused some tensions between Russia and those states. In 2010 Ukraine did abandon these plans.[218] Putin allegedly declared at a NATO-Russia summit in 2008 that if Ukraine joined NATO Russia could contend to annex the Ukrainian East and Crimea.[219] In public Putin has stated that Russia has no intention of annexing any country.[211]




Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin in 2002. Despite a number of economic disputes in mid-2000s, Belarus has remained one of Russia's closest allies.


In August 2008 Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili attempted to restore control over the breakaway South Ossetia, claiming this action was in response to Ossetian border attacks on Georgians and to alleged buildups of Russian non-peacekeeping forces. Russian peacekeepers stationed there came under attack during the invasion and fought alongside the South Ossetians as Georgian troops pushed into the province and seized most of the capital of Tskhinvali. However, the Georgian military was soon defeated in the resulting 2008 South Ossetia War after regular Russian forces entered South Ossetia and then Georgia proper, and also opened a second front in the other Georgian breakaway province of Abkhazia together with Abkhazian forces.[220][221] During this conflict, according to high level French diplomat Jean-David Levitte, Putin intended to depose the Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and declared: "I am going to hang Saakashvili by the balls".[222]
Putin blamed the 2008 war and the bad relations between Russia and Georgia as "the result of the policy that the Georgian authorities conducted back then and still attempt to conduct now"; he stated that Georgia is a "brotherly nation that hopfully will finally understand that Russia is not an enemy, but is a friend and the relations will be restored"[223] (one month before Georgian President Saakashvili had stated "Putin has a problem with Georgian people, but not with Georgian government").[224] Putin stated in 2009 Georgia could have kept Abkhazia and South Ossetia "within its territory" if it had treated the residents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia "with respect" (he claims they did "the opposite").[225]
The President of Ukraine elected during the Orange Revolution, Viktor Yushchenko, was succeeded in 2010 by Viktor Yanukovych, that led to improved relations with Russia.[226] Russia was able to expand the lease for the base for its Black Sea Fleet base in the Ukrainian city Sevastopol in exchange for lower gas prices for Ukraine (the 2010 Ukrainian–Russian Naval Base for Natural Gas treaty).[227] The President of Kyrgyzstan since 2009, Almazbek Atambayev, wants to guide Kyrgyzstan towards the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia and has stated his country has a "common future" with its neighbours and Russia.[228]
Eurasian policy[link]
Main article: Eurasian Union




The proposed Eurasian Union with the most likely immediate members: Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.


Despite existing or past tensions between Russia and most of the post-Soviet states, Putin has followed the policy of Eurasian integration. The Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia has already brought partial economic unity between the three states, and the proposed Eurasian Union is said to be a continuation of this customs union. A number of other regional organizations also provide the basis for further integration: the Union State of Russia and Belarus, the Eurasian Economic Community of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, consisting of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, and the Commonwealth of Independent States comprising most of the post-Soviet countries.
On 18 November 2011, the presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia signed an agreement, setting a target of establishing the Eurasian Union by 2015.[229] The agreement included the roadmap for the future integration and established the Eurasian Commission (modelled on the European Commission) and the Eurasian Economic Space, which started work on 1 January 2012.[229][230]
Programmes[link]
Long-term strategies[link]




Putin presents the "Strategy 2020" to the Extended Meeting of the State Council of Russia on 8 February 2008.


The 2007 election campaign of the United Russia party went under the slogan "Putin's Plan: Russia's Victory". When asked on the "Putin's Plan", Vladimir Putin said that his last five Addresses to the Federal Assembly contained some key parts "devoted to the state's medium-term development", and "if all these key ideas were put together to build a coherent system, it can become the country's development plan in the medium-term."[231]
Later the "Putin's Plan" was transformed into the Strategy 2020, which set the key goals and target figures for Russia's development until 2020. The "Strategy 2020" was first presented by Putin on the Extended Meeting of the State Council on 8 February 2008.[232] It is the second long-term development strategy adopted by the Russian Federation, following the Strategy 2010, which had been made the basis for Russian government programmes in June 2000 and was largely fulfilled by 2010.[233]
Programme articles[link]
Putin has published articles in the Russian press on a number of occasions, in particularly before and during his 2012 presidential campaign. Soon after the announcement that he would run for another Presidency on 24 September 2011, in his article called "New Integration Project for Eurasia – A Future That Is Being Born Today"[234] (Новый интеграционный проект для Евразии – будущее, которое рождается сегодня[235]), published by Izvestiya on 3 October, he brought to attention the idea of the Eurasian Union, composed of Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and possibly other post-Soviet states[236][237] (the concept was first proposed by the President of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, during a 1994 speech at a Moscow university).[238] This publication was soon followed by the presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia signing an agreement on 18 November 2011 which established the Eurasian Commission (modeled on the European Commission) from 1 January 2012 and set a target of establishing the Eurasian Union (modeled on the European Union) by 2015.[230]



Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Vladimir Putin/Articles



In the course of the 2012 presidential campaign, in order to present his election program, Putin published 7 articles in different Russian editions. In those articles, he presented his vision of the problems which Russia successfully solved in the last decade and the goals yet to be achieved. The topics of the articles were as follows: the general overview, the ethnicity issue, economic tasks, democracy and government efficiency, social policy, military, foreign policy. [239]
Speeches and catch phrases[link]
Addresses to the Federal Assembly[link]
During his terms in office Putin has made eight annual addresses to the Federal Assembly of Russia,[240] speaking on the situation in Russia and on guidelines of the internal and foreign policy of the State (as prescribed in Article 84 of the Constitution[241]).
Speeches abroad[link]




Putin making his Munich speech in 2007.


One of the most important and widely publicized speeches of Putin made abroad was made on 10 February 2007 on the Munich Conference on Security Policy, and hence became known as the Munich speech. It was dubbed by the press to be "the turning point of the Russian foreign policy", and western observers called it the most tough speech from a leader of Russia since the time of the Cold War.[242] The speech was also seen as been made by Putin to openly assert the new (old) role of Russia in the international politics, the role close to that of the Soviet Union and the return to which role is seen as one of the achievements of Putin's Presidency.[242]
In the Munich speech Putin called to uphold the principle "security for everyone is security for all", criticized the policies of the United States and NATO, condemned the unipolar model of international relations as flawed and lacking moral basis, condemned the hypocrisy of countries trying to teach democracy to Russia, condemned the domination of hard power and enforcement by the U.S. of the Western norms and laws to other countries bypassing the international law and substituting the United Nations by NATO or the EU.[242] Putin also called to stop the militarization of space and questioned the plans to deploy American missile defense in Europe as threating strategic nuclear balance and spurring new arms race (that's when the countries dubbed as rogue states by the West are in fact lacking any rocket weapons capable to threaten Europe or the U.S. and being unable to develop such weapons any time soon).[242] Putin criticized the attempts of the U.S. and NATO to encircle Russia with their military bases, as well as their refusal to ratify the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe even when Russia was already fulfilling it (for which reason Russia had to suspend the treaty later in 2007).[242] His speech was criticized by some attendant delegates at the conference, including former NATO secretary Jaap de Hoop Scheffer who called it "disappointing and not helpful."[171]
On 4 July 2007 Putin made a full fluent English speech while addressing delegates at the 119th International Olympic Committee Session in Guatemala City on behalf of the successful bid of Sochi for the 2014 Winter Olympics, the first Winter Olympic Games in Russia.[153]
Outdoor speeches[link]








Vladimir Putin and Dmitry Medvedev on 2 March 2008, the day of Russian presidential election. The soundtrack while they walk is Lubeh, Putin's favourite band.[243]


Notable Putin's outdoor speeches include his addresses during the Victory Day Moscow Military Parades one every 9 May in the years between 2000 and 2007. Under Putin's presidency and premiership, the old Soviet tradition of 9 May Parades, which had been in decline in 1990s, was gradually restored in full grandeur. Since the 2008 Moscow Victory Day Parade the armoured fighting vehicles resumed regular taking part in the Red Square parades. Putin often used the Victory Day occasion to discuss Russia's military development and Russia's security and foreign affairs. For example, he said on 9 May 2007 that "threats are not becoming fewer but are only transforming and changing their appearance. These new threats, just as under the Third Reich, show the same contempt for human life and the same aspiration to establish an exclusive dictate over the world."[244]
During his 2012 presidential campaign Putin made a single outdoor public speech at the 100,000-strong rally of his supporters in the Luzhniki Stadium on 23 February, Russia's Defender of the Fatherland Day.[102] In the speech he called not to betray the Motherland, but to love her, to unite around Russia and to work together for the good, to overcome the existing problems.[245] He said that the foreign interference into Russian affairs should not be allowed, that Russia has its own free will. He compared the political situation at the moment (when fears were spread in the Russian society that 2011–2012 Russian protests could instigate a color revolution directed from abroad) with the First Fatherland War of 1812, reminding that its 200th anniversary and the anniversary of the Battle of Borodino would be celebrated in 2012.Putin cited Lermontov's poem Borodino and ended the speech with Vyacheslav Molotov's famous Great Patriotic War slogan "The Victory Shall Be Ours!" ("Победа будет за нами!").[102][245]
On the post-election celebration rally, while making an acceptance speech, Putin was for the first time ever seen with tears in his eyes (later he explained that "it was windy"). He said to a 110,000-strong audience: "I told you we would win and we won!"[101][246]
Putinisms[link]








Alluding to Rudyard Kipling's python Kaa, Putin addresses the Russian non-systemic opposition, who, according to him, work for foreign interests: Come to me, Bandar-logs![247]


Putin has produced a large number of popular aphorisms and catch-phrases, known as putinisms.[248] Many of them were first made during his annual Q&A conferences, where Putin answered questions from journalists and other people in the studio, as well as from Russians throughout the country, who either phoned in or spoke from studios and outdoor sites across Russia. Putin is known for his often tough and sharp language.[248] The examples of most popular putinisms include:[249]

Мочить в сортире – To bump off in a toilet. One of the earliest "putinisms", made in September 1999, when he promised to destroy terrorists wherever they were found, including in toilets.[249] In 2010, Putin also promised to pluck out the remaining terrorists from the bottom of a sewer (выковырять со дна канализации).[250]
Она утонула – She sank. Putin's short answer to a question from Larry King in September 2000 asking what happened to the Russian submarine K-141 Kursk.[249] Many criticized Putin for the cynicism perceived in this answer. This curt reply also spawned a new kind of joke based on giving one short, self-evident answer (including a verb in past tense) to a "What has happened with..?" question.[citation needed]
Пахал, как раб на галерах – literally, Ploughed like a slave on a galley (the Russian verb пахать also has the general meaning of "to do hard work"). This is how Putin described his work as President of Russia from 2000 to 2008 during a Q&A conference in February 2008.[248] Not only did the phrase itself became popular, but a wrong reading of it—как раб ("like a slave") in Russian sounds almost identical to как краб ("like a crab")—led to the appearance of a popular Internet nickname for Putin, "Crabbe" (Russian: Крабе), while Dmitry Medvedev was (for some reason) similarly nicknamed Shmele (Russian: Шмеле, a non-existent vocative form of шмель, meaning "bumblebee").[251]





Putin during one of his annual Q&A conferences, indicating with his pen.



От мертвого осла уши – Ears of a dead ass. According to Putin, that was what Latvia would receive instead of the western Pytalovsky District of Russia claimed by Latvia in a territorial dispute stemming from the Soviet border redrawing.[248] On 27 March 2007 Russia and Latvia signed the treaty on state border, in which Latvia renounced its territorial claims.[252]
Шакалить у иностранных посольств – Jackaling at foreign embassies. Putin's view of the Russian "non-systemic opposition": characterising them as having minimal support among the population, he says that they turn to asking for money and support from foreign governments.[253]
Как минимум государственный деятель должен иметь голову. – At the very least, a state leader should have a head. Putin's response to Hillary Clinton's claim that Putin has no soul. He also recommended that international relations be built without emotion and instead on the basis of the fundamental interests of the states involved.[249]
Ручку верните – Return my pen. A phrase said by Putin to the industrial oligarch Oleg Deripaska, after Deripaska was forced by Putin to sign, using Putin's pen, an agreement aimed at resolving a socio-economic crisis in the monograd of Pikalyovo on 4 June 2009, which had escalated after the different owners of the aluminum oxide plant and connected enterprises in the town did not pay their workers' salaries and were unable to negotiate the terms on which the local industrial complex would work. Putin came to the scene personally to conduct the negotiations.[254] Subsequently, Putin's pen became perceived as a symbol of power in Russia.[citation needed]

Public image[link]
Ratings and polls[link]




Putin's approval (blue) and disapproval (red) ratings during his eight year presidency.







This section's factual accuracy may be compromised due to out-of-date information. Please help improve the article by updating it. There may be additional information on the talk page. (May 2012)


According to public opinion surveys conducted by NGO Levada Center, Putin's approval rating was 81% in June 2007, and the highest of any leader in the world.[255] His popularity rose from 31% in August 1999 to 80% in November 1999 and since then it has never fallen below 65% during his Presidency.[256] Observers see Putin's high approval ratings as a consequence of the significant improvements in living standards and Russia's reassertion of itself on the world scene that occurred during his tenure as President.[257][258][dead link] One analysis attributed Putin's popularity, in part, to state-owned or state-controlled television.[259]
A joint poll by World Public Opinion in the US and Levada Center [260] in Russia around June–July 2006 stated that "neither the Russian nor the American publics are convinced Russia is headed in an anti-democratic direction" and "Russians generally support Putin's concentration of political power and strongly support the re-nationalization of Russia's oil and gas industry." Russians generally support the political course of Putin and his team.[261] A 2005 survey showed that three times as many Russians felt the country was "more democratic" under Putin than it was during the Yeltsin or Gorbachev years, and the same proportion thought human rights were better under Putin than Yeltsin.[259]
Assessments[link]
Putin was Time magazine's Person of the Year for 2007.[262] In April 2008, Putin was put on the Time 100 most influential people in the world list.[263]




Vodka Putinka. There is a tradition in Russia to name vodkas after politicians.


On 4 December 2007, at Harvard University, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev credited Putin with having "pulled Russia out of chaos" and said he was "assured a place in history", despite Gorbachev's claim that the news media have been suppressed and that election rules run counter to the democratic ideals he has promoted".[264] In 2009 Gorbachev also claimed that neither the parliament nor the justice are really free in Russia.[265] In December 2011, amid the protests following the 2011 Russian legislative elections Gorbachev criticized Putin for a decision to seek the third term in the presidential elections and advised Putin to leave politics. Putin's press spokesman Dmitry Peskov commented on Gorbachev's expressions as following: "A former leader, who was basically responsible for the dissolution of his country, gives advice to the person, who could prevented Russia from a similar destiny".[266]
Criticism of Putin has been spread especially over the Runet.[267] It is said that the Russian youth organisations finance a full "network" of pro-government bloggers.[268]
In the U.S. embassy cables, published by Wikileaks in late 2010, Putin was called "alpha dog" and compared with Batman (while Dmitry Medvedev was compared with Batman's crime-fighting partner Robin). American diplomats said Putin's Russia had become "a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a "virtual mafia state.""[269] Putin called it "slanderous".[270]
Brands[link]
Putin's name and image are widely used in advertisement and product branding.[271] Among the Putin-branded products are Putinka vodka, the PuTin brand of canned food, the Gorbusha Putina caviar and a collection of T-shirts with his image.[272]
Adventures and image[link]
Putin often supports an outdoor, sporting, tough guy image in the media, demonstrating his physical capabilities and taking part in unusual or dangerous acts, such as extreme sports and interaction with wild animals.[273] For example, in 2007, the tabloid Komsomolskaya Pravda published a huge photograph of a bare-chested Putin vacationing in the Siberian mountains under the headline: "Be Like Putin."[274] Such photo ops are part of a public relations approach that, according to Wired, "deliberately cultivates the macho, take-charge superhero image".[271] Other notable examples of Putin's macho adventures include:[275]




Vladimir Putin in Tuva, fishing in 2007. Putin often supports a tough guy image in the media.



Flying military jets. Putin flew a Sukhoi Su-27 fighter over Chechnya in 2000 and a Tu-160 supersonic heavy bomber on 16 August 2005 at MAKS Airshow.[275]
Martial arts. Putin demonstrated his martial art skills on a tatami at the Kodokan Institute in Tokyo on 5 September 2000 and did more such demonstrations since.[275]
Adventures in the wild. On his trip to Tuva in August 2007, Putin was riding horses, rafting, fishing and swimming in a cold Siberian river (doing all that mostly bare-chested).[274] In August 2009 Putin repeated the experience.[276]
Descending in a deepwater submersible. On 1 August 2009 Putin descended 1395 m to the bottom of Lake Baikal, the world's deepest lake, on a MIR submersible accompanied by deepwater explorer Anatoly Sagalevich (who had been among the team which had reached the bottom at the North Pole in the Arktika 2007 expedition). From the bottom of Baikal Putin spoke to journalists via hydrophone.[277]
Tranquilizing tigers. In 2008 Putin visited the Ussuri national park, where he sedated an Amur tiger with a tranquiliser gun and then helped measure its teeth and fit it with a tracker.[274] Claims were made later that the tiger was actually from the Khabarovsk Zoo and that it died soon after the stunt, but the suspected tiger named by the Khabarovsk Zoo workers[278] was found in late 2009 in Zelenogorsk,[279] while the claims of a stunt were denied by the scientists who organized the "safari".[280] Putin's website carries a map of the tiger's movements in the wild, but it has been claimed that the movements are not those of the tiger Putin was seen fitting with the tracker.[279]
Tranquilizing polar bears. In April 2010 Putin traveled to Franz Josef Land in the Russian Arctic, where he tranquilized a polar bear and attached a satellite tag to him.[281]
Riding a motorbike. In July 2010 Putin appeared at a Bikers festival in Sevastopol riding a Harley-Davidson tricycle; the high council of Russian bikers movements unanimously voted him into a Hells Angel rank with the nickname of Abaddon.[275][282]
Firefighting from the air. In August 2010, Russian TV broadcasted video of Putin co-piloting a firefighting plane Beriev Be-200 to dump water on a raging fire during the 2010 Russian wildfires.[271][275]





Putin driving a Formula 1 car, 2010 (see the video).



Shooting darts at whales. In late August 2010 Putin shoot darts from a crossbow at a gray whale off Kamchatka Peninsula coast as part of an eco-tracking effort, while balancing on a rubber boat in the sea.[275][283]
Driving a race car. Putin tested a Formula 1 car on 7 November 2010 in Saint Petersburg, reaching a maximum speed of 240 km per hour.[160][275]
Scuba diving. Putin took part in scuba diving at the archaeological site of the ancient Greek colony of Phanagoria in the Taman Bay on 11 August 2011.[161] During the dive he "discovered" two amphorae and emerged from the sea exclaiming to television cameras "Treasure!" In October 2011, spokesman Dmitry Peskov told media: "Putin did not find the amphorae on the sea bed that had been lying there for thousands of years [...] That is obvious. They were found during an [archaeological] expedition several weeks or days beforehand. Of course they were then left there [for him to find] or placed there. It is a completely normal thing to do."[284] According to Britain's Telegraph newspaper: "The 'find' was presented as the latest in a long line of remarkable feats by Mr Putin, shoring up his image as an energetic action man who is successful in everything he does."[284]
Playing ice hockey. Putin for the first time started to learn ice skating and playing ice hockey after he promised to do so on a meeting with the junior Russian ice hockey players who had won the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships. In 2011 he appeared on several training games shown on Russian TV.[159]

Singing and painting[link]








Putin playing and then singing Blueberry Hill at a charity concert.


On 11 December 2010, at a concert organized for a children's charity in Saint Petersburg, Putin sang Blueberry Hill accompanying himself on the piano. The concert was attended by various Hollywood and European stars such as Kevin Costner, Sharon Stone, Alain Delon, and Gerard Depardieu.[285][286] At the same event Putin played "С чего начинается Родина?" (From What the Motherland Begins?, a patriotic song from Putin's favourite spy movie "Щит и меч", The Shield and the Sword).[286] Putin also played or sang that song on a number of other occasions,[287] such as a meeting with the Russian spies deported from the U.S., including Anna Chapman.[288] Another melody which Putin is known to play on the piano is the Anthem of Saint Petersburg, his native city.[289]
Putin's painting "Узор на заиндевевшем окне" (A Pattern on a Hoarfrost-Encrusted Window), which he had painted during the Christmas Fair on 26 December 2008, became the top lot at the charity auction in Saint Petersburg and sold for 37 million rubles.[290] The picture was made for a series of other paintings by famous Russians. The painters were required to illustrate one of the letters of the Russian alphabet with a subject connected to Nikolay Gogol's novel Christmas Eve (the 200th anniversary from Gogol's birth was celebrated in 2008). Putin's picture depicted a hoarfrost pattern (Russian: Узор, illustrating the Cyrillic letter У) on a window with curtains sewn with traditional Ukrainian ornaments.[290] The creation of the painting coincided with the 2009 Russia-Ukraine gas dispute, which left a number of European states without Russian gas and amid January frosts.[213]
In popular culture[link]




A scene from the Superputin comics.


A Russian movie called A Kiss not for Press was premiered in 2008 on DVD. The movie is said to be based on biography of Vladimir Putin and his wife Lyudmila.[291] Dobby, a house elf from Harry Potter film series, has been found to look like Putin,[292] and so was also Daniel Craig in his role of James Bond (he was the first blond actor to play James Bond).[293]
There is a large number of songs about Putin.[294] Some of the more popular include:

Такого, как Путин – "[I Want] A Man Like Putin" by Singing Together[295]
Гороскоп (Путин, не ссы!) – "Horoscope (Putin, Don't Piss!)" by Uma2rman[296]
ВВП – "VVP" by a Tajik singer Tolibjon Kurbankhanov (Толибджон Курбанханов)[297][298]

Putin also is a subject of Russian jokes and chastushkas, such as a popular chastushka song "[Before Putin] There Was No Orgasm" featured in the comedy film The Day of Elections.[299] There is a meta-joke, that since the coming of Putin to power, all the classic jokes about a smart yet rude boy called Вовочка (Vovochka, diminutive from Vladimir) have suddenly become political jokes.
Putin features in the colouring book for children Vova and Dima (presented on his 59th birthday),[300] where he and Dmitry Medvedev are drawn as good-behaving little boys, and in the Superputin online comics series, where Putin and Medvedev are portrayed first as superheroes,[271] and then as a troll and an orc in the World of Warcraft.[301]
Another birthday present to Putin was an erotic calendar Happy Birthday, Mr. Putin!, released on 7 October 2010. The calendar features twelve semi-nude female students of journalism faculty at the Moscow State University, each for every month, with a short message.[302]
Personal life[link]
Family[link]
See also: Lyudmila Putina




Lyudmila Putina in 2007


On 28 July 1983 Putin married Kaliningrad-born Lyudmila Shkrebneva, at that time an undergraduate student of the Spanish branch of the Philology Department of the Leningrad State University and a former Aeroflot flight attendant. They lived together in Germany from 1985 to 1990. During this time, according to BND archives, a German spy befriended Putina, who said that Putin beat her and had love affairs.[303] When the couple left Germany in 1990 it was rumoured that Putin left behind an illegitimate child.[303] Putina is now rarely seen with Putin[304][305] and there have been rumours, according to the Daily Mail and other newspapers, that the couple have separated.[304][305][306] Putin has been linked by newspapers with other women, including gymnast Alina Kabayeva[305][304] and ex-spy Anna Chapman.[307][306] These rumours have been denied.[308][309]
Putin and his wife have two daughters, Mariya Putina (born 28 April 1985 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) and Yekaterina Putina (born 31 August 1986 in Dresden, East Germany). The daughters grew up in East Germany[310] and attended the German School in Moscow until his appointment as Prime Minister. After that they studied international economics at the Finance Academy in Moscow, although it was not officially reported due to security reasons.[citation needed] According to the Daily Mail, their photographs have never been published by the Russian media, and no family portrait has ever been issued.[306] Vladimir's cousin Igor Putin is a director of Master Bank.[citation needed]
Languages[link]
Apart from Russian, Putin speaks fluent German. His family used to speak German at home as well.[311] After becoming President he was reported to be taking English lessons and could be seen conversing directly with Bush and native speakers of English in informal situations, but he continues to use interpreters for formal talks. Putin spoke English in public for the first time during the state dinner in Buckingham Palace in 2003 saying but a few phrases while delivering his condolences to the Queen on the death of her mother.[312] He made a full fluent English speech while addressing delegates at the 119th International Olympic Committee Session in Guatemala City on behalf of the successful bid of Sochi for the 2014 Winter Olympics.[153]
Religion[link]




Putin and his wife, Lyudmila, attending a commemoration service for the victims of the September 11 attacks in St. Nicholas Cathedral, New York, 16 November 2001.


Putin's father was "a model communist, genuinely believing in its ideals while trying to put them into practice in his own life". With this dedication he became secretary of the Party cell in his workshop and then after taking night classes joined the factory's Party bureau.[313] Though his father was a "militant atheist",[314] Putin's mother "was a devoted Orthodox believer". Though she kept no icons at home, she attended church regularly, despite the government's persecution of the Russian Orthodox Church at that time. She ensured that Putin was secretly christened as a baby and she regularly took him to services. His father knew of this but turned a blind eye.[313]
According to Putin's own statements, his religious awakening followed the serious car crash of his wife in 1993, and was deepened by a life-threatening fire that burned down their dacha in August 1996.[314] Right before an official visit to Israel his mother gave him his baptismal cross telling him to get it blessed "I did as she said and then put the cross around my neck. I have never taken it off since."[313] When asked whether he believes in God during his interview with Time, he responded saying: "…There are things I believe, which should not in my position, at least, be shared with the public at large for everybody's consumption because that would look like self-advertising or a political striptease."[315]
Martial arts[link]


Vladimir Putin



Putin on a tatami at the Kodokan Institute in Tokyo on 5 September 2000.


Rank
Sambo:
Master of Sports,      Champion of Leningrad
Judo:
         6th degree black belt,      Champion of Leningrad
Kyokushin kaikan:
         6th dan black belt


Years active
1966–present


Occupation
President of Russia


One of Putin's favorite sports is the martial art of judo. Putin began training in sambo (a martial art that originated in the Soviet Union) at the age of 14, before switching to judo, which he continues to practice today.[316] Putin won competitions in his hometown of Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg), including the senior championships of Leningrad in both sambo and judo. He is the President of the Yawara Dojo, the same Saint Petersburg dojo he practiced at when young. Putin co-authored a book on his favorite sport, published in Russian as Judo with Vladimir Putin and in English under the title Judo: History, Theory, Practice (2004).[154]
Though he is not the first world leader to practice judo, Putin is the first leader to move forward into the advanced levels. Currently, Putin holds a 6th dan (red/white belt)[317] and is best known for his Harai Goshi (sweeping hip throw). Putin earned Master of Sports (Soviet and Russian sport title) in judo in 1975 and in sambo in 1973. At a state visit to Japan, Putin was invited to the Kodokan Institute, the judo headquarters, where he showed different judo techniques to the students and Japanese officials.
Putin also holds a 6th dan black belt in Kyokushin kaikan karate. He was presented the black belt in December 2009 by Japanese champion Kyokushin Karate-Do master Hatsuo Royama.[155]
Other sports[link]
Putin is a keen alpine skier. He often is seen skiing with Dmitry Medvedev on a new Russian skiing resort at Krasnaya Polyana near Sochi.[156] On 22 March 2011, Putin was presented a pair of alpine skies from a Prime Minister of Slovenia, Borut Pahor.[318]
Putin often plays sporting games and enjoys outdoor activity with Dmitry Medvedev, propagandizing sports and healthy way of life among Russians. They were seen on a video playing badminton with Medvedev (Medvedev's favorite sport), as well as doing bicycle rides and fishing together.[157] They also jointly drink milk and eat traditional Russian black bread.[158]
During his Premiership, Putin for the first time started to learn ice skating and playing ice hockey, after he promised to do so on a meeting with the junior Russian ice hockey players who had won the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships. In 2011 he appeared on several training games shown on Russian TV.[159]
Putin also enjoys watching football and supports FC Zenit Saint Petersburg, the main team of his native city.[319] A keen driver, Putin tested a Formula 1 car on 7 November 2010 in Saint Petersburg, reaching a maximum speed of 240 km per hour.[160]
On his trip to Tuva in August 2007, Putin was stripped off his shirt for the cameras while riding horses, fishing and swimming in a cold Siberian river (as well as rafting there)[162] Putin also performed scuba diving at the archaeological site of the ancient Greek colony of Phanagoria in the Taman Bay on 11 August 2011.[161]
Biking[link]




Putin on a trike, leading Russian bikers on the international show in Novorossiysk, 2011 (see the video).


In July 2010 Putin appeared at a Russian-Ukrainian Orthodox Bikers festival in Sevastopol, Ukraine, riding a Harley-Davidson tricycle. The high council of Russian bikers movements unanimously voted to elevate him into a Hells Angel range with the nickname of Abaddon. The nickname is probably influenced by angel of death and destruction Abadonna in Mikhail Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita novel.[282][320]
Putin also visited the 2011 International Bike Show in Novorossiysk on his trike.[321]
Personal wealth and residences[link]





The neutrality of this article is disputed. Please see the discussion on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (May 2012)


Figures released during the legislative election of 2007 put Putin's wealth at approximately 3.7 million rubles ($150,000) in bank accounts, a private 77.4-square-meter (833 sq ft) apartment in Saint Petersburg, 260 shares of Bank Saint Petersburg (with a December 2007 market price $5.36 per share[322]) and two 1960s-era Volga M21 cars that he inherited from his father and does not register for on-road use.




An Italianate palace on Russia's southern Black Sea coast allegedly built for Vladimir Putin's personal use.[323]


Putin's 2006 income totalled 2 million rubles (approximately $80,000).[324] According to the data Putin did not make it into the 100 wealthiest Duma candidates of his own United Russia party.[325]
Unconfirmed claims by some Russian opposition politicians and journalists allege that Putin secretly possesses a large fortune (as much as $40 billion) via successive ownership of stakes in a number of Russian companies.[326][327] Asked at a press conference on 14 February 2008 whether he was the richest person in Europe, as some newspapers claimed; and if so, to state the source of his wealth, Putin said "This is plain chatter, not worthy discussion, plain bosh. They have picked this in their noses and have smeared this across their pieces of paper. This is how I view this."[328]
As President and then Prime-Minister, apart from the Moscow Kremlin and the White House, Putin used a number of official residences throughout the country: Gorki-9 near Moscow, Bocharov Ruchey in Sochi, Dolgiye Borody in Novgorod Oblast, Novo-Ogaryovo in Moscow Oblast and Riviera in Sochi (the latter two were left for Putin when he was Prime-Minister in 2008-2012, others were used by Dmitry Medvedev at that period).[329] A massive Italianate-style mansion costing an alleged USD 1 billion[323] and dubbed "Putin's Palace" is under construction near the Black Sea village of Praskoveevka. The mansion, built on government land and sporting 3 helipads, a private road paid for from state funds and guarded by officials wearing uniforms of the official Kremlin guard service, is said to have been built for Putin's private use. In 2012 Sergei Kolesnikov, a former business associate of Putin's, told the BBC's Newsnight programme, that he had been ordered by deputy prime minister, Igor Sechin, to oversee the building of it.[330]
Pets[link]




Putin's Labrador Koni, wearing a GLONASS-enabled collar.


Main articles: Koni (dog) and Buffy (dog)
Putin owns a female black Labrador Retriever named Koni, given as a gift in 2000 by General of the Army and Russia's Minister of Emergency Situations Sergey Shoigu. Koni is often seen at Putin's side and has been known to accompany him into staff meetings and greet world leaders. In 2003 on the day of the Russian legislative election, Koni gave birth to eight pups, which were later given as presents to Russian citizens, politicians and foreign ambassadors.[331] Koni gained additional fame in 2004 when Detskaya Literatura, the largest Russian publisher of children's books, published a book entitled Connie's Stories.[332] In 2008 Koni became the first recipient of a GLONASS-enabled pet collar, highlighting the progress of the Russian global navigation satellite system.[333]
In 2010 Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov gave Putin a Karakachan Dog who was then named Buffy according to a suggestion by a 5-year old boy from Moscow, Dima Sokolov.[334]
Recognition[link]

In September 2006, France's president Jacques Chirac awarded Vladimir Putin the Grand-Croix (Grand Cross) of the Légion d'honneur, the highest French decoration, to celebrate his contribution to the friendship between the two countries. This decoration is usually awarded to the heads of state considered very close to France.[335]
In 2007, Putin was named Time magazine's Person of the Year.
On 12 February 2007 Saudi King Abdullah awarded Putin the King Abdul Aziz Award, Saudi Arabia's top civilian decoration.[336]
On 10 September 2007 UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan awarded Putin the Order of Zayed, the UAE's top civil decoration.[337]
In December 2007 Putin was named Person of the Year by Expert magazine, an influential and respected Russian business weekly.[338]
On 5 October 2008 the central street of Grozny, the capital of Russia's Republic of Chechnya, was renamed from the Victory Avenue to the Vladimir Putin Avenue, as ordered by the Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov.[339]
In February 2011 Kyrgyzstan parliament named a peak in Tian Shan mountains Vladimir Putin Peak.[340]
On 15 November 2011 the China International Peace Research Center awarded the Confucius Peace Prize to Putin, citing as reason Putin's opposition to NATO's Libya bombing in 2011 while also paying tribute to his decision to go to war in Chechnya in 1999.[341] According to the committee, Putin's "Iron hand and toughness revealed in this war impressed the Russians a lot, and he was regarded to be capable of bringing safety and stability to Russia".[342]


References and notes[link]


^ Hale, Henry E.; Timothy J. Colton (8 September 2009). "Russians and the Putin-Medvedev "Tandemocracy": A Survey-Based Portrait of the 2007-08 Election Season". The National Council for Eurasian and East European Research (Seattle, WA: University of Washington). http://www.ucis.pitt.edu/nceeer/2009_823-03_2_Hale.pdf. Retrieved 15 March 2012. 
^ Putin Hails Vote Victory, Opponents Cry Foul RIAN
^ "Elections in Russia: World Awaits for Putin to Reclaim the Kremlin". The World Reporter. March 2012. http://www.theworldreporter.com/2012/03/elections-in-russia-world-awaits-for.html. Retrieved 2012-03. 
^ Krone-Schmalz, Gabriele (2008). "Der Präsident" (in German). Was passiert in Russland? (4 ed.). München: F.A. Herbig. ISBN 978-3-7766-2525-7. 
^ a b c "Russians weigh Putin's protégé". Associated Press. Moscow. 3 May 2008. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/24443419/print/1/displaymode/1098/. Retrieved 2008-12-29. 
^ of Russia from 1992 to 2007 International Monetary Fund Retrieved on 12 May 2008
^ a b c d e f g Russia’s economy under Vladimir Putin: achievements and failures RIA Novosti Retrieved on 1 May 2008
^ a b Putin's Economy – Eight Years On. Russia Profile, 15 August 2007. Retrieved on 23 April 2008
^ "RUSSIA AVERAGE MONTHLY ACCRUED WAGES OF EMPLOYEES". Russia's Federal State Statistics Service. http://www.gks.ru/bgd/regl/b08_12/IssWWW.exe/stg/d01/07-08.htm. 
^ "Oil & Natural Gas Sector in Russia: Fueling Growth". Thomas White Intl. January 2011. http://www.thomaswhite.com/explore-the-world/bric-spotlight/2010/russia-oil-and-gas.aspx. 
^ "Russian Economic Report". World Bank. November 2009. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTRUSSIANFEDERATION/Resources/305499-1245838520910/rer20fulltext_eng.pdf. Retrieved 2009-11. 
^ a b "The Putin Paradox". Americanprogress.org. 2004-06-24. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2004/06/b99061.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ Rutland, Peter (2005). "Putin's Economic Record". In White, Gitelman, Sakwa. Developments in Russian Politics. 6. Duke University Press. ISBN [[Special:BookSources/082233522012|082233522012]]. 
^ Достижение высшего уровня продолжительности жизни в России by Abel Aganbegyan. creativeconomy.com
^ a b c Sharlet, Robert (2005). "In Search of the Rule of Law". In White, Gitelman, Sakwa. Developments in Russian Politics. 6. Duke University Press. ISBN 0-8223-3522-0. 
^ a b Russia, China in Deal On Refinery, Not Gas by Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen. Wall Street Journal, Sept 22, 2010
^ a b Did A New Pipeline Just Make Russia The Most Important Energy Superpower By Far by Graham Winfrey. Business Insider, 6 Jan 2010
^ ПОСТУПЛЕНИЕ ИНОСТРАННЫХ ИНВЕСТИЦИЙ ПО ТИПАМ Rosstat
^ Индексы levada.ru
^ Putin’s Approval Rating Tops 50% - Survey RIA Novosti. Accessed: 16 March 2012.
^ Treisman, D. "Is Russia's Experiment with Democracy Over?". UCLA International Institute. http://www.international.ucla.edu/article.asp?parentid=16294. Retrieved 31 Dec. 2007. 
^ Democracy Index 2011, http://www.sida.se/Global/About%20Sida/Så%20arbetar%20vi/EIU_Democracy_Index_Dec2011.pdf
^ http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/01/wikileaks-cables-russia-mafia-kleptocracy
^ Stephen Holmes, Fragments of a Defunct State, London Review of Books
^ Biography at the Russia's Prime Minister web site, in Russian
^ a b First Person. trans. Catherine A. Fitzpatrick. PublicAffairs. 2000. p. 208. ISBN 978-1-58648-018-9. 
^ (Sakwa 2008, p. 2)
^ Pravda, English Edition, 05.11.2002
^ "Prime Minister". Russia.rin.ru. http://russia.rin.ru/guides_e/2637.html. Retrieved 2011-09-24. 
^ theme: Russian: «Принцип наиболее благоприятствуемой нации»Выпускники за 1975 год. Saint Petersburg State University's website. ("The principle of most favored nation").
^ Mehdi, Ahmed (6 May 2012). "Putin's Gazprom Problem". ForeignAffairs.com. http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137615/ahmed-mehdi/putins-gazprom-problem. Retrieved 11 May 2012. 
^ Владимир Путин. От Первого Лица. Chapter 6
^ a b c d Pribylovsky, Vladimir (2010). "Valdimir Putin" (in Russian). Власть-2010 (60 биографий). Moscow: Panorama. pp. 132–139. ISBN 978-5-94420-038-9. http://scilla.ru/works/knigi/vlast2010.pdf. 
^ (Sakwa 2008, pp. 8–9)
^ a b Hoffman, David (2000-01-30). "Putin's Career Rooted in Russia's KGB". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/inatl/longterm/russiagov/putin.htm. 
^ "Putin set to visit Dresden, the place of his work as a KGB spy, to tend relations with Germany". International Herald Tribune. 2006-10-09. http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2006/10/09/europe/EU_GEN_Germany_Russia.php. 
^ R. Sakwa Putin: Russia's Choice, p. 10
^ R. Sakwa Putin: Russia's Choice, p. 10
^ R. Sakwa Putin: Russia's Choice, pp. 10-11
^ R. Sakwa Putin: Russia's Choice, p. 11
^ Kovalev, Vladimir (2004-07-23). "Uproar At Honor For Putin". The Saint Petersburg Times. http://sptimes.ru/index.php?action_id=2&story_id=1124. 
^ Hoffman, David (2000-01-30). "Putin's Career Rooted in Russia's KGB". The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/inatl/longterm/russiagov/putin.htm. 
^ Putin's Name Surfaces in German Probe by Catherine Belton
^ The Man Who Wasn't There by Nick Paton Walsh. The Observer, 29 February 2004.
^ a b "Владимир Путин: от ассистента Собчака до и.о. премьера" (in Russian). GAZETA.RU. http://gazeta.lenta.ru/daynews/09-08-1999/30bio.htm. 
^ The Half-Decay Products (in Russian) by Oleg Odnokolenko. Itogi, #47(545), 2.01.2007.
^ "ПУТИН — КАНДИДАТ НАУК" (in Russian). zavtra.ru. 2000-05-24. http://www.zavtra.ru/cgi/veil/data/zavtra/00/338/32.html. 
^ Allen-Mills, Tony (2006-03-26). "Putin accused of plagiarising his PhD thesis". The Sunday Times. http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/article695235.ece. Retrieved 2008-06-24. "The embarrassing revelation that Putin, a former KGB agent, may have cheated and lied about his qualifications follows a long search by US scholars for evidence of the president’s academic prowess." 
^ Putin Faces Plagiarism Accusation St Petersburg Times
^ Heinrichs, Allison M. (2006-03-28). "Putin plagiarized from Pitt professors". Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. http://pittsburghlive.com/x/tribune-review/s_437473.html. Retrieved 2008-06-24. "If plagiarism is the sincerest form of flattery, then Russian President Vladimir Putin has made two University of Pittsburgh professors blush." 
^ ‘It All Boils Down to Plagiarism’
^ The President as Candidate Kommersant
^ "Text of Yeltsin's speech in English". BBC News. 1999-08-09. http://news..co.uk/1/hi/not_in_website/syndication/monitoring/415278.stm. Retrieved 2007-05-31. 
^ Yeltsin redraws political map BBC, 10 August 1999
^ Yeltsin's man wins approval BBC, 16 August 1999.
^ Richard Sakwa Putin: Russia's choice, 2008. p. 20.
^ Political groups and parties: Unity Norsk Utenrikspolitisk Institutt
^ УКАЗ от 31 декабря 1999 г. № 1763 О ГАРАНТИЯХ ПРЕЗИДЕНТУ РОССИЙСКОЙ ФЕДЕРАЦИИ, ПРЕКРАТИВШЕМУ ИСПОЛНЕНИЕ СВОИХ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ, И ЧЛЕНАМ ЕГО СЕМЬИ. Rossiyskaya Gazeta
^ «Развращение» первого лица. Госдума не решилась покуситься на неприкосновенность экс-президента.. newizv.ru 18 March 2004.
^ Person of the Year 2007: A Tsar Is Born by Adi Ignatius, (page 4) Retrieved on 19 November 2009, Time.com
^ a b c History of Presidential Elections in Russia: Infographics RIAN
^ Profile: Boris Berezovsky BBC Retrieved on 1 May 2008
^ What a carve-up! The Guardian Retrieved on 28 April 2008
^ Solovyev V. R. Putin. Guide For Those Who Cares / V. Solovyev. – Moscow, "Eksmo", 2008. – 416 pp. ISBN 978-5-699-23807-1. (Solovyev 2008). Page 36. (In Russian: Владимир Соловьев. "Путин. Путеводитель для неравнодушных." 2008.)
^ Solovyev 2008, p. 39
^ Spectre of Kursk haunts Putin, BBC News, 12 August 2001
^ Duma approves old Soviet anthem CNN, 8 December 2000.
^ National anthem of Russian Federation, StateSymbol.Ru
^ Moscow siege leaves dark memories, BBC News, 16 December 2002
^ Can Grozny be groovy? by The Independent, 13 March 2007.
^ Human Rights Watch Reports, on human rights abuses in Chechnya. Retrieved 22 November 2006.
^ Russia Factbook Central Intelligence Agency
^ Lynch, Dov (2005). "The enemy is at the gate": Russia after Beslan. International Affairs 81 (1), 141–161.
^ Putin tightens grip on security, BBC News, 13 September 2004.
^ "The challenges of the Medvedev era". BOFIT Online (Bank of Finland). 24 June 2008. ISSN 1456-811X. http://www.suomenpankki.fi/en/suomen_pankki/organisaatio/asiantuntijoita/Documents/bon0608.pdf. Retrieved 2011-09-24. 
^ a b c Путин очертил "дорожную карту" третьего срока BBC
^ How to Steal Legally The Moscow Times, 15 February 2008 (issue 3843, page 8).
^ Putin’s Gamble. Where Russia is headed by Nikolas Gvosdev, www.nationalreview.com, 5 November 2003.
^ Putin's Kremlin Asserting More Control of Economy. Yukos Case Reflects Shift on Owning Assets, Notably in Energy by Peter Baker, Washington Post, 9 July 2004.
^ Andrei Yakovlev State-business relations and improvement of corporate governance in Russia Bank of Finland Institute for Economies in Transition, 29.12.2008
^ Putin's Russia failed to protect this brave woman, Joan Smith.
^ Anna Politkovskaya, Prominent Russian Journalist, Putin Critic and Human Rights Activist, Murdered in Moscow, Democracy Now
^ Answers on questions asked during interview to ARD TV channel (Germany), Dresden, 10 October 2006
^ "The accused of murder of Anna Politkovskaya name possible clients" (in (Russian)). Itar-tass.com. 2012-02-29. http://www.itar-tass.com/en/c142/354859.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Lee, Steven (2007-03-10). "Kasparov, Building Opposition to Putin". Russia: Nytimes.com. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/10/world/europe/10kasparov.html?ex=1331182800&en=2f3ff57730367a82&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Garry Kasparov jailed over rally". BBC News. 24 November 2007. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/7110910.stm. Retrieved 9 April 2010. 
^ VCIOM: Dissenters' Marches Do Not Interest Russians, Regnum.ru, 3 July 2007
^ "Putin Dissolves Government, Nominates Viktor Zubkov as New Prime Minister". Foxnews.com. 2007-09-12. http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,296505,00.html. Retrieved 2 March 2010. 
^ Election Preliminary Results for United Russia, 4 December 2007, Rbc.ru
^ Preliminary results of voting, Retrieved on 4 December 2007, Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation
^ Russians Voted In Favour of Putin, 4 December 2007, Izvestia.ru
^ Assenters' March, 3 December 2007, Izvestia.ru
^ Выступление на расширенном заседании Государственного совета «О стратегии развития России до 2020 года». RF President's official web site, 8 February 2008.
^ Будущий премьер Путин намерен лично контролировать губернаторов NEWSru.com 30 April 2008.
^ Губернаторов начальник. Будущий премьер намерен лично контролировать региональных руководителей (The chief of governors. The future premier intends to personally check regional leaders.) Nezavisimaya gazeta 30 April 2008.
^ Putin Is Approved as Prime Minister nytimes.com, 9 May 2008.
^ "Russian Economic Reports". Web.worldbank.org. 2009-11-10. http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/COUNTRIES/ECAEXT/RUSSIANFEDERATIONEXTN/0,,contentMDK:20888536~menuPK:2445695~pagePK:1497618~piPK:217854~theSitePK:305600,00.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Russia's Putin set to return as president in 2012". BBC News. 24 September 2011. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-15045816. Retrieved 24 September 2011. 
^ Russian election protests – follow live updates, Guardian, retrieved 10 December 2011
^ Как митинг на Поклонной собрал около 140 000 человек politonline.ru (Russian)
^ a b ‘We Won in Fair and Open Fight' – Putin RIAN
^ a b c Putin Supporters Fill Moscow Stadium RIAN
^ Провокация вместо марша vz.ru
^ "Russian police battle anti-Putin protesters". Reuters. http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/05/06/us-russia-protests-idUSBRE8440CK20120506. Retrieved May 07, 2012. 
^ СК пересчитал пострадавших полицейских во время "Марша миллионов" Lenta.ru
^ a b "Vladimir Putin inauguration shows how popularity has crumbled". Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/vladimir-putin/9250729/Vladimir-Putin-inauguration-shows-how-popularity-has-crumbled.html. Retrieved May 07, 2012. 
^ "Putin Inaugurated; States Intention for Russia to Be "Center of Gravity for the Whole of Eurasia", May 8, 2012.
^ "Putin decrees EU closeness policy", Voice of Russia, May, 7, 2012.
^ White, Stephen (2010). "Classifying Russia's Politics". In White, Stephen. Developments in Russian Politics 7. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-230-22449-0. 
^ R. Sakwa, Putin: Russia's Choice, 2008, p. 42-43
^ Sovereignty is a Political Synonym of Competitiveness Vladislav Surkov, public appearance, 7 February 2006
^ Our Russian Model of Democracy is Titled «Sovereign Democracy» Vladislav Surkov, briefing, 28 June 2006.
^ "''Президентское фильтрование'' губернаторов оценили политики". Radiovesti.ru. http://radiovesti.ru/articles/2011-12-15/fm/24575. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b "State Duma Approves Liberal Political Reforms". En.rian.ru. 2012-02-28. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20120228/171592651.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Kramer, Andrew E. (2007-04-22). "50% Good News Is the Bad News in Russian Radio". Russia: Nytimes.com. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/22/world/europe/22russia.html?pagewanted=print. Retrieved 2011-09-24. 
^ Masha Lipman, Anders Aslund (2004-12-02). "Russian Media Criticism of Vladimir Putin: Evidence and Significance". Carnegieendowment.org. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/index.cfm?fa=eventDetail&id=745. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Несмотря на двукратное снижение числа убийств, на фоне европейских показателей оно остается крайне высоким". Demoscope.ru. http://demoscope.ru/weekly/2011/0453/barom02.php. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "МВД рапортует: количество терактов снизилось в 15 раз". Finmarket.ru. http://www.finmarket.ru/z/nws/hn.asp?id=722215&nt=0&p=2&sec=0. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Report for Selected Countries and Subjects". Imf.org. 2006-09-14. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/weo/2011/02/weodata/weorept.aspx?)sy=1993&ey=2010&scsm=1&ssd=1&sort=country&ds=.&br=1&pr1.x=49&pr1.y=11&c=922&s=NGDP_RPCH&grp=0&a=. Retrieved 2011-12-09. 
^ "РОЗНИЧНЫЙ ПОДХОД. Российские банки борются за частников". Vtbmagazine.ru. http://www.vtbmagazine.ru/number_detail.asp?aid=87. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Ежегодно объем потребительского кредитования в России удваивается". Bank.samaratoday.ru. http://bank.samaratoday.ru/showNews.php?idNews=741. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Основные Социально-Экономические Индикаторы Уровня Жизни Населения". Gks.ru. http://www.gks.ru/free_doc/2006/b06_11/07-01.htm. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ a b c Daniel Mitchell Russia's Flat-Tax Miracle. The Heritage Foundation. 24 March 2003.
^ "Putin Advocates Strong Russia, Liberal Economy; President Surprisingly Candid In First State of Nation Address". Encyclopedia.com. 2000-07-09. http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1P2-536806.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "A Comparative Study of Taxation in Russia and Other CIS, East European and OECD Countries". Papers.ssrn.com. 2004-04-09. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=526745. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ Goldman, Marshall I. (2008). "Chapter 5". Petrostate: Putin, Power and the New Russia. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-534073-0. 
^ Iikka. Korhonen et al. The challenges of the Medvedev era. Bank of Finland's Institute for Economies in Transition, 24 June 2008.
^ Rosstat Confirms Record GDP Growth Kommersant Retrieved on 5 May 2008.
^ Krkoska, Alan; Spencer (2008). "Automotive Industry in Russia: Impact of foreign investments in car assembly plants on suppliers’ entry". European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. http://www.ebrd.com/downloads/research/economics/auto.pdf. 
^ Zvereva, Polina (2009-10-11). "State-sponsored consolidation". Russia & CIS Observer 3 (26). http://www.ato.ru/content/state-sponsored-consolidation. 
^ "Annual Report 2009". United Aircraft Corporation. 2010. http://www.uacrussia.ru/common/img/uploaded/disclosure/Annual_Report_2009e.pdf. 
^ Future Vision Wall Street Journal
^ Russia builds nuclear power stations all over the world at amur.kp.ru
^ a b William J. Broad (February 19, 2008). "Russia's Claim Under Polar Ice Irks American". New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/19/world/europe/19arctic.html?adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=1311810481-IXSrMDBjzhfGopGmYcf6tw. Retrieved 2011-07-27. 
^ Adrian Blomfield (June 11, 2008). "Russia plans Arctic military build-up". London: The Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/2111507/Russia-plans-Arctic-military-build-up.html. Retrieved 2011-07-27. 
^ Mia Bennett (July 4, 2011). "Russia, Like Other Arctic States, Solidifies Northern Military Presence". Foreign Policy Association. http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2011/07/04/russia-arctic-states-solidifying-northern-military-presence/. Retrieved 2011-07-27. 
^ Richard Galpin (September 22, 2010). "The struggle for Arctic riches". BBC News. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-11381773. Retrieved 2011-08-28. 
^ Peter Fairley (July 2, 2010). "Russia Launches Floating Nuclear Power Plant". IEEE Spectrum. http://spectrum.ieee.org/energywise/energy/nuclear/russia-launches-floating-nuclear-power-plant. Retrieved 2011-08-28. 
^ "Gazprom starts towing of Prirazlomnoye platform to field". iStockAnalyst. August 25, 2011. http://www.istockanalyst.com/business/news/5379031/gazprom-starts-towing-of-prirazlomnoye-platform-to-field. Retrieved 2011-08-28. 
^ "Prirazlmonaya sea platform to be delivered to offshore oil field". ITAR-TASS. August 26, 2011. http://www.itar-tass.com/c32/212487_print.html. Retrieved 2011-08-28. 
^ a b Andrew Kramer (August 30, 2011). "Exxon Reaches Arctic Oil Deal With Russians". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/31/business/global/exxon-and-rosneft-partner-in-russian-oil-deal.html. Retrieved 2011-09-05. 
^ Melodie Warner (August 30, 2011). "Exxon Mobil, Rosneft To Jointly Develop Hydrocarbon Resources Globally". The Wall St. Journal. http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110830-709465.html. Retrieved 2011-09-05. 
^ Roger Howard (September 4, 2011). "How Arctic oil could break new ground". The Guardian. http://www.thepeninsulaqatar.com/business-views/163674-how-arctic-oil-could-break-new-ground.html. Retrieved 2011-09-05. 
^ New York Times 6 November 2004 retrieved 20 April 2008.
^ "Tony Johnson, staff writer: Council on Foreign Relations". Cfr.org. http://www.cfr.org/publication/13640/g8s_gradual_move_toward_postkyoto_climate_change_policy.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ THE AMUR TIGER PROGRAMME premier.gov.ru
^ THE WHITE WHALE PROGRAMME premier.gov.ru
^ THE POLAR BEAR PROGRAMME premier.gov.ru
^ THE SNOW LEOPARD PROGRAMME premier.gov.ru
^ Bell, I (2002). Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia. ISBN 978-1-85743-137-7. http://books.google.com/?id=EPP3ti4hysUC&pg=PA47. Retrieved 27 Dec. 2007. 
^ "he President of Russia attended the ceremonial signing of the Act on Canonical Communion that was held in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour" (Press release). Embassy of Russia in Ottawa. 17 May 2007. Archived from the original on 2008-10-02. http://www.webcitation.org/5bGjBVfm6. Retrieved 2008-10-02.  Archived by WebCite at www.webcitation.org/5bGjBVfm6
^ In Putin's return, Russian Jews see stabilityJewish Telegraphic Agency, Jerusalem Post',' By LEV KRICHEVKSY, 10/10/2011 22:38.
^ a b c wmf . media.kremlin.ru (2007)
^ a b Putin, Vladimir V.; Vasilii Shestakov, Alexey Levitsky, Aleksei Levitskii (July 2004). Judo: History, Theory, Practice. North Atlantic Books. ISBN 1-55643-445-6. 
^ a b Moskovsky Komsomolets: “Putin becomes sixth-level black belt” by Oleg Fochkin. premier.gov, re-publication of a Moskovsky Komsomolets article.
^ a b Медведев и Путин покатались на горных лыжах в Сочи rosbalt.ru
^ a b "Д.Медведев призвал россиян активнее играть в бадминтон" (in (Russian)). Top.rbc.ru. http://top.rbc.ru/society/24/10/2011/621675.shtml. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b Встреча Путина и Медведева за стаканом молока и буханкой хлеба Inosmi
^ a b c "Путин провел тренировку по хоккею с Фетисовым". Lifenews.ru. 2011-11-19. http://www.lifenews.ru/news/74934. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b c "Премьер-гонка: Владимир Путин протестировал болид "Формулы-1"". Rg.ru. 2012-03-17. http://www.rg.ru/2010/11/08/bolid.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b c Путин погрузился с аквалангом на дно Таманского залива tetis.ru
^ a b The Associated Press (2007-08-22). "Putin gone wild: Russia abuzz over pics of shirtless leader". Cbc.ca. http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2007/08/22/putin-shirtless.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Beginning of Meeting with Defense Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov, 5 December 2007, Kremlin.ru
^ Guy Faulconbridge Russian navy to start sorties in Mediterranean. Reuters. 5 December 2007.
^ "Military reform to change army structure. What about its substance?". En.rian.ru. 2008-10-17. http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20081017/117787642.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b c America's Failed (Bi-Partisan) Russia Policy by Stephen F. Cohen, huffingtonpost.com
^ Stürmer, Michael Putin and the Rise of Russia, page 192.
^ Stürmer, Michael Putin and the Rise of Russia page 192.
^ a b c 43rd Munich Conference on Security Policy. Putin's speech in English, 10 February 2007.
^ "Russia: Washington Reacts To Putin's Munich Speech". RFERL. http://www.rferl.org/content/article/1074671.html. 
^ a b Watson, Rob (10 February 2007). "Putin's speech: Back to cold war? Putin's speech: Back to cold war?". BBC. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/6350847.stm. 
^ Interview for Indian Television Channel Doordarshan and Press Trust of India News Agency, 18 January 2007.
^ Munich Conference on Security Policy, As Delivered by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates Munich, Germany 11 February 2007.
^ Stürmer, Michael Putin and the Rise of Russia page 192.
^ Press Conference following the end of the G8 Summit, 8 June 2007.
^ "Russia walks away from CFE arms treaty". AFP. 12 December 2007. http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5hM6ii1jZ7sJORsbdQRQXezRVBd9Q. Retrieved 13 December 2007. 
^ "Putin: supports for Kosovo unilateral independence "immoral, illegal"". Xinhua. 2008-02-14. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-02/14/content_7604675.htm. Retrieved 2008-02-25. 
^ "Putin: Kosovo case terrible precedent". Press TV. 2008-02-22. http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=44275&sectionid=351020602. Retrieved 2008-02-25. 
^ "EU's Solana rejects Putin's criticism over Kosovo's independence". IRNA. 2008-02-23. http://www2.irna.ir/en/news/view/menu-239/0802233413164912.htm. Retrieved 2008-02-25. 
^ Merkel cools Berlin Moscow ties BBC News 16 January 2006.
^ a b c d Gonzalo Vina and Sebastian Alison (20 July 2007). "Brown Defends Russian Expulsions, Decries Killings". Bloomberg News. http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601102&sid=ajvS9NfMW2EE&refer=uk. 
^ a b c UK spied on Russians with fake rock BBC
^ Британия признала наличие шпионского камня, существование которого считали фантазией спецслужб 1tv.ru
^ a b c "Litvinenko's father apologises for accusing Russia", BBC News, 12 February 2012
^ The version of poisoning by polonium, widely publicized by the British media, was later questioned because of numerous disparities and because in fact no official certification had been issued as to the cause or manner of death.Litvinenko: MI5, MI6 death files ordered released Russia Today
^ In full: Litvinenko statement, BBC News, 24 November 2006
^ An interview with Andrei Nekrasov by Yury Veksler, Radio Liberty, 28 November 2006.
^ Jordan, Mary (10 June 2007). "Poisoned Russian Had Sought Entry to U.S., Book Says". Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/06/09/AR2007060901354_pf.html. Retrieved 2008-11-13.  (Archived at WebCite).
^ Soviet Moonwalker is Guilty for Litvinenko Death? Strange Litvinenko Last Will, Izvestia, 27 November 2006.
^ Is Putin being set up?, Townhall.com, 27 November 2006.
^ Dunkerley, William (25 May 2007). "The Essence of the Alexander Litvinenko Story". Russia Profile. http://www.russiaprofile.org/international/a1180613251.html. Retrieved 2008-11-13.  (Archived at WebCite).
^ "Ex-spy's death should not be used for provocation — Putin". Novosti. 24 November 2006. http://en.rian.ru/russia/20061124/55967399.html. Retrieved 2006-11-26. 
^ "British Ambassador Warns Lugovoi". Reuters. December 10, 2007. http://www.themoscowtimes.com/stories/2007/12/10/013.html. Retrieved 2007-12-12. 
^ "Russia suspends British Council regional offices". Reuters. 10 December 2007. http://www.reuters.com/article/worldNews/idUSL1288433020071212?feedType=RSS&feedName=worldNews&rpc=22&sp=true. Retrieved 12 December 2007. 
^ Page, Jeremy (26 September 2010). "Russian Oil Route Will Open to China". The Wall Street Journal. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704082104575515543164948682.html. Retrieved 28 September 2010. 
^ a b Press Statement following the Peace Mission 2007 Counterterrorism Exercises and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit, 17 August 2007, Chelyabinsk Region.
^ Russia restores Soviet-era strategic bomber patrols, 17 August 2007, RIA Novosti, Russia.
^ SCO Scares NATO, 8 August 2007, KM.ru
^ Russia Over Three Oceans, 20 August 2007, "Chas", Latvia.
^ Putin: Iran Has Right to Develop Peaceful Nuclear Programme, 16 October 2007, Rbc.ru
^ "Putin's warning to the U.S.". Reuters. 16 October 2007. Archived from the original on 2007-10-17. http://web.archive.org/web/20071017065727/http://www.reuters.com/news/video/videoStory?videoId=68897. 
^ Putin Positive on Second Caspian Summit Results, Meets With Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, 16 October 2007, Kremlin.ru
^ Visit to Iran. Second Caspian Summit, 15–16 October 2007, Kremlin.ru
^ Vladimir Putin defies assassination threats to make historic visit to Tehran, 16 October 2007, The Times.
^ Answer to a Question at the Joint Press Conference Following the Second Caspian Summit, 16 October 2007, Tehran, Kremlin.ru
^ a b Stürmer, Michael Putin and the Rise of Russia, London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2008 page 55.
^ Russia forges nuclear links with Venezeula france24.com
^ Russian bombers land in Venezuela BBC
^ [1][dead link]
^ "Russia Courts Indonesia". Web.archive.org. 2007-10-12. Archived from the original on 2007-10-12. http://web.archive.org/web/20071012181540/http://brtsis.com/rrubb.htm. Retrieved 2011-09-24. 
^ a b Polish head rejects Putin attack, BBC News (December 24, 2004)
^ Putin calls 'color revolutions' an instrument of destabilization, Kyiv Post (15 December 2011)
^ a b c d Q&A: Russia-Ukraine gas row, BBC News (20 January 2009).
^ Stürmer, Michael Putin and the Rise of Russia page 57.
^ Russia opens gas taps to Europe, BBC News (20 January 2009)
^ Natural gas, Europe price chart, Mongabay
^ Ukraine ex-PM Yulia Tymoshenko jailed over gas deal, BBC News (11 October 2011)
^ Ukraine's parliament votes to abandon Nato ambitions, BBC News (June 3, 2010)
^ "After Russian Invasion of Georgia, Putin's Words Stir Fears about Ukraine", Kyiv Post (30 November 2010)
^ "Russia and Eurasia". Heritage.org. Archived from the original on 2009-05-28. http://www.heritage.org/research/RussiaandEurasia/wm2017.cfm. Retrieved 2009-05-10. 
^ "Day-by-day: Georgia-Russia crisis". BBC News. 2008-08-21. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/7551576.stm. Retrieved 2009-05-10. 
^ Sparks, Ian (14 November 2008). "Putin planned to topple the president of Georgia and 'hang him by the b****', says Nicolas Sarkozy's chief adviser". London: Mail Online. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1085468/Putin-planned-topple-president-Georgia-hang-b---says-Nicolas-Sarkozys-chief-adviser.html. 
^ Putin warns US against rearming Georgia, RT (22 February 2012)
^ Georgia’s Saakashvili Slams Putin for Nationalist Comment, RIA Novosti (21 January 2012)
^ Putin on Georgia's territorial integrity, RT via YouTube (8 Augustus 2009)
^ World Report 2011: Ukraine, Human Rights Watch
^ Russia, Ukraine agree on naval-base-for-gas deal, CNN (21 April 2010)
^ Kyrgyzstan profile, BBC News
^ a b "Russia sees union with Belarus and Kazakhstan by 2015". BBC News. 18 November 2011. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-15790452. Retrieved 19 November 2011. 
^ a b "Евразийские комиссары получат статус федеральных министров" (in Russian). Tut.By. 17 November 2011. http://news.tut.by/politics/259307.html. Retrieved 19 November 2011. 
^ Meeting with Members of the Valdai International Discussion Club, September 2007, Kremlin.Ru
^ Выступление на расширенном заседании Государственного совета «О стратегии развития России до 2020 года» Kremlin.ru
^ СМИ о конференции «Стратегия-2010: итоги реализации и новые вызовы» 1 июня 2010 года csr.ru
^ New Integration Project for Eurasia – A Future That Is Being Born Today (English)
^ Новый интеграционный проект для Евразии – будущее, которое рождается сегодня (Russian)
^ Bryanski, Gleb (3 October 2011). "Russia's Putin says wants to build "Eurasian Union"". Yahoo! News. Reuters. http://news.yahoo.com/russias-putin-says-wants-build-eurasian-union-222139037.html. Retrieved 4 October 2011. 
^ "Новый интеграционный проект для Евразии – будущее, которое рождается сегодня" (in Russian). Izvestia. 3 October 2011. http://www.izvestia.ru/news/502761. Retrieved 4 October 2011. 
^ Kilner, James (6 October 2011). "Kazakhstan welcomes Putin's Eurasian Union concept". The Daily Telegraph (London). http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/kazakhstan/8808500/Kazakhstan-welcomes-Putins-Eurasian-Union-concept.html. Retrieved 8 October 2011. 
^ п░п╡я┌п╬я─ п╫п╬п╡п╬я│я┌п╦: п÷п╟п╡п╣п╩ п⌡п╣п╫я┌я▐п╣п╡. "7 статей и джек-пот: Путин завершил серию публикаций". Neprussia.ru. http://neprussia.ru/news/maximum/1170. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Addresses to the Federal Assembly". Kremlin.ru. http://www.kremlin.ru/eng/sdocs/speeches.shtml?date_to=2008/05/06&stype=70029. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Article 84 of the Russian Constitution". Constitution.ru. http://www.constitution.ru/en/10003000-05.htm. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ a b c d e "СМИ: мюнхенская речь Путина – поворотная точка во внешней политике РФ". Nr2.ru. http://www.nr2.ru/policy/104025.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Медведев поздравил любимую группу Путина с 20-летием newsru.ua
^ Speech at the Military Parade Celebrating the 62nd Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, Red Square, Moscow, 9 May 2007.
^ a b Путин: Главное, чтобы мы были вместе vz.ru
^ — 04 March 2012 (2012-03-04). "‘We won!’ Teary-eyed Putin proclaims victory". Setyoufreenews.com. http://www.setyoufreenews.com/2012/03/04/we-won-teary-eyed-putin-proclaims-victory/. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ 15:22 7/05/2012+23°C (2012-01-16). "Come to me, blogger-logi!". Themoscownews.com. http://themoscownews.com/russian_tongue/20120116/189372068.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b c d Путинизмы - "продуманный личный эпатаж"? BBC (Russian)
^ a b c d 20 высказываний Путина, ставших афоризмами RIAN
^ Премьер-министр Владимир Путин: Их нужно выковырять со дна канализации izvestia.ru
^ "Почему Путин - краб, Ленин - гриб, Медведев - шмель?". Newsland.ru. http://www.newsland.ru/news/detail/id/844510/. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Россия и Латвия подписали договор о рубежах". Utro.ru. http://www.utro.ru/articles/2007/03/27/636217.shtml. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Путин: оппозиция "шакалит" у зарубежных фондов и правительств". Dw.de. http://www.dw.de/dw/article/0,,2960021,00.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Блогозрение: Волшебная ручка Путина". Dw3d.de. http://www.dw3d.de/dw/article/0,,4324131,00.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Madslien, Jorn (2007-07-04). "Russia's economic might: spooky or soothing?". BBC News. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6265068.stm. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ "Putin's performance in office — Trends". Russiavotes.org. 2007-10-31. http://www.russiavotes.org/president/putin_performance_trends.php. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ Quarter of Russians Think Living Standards Improved During Putin's Rule, Oprosy.info, 27 March 2007.
^ No wonder they like Putin by Norman Stone, 4 December 2007, The Times.
^ a b Russia through the looking-glass openDemocracy. "...while only about half of Russian households have a telephone line at home, well over 90% have access to the First Channel and Rossiya. And for a vast majority of Russians, they are virtually the only source of information about political events. Given that typically well over half of their news broadcasts consist of sympathetic coverage of Vladimir Putin and members of the United Russia party, and oppositional figures are always presented in a negative or ironic light (if at all), it is unsurprising that the president is enjoying considerable popularity." Retrieved on 16 April 2008.
^ "Levada-Center -Description". Levada.ru. http://www.levada.ru/eng/opisanie.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ Russians Support Putin's Re-Nationalization of Oil, Control of Media, But See Democratic Future – World Public Opinion.org
^ Adi Ignatius. Person of the Year 2007, Time.
^ Albright, Madeleine. "Vladimir Putin", Time. Retrieved on 1 May 2008.
^ Struck, Doug. "Gorbachev Applauds Putin's Achievements", The Washington Post, 5 December 2007.
^ "Gorbatschow geht Putin an [Gorbachev attacks Putin]" (in German). Süddeutsche Zeitung. 7 March 2009. http://www.sueddeutsche.de/959387/023/2788090/Gorbatschow-geht-Putin-an.html. Retrieved 6 March 2012. 
^ "Пресс-секретарь Путина ответил Горбачеву [Putin's press spokesman answered Gorbachev]" (in Russian). Korrespondent. 25 December 2011. http://korrespondent.net/russia/1298314-press-sekretar-putina-otvetil-gorbachevu. Retrieved 6 March 2012. 
^ "Das Internet prägt Russlands Wahlkampf [The internet characterises Russia's campaign]" (in German). RP online. 17 February 2012. http://www.rp-online.de/digitales/internet/das-internet-praegt-russlands-wahlkampf-1.2715715. Retrieved 6 March 2012. 
^ Smirnova, Julia (8 February 2012). "Wie die Putin-Jugend das Internet manipulierte" (in German). http://www.welt.de/politik/ausland/article13857923/Wie-die-Putin-Jugend-das-Internet-manipulierte.html. Retrieved 6 March 2012. 
^ http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/01/wikileaks-cables-russia-mafia-kleptocracy
^ Parfitt, Tom. "WikiLeaks row: Putin labels US embassy cables 'slanderous'", The Guardian, 1 December 2010.
^ a b c d Rawnsley, Adam (May 26, 2011). "Pow! Zam! Nyet! ‘Superputin’ Battles Terrorists, Protesters in Online Comic". Wired. http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/05/pow-zam-nyet-superputin-battles-terrorists-protesters-in-online-comic/. Retrieved 27 May 2011. 
^ Как используется бренд "Путин": зажигалки, икра, футболки, консервированный перец Gazeta 30 November 2007.
^ Putin Bolsters Tough Guy Image With Shirtless Photos. Abcnews.go.com (2009-08-05). Retrieved on 2011-09-25.
^ a b c The Associated Press (2007-08-22). "Putin gone wild: Russia abuzz over pics of shirtless leader.". Cbc.ca. http://www.cbc.ca/world/story/2007/08/22/putin-shirtless.html. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ a b c d e f g 7 Reasons Vladimir Putin Is the World's Craziest Badass cracked.com
^ В.В.Путин взял в понедельник однодневный отпуск и провел его в Тыве premier.gov.ru
^ В.В.Путин, находящийся с рабочей поездкой в Сибирском федеральном округе, совершил спуск на глубоководном аппарате «Мир» на дно озера Байкал premier.gov.ru
^ 3:13. "Хабаровские охотоведы подтвердили: Путину тигрицу подложили из зоопарка". Hab.mk.ru. http://hab.mk.ru/news/2012/03/15/681826-habarovskie-ohotovedyi-podtverdili-putinu-tigritsu-podlozhili-izza-zooparka.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b "«Тигрица Путина» жива". MK.ru. http://www.mk.ru/politics/article/2012/03/16/682472-tigritsa-putina-zhiva.html. Retrieved March 16, 2012. 
^ Организаторы сафари для Путина объяснились по поводу "подставы с тигром": "Кому-то что-то показалось" newsru.com
^ Putin attaches satellite tag to tranquilized polar bear in Russia's Arctic foxnews.com
^ a b Polgueva, Ekaterina (27 July 2010). "Ангел Ада Абаддон". Sovetskaya Rossiya. http://www.sovross.ru/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=58086. 
^ Using crossbow, Putin fires darts at whale msnbc.msn.com
^ a b Vladimir Putin diving discovery was staged, spokesman admits, Telegraph, retrieved 16/3/2012
^ "Putin Sings Blueberry Hill for Charity". Nonprofitquarterly.org. http://www.nonprofitquarterly.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=7996:putin-sings-blueberry-hill-for-charity&catid=155:nonprofit-newswire&Itemid=986. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b "Владимир Путин сыграл на рояле "С чего начинается родина"". Dp.ru. http://www.dp.ru/a/2010/12/11/Vladimir_Putin_sigral_na/. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Актеры, занятые в спектаклях столичного Театра наций, сегодня пили чай с Владимиром Путиным и просили у него денег. 1624". Ntv.ru. 2011-09-15. http://www.ntv.ru/novosti/239319/video/. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ WSJ: Путин поет вместе с депортированными агентами Vedomosti
^ "Putin played the Anthem of Saint Petersburg on the piano". Mk.ru. http://www.mk.ru/politics/article/2012/04/10/691484-putin-ispolnil-na-pianino-gimn-peterburga.html. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b Картина Путина стала самым дорогим лотом на аукционе в Петербурге RIAN
^ Фильм о любви человека, похожего на Путина BBC
^ Putin, Dobby And the Axis Of Weirdness nytimes.com
^ Daniel Craig: Quantum of Solace telegraph.co.uk
^ @openspace_ru (2008-03-14). "Песни про Путина". Openspace.ru. http://www.openspace.ru/music_modern/projects/112/details/593/. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Такого, как Путин". Youtube.com. 2008-02-23. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OFOPd6pgjI. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ "Гороскоп (Путин, не ссы!)". Youtube.com. 2012-02-02. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QbuYSVfktck. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ ВВП[dead link]
^ WATCH: No One In Russia Can Work Out If This Pro-Putin Dance-Pop Song Is Sincere — Or Satire businessinsider.com
^ "Частушки (Не было оргазма)". Sergeysv.net. http://www.sergeysv.net/songs/?id=ne-bylo-orgazma. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ Вова и Дима Lenta.ru
^ Superputin official site.
^ "Pictures: Vladimir Putin's bizarre Calendar". Metro.co.uk. http://www.metro.co.uk/news/pictures/photos-10564/pictures-vladimir-putins-bizarre-calendar/1. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
^ a b "Vladimir Putin 'a wife beater and philanderer', documents allege". Telegraph. 2 November 2011. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/8865545/Vladimir-Putin-a-wife-beater-and-philanderer-documents-allege.html. Retrieved May 19, 2012. 
^ a b c "Vladimir Putin and wife spark divorce rumours with photo shoot". Telegraph. 18 October 2010. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/8071134/Vladimir-Putin-and-wife-spark-divorce-rumours-with-photo-shoot.html. Retrieved May 19, 2012. 
^ a b c "Will Vladimir Putin's voting chances be hurt by 'cloistered wife' rumours?". Guardian. 27 February 2012. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/feb/27/vladimir-putin-cloistered-wife-rumours. Retrieved May 19, 2012. 
^ a b c "Mystery of Russia's missing First Lady: Is Putin's 'affair' with spy Anna Chapman the reason Lyudmila is never seen in public... or is she just locked away in a monastery?". Daily Mail. 23 April 2012. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2133820/Lyudmila-Putina-Is-Vladimir-Putins-affair-spy-Anna-Chapman-reason-wife-seen.html. Retrieved May 10, 2012. 
^ Quetteville, Harry de (2008-04-17). "Vladimir Putin 'to wed Olympic gymnast half his age'". London: The Telegraph. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/1895905/Vladimir-Putin-%27to-wed-Olympic-gymnast-half-his-age%27.html. Retrieved 2008-04-17. 
^ "Putin denies tabloid report that plans to marry former champion gymnast". International Herald Tribune. 2008-04-18. http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2008/04/18/europe/EU-GEN-Italy-Putin-Gymnast.php. Retrieved 2008-04-18. 
^ Shaun Walker, in The Independent, quoting Moskovsky Korrespondent (2008-04-18). "A president, the gymnast and marriage rumors that won't go away". London. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/europe/a-president-the-gymnast-and-marriage-rumours-that-wont-go-away-811244.html. Retrieved 2008-04-18. 
^ Yablokova, Oksana (9 August 2002). "Putin's Girls Having La Dolce Vita Break". The St. Petersburg Times. http://www.sptimes.ru/index.php?action_id=2&story_id=7815. Retrieved 13 February 2009. 
^ Wagner, Hans (30 June 2006). "Das Konfliktpotential mit den USA wächst (German)". http://www.eurasischesmagazin.de/artikel/?artikelID=20060504. Retrieved 2007-03-29. 
^ Wardell, Jane (2003-06-25). "Putin treated royally on historic London visit". Findarticles.com. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qn4188/is_20030625/ai_n11400868. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ a b c (Sakwa 2008, p. 3)
^ a b Timothy J. Colton, Michael MacFaul (2003). Popular Choice and Managed Democracy: the Russian elections of 1999 and 2000. Washington DC: The Brookings Institution. 
^ Putin Q&A: Full Transcript Time Magazine Retrieved on 22 March 2008
^ Vladimir Putin: the NPR interview US radio station National Public Radio New York (15 November 2001)
^ Black-Belt President Putin: A Man of Gentle Arts by Yasuhiro Yamashita
^ Путин получил горные лыжи в подарок от премьера Словении RIAN
^ "Putin to talk pipeline, attend football game". B92. http://www.b92.net/eng/news/politics-article.php?yyyy=2011&mm=03&dd=22&nav_id=73361. Retrieved 22 March 2011. 
^ "Путина признали "Ангелом Ада" и именовали Абаддоном". Moscow Today. 31 July 2010. http://moscowtoday.wordpress.com/2010/07/31/%D0%BF%D1%83%D1%82%D0%B8%D0%BD%D0%B0-%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B8-%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B3%D0%B5%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BC-%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%B0-%D0%B8-%D0%B8%D0%BC%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B2/. 
^ Председатель Правительства России В.В.Путин посетил международное байк-шоу в Новороссийске premier.gov.ru
^ "Quote.Rbc.Ru :: Аюмй Яюмйр-Оерепаспц — Юйжхх, Ярпсйрспю, Мнбнярх, Тхмюмяш". Quote.ru. http://www.quote.ru/fterm/emitent.shtml?49/1249. Retrieved 2010-03-02. 
^ a b "'Putin palace' sells for $350 million". Telegraph. 03 March 2011. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/8359527/Putin-palace-sells-for-350-million.html. Retrieved May 05, 2012. 
^ ЦИК зарегистрировал список "ЕР" Rossiyskaya Gazeta N 4504 27 October 2007
^ ЦИК раскрыл доходы Путина Vzglyad 26 October 2007
^ Gennadi Timchenko: Russia's most low-profile billionaire Sobesednik № 10, 7 March 2007
^ Harding, Luke (21 December 2007). "Putin, the Kremlin power struggle and the $40bn fortune". London: The Guardian. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2007/dec/21/russia.topstories3. Retrieved 2008-08-18. 
^ "Что касается различных слухов по поводу денежного состояния, я смотрел некоторые бумажки на этот счёт: просто болтовня, которую нечего обсуждать, просто чушь. Все выковыряли из носа и размазали по своим бумажкам. Вот так я к этому и отношусь." The President's annual press conference for the Russian and foreign media, 14 February 2008, Kremlin.ru
^ Тайна за семью заборами
^ "Putin's palace? A mystery Black Sea mansion fit for a tsar". BBC. 04 May 2012. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-17730959. Retrieved May 04, 2012. 
^ "Putin's lab bitch prominent negotiator". RIA Novosti. 9 April 2005. http://en.rian.ru/onlinenews/20050409/39697829.html. Retrieved 2008-12-22. 
^ "Любимая собака Путина заговорила по-английски с детьми" (in Russian). NEWSru. 19 July 2005. http://www.newsru.ru/russia/19jul2005/connie.html. Retrieved 2009-12-02. 
^ "Prime Minister Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on expanding the Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS)". Prime Minister of Russia. 17 October 2008. http://premier.gov.ru/eng/events/859.html. Retrieved 2008-12-24. [dead link]
^ Председатель Правительства России В.В.Путин выбрал имя для своей новой собаки. И помог ему в этом пятилетний Дима Соколов из Москвы premier.gov.ru
^ (French)Video Chirac décore Poutine
^ Atul Aneja Putin goes calling on the Saudis. The Hindu. 20 February 2007
^ Putin Receives Top UAE's Decoration, Order of Zayed, Rbc.ru, 10 September 2007
^ Глобальный игрок. Expert magazine. № 48 (589) 24 December 2007.
^ В Грозном появился проспект имени Путина Lenta.ru
^ Парламент Киргизии присвоил горной вершине имя Путина. Lenta.ru. 17 February 2011
^ "Vladimir Putin in China Confucius Peace Prize fiasco". BBC. 2011-11-15. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-15750979. Retrieved 2011-11-15. 
^ Wong, Edward (November 15, 2011). "In China, Confucius Prize Awarded to Putin". New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/16/world/asia/chinas-confucius-prize-awarded-to-vladimir-putin.html?hp. Retrieved November 15, 2011. 


Bibliography[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Vladimir Putin





Wikisource has original works written by or about:
Vladimir Putin





Burrett, Tina. Television and Presidential Power in Putin's Russia (Routledge; 2010) 300 pages
Kanet Roger E., ed. Russian Foreign Policy in the 21st Century (Palgrave Macmillan; 2011) 295 pages; essays by experts
Sakwa, Richard (2008), Putin: Russia’s choice (2nd ed.), Abingdon, Oxfordshire: Routledge, ISBN 0-203-93193-9 
Sakwa, Richard (2008), Russian politics and society (4th ed.), Abingdon, Oxfordshire and Madison Avenue, New York City: Routledge, ISBN 0-203-93125-4 


Further reading[link]

Gessen, Masha, The Man Without a Face : the unlikely rise of Vladimir Putin, New York : RIVERHEAD BOOKS, 2012. ISBN 9781594488429

External links[link]



Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Vladimir Putin






Biography  portal



Politics  portal



Russia  portal




Prime Minister of the Russian Federation (English)
Putin 2012 The official site of Putin's 2012 presidential campaign
Speech at the 60th Session of the UN General Assembly




Political offices


New office
Head of External Relations of Saint Petersburg
1991–1996
Succeeded by
Gennady Tkachyov


Preceded by
Alexei Kudrin
Chief of the Control Directorate of the Presidential Administration
1997–1998
Succeeded by
Nikolai Patrushev


Preceded by
Nikolay Kovalyov
Director of the Federal Security Service
1998–1999


Preceded by
Nikolay Bordyuzha
Secretary of the Security Council
1999
Succeeded by
Sergei Ivanov


Preceded by
Sergei Stepashin
Prime Minister of Russia
1999–2000
Succeeded by
Mikhail Kasyanov


Preceded by
Boris Yeltsin
President of Russia
2000–2008
Acting: 1999–2000
Succeeded by
Dmitry Medvedev


Preceded by
Viktor Zubkov
Prime Minister of Russia
2008–2012
Succeeded by
Viktor Zubkov
Acting


Preceded by
Dmitry Medvedev
President of Russia
2012–present
Incumbent


Diplomatic posts


Preceded by
Tony Blair
Chairperson of the Group of 8
2006
Succeeded by
Angela Merkel


Party political offices


Preceded by
Boris Gryzlov
Leader of United Russia
2008–2012
Succeeded by
Dmitry Medvedev










v
t
e


Presidents of Russia






Presidents



Boris Yeltsin (1991–1999)
Vladimir Putin (2000–2008)
Dmitry Medvedev (2008–2012)
Vladimir Putin (2012–present)











Vice Presidents
(abolished 1993)



Alexander Rutskoy (1991–1993)








Acting Presidents



Alexander Rutskoy (1993)
Viktor Chernomyrdin (1996)
Vladimir Putin (1999–2000)











 Presidents of Russian Soviet Republic
Presidents of the USSR
















v
t
e


Prime Ministers of Russia







Acting prime ministers shown in italics.






Russian Empire

Vorontsov  · Rumyantsev  · Vyazmitinov  · Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov  · Lopukhin  · Kochubey  · Novosiltsev  · Vasilchikov  · Levashov  · Chernyshov  · Orlov  · Bludov  · Gagarin  · Ignatyev  · Valuyev  · Reutern  · Bunge  · Durnovo  · Witte · Goremykin · Stolypin · Kokovtsov · Goremykin · Stürmer · Trepov · Golitsyn












Russian Republic

Lvov · Kerensky






Russian SFSR

Lenin · Rykov · Syrtsov · Sulimov · Bulganin · Vakhrushev · Khokhlov · Kosygin · Rodionov · Chernousov · Puzanov · Yasnov · Kozlov · Polyansky · Voronov · Solomentsev · Vorotnikov · Vlasov · Silayev · Lobov · Yeltsin






Russian Federation

Yeltsin · Gaidar · Chernomyrdin · Kiriyenko · Chernomyrdin · Primakov · Stepashin · Putin · Kasyanov · Khristenko · Fradkov · Zubkov · Putin  · Zubkov · Medvedev







 Premiers of the USSR  ·  Council of Ministers of Russia  ·  Heads of Government














v
t
e


Chairmen of United Russia







Sergey Shoygu · Boris Gryzlov · Vladimir Putin · Dmitry Medvedev‎














v
t
e


Time Persons of the Year









Rudolph Giuliani (2001)
The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins (2002)
The American Soldier (2003)
George W. Bush (2004)
The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates (2005)
You (2006)
Vladimir Putin (2007)
Barack Obama (2008)
Ben Bernanke (2009)
Mark Zuckerberg (2010)
The Protestor (2011)











Complete roster
1927–1950
1951–1975
1976–2000
2001–present
















v
t
e


Current Leaders of the Group of 8









 Harper
 Hollande
 Merkel
 Monti
 Noda
 Putin
 Cameron
 Obama
 Rompuy
 Barroso
















v
t
e


Current Leaders of the Group of 20









 Fernández de Kirchner ·  Gillard ·  Rousseff ·  Harper ·  Hu ·  Barroso ·  Hollande ·  Merkel ·  Singh ·


 Yudhoyono ·  Monti ·  Noda ·  Calderón ·  Putin ·  Abdullah ·  Zuma ·  Lee ·  Erdoğan ·  Cameron ·  Obama
















v
t
e


BRICS leaders









Brazil: Dilma Rousseff · Russia: Vladimir Putin · India: Manmohan Singh · China: Hu Jintao · South Africa: Jacob Zuma



















v
t
e


Leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation









 Gillard
 H. Bolkiah
 Harper
 Piñera
 Hu
 Ma1
 Tsang
 Yudhoyono
 Noda
 Lee M.
 Najib
 Calderón
 Key
 O'Neill
 Humala
 Aquino
 Putin
 Lee H.
 Shinawatra
 Obama
 Sang









1 President is a non-participant, represented as Chinese Taipei








Persondata


Name
Putin, Vladimir


Alternative names



Short description
2nd President of the Russian Federation


Date of birth
7 October 1952


Place of birth
Leningrad, Soviet Union


Date of death



Place of death



  lez:Путин, Владимир Владимировичvep:Putin Vladimir

http://wn.com/Vladimir_Putin
Related pages:
http://de.wn.com/Wladimir Wladimirowitsch Putin
http://es.wn.com/Vladímir Putin
http://ru.wn.com/Путин, Владимир Владимирович
http://cs.wn.com/Vladimir Putin
http://pt.wn.com/Vladimir Putin
http://pl.wn.com/Władimir Putin
http://hi.wn.com/व्लादिमीर पुतिन
http://it.wn.com/Vladimir Putin
http://id.wn.com/Vladimir Putin
http://nl.wn.com/Vladimir Poetin
http://fr.wn.com/Vladimir Poutine


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Putin
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all














Dilma Vana Rousseff (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈdʒiwmɐ χuˈsɛf] born 14 December 1947) is the 36th and current President of Brazil. She is the first woman to hold the office. Prior to that, in 2005, she was also the first woman to become Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, appointed by then President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.
The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, Rousseff was raised in an upper middle class household in Belo Horizonte. She became a socialist during her youth, and following the 1964 coup d'état joined various left-wing and Marxist urban guerrilla groups that fought against the military dictatorship. Rousseff was captured and jailed between 1970 and 1972 and reportedly tortured.
After her release, Rousseff rebuilt her life in Porto Alegre with Carlos Araújo, who would be her partner for 30 years. Both helped found the Democratic Labour Party (PDT) in Rio Grande do Sul, participating in several of the party's electoral campaigns. She became the Secretary of the Treasury of the city of Porto Alegre in the Alceu Collares administration, and later the Secretary of Energy of the State of Rio Grande do Sul under both Collares and Olívio Dutra administrations. In 2000, after an internal dispute in the Dutra cabinet, she left PDT and joined the Workers' Party (PT).










go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























