Us$1





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/us$1 
Us$1 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page
















Videos
Video Details

Images


Wiki
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

history


















Us$1






Us$1



U.S. Route 1


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
Places
Video Suggestions




WN Shopping


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                
































































Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...










Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME





Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









American Highways
Atlantic Ocean
Augusta, Georgia
Auto trail
Baltimore
Baltimore Pike
Baltimore-Washington
Bangor, ME
Baxley, Georgia
Bergen County, NJ
Boston
Boston Post Road
Boston, MA
Braintree, MA
Brickell Avenue
Broadway (Manhattan)
Brunswick, Maine
Brunswick, ME
Calais, Maine
Camden, SC
Cary, NC
City Avenue
Clair, New Brunswick
Clason Map Company
Columbia, S.C.
Columbia, SC
Concurrency (road)
Connecticut
Conowingo Dam
Daytona Beach, FL
Decatur Daily Review
Dedham, MA
Delaware
Delaware River
District of Columbia
Divided highway
Dixie Highway
Downtown Boston
Edmundston
Elizabeth, NJ
Fall Line
Florida
Florida Keys
Folkston, Georgia
Fordham Road
Fort Kent, Maine
Fort Kent, ME
Fort Lauderdale, FL
Fort Pierce, FL
Fredericksburg, VA
Freeway
Georgia (U.S. state)
Google Maps
Gulf Oil
Henderson, NC
Houlton, ME
Hudson River
I-20
I-295 (ME)
I-85
I-93 (MA)
I-95 (CT)
I-95 (MA)
I-95 (MD)
I-95 (ME)
I-95 (NJ)
I-95 (NY)
I-95 (RI)
Interstate 476
Interstate 540
Interstate 95
Jacksonville, FL
Jersey City, NJ
John H. Ware III
Kennedy Space Center
Kennett Square, PA
Key West, FL
Key West, Florida
Lincoln Highway
List of U.S. Routes
Long Island Sound
Lorton, Virginia
Lyons, Georgia
Madawaska, Maine
Maine
Manhattan
Maryland
Massachusetts
Media, PA
Melbourne, FL
Miami
Miami, FL
Miami, Florida
Narragansett Bay
New Brunswick
New Brunswick, NJ
New England
New Hampshire
New Haven, CT
New Jersey
New York
New York City
New York Times
New York, NY
Newark, New Jersey
Newark, NJ
Newburyport, MA
Newport, RI
North Carolina
Overlap (road)
Overseas Highway
Overseas Railroad
Oxford, PA
Palm Coast, FL
Pawtucket, RI
Penndel, PA
Pennsylvania
Petersburg, VA
Petersburg, Virginia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia, PA
Piscataqua River
Portland, Maine
Portsmouth, NH
Potomac River
Providence, RI
Pulaski Skyway
Rahway, NJ
Raleigh, NC
Rand McNally
Rhode Island
Rhode Island Avenue
Richmond, VA
Richmond, Va.
Richmond, Virginia
Sanford, NC
Savannah, Georgia
Shin Meiwa US-1A
South Carolina
St. Augustine, FL
State highway
Superhighway
Susquehanna River
Swainsboro, Georgia
Swamp
Tamiami Trail
Template talk US 1
Template U.S. Routes
Template US 1
The Bronx
The New Press
The Virginian-Pilot
Titusville, FL
Tobin Bridge
Tonnele Circle
Topographic map
Trenton Freeway
Trenton, New Jersey
Trenton, NJ
U.S. Highway
U.S. Route 1
U.S. Route 10
U.S. Route 101
U.S. Route 11
U.S. Route 12
U.S. Route 13
U.S. Route 14
U.S. Route 15
U.S. Route 16
U.S. Route 163
U.S. Route 17
U.S. Route 18
U.S. Route 19
U.S. Route 1A
U.S. Route 2
U.S. Route 20
U.S. Route 201
U.S. Route 21
U.S. Route 22
U.S. Route 23
U.S. Route 24
U.S. Route 25
U.S. Route 26
U.S. Route 27
U.S. Route 28
U.S. Route 29
U.S. Route 3
U.S. Route 30
U.S. Route 301
U.S. Route 31
U.S. Route 31E
U.S. Route 33
U.S. Route 34
U.S. Route 35
U.S. Route 36
U.S. Route 4
U.S. Route 40
U.S. Route 400
U.S. Route 401
U.S. Route 41
U.S. Route 412
U.S. Route 42
U.S. Route 425
U.S. Route 43
U.S. Route 44
U.S. Route 45
U.S. Route 46
U.S. Route 48
U.S. Route 49
U.S. Route 5
U.S. Route 50
U.S. Route 501
U.S. Route 51
U.S. Route 52
U.S. Route 53
U.S. Route 54
U.S. Route 55
U.S. Route 56
U.S. Route 57
U.S. Route 58
U.S. Route 59
U.S. Route 6
U.S. Route 60
U.S. Route 601
U.S. Route 61
U.S. Route 62
U.S. Route 63
U.S. Route 64
U.S. Route 65
U.S. Route 66
U.S. Route 67
U.S. Route 68
U.S. Route 69
U.S. Route 7
U.S. Route 70
U.S. Route 701
U.S. Route 71
U.S. Route 72
U.S. Route 73
U.S. Route 74
U.S. Route 75
U.S. Route 76
U.S. Route 77
U.S. Route 78
U.S. Route 79
U.S. Route 8
U.S. Route 80
U.S. Route 81
U.S. Route 82
U.S. Route 83
U.S. Route 84
U.S. Route 85
U.S. Route 87
U.S. Route 89
U.S. Route 9
U.S. Route 90
U.S. Route 91
U.S. Route 92
U.S. Route 93
U.S. Route 95
U.S. Route 96
U.S. Route 97
U.S. Route 98
U.S. Route 99
U.S. Route shield
US 1 9
US 13
US 17
US 46
US 9 (NJ)
US 9 (NY)
USGS
Vass, North Carolina
Virginia
Wakefield, RI
Waldo-Hancock Bridge
Warwick, RI
Washington, D.C.
Waycross, Georgia
West Palm Beach, FL
Westerly, RI
Wikipedia Link rot
Wilmington, DE
Wilmington, Delaware
Woodbridge, NJ














Atlantic Ocean

                            The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world's oceanic divisions. With a total area of about 106,400,000 square kilometres (41,100,000 sq mi), it covers approximately 20% of the Earth's surface and about 26% of its water surface area. The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology, making the Atlantic the "Sea of Atlas".

The oldest known mention of "Atlantic" is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC (Hdt. 1.202.4): Atlantis thalassa (Greek: Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα; English: Sea of Atlas); see also: Atlas Mountains. The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, was applied to the southern Atlantic ocean as late as the mid-19th century. Before Europeans discovered other oceans, the term "ocean" itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic. The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.

The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Europe and Africa to the east, and the Americas to the west. As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean (which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south. (Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica.) The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean.

wn.com/Atlantic_Ocean





Baltimore

                            Baltimore ( /ˈbɒltɨmɔr/, colloquially /ˈbɔl.mɔr/) is the largest city in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is located in the central area of the state along the tidal portion of the Patapsco River, an arm of the Chesapeake Bay. The independent city is often referred to as Baltimore City to distinguish it from surrounding Baltimore County.

Founded in 1729, Baltimore is the largest seaport in the Mid-Atlantic United States and is situated closer to Midwestern markets than any other major seaport on the East Coast. Baltimore's Inner Harbor was once the second leading port of entry for immigrants to the United States and a major manufacturing center. After a decline in manufacturing, Baltimore shifted to a service-oriented economy.

At 620,961 residents in 2010, Baltimore's population has decreased by one-third since its peak in 1950. The Baltimore Metropolitan Area has grown steadily to approximately 2.7 million residents in 2010; the 20th largest in the country. Baltimore is also a principal city in the larger Baltimore–Washington combined statistical area of approximately 8.4 million residents.

wn.com/Baltimore





Boston

                            Boston (pronounced /ˈbɒstən/ or locally /ˈbɔstən/ ( listen)) is the capital of and largest city in Massachusetts, and is one of the oldest cities in the United States. The largest city in New England, Boston is regarded as the unofficial "Capital of New England" for its economic and cultural impact on the entire New England region. The city proper, covering only 48.43 square miles, had a population of 617,594 according to the 2010 U.S. Census. Boston is also the anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area called Greater Boston, home to 4.5 million people and the tenth-largest metropolitan area in the country. Greater Boston as a commuting region is home to 7.6 million people, making it the fifth-largest Combined Statistical Area in the United States.

In 1630, Puritan colonists from England founded the city on the Shawmut Peninsula. During the late 18th century, Boston was the location of several major events during the American Revolution, including the Boston Massacre and the Boston Tea Party. Several early battles of the American Revolution, such as the Battle of Bunker Hill and the Siege of Boston, occurred within the city and surrounding areas. Through land reclamation and municipal annexation, Boston has expanded beyond the peninsula. After American independence was attained Boston became a major shipping port and manufacturing center, and its rich history now helps attract many tourists, with Faneuil Hall alone attracting over 20 million every year. The city was the site of several firsts, including America's first public school, Boston Latin School (1635), and the first subway system in the United States (1897).

wn.com/Boston





Connecticut

                            Connecticut (i/kəˈnɛtɨkət/) is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States. It is bordered by Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, and the state of New York to the west and the south (with which it shares a water boundary in Long Island Sound).

Connecticut is named for the Connecticut River, the major U.S. river that approximately bisects the state. Its capital city is Hartford. Much of southern and western Connecticut (along with the majority of the state's population) is part of the New York metropolitan area; three of Connecticut's eight counties are statistically included in the New York City combined statistical area, the same area is widely referred to as the Tri-State area. Connecticut's center of population is in Cheshire, New Haven County, which is also located within the Tri-State area.

Connecticut is the 3rd least extensive, the 29th most populous, and 4th most densely populated of the 50 United States. Called the Constitution State, Nutmeg State, and "The Land of Steady Habits", Connecticut was influential in the development of the federal government of the United States.

wn.com/Connecticut





Delaware

                            Delaware (i/ˈdɛləwɛər/ DEL-ə-wair) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. It is bordered to the south and west by Maryland, to the northeast by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania. The state takes its name from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, an English nobleman and Virginia's first colonial governor, after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.

Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second least extensive, the sixth least populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the 50 United States. Delaware is divided into three counties. From north to south, these three counties are New Castle, Kent, and Sussex. While the southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural, New Castle County has been more industrialized.

The history of the state's economic and industrial development is closely tied to the impact of the Du Pont family, founders and scions of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, one of the world’s largest chemical companies.

wn.com/Delaware





Edmundston

                            Edmundston /ˈɛdmʌndstən/ is a Canadian city in Madawaska County, New Brunswick.

During the early colonial period, the area was an important meeting place and hunting/fishing spot of the Maliseet (Wolastoqiyik) nation. A considerable sized village was located there around the turn of the 19th century. Formerly, the settlement was located around the falls at the confluence of the Madawaska-St. John Rivers; currently there is a federal reserve a few kilometres from Edmundston (St. Basile 10/Madawaska Maliseet First Nation). Originally named Petit-Sault (Little Falls) in reference to the waterfalls located where the Madawaska River merges into the Saint John River, the settlement was renamed Edmundston in 1851 after Sir Edmund Walker Head, who was Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick from 1848 to 1854 and Governor-General of Canada from 1854 to 1861. Originally a small logging settlement, Edmundston's growth is mostly attributed to the city's strategic location.

The area was at the centre of the Aroostook War over the boundary line between the U.S.A. and what was then British North America. In the wake of this international conflict, a small fortification (Fortin du Petit-Sault) was built in anticipation of a possible attack by the Americans. It was because of the boundary disputes[citation needed] in this area that the francophone Brayon residents on both the Canadian and American sides took to referring to the region as the Republic of Madawaska. The tradition is carried on to this day, with each mayor of Edmundston being given the title of "President of the Republic of Madawaska". In 1998, Edmundston, Saint-Basile, Saint-Jacques and Verret merged to form the City of Edmundston.

wn.com/Edmundston





Florida

                            Florida (i/ˈflɒrɪdə/) is a state in the southeastern United States, bordered to the west by the Gulf of Mexico, to the north by Alabama and Georgia and to the east by the Atlantic Ocean. Florida is the 22nd most extensive, the 4th most populous, and the 8th most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state capital is Tallahassee, its largest city is Jacksonville, and the South Florida metropolitan area is the largest metropolitan area in the southeastern U.S.

Much of Florida is situated on a peninsula between the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Straits of Florida. Its geography is marked by a coastline, by the omnipresence of water and the threat of hurricanes. Florida has the longest coastline in the contiguous United States, encompassing approximately 1,350 miles (2,170 km), and is the only state to border both the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. Much of the state is at or near sea level and its terrain is characterized by sedimentary soils. The climate varies from subtropical in the north to tropical in the south. Its symbolic animals like the American alligator, Florida panther and the manatee, can be found in the Everglades, one of the most famous national parks in the world.

wn.com/Florida





Florida Keys

                            The Florida Keys are a coral archipelago in southeast United States. They begin at the southeastern tip of the Florida peninsula, about 15 miles (24 km) south of Miami, and extend in a gentle arc south-southwest and then westward to Key West, the westernmost of the inhabited islands, and on to the uninhabited Dry Tortugas. The islands lie along the Florida Straits, dividing the Atlantic Ocean to the east from the Gulf of Mexico to the west, and defining one edge of Florida Bay. At the nearest point, the southern tip of Key West is just 90 miles (140 km) from Cuba. The Florida Keys are between about 23.5 and 25.5 degrees North latitude, in the subtropics. The climate of the Keys, however, is defined as tropical according to Köppen climate classification. More than 95 percent of the land area lies in Monroe County, but a small portion extends northeast into Miami-Dade County, such as Totten Key. The total land area is 137.3 square miles (356 km2). As of the 2000 census the population was 79,535, with an average density of 579.27 per square mile (223.66 /km2), although much of the population is concentrated in a few areas of much higher density, such as the city of Key West, which has 32% of the entire population of the Keys.

wn.com/Florida_Keys





Fordham Road

                            Fordham Road is a major street in The Bronx borough of New York City. It runs east-west from the Harlem River to Bronx Park.

This street runs through the neighborhood of University Heights, divides Fordham from Fordham-Bedford and finally runs along the northern border of Belmont. It begins at its eastern point as a continuation of Pelham Parkway and at its western point, continues over the University Heights Bridge into Manhattan, where it runs as West 207th Street. It is a two-way, four-lane road. East of Webster Avenue Fordham Road runs concurrent with US 1 in what was "Old Fordham Village".

Fordham Road is divided into east and west by Jerome Avenue following after the Manhattan grid, with address numbers for both the East Fordham Road and West Fordham Road increasing away from Jerome Avenue.

East of Webster Avenue and directly across from Fordham University, at Fordham Plaza, is a major hub for buses and a stop on the Metro-North Railroad's Harlem and New Haven lines. The Hudson Line also stops at the University Heights station. Fordham Road is served by the New York City Subway at Jerome Avenue (4 train) and Grand Concourse (B D trains). There was formerly a stop at Third Avenue before 1973.

wn.com/Fordham_Road





Kennedy Space Center

                            The John F. Kennedy Space Center (KSC) is the NASA installation that has been the launch site for every United States human space flight since 1968. Although such flights are currently on hiatus, KSC continues to manage and operate unmanned rocket launch facilities for America's civilian space program from three pads at the adjoining Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Its iconic Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) is the fourth-largest structure in the world by volume and was the largest when completed in 1965.

Located on Merritt Island, Florida, the center is north-northwest of Cape Canaveral on the Atlantic Ocean, midway between Miami and Jacksonville on Florida's Space Coast. It is 34 miles (55 km) long and roughly 6 miles (10 km) wide, covering 219 square miles (570 km2). A total of 13,100 people worked at the center as of 2011. Approximately 2,100 are employees of the federal government; the rest are contractors.

Since December 1968, all launch operations have been conducted from Pads A and B at Launch Complex 39 (LC-39). Both pads are on the ocean, 3 miles (5 km) east of the VAB. From 1969–1972, LC-39 was the departure point for all six Apollo manned Moon landing missions using the Saturn V, the largest and most powerful operational launch vehicle in history, and was used from 1981–2011 for all Space Shuttle launches. The Shuttle Landing Facility, located just to the north, was used for most Shuttle landings and is among the longest runways in the world.

wn.com/Kennedy_Space_Center





Long Island Sound

                            Long Island Sound is an estuary of the Atlantic Ocean, located in the United States between Connecticut to the north and Long Island, New York to the south. The mouth of the Connecticut River at Old Saybrook, Connecticut, empties into the sound. On its western end the sound is bounded by the Bronx and Westchester County, New York, and connects to the East River. On its eastern end it opens to Block Island Sound.

Several major cities are situated along Long Island Sound and more than 8 million people live within its watershed. Major Connecticut cities on the Sound include Bridgeport, New London, Stamford, Norwalk, and New Haven. Cities on the New York side of the Sound include Rye, Glen Cove, New Rochelle, and portions of New York City (the boroughs of Queens and the Bronx).

Mansions and wealthy neighborhoods characterize a good portion of the coast of the sound from Whitestone, Queens out to Port Jefferson on Long Island; and from Pelham Manor and New Rochelle (on the mainland of New York) to Madison in Connecticut. Property values in Westchester County, Long Island, and southwestern Connecticut are among the highest in the nation, due to the proximity to New York City and their location on "The Sound".

wn.com/Long_Island_Sound





Maine

                            Maine (i/ˈmeɪn/) is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States, bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the east and south, New Hampshire to the west, and the Canadian provinces of Quebec to the northwest and New Brunswick to the northeast. Maine is both the northernmost and easternmost portion of New England. It is known for its scenery—its jagged, mostly rocky coastline, its low, rolling mountains, its heavily forested interior and picturesque waterways—as well as for its seafood cuisine, especially lobsters and clams.

For thousands of years, indigenous peoples were the only inhabitants of the territory that is now Maine. At the time of European encounter, several Algonquian-speaking peoples inhabited the area. The first European settlement in Maine was by the French in 1604 on Saint Croix Island, by Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons. The first English settlement in Maine, the short-lived Popham Colony, was established by the Plymouth Company in 1607. A number of English settlements were established along the coast of Maine in the 1620s, although the rugged climate, deprivations, and conflict with the local peoples caused many to fail over the years. As Maine entered the 18th century, only a half dozen European settlements survived. Patriot and British forces contended for Maine's territory during the American Revolution and the War of 1812. Maine was part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts until 1820, when it voted to secede from Massachusetts. On March 15, 1820, it was admitted to the Union as the 23rd state under the Missouri Compromise. Maine is the 39th most extensive and the 41st most populous of the 50 United States.

wn.com/Maine





Manhattan

                            Manhattan (/mænˈhætən/) is the most densely populated and the oldest of the five boroughs of New York City. Located primarily on the island of Manhattan at the mouth of the Hudson River, the boundaries of the borough are identical to those of New York County, an original county of the U.S. state of New York. The borough and county consist of Manhattan Island and several small adjacent islands: Roosevelt Island, Randall's Island, Wards Island, Governors Island, Liberty Island, part of Ellis Island,Mill Rock, and U Thant Island; as well as Marble Hill, a very small area on the mainland bordering the Bronx. The original city of New York began at the southern end of Manhattan, expanded northward, and then between 1874 and 1898, annexed land from surrounding counties.

The New York County is the most densely populated county in the United States, and one of the most densely populated areas in the world, with a 2010 population of 1,585,873  living in a land area of 22.96 square miles (59.5 km2), or 69,464 residents per square mile (26,924/km²), more dense than any individual American city. It is also one of the wealthiest counties in the United States, with a 2005 per capita income above $100,000. Manhattan is the third-largest of New York's five boroughs in population, and its smallest borough in land area.

wn.com/Manhattan





Maryland

                            Maryland (i/ˈmɛrɨlənd/) is a U.S. state located in the Mid Atlantic region of the United States, bordering Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia to its south and west; Pennsylvania to its north; and Delaware to its east. Maryland was the seventh state to ratify the United States Constitution, and three nicknames for it (the Old Line State, the Free State, and the Chesapeake Bay State) are occasionally used. Maryland is the 9th smallest state by area, but the 19th most populous and the 5th most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state's most populated city is Baltimore. Its capital is Annapolis. It was named after Queen Henrietta Maria.

Maryland has an area of 12,406.68 square miles (32,133.2 km2) and is comparable in overall area with the European country of Belgium (11,787 square miles (30,530 km2)). It is the 42nd largest/9th smallest state, and is closest in size to Hawaii (10,930.98 square miles (28,311.1 km2)), the next smallest state. The next largest state, Maryland's neighbor West Virginia, is almost twice the size of Maryland (24,229.76 square miles (62,754.8 km2)).

wn.com/Maryland





Massachusetts

                            Massachusetts (i/ˌmæsəˈtʃuːsɨts/), officially the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, is a U.S. state in the New England region of the northeastern United States of America. It is bordered by Rhode Island and Connecticut to the south, New York to the west, and Vermont and New Hampshire to the north; at its east lies the Atlantic Ocean. Massachusetts is the 7th least extensive, but the 14th most populous and the 3rd most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state features two separate metropolitan areas – the eastern Boston metropolitan area and the western Springfield metropolitan area. Approximately two thirds of the state's population lives in Greater Boston, most of which is either urban or suburban. Western Massachusetts features one urban area – the Knowledge Corridor along the Connecticut River – and a mix of college towns and rural areas. Massachusetts is the most populous of the six New England states and has the US's sixth highest GDP per capita.

wn.com/Massachusetts





Miami

                            Miami ( /maɪˈæmi/ or /maɪˈæmə/) is a city located on the Atlantic coast in southeastern Florida and the county seat of Miami-Dade County, the most populous county in Florida and the eighth-most populous county in the United States with a population of 2,500,625. The 42nd largest city proper in the United States, with a population of 408,568, it is the principal, central, and most populous city of the South Florida metropolitan area, and the most populous metropolis in the Southeastern United States. According to the US Census Bureau, Miami's metro area is the seventh most populous and fifth-largest urban area in the United States, with a population of around 5.5 million.

Miami is a major center and a leader in finance, commerce, culture, media, entertainment, the arts, and international trade. In 2010, Miami was classified as a Alpha- World City in the World Cities Study Group’s inventory. In 2010, Miami ranked seventh in the United States in terms of finance, commerce, culture, entertainment, fashion, education, and other sectors. It ranked thirty-third among global cities. In 2008, Forbes magazine ranked Miami "America's Cleanest City", for its year-round good air quality, vast green spaces, clean drinking water, clean streets and city-wide recycling programs. According to a 2009 UBS study of 73 world cities, Miami was ranked as the richest city in the United States, and the world's fifth-richest city in terms of purchasing power. Miami is nicknamed the "Capital of Latin America", is the 2nd largest U.S. city (after El Paso) with a Spanish-speaking majority, and the largest city with a Cuban-American plurality.

wn.com/Miami





Narragansett Bay

Coordinates: 41°36′N 71°21′W﻿ / ﻿41.6°N 71.35°W﻿ / 41.6; -71.35﻿ (Narragansett Bay)

Narragansett Bay is a bay and estuary on the north side of Rhode Island Sound. Covering 147 mi2 (380 km2), the Bay forms New England's largest estuary, which functions as an expansive natural harbor, and includes a small archipelago. This bay is mostly within the state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, but small parts of it extend into Massachusetts.

Of over thirty islands in the Bay, the three largest ones are Aquidneck Island, Conanicut Island, and Prudence Island. Bodies of water that are part of Narragansett Bay include the Sakonnet River; Mount Hope Bay; and the southern, tidal part of the Taunton River. The bay opens on Rhode Island Sound — Block Island lies less than 20 miles (32 km) southwest of its opening — and the Atlantic Ocean. Narragansett Bay can be seen in NOAA chart 13221
Providence, the Rhode Island state capital and largest city, sits on the west side of the head of the northernmost arm of the bay. Many of Providence's suburbs, including Warwick and Cranston, are also on the bay. Newport, the home of the United States Naval War College, the Naval Undersea Warfare Center, and a major United States Navy training center, is located at the south end of Aquidneck Island, on the ocean. The city of Fall River, Massachusetts is located at the confluence of the Taunton River and Mount Hope Bay, which form the northeasternmost part of Narragansett Bay. The southwest side of the bay include the seaside tourist towns of Narragansett and Wickford. Quonset Point, south of Warwick, gives its name to the Quonset hut. Roger Williams University is located in Bristol, Rhode Island on land overlooking the Bay.

wn.com/Narragansett_Bay





New Brunswick

                            New Brunswick (French: Nouveau-Brunswick; pronounced: [nuˈvo bʁɔnˈzwik]) is one of Canada's three Maritime provinces and is the only province in the federation that is constitutionally bilingual (English–French).Fredericton is the capital and Saint John is the most populous city. Greater Moncton is the province's largest Census Metropolitan Area. Through the 2011 nation wide census, Statistics Canada estimates the provincial population in 2011 to have been 751,171; a majority of the population is English-speaking, but there is also a large Francophone minority (33%), chiefly of Acadian origin.

The province's name comes from the English and French partial transcription of the city of Brunswick (Braunschweig in German) located in modern day Lower Saxony, northern Germany (and former duchy of the same name), the ancestral home of the Hanoverian George III of the United Kingdom.

New Brunswick is bounded by: on the north by Quebec's Gaspé Peninsula and Chaleur Bay; along the east coast by the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and Northumberland Strait; in the southeast corner the narrow Isthmus of Chignecto connects New Brunswick to the Nova Scotia peninsula; in the south by the Bay of Fundy coast, (which with a rise of 16 m (52 ft), has amongst the highest tides in the world); and in the west by the US state of Maine.

wn.com/New_Brunswick





New England

                            New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. New England is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, Canada (the Canadian Maritimes and Quebec) and the state of New York.

In one of the earliest English settlements in North America, Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony. Ten years later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony. Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four French and Indian Wars, until the British defeated the French and their native allies in North America. In the late 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists. The Boston Tea Party was a protest that angered Great Britain, which responded with the "Intolerable Acts", stripping the colonies of self-government. The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British from New England in spring 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.

wn.com/New_England





New Hampshire

                            New Hampshire (i/njuːˈhæmpʃər/) is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States of America. The state was named after the southern English county of Hampshire. It is bordered by Massachusetts to the south, Vermont to the west, Maine and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, and the Canadian province of Quebec to the north. New Hampshire is the 5th least extensive and the 9th least populous of the 50 United States.

It became the first post-colonial sovereign nation in the Americas when it broke off from Great Britain in January 1776, and six months later was one of the original thirteen states that founded the United States of America. In June 1788, it became the ninth state to ratify the United States Constitution, bringing that document into effect. New Hampshire was the first U.S. state to have its own state constitution.

It is known internationally for the New Hampshire primary, the first primary in the U.S. presidential election cycle. Concord is the state capital, while Manchester is the largest city in the state. It has no general sales tax, nor is personal income (other than interest and dividends) taxed at either the state or local level.

wn.com/New_Hampshire





New Jersey

                            New Jersey (i/nuː ˈdʒɜrzi/) is a state in the Northeastern and Middle Atlantic regions of the United States. It is bordered on the north and east by the U.S. state of New York, on the southeast and south by the Atlantic Ocean, on the west by Pennsylvania, and on the southwest by Delaware. New Jersey is the 4th least extensive, but the 11th most populous and the most densely populated of the 50 United States. New Jersey lies mostly within the sprawling metropolitan areas of New York City and Philadelphia. It is also the third wealthiest by 2009–2010 median household income.

The area was inhabited by Native Americans for more than 2,800 years, with historical tribes such as the Lenape along the coast. In the early 17th century, the Dutch and the Swedes made the first European settlements. The British later seized control of the region, naming it the Province of New Jersey. It was granted as a colony to Sir George Carteret and John Berkeley, 1st Baron Berkeley of Stratton. At this time, it was named after the largest of the British Channel Islands, Jersey, Carteret's birthplace. New Jersey was the site of several decisive battles during the American Revolutionary War.

wn.com/New_Jersey





New York

                            New York (/njuː ˈjɔrk/; locally IPA: [nɪu ˈjɔək] or [nuː ˈjɔɹk] ( listen)) is a state in the Northeastern region of the United States. New York is the 27th most extensive, the 3rd most populous, and the 7th most densely populated of the 50 United States. New York is bordered by New Jersey and Pennsylvania to the south, and by Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont to the east. The state has a maritime border with Rhode Island east of Long Island, as well as an international border with the Canadian provinces of Ontario to the west and north, and Quebec to the north. The state of New York is often referred to as New York State to distinguish it from New York City.

New York City, with a population of over 8.1 million, is the most populous city in the United States. Alone, it makes up over 40 percent of the population of New York state. It is known for its status as a center for finance and culture and for its status as the largest gateway for immigration to the United States. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, New York City is also a destination of choice for many foreign visitors. Both the state and city were named for the 17th century Duke of York, James Stuart, future James II and VII of England and Scotland.

wn.com/New_York





New York City

                            New York is the most populous city in the United States and the center of the New York Metropolitan Area, one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. The city is referred to as New York City or The City of New York to distinguish it from the State of New York, of which it is a part. As a global power city, New York exerts a significant impact upon commerce, finance, media, art, fashion, research, technology, education, and entertainment. The home of the United Nations Headquarters, New York is an important center for international diplomacy and has been described as the cultural capital of the world.

Located on one of the world's largest natural harbors, New York City consists of five boroughs, each of which comprises a state county. The five boroughs—The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and Staten Island—were consolidated into a single city in 1898. With a Census-estimated 2011 population of 8,244,910 distributed over a land area of just 305 square miles (790 km2), New York is the most densely populated major city in the United States. As many as 800 languages are spoken in New York, making it the most linguistically diverse city in the world. The New York City Metropolitan Area's population is the United States' largest, with 18.9 million people distributed over 6,720 square miles (17,400 km2), and is also part of the most populous combined statistical area in the United States, containing 22.1 million people as of the 2010 Census.

wn.com/New_York_City





North Carolina

                            North Carolina (i/ˌnɔrθ kærəˈlaɪnə/) is a state in the Southeastern United States. The state borders South Carolina and Georgia to the south, Tennessee to the west and Virginia to the north. North Carolina is the 28th most extensive and the 10th most populous of the 50 United States.

North Carolina is comprised of 100 counties. Its capital is Raleigh, and its largest city is Charlotte. In the past five decades, North Carolina's economy has undergone a transition from heavy reliance upon tobacco and furniture making to a more diversified economy with engineering, biotechnology, and finance sectors.

North Carolina has a wide range of elevations, from sea level on the coast to 6,684 feet (2,037 m) at Mount Mitchell, the highest point in the Eastern US. The climate of the coastal plains is strongly influenced by the Atlantic Ocean. Most of the state falls in the humid subtropical climate zone. More than 300 miles (500 km) from the coast, the western, mountainous part of the state has a subtropical highland climate.

wn.com/North_Carolina





Overseas Highway

                            The Overseas Highway is a 127.5-mile (205.2 km) highway carrying U.S. Route 1 (US 1) through the Florida Keys. Large parts of it were built on the former right-of-way of the Overseas Railroad, the Key West Extension of the Florida East Coast Railway. Completed in 1912, the Overseas Railroad was heavily damaged and partially destroyed in the Labor Day Hurricane of 1935. The Florida East Coast Railway was financially unable to rebuild the destroyed sections, so the roadbed and remaining bridges were sold to the State of Florida for $640,000.

The original construction of the Overseas Highway used many of the bridges of the former railroad, including truss bridges, where the roadway was built on top of the trusses. "Contract for building 18 bridges on the new Overseas Highway to Key West was awarded to Cleary Brothers Construction Co. of West Palm Beach last week [late April 1942], calling for completion of all bridge construction work on sections of the highway within the overseas road and bridge toll district, on the abandoned foundations of the old Florida East Coast railway line." Most of these older bridges built for railroads have been replaced by more modern bridges that are able to accommodate more than two lanes of traffic. The highway included the Seven Mile Bridge, the Bahia Honda Bridge and the Long Key Bridge (although these three original bridges are no longer open to vehicular traffic, except for part of Seven Mile Bridge, they are listed on the National Register of Historic Places and are currently used as fishing piers).

wn.com/Overseas_Highway





Pennsylvania

                            Pennsylvania (i/ˌpɛnsɨlˈveɪnjə/), officially the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, is a US state that is located in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, and the Great Lakes Region. The state borders Delaware to the southeast, Maryland to the south, West Virginia to the southwest, Ohio to the west, Ontario, Canada to the northwest, New York to the north, and New Jersey to the east.

Pennsylvania is the 33rd most extensive, the 6th most populous, and the 9th most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state's four most populous cities are Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Allentown, and Erie. The state capital is Harrisburg. Pennsylvania has 51 miles (82 km) of shoreline along Lake Erie and 57 miles (92 km) of shoreline along the Delaware Estuary.

Pennsylvania is 170 miles (274 km) north to south and 283 miles (455 km) east to west. Of a total 46,055 square miles (119,282 km2), 44,817 square miles (116,075 km2) are land, 490 square miles (1,269 km2) are inland waters, and 749 square miles (1,940 km2) are waters in Lake Erie. It is the 33rd largest state in the United States. Pennsylvania has 51 miles (82 km) of coastline along Lake Erie and 57 miles (92 km) of shoreline along the Delaware Estuary.

wn.com/Pennsylvania





Philadelphia

                            Philadelphia ( /ˌfɪləˈdɛlfiə/) is the largest city in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the county seat of Philadelphia County, with which it is coterminous. The city is located in the Northeastern United States along the Delaware and Schuylkill rivers. It is the fifth-most-populous city in the United States, with a population of 1,526,006 as of the 2010 U.S. Census. Philadelphia is also the commercial, cultural, and educational center of the Delaware Valley, home to 6 million people and the country's fifth-largest metropolitan area. The Philadelphia metropolitan division consists of five counties in Pennsylvania and has a population of 4,008,994. Popular nicknames for Philadelphia are Philly and The City of Brotherly Love, the latter of which comes from the literal meaning of the city's name in Greek (Greek: Φιλαδέλφεια ([pʰilaˈdelpʰeːa], Modern Greek: [filaˈðelfia]) "brotherly love", compounded from philos (φίλος) "loving", and adelphos (ἀδελφός) "brother").

wn.com/Philadelphia





Rhode Island

                            Rhode Island (i/ˌroʊd ˈaɪlɨnd/ or /rɵˈdaɪlɨnd/), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States. Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the 8th least populous, but the 2nd most densely populated of the 50 United States. Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east, and it shares a water boundary with New York's Long Island to the southwest.

Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two months before any other state in the whole U.S. and the convention. The state was also the last to ratify the United States Constitution.

Rhode Island's official nickname is "The Ocean State", a reference to the state's geography, since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14% of its total area. Its land area is 1,045 square miles (2706 km2), but its total area is significantly larger.

wn.com/Rhode_Island





South Carolina

                            South Carolina (i/ˌsaʊθ kærəˈlaɪnə/) is a state in the Southeastern United States. It is bordered to the north by North Carolina; to the south and west by Georgia, located across the Savannah River; and to the east by the Atlantic Ocean. Originally part of the Province of Carolina, the Province of South Carolina was one of the 13 colonies that declared independence from the British Crown during the American Revolution. The colony was originally named by King Charles II of England in honor of his father Charles I (Carolus being Latin for Charles). South Carolina was the 8th state to ratify the US Constitution and become a state which it did on May 23, 1788. South Carolina later became the first state to vote to secede from the Union which it did on December 20, 1860. It was readmitted to the United States on June 25, 1868.

South Carolina is the 40th most extensive and the 24th most populous of the 50 United States. South Carolina comprises 46 counties. The capital and largest city of the state is Columbia.

wn.com/South_Carolina





The Bronx

                            The Bronx is the northernmost of the five boroughs of New York City. It is also known as Bronx County, the last of the 62 counties of New York State to be incorporated. Located north of Manhattan and Queens, and south of Westchester County, the Bronx is the only borough that is located primarily on the mainland (a very small portion of Manhattan, the Marble Hill neighborhood, is physically located on the mainland, due to the rerouting of the Harlem River in 1897). The Bronx's population is 1,400,761 according to the 2010 United States Census. The borough has a land area of 42 square miles (109 km2), making it the fourth-largest in land area of the five boroughs, the fourth most populated, and the third-highest in density of population.

The Bronx is divided by the Bronx River into a hillier section in the west, closer to Manhattan, and the flatter East Bronx, closer to Long Island. The West Bronx was annexed to New York City (then largely confined to Manhattan) in 1874, and the areas east of the Bronx River in 1895. The Bronx first assumed a distinct legal identity when it became a borough of Greater New York in 1898. Bronx County, with the same boundaries as the borough, was separated from New York County (afterwards coextensive with the Borough of Manhattan) as of January 1, 1914. Although the Bronx is the third-most-densely-populated county in the U.S., about a quarter of its area is open space, including Woodlawn Cemetery, Van Cortlandt Park, Pelham Bay Park, the New York Botanical Garden and the Bronx Zoo in the borough's north and center, on land deliberately reserved in the late 19th century as urban development progressed northwards and eastwards from Manhattan with the building of roads, bridges and railways.

wn.com/The_Bronx





Virginia

                            Virginia (i/vərˈdʒɪnjə/), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States. Virginia is nicknamed the "Old Dominion" and sometimes the "Mother of Presidents" after the eight U.S. presidents born there. The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay, which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna. The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond; Virginia Beach is the most populous city and Fairfax County the most populous political subdivision. The Commonwealth's population is over eight million.

The area's history begins with several indigenous groups, including the Powhatan. In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony. Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes each played a significant role in the colony's early politics and plantation economy. Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia's northwestern counties separated to form the state of West Virginia. Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia.

wn.com/Virginia







































Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:49
Updated: 12 Jan 2013


Suaram's Press Conference - Scorpene Submarine Scandal Kuala Lumpur 03/05/2012
http://wn.com/The_Great_Malaysian_Robbery_Najib_Sought_US1_Billion_For_Perimekar_From_French_Shipmaker_DCN




				
					Suaram's Press Conference - Scorpene Submarine Scandal Kuala Lumpur 03/05/2012

published: 03 May 2012
views: 30781

author:
mediarakyat















Over US$1m worth of marketing expertise for your business!

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:29
Updated: 16 Nov 2012


If you've ever wondered what impact the world's best marketing experts might have on your sales figures today you can get the answer! The Million Dollar Challenge is a results based collaboration made possible through internet TV. Research by yourBusinessChannel shows that sales growth is the number one business issue. The Million Dollar Challenge addresses this issue head on and anyone with a business from entrepreneur to executive can apply. If you're chosen, you'll be one of a handful of businesses with access to powerful marketing campaigns, drawing on global expertise valued at well over a million dollars! Until now, only big listed companies could afford the range of expertise offered on the Million Dollar Challenge, everyone else had to settle for what they could afford, meaning that everyone was doing more or less the same thing, and wondering why their marketing wasn't working. Think about it: you know your business better than anyone else. What numbers could you achieve with results based campaigns reflecting the latest thinking from the worlds top business experts and focussed on the marketing challenges that you face. And we help you to roll it out yourself. By building your own competency in-house, you'll save plenty of cash, get access to all the different sorts of advice that you need, and retain total control of the process. Here's how it works: Every day, we interview the worlds top sales and marketing experts. We analyse what the experts say and conduct ...
http://wn.com/Over_US1m_worth_of_marketing_expertise_for_your_business!




				
					If you've ever wondered what impact the world's best marketing experts might have on your sales figures today you can get the answer! The Million Dollar Challenge is a results based collaboration made possible through internet TV. Research by yourBusinessChannel shows that sales growth is the number one business issue. The Million Dollar Challenge addresses this issue head on and anyone with a business from entrepreneur to executive can apply. If you're chosen, you'll be one of a handful of businesses with access to powerful marketing campaigns, drawing on global expertise valued at well over a million dollars! Until now, only big listed companies could afford the range of expertise offered on the Million Dollar Challenge, everyone else had to settle for what they could afford, meaning that everyone was doing more or less the same thing, and wondering why their marketing wasn't working. Think about it: you know your business better than anyone else. What numbers could you achieve with results based campaigns reflecting the latest thinking from the worlds top business experts and focussed on the marketing challenges that you face. And we help you to roll it out yourself. By building your own competency in-house, you'll save plenty of cash, get access to all the different sorts of advice that you need, and retain total control of the process. Here's how it works: Every day, we interview the worlds top sales and marketing experts. We analyse what the experts say and conduct ...

published: 28 Oct 2008
views: 14378

author:
yourBusinessChannel















The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN

Order: Reorder
Duration: 20:30
Updated: 13 Nov 2012


Suaram's Press Conference on Scorpene Submarine Scandal, Kuala Lumpur
http://wn.com/The_Great_Malaysian_Robbery_Najib_Sought_US1_Billion_For_Perimekar_From_French_Shipmaker_DCN




				
					Suaram's Press Conference on Scorpene Submarine Scandal, Kuala Lumpur

published: 03 May 2012
views: 1280

author:
mediarakyat















Occult / Masonic Symbology on the US $1 Bill - Jordan Maxwell

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:54
Updated: 11 Nov 2012


Jordan Maxwell takes us through the occult / masonic symbology printed on the US $1 bill.
http://wn.com/Occult_Masonic_Symbology_on_the_US_1_Bill_Jordan_Maxwell




				
					Jordan Maxwell takes us through the occult / masonic symbology printed on the US $1 bill.

published: 06 Jul 2009
views: 1456

author:
YourAdversary7















The IDE Model Leads To US$1 Million Product Launch -- Part 2

Order: Reorder
Duration: 20:16
Updated: 11 Jan 2013


In Part 2 of Ewa Wysocka's "Underground Online Seminar 8″ series, she reveals Mindvalley's first venture with the IDE model in 2010, a brave experiment which raked in US$1 million for the company and transformed Love Or Above author Christie Marie Sheldon into the personal growth celebrity she is today.
http://wn.com/The_IDE_Model_Leads_To_US1_Million_Product_Launch_-_Part_2




				
					In Part 2 of Ewa Wysocka's "Underground Online Seminar 8″ series, she reveals Mindvalley's first venture with the IDE model in 2010, a brave experiment which raked in US$1 million for the company and transformed Love Or Above author Christie Marie Sheldon into the personal growth celebrity she is today.

published: 03 Jul 2012
views: 1869

author:
MindvalleyInsightsTV















PetroChina buys US$1 bln stake in SPC - 25 May 09

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:45
Updated: 28 Jul 2010



http://wn.com/PetroChina_buys_US1_bln_stake_in_SPC_25_May_09






published: 25 May 2009
views: 502

author:
cctvupload















US $1 Coins & American Silver Eagles (Silver Porn - Silver Collection)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:24
Updated: 20 Nov 2012


silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com PleaseSubscribe to Silver News Report silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com Support the SilverMapleLeafs Channel by donating Bitcoins here 1PQvxf6dqM8fJMEbGnz9sfH7XcvJWbJaUJ ****************************** If you don't have any Bitcoins but would still like to support this channel you can generate them by clicking on this link: www.bitcoinplus.com
http://wn.com/US_1_Coins_American_Silver_Eagles_Silver_Porn_Silver_Collection




				
					silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com PleaseSubscribe to Silver News Report silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com Support the SilverMapleLeafs Channel by donating Bitcoins here 1PQvxf6dqM8fJMEbGnz9sfH7XcvJWbJaUJ ****************************** If you don't have any Bitcoins but would still like to support this channel you can generate them by clicking on this link: www.bitcoinplus.com

published: 16 Aug 2011
views: 676

author:
SilverMapleLeafs















North Carolina man pulls off US$1 robbery for free healthcare

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:29
Updated: 11 Sep 2012


DOWNLOAD HERE: ANIMATION WITH VOICE OVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw With a bad back, foot injury and a mystery growth on his chest. Uninsured James Verone decided to rob a bank so he could get free healthcare. He entered the RBC bank in Gastonia, NC, and handed the teller a note demanding US$1, saying he had a gun. He then told the teller he would wait for the police on the lobby couch. The police arrived, arrested Verone. He was later charged with larceny.
http://wn.com/North_Carolina_man_pulls_off_US1_robbery_for_free_healthcare




				
					DOWNLOAD HERE: ANIMATION WITH VOICE OVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw With a bad back, foot injury and a mystery growth on his chest. Uninsured James Verone decided to rob a bank so he could get free healthcare. He entered the RBC bank in Gastonia, NC, and handed the teller a note demanding US$1, saying he had a gun. He then told the teller he would wait for the police on the lobby couch. The police arrived, arrested Verone. He was later charged with larceny.

published: 22 Jun 2011
views: 1301

author:
NMANewsDirect















US: $1 billion for nuclear fuel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:41
Updated: 24 Oct 2012


A Russian firm has signed a groundbreaking one billion dollar contract to supply US nuclear power stations with uranium fuel. Russia already supplies 23 per cent of the fuel used by US plants.
http://wn.com/US_1_billion_for_nuclear_fuel




				
					A Russian firm has signed a groundbreaking one billion dollar contract to supply US nuclear power stations with uranium fuel. Russia already supplies 23 per cent of the fuel used by US plants.

published: 27 May 2009
views: 568

author:
RussiaToday















Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy - Kris Fitzgerald

Order: Reorder
Duration: 10:24
Updated: 08 Apr 2011


Dell Services CTO Kris Fitzgerald on Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy
http://wn.com/Dell's_US1bn_investment_in_data_centre_strategy_Kris_Fitzgerald




				
					Dell Services CTO Kris Fitzgerald on Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy

published: 08 Apr 2011
views: 76

author:
siliconrepublic















AAYN Episode 14: US $1 Federal Reserve Star Notes

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:39
Updated: 06 Jul 2012


The American Association of Young Numismatists (AAYN) is an association dedicated to educating and impassioning young people about the hobby of coin collecting. We hope our videos help spark your interest in numismatics. www.aayn.org This video discusses Federal Reserve $1 Star Notes, how to identify them and what they mean.
http://wn.com/AAYN_Episode_14_US_1_Federal_Reserve_Star_Notes




				
					The American Association of Young Numismatists (AAYN) is an association dedicated to educating and impassioning young people about the hobby of coin collecting. We hope our videos help spark your interest in numismatics. www.aayn.org This video discusses Federal Reserve $1 Star Notes, how to identify them and what they mean.

published: 03 Sep 2009
views: 1110

author:
AAYNumismatists















US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 1

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:35
Updated: 14 Dec 2011


Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club.
http://wn.com/US1_Million_Thailand_Golf_Championship_2011_press_con_part_1




				
					Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club.

published: 14 Dec 2011
views: 570

author:
TheNationDigital















Hassan Nawaz Shareef's Business worth WHOPPING US $1 2BILLION in London Ch Nisar Answer has no answer for it

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:28
Updated: 03 Jul 2012



http://wn.com/Hassan_Nawaz_Shareef's_Business_worth_WHOPPING_US_1_2BILLION_in_London_Ch_Nisar_Answer_has_no_answer_for_it






published: 16 Nov 2011
views: 1169

author:
mozan47906















NY police bust US$1 million cocaine ring

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:50
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


DOWNLOAD ANIMATION WITH VOICEOVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw DOWNLOAD ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw New York police have smashed a US$1 million-a-year Upper East Side cocaine ring. Police said Ceferino Perez and his wife Elsie Detres-Perez ran the ring from their Bronx apartment under the guise of an electronics business, arranging drop-offs in the Upper East Side. Prosecutors said the ring was packaging 500 grams of cocaine a day and earning up to US$80000. Nineteen of the 22 suspected ring members were arrested. Source: New York Post
http://wn.com/NY_police_bust_US1_million_cocaine_ring




				
					DOWNLOAD ANIMATION WITH VOICEOVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw DOWNLOAD ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw New York police have smashed a US$1 million-a-year Upper East Side cocaine ring. Police said Ceferino Perez and his wife Elsie Detres-Perez ran the ring from their Bronx apartment under the guise of an electronics business, arranging drop-offs in the Upper East Side. Prosecutors said the ring was packaging 500 grams of cocaine a day and earning up to US$80000. Nineteen of the 22 suspected ring members were arrested. Source: New York Post

published: 17 Jun 2011
views: 2673

author:
NMANewsDirect















Ritchie Bros. reaches US$1B in annual online equipment sales

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:31
Updated: 19 Feb 2012


On December 7, 2011, Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers (www.rbauction.com) surpassed US$1 billion in annual online equipment sales for the first time. Ritchie Bros. is the world's largest auctioneer of heavy equipment and trucks, with 40+ auction sites worldwide. In 2010, Ritchie Bros. sold US$3.3 billion of equipment to on-site and online bidders at hundreds of unreserved public auctions worldwide.
http://wn.com/Ritchie_Bros_reaches_US1B_in_annual_online_equipment_sales




				
					On December 7, 2011, Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers (www.rbauction.com) surpassed US$1 billion in annual online equipment sales for the first time. Ritchie Bros. is the world's largest auctioneer of heavy equipment and trucks, with 40+ auction sites worldwide. In 2010, Ritchie Bros. sold US$3.3 billion of equipment to on-site and online bidders at hundreds of unreserved public auctions worldwide.

published: 07 Dec 2011
views: 651

author:
ritchiebros















Devil on the US $1

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:29
Updated: 18 Jan 2013


The Devil on top of the $1. The Music is "Lonely Piano" from Music4YourVids.co.uk. http link to the book on Blurb. ISBN 978-0-9573895-0-2 . (polite tone) I'm just happy you watched the video. I put a link here because I thought might as well since its my video.
http://wn.com/Devil_on_the_US_1




				
					The Devil on top of the $1. The Music is "Lonely Piano" from Music4YourVids.co.uk. http link to the book on Blurb. ISBN 978-0-9573895-0-2 . (polite tone) I'm just happy you watched the video. I put a link here because I thought might as well since its my video.

published: 03 Jul 2011
views: 4902

author:
stegsify















US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 2

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:33
Updated: 14 Dec 2011


Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club
http://wn.com/US1_Million_Thailand_Golf_Championship_2011_press_con_part_2




				
					Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club

published: 14 Dec 2011
views: 279

author:
TheNationDigital















Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:08
Updated: 21 Jan 2012


In humanitarian news, Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan. Afghan's Minister of Finance His Excellency Omar Zakhilwal and other senior Afghan government officials gave the contribution to Japan's Ambassador to Afghanistan Reiichiro Takahashi. A spokesperson for His Excellency expressed Afghanistan's appreciation for Japan's assistance in the reconstruction process in Afghanistan. His Excellency's spokesperson further stated that now Afghanistan would like to help in the rebuilding of Japanese communities affected by the devastating earthquake and tsunami. Of the total amount, US$200000 is being given by Kabul city, and US$50000 is being gifted from the city of Kandahar. Our heartfelt gratitude, Afghanistan, for your care and generous donation to brethren in time of need. With the grace of the Providence and global support, Japan, may you recover and rebuild your beautiful nation to flourish evermore.
http://wn.com/Afghanistan_donates_US1_million_to_help_Japan




				
					In humanitarian news, Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan. Afghan's Minister of Finance His Excellency Omar Zakhilwal and other senior Afghan government officials gave the contribution to Japan's Ambassador to Afghanistan Reiichiro Takahashi. A spokesperson for His Excellency expressed Afghanistan's appreciation for Japan's assistance in the reconstruction process in Afghanistan. His Excellency's spokesperson further stated that now Afghanistan would like to help in the rebuilding of Japanese communities affected by the devastating earthquake and tsunami. Of the total amount, US$200000 is being given by Kabul city, and US$50000 is being gifted from the city of Kandahar. Our heartfelt gratitude, Afghanistan, for your care and generous donation to brethren in time of need. With the grace of the Providence and global support, Japan, may you recover and rebuild your beautiful nation to flourish evermore.

published: 17 May 2011
views: 285

author:
NoteworthyNews















Microsoft hosting US$1 million technology competition

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:58
Updated: 28 Apr 2012


Neil Parmar, who himself is involved with the competition, hosted in Dubai with the finals in Australia, explains the innovative initiatives.
http://wn.com/Microsoft_hosting_US1_million_technology_competition




				
					Neil Parmar, who himself is involved with the competition, hosted in Dubai with the finals in Australia, explains the innovative initiatives.

published: 23 Apr 2012
views: 56

author:
TheNationalNewspaper















Who Really Likes The US $1 Coins?

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:41
Updated: 12 Aug 2012


BeanMeister22 www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Who_Really_Likes_The_US_1_Coins?




				
					BeanMeister22 www.youtube.com

published: 11 Mar 2009
views: 501

author:
ShavenHeadz















How a newspaper interview earned US$1 bln for New Zealand

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:50
Updated: 31 Jul 2010


www.interest.co.nz Bernard Hickey reports on the successful bond issue by ANZ National and how an interview in the Wall St Journal by John Key was widely cited by investors as reassuring them as they decided to put money in the bond.
http://wn.com/How_a_newspaper_interview_earned_US1_bln_for_New_Zealand




				
					www.interest.co.nz Bernard Hickey reports on the successful bond issue by ANZ National and how an interview in the Wall St Journal by John Key was widely cited by investors as reassuring them as they decided to put money in the bond.

published: 30 Mar 2009
views: 341

author:
ofInterestNZ















NEW US $1 Obama Note Dollar Contest FrankinDollars

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:42
Updated: 11 Nov 2012


believersunderground back up channel www.youtube.com www.huffingtonpost.com
http://wn.com/NEW_US_1_Obama_Note_Dollar_Contest_FrankinDollars




				
					believersunderground back up channel www.youtube.com www.huffingtonpost.com

published: 20 Sep 2010
views: 489

author:
Scott BUG















Telecoms Flow Projects a Value of J$95 to US$1 for its Business Model in Jamaica

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:20
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


The Owen James Report - January 30, 2013 Telecoms Flow Projects a Value of J$95 to US$1 for its Business Model in Jamaica Columbus Communications Jamaica Limited or Flow is also on high alert for scrap metal thieves.
http://wn.com/Telecoms_Flow_Projects_a_Value_of_J95_to_US1_for_its_Business_Model_in_Jamaica




				
					The Owen James Report - January 30, 2013 Telecoms Flow Projects a Value of J$95 to US$1 for its Business Model in Jamaica Columbus Communications Jamaica Limited or Flow is also on high alert for scrap metal thieves.

published: 31 Jan 2013
views: 4

author:
allmediaservicesltd





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































9:49



The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN
Suaram's Press Conference - Scorpene Submarine Scandal Kuala Lumpur 03/05/2012...


published: 03 May 2012
author: mediarakyat


The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN


				
					Suaram's Press Conference - Scorpene Submarine Scandal Kuala Lumpur 03/05/2012

published: 03 May 2012
views: 30781

author:
mediarakyat















3:29



Over US$1m worth of marketing expertise for your business!
If you've ever wondered what impact the world's best marketing experts might have on your ...


published: 28 Oct 2008
author: yourBusinessChannel


Over US$1m worth of marketing expertise for your business!


				
					If you've ever wondered what impact the world's best marketing experts might have on your sales figures today you can get the answer! The Million Dollar Challenge is a results based collaboration made possible through internet TV. Research by yourBusinessChannel shows that sales growth is the number one business issue. The Million Dollar Challenge addresses this issue head on and anyone with a business from entrepreneur to executive can apply. If you're chosen, you'll be one of a handful of businesses with access to powerful marketing campaigns, drawing on global expertise valued at well over a million dollars! Until now, only big listed companies could afford the range of expertise offered on the Million Dollar Challenge, everyone else had to settle for what they could afford, meaning that everyone was doing more or less the same thing, and wondering why their marketing wasn't working. Think about it: you know your business better than anyone else. What numbers could you achieve with results based campaigns reflecting the latest thinking from the worlds top business experts and focussed on the marketing challenges that you face. And we help you to roll it out yourself. By building your own competency in-house, you'll save plenty of cash, get access to all the different sorts of advice that you need, and retain total control of the process. Here's how it works: Every day, we interview the worlds top sales and marketing experts. We analyse what the experts say and conduct ...

published: 28 Oct 2008
views: 14378

author:
yourBusinessChannel















20:30



The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN
Suaram's Press Conference on Scorpene Submarine Scandal, Kuala Lumpur...


published: 03 May 2012
author: mediarakyat


The Great Malaysian Robbery: Najib Sought US$1 Billion For Perimekar From French Shipmaker DCN


				
					Suaram's Press Conference on Scorpene Submarine Scandal, Kuala Lumpur

published: 03 May 2012
views: 1280

author:
mediarakyat















5:54



Occult / Masonic Symbology on the US $1 Bill - Jordan Maxwell
Jordan Maxwell takes us through the occult / masonic symbology printed on the US $1 bill....


published: 06 Jul 2009
author: YourAdversary7


Occult / Masonic Symbology on the US $1 Bill - Jordan Maxwell


				
					Jordan Maxwell takes us through the occult / masonic symbology printed on the US $1 bill.

published: 06 Jul 2009
views: 1456

author:
YourAdversary7















20:16



The IDE Model Leads To US$1 Million Product Launch -- Part 2
In Part 2 of Ewa Wysocka's "Underground Online Seminar 8″ series, she reveals Mindvalley's...


published: 03 Jul 2012
author: MindvalleyInsightsTV


The IDE Model Leads To US$1 Million Product Launch -- Part 2


				
					In Part 2 of Ewa Wysocka's "Underground Online Seminar 8″ series, she reveals Mindvalley's first venture with the IDE model in 2010, a brave experiment which raked in US$1 million for the company and transformed Love Or Above author Christie Marie Sheldon into the personal growth celebrity she is today.

published: 03 Jul 2012
views: 1869

author:
MindvalleyInsightsTV















2:45



PetroChina buys US$1 bln stake in SPC - 25 May 09
...


published: 25 May 2009
author: cctvupload


PetroChina buys US$1 bln stake in SPC - 25 May 09




published: 25 May 2009
views: 502

author:
cctvupload















5:24



US $1 Coins & American Silver Eagles (Silver Porn - Silver Collection)
silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com PleaseSubscribe to Silver News Report silvermapleleafs.blogs...


published: 16 Aug 2011
author: SilverMapleLeafs


US $1 Coins & American Silver Eagles (Silver Porn - Silver Collection)


				
					silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com PleaseSubscribe to Silver News Report silvermapleleafs.blogspot.com Support the SilverMapleLeafs Channel by donating Bitcoins here 1PQvxf6dqM8fJMEbGnz9sfH7XcvJWbJaUJ ****************************** If you don't have any Bitcoins but would still like to support this channel you can generate them by clicking on this link: www.bitcoinplus.com

published: 16 Aug 2011
views: 676

author:
SilverMapleLeafs















0:29



North Carolina man pulls off US$1 robbery for free healthcare
DOWNLOAD HERE: ANIMATION WITH VOICE OVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect...


published: 22 Jun 2011
author: NMANewsDirect


North Carolina man pulls off US$1 robbery for free healthcare


				
					DOWNLOAD HERE: ANIMATION WITH VOICE OVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw With a bad back, foot injury and a mystery growth on his chest. Uninsured James Verone decided to rob a bank so he could get free healthcare. He entered the RBC bank in Gastonia, NC, and handed the teller a note demanding US$1, saying he had a gun. He then told the teller he would wait for the police on the lobby couch. The police arrived, arrested Verone. He was later charged with larceny.

published: 22 Jun 2011
views: 1301

author:
NMANewsDirect















3:41



US: $1 billion for nuclear fuel
A Russian firm has signed a groundbreaking one billion dollar contract to supply US nuclea...


published: 27 May 2009
author: RussiaToday


US: $1 billion for nuclear fuel


				
					A Russian firm has signed a groundbreaking one billion dollar contract to supply US nuclear power stations with uranium fuel. Russia already supplies 23 per cent of the fuel used by US plants.

published: 27 May 2009
views: 568

author:
RussiaToday















10:24



Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy - Kris Fitzgerald
Dell Services CTO Kris Fitzgerald on Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy...


published: 08 Apr 2011
author: siliconrepublic


Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy - Kris Fitzgerald


				
					Dell Services CTO Kris Fitzgerald on Dell's US$1bn investment in data centre strategy

published: 08 Apr 2011
views: 76

author:
siliconrepublic















1:39



AAYN Episode 14: US $1 Federal Reserve Star Notes
The American Association of Young Numismatists (AAYN) is an association dedicated to educa...


published: 03 Sep 2009
author: AAYNumismatists


AAYN Episode 14: US $1 Federal Reserve Star Notes


				
					The American Association of Young Numismatists (AAYN) is an association dedicated to educating and impassioning young people about the hobby of coin collecting. We hope our videos help spark your interest in numismatics. www.aayn.org This video discusses Federal Reserve $1 Star Notes, how to identify them and what they mean.

published: 03 Sep 2009
views: 1110

author:
AAYNumismatists















8:35



US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 1
Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Cha...


published: 14 Dec 2011
author: TheNationDigital


US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 1


				
					Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club.

published: 14 Dec 2011
views: 570

author:
TheNationDigital















5:28



Hassan Nawaz Shareef's Business worth WHOPPING US $1 2BILLION in London Ch Nisar Answer has no answer for it
...


published: 16 Nov 2011
author: mozan47906


Hassan Nawaz Shareef's Business worth WHOPPING US $1 2BILLION in London Ch Nisar Answer has no answer for it




published: 16 Nov 2011
views: 1169

author:
mozan47906















0:50



NY police bust US$1 million cocaine ring
DOWNLOAD ANIMATION WITH VOICEOVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw DOWNLOAD ANIMATION ONLY: newsdire...


published: 17 Jun 2011
author: NMANewsDirect


NY police bust US$1 million cocaine ring


				
					DOWNLOAD ANIMATION WITH VOICEOVER: newsdirect.nma.com.tw DOWNLOAD ANIMATION ONLY: newsdirect.nma.com.tw New York police have smashed a US$1 million-a-year Upper East Side cocaine ring. Police said Ceferino Perez and his wife Elsie Detres-Perez ran the ring from their Bronx apartment under the guise of an electronics business, arranging drop-offs in the Upper East Side. Prosecutors said the ring was packaging 500 grams of cocaine a day and earning up to US$80000. Nineteen of the 22 suspected ring members were arrested. Source: New York Post

published: 17 Jun 2011
views: 2673

author:
NMANewsDirect










Youtube results:







1:31



Ritchie Bros. reaches US$1B in annual online equipment sales
On December 7, 2011, Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers (www.rbauction.com) surpassed US$1 billion ...


published: 07 Dec 2011
author: ritchiebros


Ritchie Bros. reaches US$1B in annual online equipment sales


				
					On December 7, 2011, Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers (www.rbauction.com) surpassed US$1 billion in annual online equipment sales for the first time. Ritchie Bros. is the world's largest auctioneer of heavy equipment and trucks, with 40+ auction sites worldwide. In 2010, Ritchie Bros. sold US$3.3 billion of equipment to on-site and online bidders at hundreds of unreserved public auctions worldwide.

published: 07 Dec 2011
views: 651

author:
ritchiebros















1:29



Devil on the US $1
The Devil on top of the $1. The Music is "Lonely Piano" from Music4YourVids.co.uk. http li...


published: 03 Jul 2011
author: stegsify


Devil on the US $1


				
					The Devil on top of the $1. The Music is "Lonely Piano" from Music4YourVids.co.uk. http link to the book on Blurb. ISBN 978-0-9573895-0-2 . (polite tone) I'm just happy you watched the video. I put a link here because I thought might as well since its my video.

published: 03 Jul 2011
views: 4902

author:
stegsify















7:33



US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 2
Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Cha...


published: 14 Dec 2011
author: TheNationDigital


US$1 Million Thailand Golf Championship 2011 press con part 2


				
					Thai ace Thongchai Jaidee, World No 3 Lee Westwood, Sergio Garcia, The Master champion Charl Schwartzel, Japanese teenager sensation Ryo Ishikawa and British Open winner Darren Clarke give interview on the eve of the Thailand Golf Championship due from Dec 15-18 at the Amata Spring Country Club

published: 14 Dec 2011
views: 279

author:
TheNationDigital















1:08



Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan
In humanitarian news, Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan. Afghan's Minister of...


published: 17 May 2011
author: NoteworthyNews


Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan


				
					In humanitarian news, Afghanistan donates US$1 million to help Japan. Afghan's Minister of Finance His Excellency Omar Zakhilwal and other senior Afghan government officials gave the contribution to Japan's Ambassador to Afghanistan Reiichiro Takahashi. A spokesperson for His Excellency expressed Afghanistan's appreciation for Japan's assistance in the reconstruction process in Afghanistan. His Excellency's spokesperson further stated that now Afghanistan would like to help in the rebuilding of Japanese communities affected by the devastating earthquake and tsunami. Of the total amount, US$200000 is being given by Kabul city, and US$50000 is being gifted from the city of Kandahar. Our heartfelt gratitude, Afghanistan, for your care and generous donation to brethren in time of need. With the grace of the Providence and global support, Japan, may you recover and rebuild your beautiful nation to flourish evermore.

published: 17 May 2011
views: 285

author:
NoteworthyNews











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25. Caleb Moore was attempting a backflip when his snowmobile caught the edge of a landing area, sending him over the handlebars. The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



By Alexander Dziadosz and Oliver Holmes. BEIRUT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - At least 65 people were found shot dead with their hands bound in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Tuesday in a "new massacre" in the near two-year revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, activists said. Opposition campaigners blamed the government but it was impossible to confirm who was responsible ... Send us a tip Send us a photo or video Suggest a correction ... ....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime ... It appears that they may be increasing that involvement and that is a matter of concern to us." ... About Us Advertise with Us Creative Commons Work for us Transparency Unit AJ Studies Center AJ Balkans Community Rules Terms & Conditions....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



MEXICO CITY — Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 25 people and injured 101 at the headquarters of Mexico’s state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos ... Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... My son.” ... ....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed ... US officials say they are tracking Syria's chemical weapons and that they still appear to be solidly under regime control ... For Zee News’s Updates, follow us on Twitter , Facebook, Google+, Pinterest. First Published ... ....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














Turkey attack casts pall, as Kerry sworn in

The Star02 Feb 2013

read more



John Kerry was Friday sworn in as America's secretary of state, less than two hours after Hillary Clinton swept out of the State Department on a day marred by yet another attack on a US diplomatic post ... But a pall was cast over the historic events by an attack on the US embassy in Ankara in which a local Turkish security guard was killed....(size: 4.2Kb)
	    



DelDOT Crews Clear Away Latest Snowfall (State of Delaware)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source ... For more information about DelDOT, please visit www.deldot.gov, check out www.facebook.com/delawaredot, follow us on www.twitter.com/delawaredot, or download the DelDOT mobile app at Google Play ... dotpr@state.de.us. distributed by. This noodl was issued by State of Delaware and was initially posted at www.state.de.us....(size: 2.1Kb)
	    



LIPA outages after high winds down to 590

Newsday02 Feb 2013

read more



Galleries. Web links ... The outages peaked at about 30,000 customers Thursday morning after the region was hit by storm winds gusting at more than 60 mph. The disruptions left thousands of homes and businesses... Join us on Facebook Join us on Twitter Sign up for news alerts Sign up for ... . . . .  ... Hide Toolbar Follow us Submit Photo News Video Event ... ....(size: 7.7Kb)
	    



Man charged with setting fire in Water Mill

Newsday02 Feb 2013

read more



A man has been charged with setting a fire last year under his bed and locking up his roommate in the burning room, Southampton Town police said Friday ... Already. registered?. Log in. Already a ... Register ... Join us on Facebook Join us on Twitter Sign up for news alerts Sign up for ... . . . .  ... Hide Toolbar Follow us Submit Photo News Video Event ... ....(size: 7.1Kb)
	    



Police Get Tasers (Cayman Islands Government)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source. Cayman Islands Government) Police Get Tasers ... Join us to see RCIPS officers practise using the Taser gun, the newest weapon in their arsenal ... Go behind the scenes with us to see how it works and learn about its usefulness in temporarily immobilising a person who is being confronted by the Police ... Join us to see what distinguishes this initiative from other competitions ... www.gis.ky ... distributed by ... (noodl. 17412519) ....(size: 2.8Kb)
	    



Canaccord Genuity Reiterates Buy Recommendation for Goldgroup Mining - Video Overview Posted on www.InvestmentPitch.com

Stockhouse02 Feb 2013

read more



Vancouver, British Columbia--(Newsfile Corp. - February 1, 2013) - Junior gold producer, Goldgroup Mining (TSX. GGA) (OTC ... Goldgroup will be making an initial payment of US$4.5 million, a US$1 million private placement, and additional payments of US$13.5 million from future production ... Oroco Resource Corp will pay Goldgroup Mining a break fee of US$500,000 if the transaction is not completed by June 30, 2013 ... CONTACT.. InvestmentPitch.com....(size: 3.5Kb)
	    



New Orleans: A tale of 2 cities since Katrina

US News02 Feb 2013

read more



By PAUL NEWBERRY, Associated Press. NEW ORLEANS (AP) — In many ways, New Orleans has come back stronger than ever since Hurricane Katrina. The restaurant scene is thriving. The hotels are packed. The Superdome has received a glamorous makeover ... Tags ... News. Like Us On Facebook ... U.S ... Home Opinion Washington Whispers STEM Debate Club RSS Employment Opportunities Contact Us Site Map Privacy Policy Masthead Advertise With Us Subscribe Store....(size: 5.9Kb)
	    



Georgia Department of Labor to assist workers laid-off because of Adairsville storm (State of Georgia)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source. State of Georgia) Georgia Department of Labor to assist workers laid-off because of Adairsville storm. Release Date. February 1, 2013 ... The temporary center will be open Wednesday, Feb. 6, from 9 a.m-12 noon and 1-3 p.m ... Connect with us on Facebook, Youtube and Twitter, which can be conveniently accessed at www.dol.state.ga.us ... This noodl was issued by Georgia Department of Labor and was initially posted at www.dol.state.ga.us....(size: 2.9Kb)
	    



Wane pleased after dominant show

Sporting Life02 Feb 2013

read more



Wigan coach Shaun Wane was highly satisfied with his side's efforts as they opened their Super League campaign with a routine 42-0 win at Salford ... He said. "I heard all those comments about us but I know we can play. "That wasn't a complete performance - too many penalties and a little loose in contact ... "It blew the cobwebs out ... He said ... "In that side were three bodies who haven't really trained with us ... That let us down tonight." ... ....(size: 2.5Kb)
	    



Scott Brown won't seek Kerry's Senate seat

Newsday02 Feb 2013

read more



-- Former Sen. Scott Brown said yesterday he would not run in a special senate election in , dealing a setback to hopes of winning the seat being vacated by new Secretary of State ... officials widely considered Brown the strongest possible candidate in a state that traditionally favors  ... and former Lt. Gov. U.S ... Join us on Facebook Join us on Twitter Sign up for news alerts Sign up for ...  ... Hide Toolbar Follow us Submit Photo News Video Event....(size: 6.8Kb)
	    



Mississippi university could get first black chief

Houston Chronicle02 Feb 2013

read more



He's about literally taking us to the top," Student Government Association President Jazmyne Butler said, echoing the school's battle cry of "Southern Miss to the top." ... Detroit, Toyota see big US sales gains in January ... US job market looks surprisingly strong ... Advertise With Us ... About Us. About the Houston Chronicle Executive Team Careers Community Legal Notices Contests Ad Choices Corporate Home Contact Us....(size: 17.4Kb)
	    



UD assistant Carr named to U.S. women's national lacrosse team (University of Delaware)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



Women's National Team that is set to compete in the 2013 Federation of International Lacrosse (FIL) World Cup, US Lacrosse announced earlier this week ... 25-27 Champion Challenge, a US Lacrosse event in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., where it compiled a 3-0 record against Northwestern University, Syracuse University and the English women's national team....(size: 4.9Kb)
	    



'Searching for Zion,' by Emily Raboteau

San Francisco Chronicle02 Feb 2013

read more



Yes, she is phenotypically racially ambiguous, but inside, she assures us, her racial identity is secure ... While the place one most naturally belongs is where one loves, the world surrounding us, with all its categories and divisions, can alienate the deepest loves we experience....(size: 5.4Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

















"US-1" redirects here. For the Japanese US-1 flying boat, see Shin Meiwa US-1A.




U.S. Route 1





Route information


Length:
2,377 mi[1] (3,825 km)


Existed:
1926 – present


Major junctions


South end:
Whitehead Street / Fleming Street in Key West, Florida


 
 US 41 in Miami
 I-10 in Jacksonville
 I-26 in Columbia, S.C.
 I-40 in Raleigh, N.C.
 I-64 in Richmond, Va.
 US 50 in Washington, D.C.
 US 40 in Baltimore
 I-76 in Philadelphia
 I-87 in New York City
 I-90 in Boston


North end:
 NB 161 in Clair, New Brunswick, Canada


Highway system



United States Numbered Highways
List •  Bannered •  Divided •  Replaced



U.S. Route 1 is a major north–south U.S. Highway that serves the East Coast of the United States. It runs 2,377 miles (3,825 km), from Fort Kent, Maine, at the Canadian border, south to Key West, Florida. U.S. 1 generally parallels Interstate 95, though it is significantly farther west (inland) between Jacksonville, Florida, and Petersburg, Virginia. The highway connects most of the major cities of the east coast, including Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, and Jacksonville, in Florida; Augusta, Georgia; Columbia, South Carolina; Raleigh, North Carolina; Richmond, Virginia; Washington, D.C.; Baltimore, Maryland; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Trenton, New Brunswick, and Newark, in New Jersey; New York, New York; New Haven and New London, in Connecticut; Providence, Rhode Island; Boston, Massachusetts; Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and Portland, Maine.
U.S. 1 is the easternmost of the main north–south U.S. Highways, all of which have numbers ending with the digit one; but there are areas where it is not the easternmost route of the system, with large part of Routes 9, 13, 17, and 301 occupying corridors closer to the ocean. When the road system was laid out in the 1920s, U.S. 1 was mostly assigned to the existing Atlantic Highway, which followed the Fall Line between the Piedmont and the Atlantic Coastal Plain north of Augusta.[clarification needed][2] At the time, the highways farther east were of lower quality and did not serve the major population centers.[3]




Contents


1 Route description

1.1 Florida
1.2 Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina
1.3 Virginia, Washington D.C., and Maryland
1.4 Pennsylvania
1.5 New Jersey and New York
1.6 Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts
1.7 New Hampshire and Maine


2 History
3 Related state highways
4 See also
5 References
6 External links




Route description[link]
Florida[link]

File:South end of US 1 2012.jpg
Mile zero in Key West


Main article: U.S. Route 1 in Florida
U.S. 1 travels along the east coast of Florida, beginning at 490 Whitehead St. in Key West [4] and passing through Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Fort Pierce, Melbourne, Titusville, Daytona Beach, Palm Coast, St. Augustine, and Jacksonville. The southernmost piece through the Florida Keys, about 100 miles (150 km) long, is the two-lane Overseas Highway, originally built in the 1930s after the Florida East Coast Railway's Overseas Railroad was ruined by the Labor Day Hurricane of 1935. The rest of U.S. 1 in Florida is generally a four-lane divided highway, despite the existence of the newer I-95 not far away. State Road A1A is a continuous beachfront alternate to U.S. 1, cut only by assorted unbridged inlets and the Kennedy Space Center. North of Jacksonville, U.S. 1 turns northwest in order to reach the Fall Line at Augusta, Georgia; US 17 becomes the coastal route into Virginia, where US 13 takes over.[5] In Florida until the 1990s, U.S. 1 used high-contrast markers (white text on a red background).[6]
Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina[link]
Main articles: U.S. Route 1 in Georgia, U.S. Route 1 in South Carolina, and U.S. Route 1 in North Carolina
The part of U.S. 1 in Georgia, as it shifts from the coastal alignment in Florida to the Fall Line alignment in South Carolina, is generally very rural, passing through marshes and former plantations between the towns and cities of Folkston, Waycross, Baxley, Lyons, Swainsboro, and Augusta. The Georgia Department of Transportation has long-range plans to widen all of US 1 to four lanes with bypasses. Currently, the highway is primarily a two-lane road with progress made in southern Georgia, around Lyons and from Augusta to Wrens. Into South Carolina, U.S. 1 is paralleled by Interstate 20 along the Fall Line through Aiken, Lexington, and Columbia to Camden and Lugoff. US 1 functions as a local two-lane road with occasional boulevard stretches. After Camden, U.S. 1 continues northeast away from any Interstate towards Bethune, Patrick, McBee and Cheraw with no bypasses and four lane sections except around Cheraw through the US 52 and SC 9 multiplexes. After SC 9, it continues northward into North Carolina as a two-lane highway. SCDOT has no plans to widen or bypass any US 1 alignments northeast of Camden to the N.C. line. Between the S.C. line and the US 74 bypass is a two lane road but sees a considerable amount of truck and tourist traffic of people cutting through from the I-73/74 corridor attempting to reach points south and east. Through Rockingham, it goes through downtown with a bypass in the future plans. North of the NC 177 juncture, it becomes 4 lanes or greater. After Richmond County, it goes into Moore County with two Expressway bypasses in Southern Pines, Vass and Cameron. U.S. 1 continues through Sanford, and on to Cary and Raleigh. US 1 runs concurrently with US 64 through most of Cary and the freeway recently underwent a major renovation and improvements that added lanes in both directions.[7] North of Raleigh, U.S. 1 (known as Capital Boulevard in northern Wake County) crosses Interstate 540 and then again becomes a four-lane divided arterial to Interstate 85 near Henderson. The North Carolina Department of Transportation has begun a corridor study for section of US 1.[8] Moreover, NCDOT is planning to finish four laning US 1 in Richmond County past NC 177 with a Rockingham bypass to the east. There are no plans from SCDOT to widen US 1 from the state line. From Henderson into Virginia, U.S. 1 runs parallel with I-85 as a two-lane local road until the state line where Virginia hosts a continuous third center lane for alternate passing towards US Highway 58 before South Hill.
Virginia, Washington D.C., and Maryland[link]




The 14th Street Bridge


Main articles: U.S. Route 1 in Virginia, U.S. Route 1 in the District of Columbia, and U.S. Route 1 in Maryland
Through Virginia, U.S. 1 is paralleled by Interstates: the remainder of Interstate 85 to Petersburg, Interstate 95 through Richmond and Fredericksburg to Alexandria, and Interstate 395 into Arlington. Within Virginia, U.S. 1 is called Jefferson Davis Highway by state law, although most of the Fairfax County portion, except Lorton,[9] is better known as Richmond Highway. U.S. 1 crosses the Potomac River with I-395 on the 14th Street Bridges, and splits to follow mainly 14th Street and Rhode Island Avenue through the District of Columbia. US 1 is at the minimum a 3 lane (with alternate passing) from the N.C. line to Petersburg with occasional four lane divided sections. North of Petersburg is a four lane undivided roadway at the minimum to the D.C. line. After exiting the District into Maryland, U.S. 1 follows the Baltimore-Washington Boulevard, the first of several modern highways built along the Baltimore-Washington corridor; I-95 is the newest, after the Baltimore-Washington Parkway. The route bypasses downtown Baltimore on North Avenue and exits the city to the northeast on Belair Road, gradually leaving the I-95 corridor, which passes through Wilmington, Delaware, for a straighter path towards Philadelphia. Around and beyond Bel Air, U.S. 1 is a two-lane road, crossing the Susquehanna River over the top of the Conowingo Dam before entering Pennsylvania. (U.S. 1 bypasses Delaware, unlike I-95.)[5]
Pennsylvania[link]




Roosevelt Boulevard


Main article: U.S. Route 1 in Pennsylvania
The two-lane US 1 becomes a four-lane freeway, officially known as the John H. Ware III Memorial Highway, just after crossing into Pennsylvania. This bypass extends around Oxford and Kennett Square, merging into the four-lane divided Baltimore Pike just beyond the latter. At Media, US 1 again becomes a freeway — the Media Bypass — ending just beyond Interstate 476. After several name changes, the road becomes City Avenue, the western city limit of Philadelphia, at the end of which a short overlap with the Schuylkill Expressway (I-76) leads to the Roosevelt Expressway and then the twelve-lane Roosevelt Boulevard. US 1 again becomes a freeway after leaving the city, bypassing Penndel and Morrisville and crossing the Delaware River into New Jersey on the Trenton-Morrisville Toll Bridge.[5]
New Jersey and New York[link]




The Pulaski Skyway


Main articles: U.S. Route 1 in New Jersey and U.S. Route 1 in New York
After crossing into New Jersey in Mercer County, US 1 continues on the Trenton Freeway through the city of Trenton and Lawrence as a four lane freeway. As the freeway ends, the four lane divided highway upgrades to six lanes after I-95/I-295 passing through the Penns Neck section of West Windsor Township. Through Penns Neck is a series of traffic signals. NJDOT is looking to revamp the highway through this area by removing traffic signals with grade separations. The highway enters Middlesex County through Plainsboro and South Brunswick. By Forrestal Village, the highway downgrades from 6 to 4 lanes until after Finnegans Lane in North Brunswick. Northward, it continues through New Brunswick as a short jersey-freeway until the CR 529/Plainfield Avenue traffic signal in Edison. Through Edison and Woodbridge has a mix of boulevard and jersey freeway segments and continues to do so after the US 9 juncture in the Avenel section of Woodbridge. US 1/9 concurrency continues through the rest of the state. The six lane divided highway remains through Rahway in Union County and Elizabeth, until it reaches the Newark Airport, where it becomes a dual carriageway freeway around downtown Newark in Essex County with a 2-2-2-2 configuration. The historic Pulaski Skyway takes US 1/9 into Jersey City, and the route exits the freeway at Tonnele Circle to head north into Bergen County. US 1/9 turns onto US 46 as a jersey-freeway, the three routes run northeast to the George Washington Bridge Plaza, where they merge into I-95. US 46 ends in the middle of the bridge, which crosses the Hudson River into New York, and US 9 exits just beyond onto Broadway in Manhattan, but US 1 stays with I-95 onto the Cross-Bronx Expressway, exiting in the Bronx onto Webster Avenue. Two turns take US 1 via Fordham Road to Boston Road, which it follows northeast out of the city to the state line, never straying far from I-95.[5] As it enters Greenwich, Connecticut, it continues as a two lane local road.
Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts[link]
Main articles: U.S. Route 1 in Connecticut, U.S. Route 1 in Rhode Island, and U.S. Route 1 in Massachusetts
U.S. 1 serves the shore of the Long Island Sound in Connecticut, parallel to I-95. Beyond New Haven, the highway travels east–west, and some signs in the state indicate this rather than the standard north–south. While I-95 in Rhode Island takes a diagonal path to Providence, U.S. 1 continues east along the coast through Westerly to Wakefield, where it turns north and follows Narragansett Bay. Most of this part is a four-lane divided highway, providing access to Route 138 towards Newport. After Route 4 splits as a mostly-freeway connection to I-95, U.S. 1 becomes a lower-speed surface road, passing through Warwick, Providence, and Pawtucket. The route parallels I-95 again through Providence and Pawtucket and into Massachusetts, traveling towards Boston as a four-lane road. When it reaches Dedham, U.S. 1 turns east, overlapping Route 128 and I-93 east to Braintree and north through Downtown Boston. The Tobin Bridge and Northeast Expressway take US 1 out of Boston, after which it again parallels I-95 through Newburyport to the New Hampshire state line.[5]
New Hampshire and Maine[link]




Memorial Bridge between New Hampshire and Maine






The monument marking the northern terminus in Fort Kent, ME



File:Start US Highway 1.jpg
Monument in Fort Kent dedicated to US Highway 1


Main articles: U.S. Route 1 in New Hampshire and U.S. Route 1 in Maine
The short portion of US 1 in New Hampshire follows the historic Lafayette Road, staying close to I-95, before leaving the city of Portsmouth on the Memorial Bridge over the Piscataqua River. Within Maine, US 1 begins as a parallel route to I-95 near the Atlantic Ocean. At Portland, I-95 splits off to the north, and I-295 heads northeast paralleling US 1 to Brunswick. There US 1 turns east as a mostly two-lane road along the coast to Calais; much of this portion is advertised as the "Coastal Route" on signs. North from Calais, US 1 follows the Canadian border, crossing I-95 in Houlton and eventually turning west and southwest to its "north" end at the Clair-Fort Kent Bridge in Fort Kent. The short Route 161 extends north on the New Brunswick (Canada) side of the bridge to Route 120, a secondary east–west route from Edmundston, New Brunswick west to Saint-Alexandre, Quebec.[5]
History[link]
For more details, see the state-specific articles linked in the route description above.




Marker used for Route 1 in New England (1922)


The direct predecessor to US 1 was the Atlantic Highway, an auto trail established in 1911 as the Quebec-Miami International Highway. In 1915 it was renamed the Atlantic Highway,[10] and the northern terminus was changed to Calais, Maine.[11] Due to the overlapping of auto trail designations, portions of the route had other names that remain in common use, such as the Boston Post Road between Boston and New York, the Lincoln Highway between New York and Philadelphia, Baltimore Pike between Philadelphia and Baltimore, and the Dixie Highway in and south of eastern Georgia. North of Augusta, Georgia, the highway generally followed the Eastern U.S. Fall Line, rather than a more easterly route through the swamps of the Atlantic Coastal Plain.[12] Brickell Avenue is the name given to the stretch of U.S. Route 1 in Miami, Florida just south of the Miami River.
When the New England road marking system was established in 1922, the Atlantic Highway within New England was signed as Route 1, with a Route 24 continuing north to Madawaska;[13] New York extended the number to New York City in 1924 with its own Route 1.[14] Other states adopted their own systems of numbering, and by 1926 all states but Maryland had signed the Atlantic Highway as various routes, usually changing numbers at the state line. In 1925, the Joint Board on Interstate Highways created a preliminary list of interstate routes to be marked by the states,[15] including Route 1 along the Atlantic. This highway began at Fort Kent, Maine and followed the existing Route 24 to Houlton and Route 15 to Bangor, beyond which it generally followed the Atlantic Highway to Miami.[16] In all states but Georgia that had numbered their state highways, Route 1 followed only one or two numbers across the state.[17] The only significant deviation from the Atlantic Highway was between Augusta, Georgia and Jacksonville, Florida, where Route 1 was assigned to a more inland route, rather than following the Atlantic Highway via Savannah.[3]
One of the many changes made to the system before the final numbering was adopted in 1926 involved US 1 in Maine. The 1925 plan had assigned Route 1 to the shorter inland route (Route 15) between Houlton and Bangor, while Route 2 followed the longer coastal route via Calais. In the system as adopted in 1926, US 2 instead took the inland route, while US 1 followed the coast, absorbing all of the former Routes 24 and 1 in New England.[18][19] Many local and regional relocations, often onto parallel superhighways, were made in the early days of US 1; this included the four-lane divided Route 25 in New Jersey, completed in 1932 with the opening of the Pulaski Skyway,[20] and a bypass of Bangor involving the Waldo-Hancock Bridge, opened in 1931.[21] The Overseas Highway from Miami to Key West was completed in 1938, and soon became a southern extension of US 1.[22]
With the construction of the Interstate Highway System in and after the 1950s, much of US 1 from Houlton to Miami was bypassed by Interstate 95. Between Houlton and Brunswick, Maine, I-95 took a shorter inland route, much of it paralleling US 2 on the alignment proposed for US 1 in 1925. Between Philadelphia and Baltimore, I-95 leaves US 1 to pass through Wilmington. Most notably, I-95 and US 1 follow different corridors between Petersburg, Virginia and Jacksonville, Florida; while US 1 followed the Fall Line west of the coastal plain, I-95 takes a more direct route through the plain and its swamps. Although some of this part of US 1 was followed by other Interstates - I-85 between Petersburg and Henderson, North Carolina, and I-20 between Camden, South Carolina and Augusta, Georgia - the rest remains an independent route that has been four-laned in many places. By the late 1970s, most of I-95 had been completed, replacing US 1 as the main corridor of the east coast and relegating most of it to local road status.[23]
Related state highways[link]

Florida State Road A1A
Massachusetts Route 1A
New York State Route 1A

See also[link]

U.S. Route 1A
Bannered routes of U.S. Route 1

References[link]


^ American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, United States Numbered Highways, 1989 Edition
^ E. W. James on designating the Federal-aid system and developing the U.S. numbered highway plan
^ a b Rand McNally Auto Road Atlas, 1926, accessed via the Broer Map Library
^ 490 Whitehead St, Key West, FL 33040 - Google Maps
^ a b c d e f Google Maps street maps and USGS topographic maps, accessed via ACME Mapper
^ John Gordon, The Virginian-Pilot, U.S. Highway 17 to Florida: Scenic, Historic and Very Slow, December 29, 1993: "Drivers know they're in Florida when they notice the U.S. Highway signs are color-coded for easy recognition. The U.S. 17 signs, for example, are yellow, while those of U.S. 1 are red, U.S. 90 blue. and U.S. 27 green."
^ http://www.townofcary.org/Departments/Engineering/Engineering_Projects/US_1_64_Widening.htm
^ http://www.ncdot.org/projects/US1corridor/
^ [1]
^ William Kaszynski, The American Highway: The History and Culture of Roads in the United States, 2000, p. 38
^ Decatur Daily Review, Many Auto Highways Gridiron the Nation, November 14, 1915
^ Clason Map Company, Midget Map of the Transcontinental Trails of the United States, 1923
^ New York Times, Motor Sign Uniformity, April 16, 1922, p. 98
^ New York Times, New York's Main Highways Designated by Numbers, December 21, 1924, p. XX9
^ Richard F. Weingroff, From Names to Numbers: The Origins of the U.S. Numbered Highway System
^ Report of Joint Board on Interstate Highways, October 30, 1925, Approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, November 18, 1925
^ The following routes were used, shown on the 1926 Rand McNally:

Florida: 4
Georgia: 15, 17, and 24
South Carolina: 12 and 50
North Carolina: 50
Virginia: 31
Maryland: state highways were not numbered prior to the U.S. Highway system
Pennsylvania: 12 and 1
New Jersey: 13 and 1
New York: 1
New England: 1 and 24, and a small piece of 160 beyond Madawaska, Maine (in the 1925 plan, part of 15 was also used)


^ United States System of Highways, November 11, 1926
^ United States Numbered Highways, American Highways (AASHO), April 1927
^ Hart, Steven (2007). The Last Three Miles: Politics, Murder, and the Construction of America's First Superhighway. The New Press. pp. 1–5. ISBN 978-1-59558-098-6. 
^ Maine Department of Transportation, Waldo-Hancock Bridge[dead link], accessed October 2007
^ State Road Department of Florida, Official State Road Map of Florida, 1941
^ Gulf, Tourgide: United States, Canada and Mexico (Rand McNally & Company), 1977


External links[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: U.S. Route 1



End of U.S. Highway 1









v
t
e


U.S. Routes related to US 1












US 1A
US 201
US 301
US 401
US 501
US 601
US 701
Bannered



















v
t
e


 United States Numbered Highways









1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
87
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
101
163
400
412
425











All
Bannered
Divided
Bypasses









Routes in italics are no longer a part of the system. Highlighted routes are considered main routes of the system.








Browse numbered routes


←  Route 32A
N.E.
Route 1A  →



http://wn.com/U.S._Route_1
Related pages:
http://fr.wn.com/U.S. Route 1
http://pt.wn.com/U.S. Route 1
http://ru.wn.com/1-я магистраль США
http://de.wn.com/U.S. Highway 1
http://it.wn.com/U.S. Route 1
http://nl.wn.com/U.S. Route 1
http://id.wn.com/U.S. Route 1
http://es.wn.com/U.S. Route 1


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Route_1
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all


















go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























