CTV News | World News - Latest International News Headlines












Skip to Main Content








CTVNews.ca


Mobile


CTV.ca










Hot Topics Marijuana ban
Senate reform
PlayStation






Search CTV News




 









                                  NEWS
                                






                                  VIDEO
                                






                                  LOCAL NEWS
                                






                                  NEWS PROGRAMS
                                






                                  MYNEWS
                                






                                  CONNECT
                                






                                  ABOUT
                                










Sections 


CTV News


Canada


World


Politics









Entertainment


Sci-Tech


Health


Autos









Business


Sports


Weather







Blogs 


Healthblog


Finance: Pattie's Blog


Politics: Don Martin







Browse 


Photo Galleries






 








Sections 


Latest News


Lifestyle


Entertainment


Health









Captured on Camera


MyNews


AM Contributors


Technology







Shows 


CTV National News


W5


CTV QP


Power Play









Pattie Lovett-Reid


Dr. Marla & Friends







Subscribe 


News Channel Livestream






 








CTV 


Atlantic


British Columbia


Calgary


Edmonton









Kitchener


Montreal


Northern Ontario


Ottawa









Regina


Saskatoon


Toronto


Winnipeg







CTV Two 


Alberta


Atlantic


Barrie


London









Ottawa


Vancouver Island


Windsor






 








News Programs 


Canada AM


CTV National News


CTV's Question Period


W5







CTV News Channel 


CTV News Channel


Dr. Marla & Friends


Power Play


Pattie Lovett-Reid Show









Morning Express


Afternoon Express


Direct


Evening Direct









Schedule






 








Sections 


Home


Most Popular


Highest Rated


Archive







Local Stations 


Atlantic


British Columbia


Calgary


Edmonton









Kitchener


Montreal


Northern Ontario


Ottawa









Saskatchewan


Toronto


Winnipeg






 








Follow CTV News 


Facebook


Twitter


Google +


Pinterest







Contact 


Contact CTV News







Subscribe 


RSS Feeds


Breaking news alerts


Newsletters


Watch CTV News Live






 








SECTIONS 


About Bell Media


CTV News Mobile


Contest


CTV News Stox









CTV Schedule







BIOS 


CTV National News Team


CTVNews.ca Team


CTV News Channel


Canada AM Bios











 


















Share:









 


 

Text:

 
 
 
 


(27)





                         CTVNews.ca Staff
            
            

              Published Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013 7:04AM EST
            


                Last Updated Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013 11:08PM EST
              



	A Brazilian nightclub was crammed with 1,000 people above its capacity before a fire tore through the building, killing at least 233, according to a report.

	Fire official Guido Pedroso Melo told CNN the club likely had double its legal amount of patrons.

	"When I arrived, we analyzed the preliminary scene and saw that there was a 1,000 maximum capacity but we understood there were about 2,000 there," he said.

	Witnesses at the Kiss club, located in the southern city of Santa Maria, said that a flare or fireworks used by the band might have started the blaze.

	Survivor Michele Pereira told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was close to the stage when the fire broke out.

	"The band that was on stage began to use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward. At that point the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak but in a matter of seconds it spread," she said.

	Television images from the scene showed frantic rescuers pounding the club walls with sledgehammers in an attempt to reach those still inside, as black smoke filled the air.

	De Melo told a local newspaper that firefighters had difficulty getting inside the club because “there was a barrier of bodies flocking the entrance.”

	Police spokesperson Sandro Meinerz told media that the fire started Sunday morning. Along with the dead, at least 100 people were injured.

	Earlier on Sunday, Maj. Cleberson Braida Bastianello said 245 people had died in the blaze. He later corrected the toll to 233, saying that the count was lowered after bodies were brought to a gymnasium for identification and the death of one victim who had been brought to hospital.

	Rodrigo Martins, a guitarist with the band, said the fire broke out after they had played about five songs.

	"It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it,” Martins told Radio Gaucha.

	"When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working.”

	Martins confirmed that the band’s 28-year-old accordion player, Danilo Jacques, died in the fire, while the other five members survived.

	Brazilian President Dilma Roussef left a summit of Latin American countries in Chile to fly to Santa Maria to visit victims.

	“It’s a tragedy for all of us,” Roussef said.

	The city’s mayor, Cezar Schirmer, has decreed a 30-day mourning period and governor Tarso Genro was scheduled to arrive in the city.

	Officials are investigating the cause of the fire and are working to determine the total number of victims, police and regional government spokesman Marcelo Arigoni told Radio Gaucha.

	Diario de Santa Maria – a local newspaper – said the fire broke out around 2 a.m. local time.

	Club security guard Rodrigo Moura said the club was at full capacity with between 1,000 and 2,000 people inside at the time. He said the patrons were pushing and shoving to escape.

	However, a local doctor who treated many of the survivors was told the club was filled far past its capacity. Survivors told Dr. Paulo Afonso Beltrame that the club was hosting a party for university students from the department of agronomy.

	Beltrame said most of the dead suffocated.

	“Large amounts of toxic smoke quickly filled the room and I would say that at least 90 per cent of the victims died of asphyxiation," Beltrame told AP by telephone.

	"The toxic smoke made people lose their sense of direction so they were unable to find their way to the exit. At least 50 bodies were found inside a bathroom. Apparently they confused the bathroom door with the exit door."

Time correspondent Andrew Downie told CTV News Channel on Sunday that initially clubgoers were prevented from leaving by guards.

	“In Brazil what normally happens is that when you’re in a club or a bar, you pay your bill at the end,” he said, adding that club security thought the patrons were trying to leave without paying.

	“Once they learned it was a true fire, once they could see the smoke, they did open the doors. But it did seem to be a problem at the start.”

	Downie also said local media reports indicated that the club’s fire certificate expired in August 2012.

	“There are some irregularities at the club that need to be checked out in this case,” he said.

	The fire occurred during one of the last summer weekends in Brazil, as students prepared to return to school, CNN’s Shasta Darlington told CTV News Channel.

	“It’s just a shock. I mean nobody expected this. These are the summer months,” Darlington said.

	Santa Maria is a major university city with a population of around 250,000.

	The fire is one of the deadliest nightclub fires in more than a decade.

	In 2000, a nightclub fire in Luoyang, China claimed the lives of 309 patrons. In 2004, at least 194 people died at an overcrowded nightclub in Buenos Aires, Argentina after a fire broke out.

With files from the Associated Press




Photos




 


Relatives cry next to a coffin at a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil on Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Nabor Goulart)




 


Brazil's soldiers carry the remains of a victim outside a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil on Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Nabor Goulart)




 


Relatives of victims react as they wait for news in fron of the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria city, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (Ronald Mendes, Agencia RBS)




 


Relatives of victims react near the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Ronald Mendes-Agencia RBS)




 


People help an injured man, victim of a fire in a club in Santa Maria city, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Agencia RBS)




 


Firefighters work to douse a fire at the Kiss Club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Agencia RBS)




 


A firefighter carries a man to safety following a nightclub fire in Santa Maria, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (Agencia RBS)





Share this story:









 


















Write your comment here :



Enter your name : 
          


Enter your email : 
          

*Will not be shown on the website

Word verification 
Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.





 




        We welcome your comments. Bell Media reviews every comment submitted, and reserves the right to approve comments and edit for brevity and clarity. Please be advised:
        
        Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.
        
        Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.
    
Guidelines

Preference is given to commenters who use real names.
Stay on topic and be concise.
Stimulate debate.
Offer new information.

What not to do:

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks. 
We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading. 
We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed. 
If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.
We will not publish comments that link to outside websites. 


    Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
    


























Amnesty International: halt evictions for people living in Haiti camps





      Amnesty International is calling on Haiti to stop the eviction of people still living in the impromptu settlements that surfaced after the 2010 earthquake.
          




















1 killed in mayhem outside Egypt palace 




            Protesters denouncing Egypt's Islamist president hurled stones and firebombs through the gates of his palace gates on Friday, clashing with security forces who fired tear gas and water cannons, as more than a week of political violence came to Mohammed Morsi's symbolic doorstep for the first time.
 

1
  
















Syrian opposition leader says he's ready for talks with Assad regime




            Syria's top opposition leader said Friday that he was willing to sit down for talks with President Bashar Assad's government to "ease the pain of the Syrian people," but emphasized that his goal is to "overthrow the regime by peaceful means."
     














Mali jihadists say they've been tortured by military in custody




            Three suspected jihadists arrested in the days since the liberation of Timbuktu said Friday that Malian soldiers were torturing them with a method similar to waterboarding.
 

2
  
















Suicide bombing kills Turkish guard at U.S. Embassy




            In the second deadly assault on a U.S. diplomatic post in five months, a suicide bomber struck the American Embassy in Ankara on Friday, killing a Turkish security guard in what the White House described as a terrorist attack. 

3
  
















Dozens of Harvard students disciplined in cheating inquiry 




            Harvard University has doled out academic sanctions to dozens of students after a cheating probe connected to an open-book, take-home final exam.     














Armenian presidential candidate shot




            The shooting of a presidential candidate threw Armenia's election into disarray Friday, with the wounded victim saying he will call for a delay of the vote.
     














India's Cabinet recommends president adopt tough laws for rape




            India's Cabinet accepted most of the recommendations of a commission for toughening laws for crimes against women, including increasing the penalty for rape.
     














Russian judge fired after falling asleep in court 




             A Russian judge has been fired after he caught 40 winks in court and then sentenced an outraged defendant to five years in prison.     














German customs finds $70M check in Iranian man's hand luggage




            An Iranian man faces a hefty fine after trying to enter Germany with a check worth about $70 million in his hand luggage. 

4
  
















Clinton's last day includes resignation letter and farewell to her staff




            Hillary Rodham Clinton formally resigned Friday as the 67th U.S. secretary of state, capping a four-year tenure in the office that saw her shatter previous records for the number of countries visited. 

5
  
















Fireworks cause deadly highway collapse in China




            A truckload of fireworks intended for Lunar New Year celebrations went off Friday in a massive, deadly explosion that destroyed part of an elevated highway in central China, sending vehicles plummeting 30 metres to the ground. 

1
  
















Death toll rises in aftermath of Mexico oil company headquarters blast




            Rescuers searched for survivors Friday and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 32 people and injured 121 at the headquarters of Mexico's state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos. 

3
  





























 


  
100 Photos: Events that shook the world in 2012





      CTVNews.ca looks at some of the most remarkable, controversial, tragic and iconic images from around the world in 2012.
          









FEATURED 





 




  
Highway Horror




IN PICTURES
            Mass Detroit freeway crash involving dozens of vehicles leaves 3 dead.
     








 




  
WATCH:Jordan-Syria border




            Martin Seemungal reports about the Syrian refugees fleeing to Jordan     








 




  
Celebrating Obama




IN PICTURES
            Thousands celebrate Obama's swearing-in     








 




  
WATCH:Acid attack




            Bolshoi ballet director suffers a vicious acid attack     








 




  
Detroit Auto Show




IN PICTURES
            Hot new rides wow at the Detroit Auto Show.     








 




  
Winter Ritual




IN PICTURES
            Japanese fitness buffs take an icy plunge in a chilly winter tradition     














 TODAY'S QUESTION 
What best describes your shopping habits?






Browse in store, buy online




Bricks and mortar for me




Online as much as possible




Other







View result
View the latest polls







Related Article

Best Buy closing 15 stores, slashing staff in Canada












 CANADA



Pot stays illegal in Canada after Appeal Court upholds medical marijuana laws


Vancouver police probe seemingly random stabbing rampage


Rob Ford exceeded campaign spending by $40,000: audit 







 WORLD



Amnesty International: halt evictions for people living in Haiti camps


1 killed in mayhem outside Egypt palace 


Syrian opposition leader says he's ready for talks with Assad regime







 ENTERTAINMENT



Bollywood star faces homicide charge over 2002 road accident 


Woman who received stolen Paris Hilton jacket sentenced to probation


Alan Cumming's one-man 'Macbeth' poised for Broadway









 HEALTH



Several cold remedies recalled over faulty child-proof caps


Pot stays illegal in Canada after Appeal Court upholds medical marijuana laws


Short bursts vs. gym sweat sessions: Which works best?







 POLITICS



Marois 'very satisfied' after meeting with Harper


Feds seek Supreme Court ruling on Senate reform


Clinton's last day includes resignation letter and farewell to her staff







 SCI-TECH



Mystery revealed of how owls can spin their heads 


Still-unreleased BlackBerry Z10 selling for $1,000+ on eBay


Sony likely to announce next PlayStation on Feb. 20 









 BUSINESS



BCE's The Source to open 20 new outlets as rival Best Buy shuts stores


Best Buy, Sears failing to compete with online market, incoming U.S. chains: Analyst 


Dow closes above 14,000 for first time since Oct. 2007, TSX up too







 SPORTS



NFL Commissioner wants to end use of head in tackling


Gay vows to work hard as new Raptor


David Beckham greeted with enthusiasm in France







 AUTOS



Chrysler posts 38th consecutive month of auto sales growth in January


GM chooses Volkswagen exec to take over troubled European business


Scotiabank predicts near-record year for auto sales in Canada












About CTV


Careers


Bell Media Announcements


Advertise on CTV


Bell Media PR


Privacy Policy


Terms and Conditions


Contact Us


Producer Guidelines






Local News

CTV Atlantic News


CTV British Columbia News


CTV Calgary News


CTV Edmonton News


CTV Kitchener News


CTV Montreal News


CTV Northern Ontario News


CTV Ottawa News


CTV Regina News


CTV Saskatoon News


CTV Toronto News


CTV Winnipeg News





CTV Two

Atlantic


Alberta


Barrie


London


Ottawa


Windsor


Vancouver Island





CTV News Programs

CTV National News


Canada AM


W5


Power Play


CTV Question Period


The Pattie Lovett-Reid Show



Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy© 2013  All rights reserved.Bell Media Television
Back to top
 




   

  





