Brazil nightclub fire: Woman trapped inside Brazil nightclub posts desperate plea for help on Facebook before dying with her sister  | Mail OnlineClick here to print



Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to search



 













News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board




Login








Saturday, Feb 02 2013

12AM 
2°C

3AM
1°C

5-Day Forecast










'Fire at KISS help': Woman trapped inside Brazil nightclub posts desperate plea for help on Facebook before dying with her sister234 people dead and 80 remain in critical condition180 bodies found in toilets as people mistook toilet sign for exitClub owner, the band's lead singer and security guard arrestedLead singer arrested while at funeral of fellow band memberClub's fire certificate reported to have expiredFirefighters couldn't get into club because of a 'barrier of bodies''Like a Holocaust film, bodies piled on top of one another' said policemanArticulated lorry takes six hours and five trips to remove bodies100 victims to be buried today with a funeral every half hourClaims people were stopped from leaving until they had paid bar tabsVideo shows rescuers trying to smash way into club with axes



 
By 
Matt Roper and Sean O'hare


PUBLISHED:

04:24 EST, 28 January 2013


| 

UPDATED:

12:34 EST, 28 January 2013







Comments (96)




 Share




















Michele Cardoso, 20, died in the fire at Brazilian club Kiss after pleading for help on Facebook
A student who died in a blaze which ripped through a Brazilian nightclub posted a message on Facebook pleading for help, it was reported today.Michele Cardoso, 20, was in the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria, southern Brazil, when a fire started which left 234 people dead and 106 injured.The medical student, who also worked part-time in the club's cloakrooms, had been at party 
for local university students with her sister Clarissa and boyfriend 
Joao Paulo. None got out alive.Inspectors believe the blaze began when a
band's small pyrotechnics show ignited foam sound insulating material 
on the ceiling, releasing a putrid haze that caused scores of university
students to choke to death.It comes as police arrested one of the owners of the nightclub, Elissandro Spohr, as well as the lead singer of the band Gurizada Fandangueira which was playing at the time the fire broke out, and the band's security man.An arrest warrant has been issued for the other co-owner of the Kiss nightclub Mauro Hoffman, who is now considered a fugitive of justice.The band's vocalist, Marcelo Santos, was detained this morning while he was attending the wake of his fellow band member who died in the blaze, Danilo Jacques.At 3.20am on Saturday morning, 50 minutes after the fire is reported to have started, Ms Cardoso posted a message on Facebook using her mobile phone which read: 'Fire at KISS help'.
 

More...

Thirty die in riots after Egyptian court sentences 21 to death for football violence which killed 74 fans
Lady Gaga prays for those involved in the Brazil nightclub fire…as it’s revealed one of her Little Monsters lost their life 


Over the following hours alarmed friends left increasingly desperate replies asking if she was alright, but her posts fell silent.After Ms Cardoso was confirmed as among the dead, one friend wrote on her page: 'I never imagined that it was serious when I first saw her asking for help on Facebook in the early hours, until I woke up with a message from my mum telling me what had happened.'Her father Sandro Cardoso took to Facebook yesterday to tell nightclub boss Elissandro 'Kiko' Spohr that he should move away from Santa Maria.SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS... 

Ms Cardoso posted this message on Facebook using her mobile phone which read: 'Fire at KISS help'. It was sent 50 minutes after the fire is reported to have started
 

A Facebook picture of Michele Cardoso and her boyfriend Joăo Paulo Pozzobon (right)
on a night out together on January 5th 2013. Ms Cardoso posted a plea for help on Facebook 50 minutes after the blaze started
   


Michele Cardoso posing in a nightclub picture dated May last year and posted on Facebook


Facebook profile picture of Ms Cardoso's sister Clarissa Lima Teixeira, who also died in the fire
He wrote: 'KIKO you killed my two 
daughters I think it would be a good if you moved from santa maria you 
don't have any idea of my pain this message goes to you and your family 
because the pain I'm feeling is inexplicable (sic)."
Meanwhile it was revealed today that most of the victims of Sunday morning's tragedy had died in the club's bathrooms.Some reports claimed desperate revellers had mistaken the toilet signs for those for the emergency exit.Santa Maria's military police chief Edi Garcia said he had taken more than 180 bodies from inside the toilets.He said: 'The scene was terrible, so said to see. There were so many young people, and the space was very small.   






 
Facebook image of Kiss nightclub co-owner Elissandro 'Kiko' Spohr, (left) who was arrested this morning in connection with Saturday's fire. Police are looking for his business partner Mauro Hoffman (right)


The moment the band Gurizada Fandangueria, famed for their use of on 
stage pyrotechnics, let off a flare which is believed to 
have started the fire at Kiss Club in Santa Maria

 

Gurizada Fandangueira vocalist, Marcelo Santos (fourth from left), was arrested this morning while he was attending the wake of his fellow 
band member Danilo Jacques (third from left)
   

A Facebook picture from September 2012 showing arrested lead singer Marcelo Santos (right), and band member Danilo Jacques (left) who died in Saturday's fire
'I
took more than 180 people from the restrooms. They had run there trying
to escape. The truck which was taking the bodies away had to come back 
five times to be filled up again. The scene was so sad.'Most victims died from smoke inhalation rather than burns in what appeared to be the world's deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade.One of the owners of the club is reported to have confirmed that they were in the process of renewing its licence to operate, and that its fire safety certificate had expired last year.He is said to have received threats on the internet - as have surviving members of Gurizada Fandangueira.Around 100 victims of the fatal nightclub blaze in Santa Maria, southern Brazil, are to be buried today, according to reports.The city's Ecumenical Cemetery opened at 7.30am and will be conducting burials every half an hour, staff confirmed 

Cladimir Callegari, father of Mariana Callegari, one of the 234 victims from the Kiss nightclub blaze cries during her funeral today
  

Relatives and friends of nightclub victim Evelin Lopes attend her funeral
  

Relatives carry a coffin of another of the victims as soldiers dig multiple graves to accommodate up to 100 bodies today
 

Relatives and friends of Tamise Cielo, one of the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire, gather around her coffin during the funeral at Santa Rita cemetery in Santa Maria, today
  

Livia Oliveira, mother of Heitor, one of the victims of the Kiss night club fire, says her final goodbye above the coffin during his funeral this morning
  

Relatives carry a coffin to a burial plot this morning after soldiers 
were drafted in to dig plots. 100 burials are expected today
Soldiers were drafted in to dig graves during yesterday afternoon and last night.The death toll from Sunday's tragedy rose last night to 234 after three people died in hospital during the early hours.Santa Maria's public security minister had last night lowered the official number of fatalities from 232 to 230, claiming that two names had been duplicated.It later emerged that one more body hadn't been identified. 
 

Relatives of victims of the nightclub fire attend a collective wake at Santa Maria's municipal gymnasium where the bodies were taken yesterday
  

A woman supports a relative of one of the victims as she clings to the coffin in tears


 
 


Relatives and friends mourn over the coffin containing the remains of a fire victim at a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil 

Families of the dead stand by their coffins lined up in the Santa Maria gymnasium yesterday during the collective wake



A relatives leans on a coffin containing a victim killed in the Kiss night club fire
Meanwhile, around 80 people remain in a critical condition in hospital after inhaling toxic fumes, according to the city's health minister Alexandre Padilha. Thirty-seven of those have been transferred to specialist units in the state capital, Porto Alegre.He added than more than 300 people had been treated at hospitals around Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil's southernmost state.He said: 'We spent the whole night accompanying patients who were in hospital. The main objective was to save as many victims as possible.'The second objective is to help relieve the suffering of the victims' families. Psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers are in the gymnasium (where bodies were taken), in hospitals and in help centres. Just yesterday there were nearly 200 psychological consultations with relatives of victims.'VIDEO Family and friends identify their loved ones as the nation mourns   





Play Video




Loading video...





Scroll down for more videos  


Relatives prays in the wake of a victim of the Kiss night club fire at the local cemetery yesterday
Regional police chief Marcelo Arigony said he had already heard testimonies of 17 people, including the club's co-owners, Mauro Hoffman and Elissandro Spohr.Police have also reportedly taken away fire extinguishers from the venue following reports security guards and band members tried to use them to put out the fire but none were working.Mr Arigony added: 'I have very preliminary information that security guards did close the club's doors. But it wasn't in bad faith, since some guards also died.'Last night the club posted a statement of their Facebook page claiming they were collobarating with police but insisting their staff "possessed the highest technical qualification'.'In this first moment, the priority of the house is provide all necessary assistance to the survivors and families of those who died. And this is being done by providing information and the assistance of a multidisplinary team (psychologists, doctors, social workers etc.'Survivors and the police inspector Marcelo Arigony said security guards briefly tried to block people from exiting the club.    






 
Mourners stand by coffins of loved one as it was revealed today that most of the victims of Sunday morning's tragedy had died in the club's bathrooms
 






 
Relatives express their grief yesterday as it was revealed most victims died from smoke inhalation 
rather than burns in what appears to be the world's deadliest nightclub
fire in more than a decade


Relatives and friends carry the coffin of a victim out of a gymnasium after the identification process
 

Inside the gymnasium where police and firefighters delivered the 233 dead bodies in an articulated lorry, and where relatives of the victims were tasked with identifying their loved ones


  

Empty coffins and coffins with the corpses of the victims of the Kiss nightclub fire are laid out as the victims are identified by relatives at the municipal gymnasium in Santa Maria, southern Brazil yesterday

A man stands around coffins containing the remains of victims after the bodies were identified at a gymnasium in Santa Maria city
Brazilian bars routinely make patrons pay their entire tab at the end of the night before they are allowed to leave.

Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff arrives at the sports centre where the victims' bodies are kept
But Mr Arigony said the guards did not appear to block fleeing patrons for long.'It was chaotic and it doesn't seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died,' he said.Later, firefighters responding to the blaze initially had trouble getting inside the Kiss nightclub because 'there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance', Guido Pedroso Melo, commander of the city's fire department, told the O Globo newspaper.Authorities said band members who were on the stage when the fire broke out later talked with police and confirmed they used pyrotechnics during their show.Police inspector Sandro Meinerz, who co-ordinated the investigation at the nightclub, said one band member died after escaping because he returned inside the burning building to save his accordion.The other band members escaped alive because they were the first to notice the fire.'It was terrible inside - it was like one of those films of the Holocaust, bodies piled on top of one another,' said Mr Meinerz.'We had to use trucks to remove them. It took about six hours to take the bodies away.'Television images from Santa Maria, a university city of about 260,000 people, showed black smoke billowing out of the Kiss nightclub as shirtless young men who attended the university party joined firefighters using axes and sledgehammers to pound at the hot-pink exterior walls, trying to reach those trapped inside. 

These were the dramatic scenes moments after a fire engulfed the nightclub, in the southern Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul, killing at least 233 people by suffocation and trampling and leaving 133 injured
  

Appalling loss of life: Firefighters work to douse a fire at the Kiss Club in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, where hundreds of people died 
 

People run to safety and try to rescue others after a massive inferno tore through a Brazil nightclub in the early hours of Saturday morning killing at least 232 people. A man is seen carrying a victim, centre


Chaos: These were the dramatic scenes moments after the fire engulfed nightclub Kiss. People died from suffocation and after being trampled on

 

A survivor is consoled by an emergency worker after the terrible ordeal in the early hours of Saturday morning
 Bodies of the dead and injured were strewn in the street and panicked screams filled the air as medics tried to help. There was little to be done; officials said most of those who died were suffocated by smoke within minutes.Within hours a community gym was a horror scene, with body after body lined up on the ground, partially covered with black plastic as family members identified kin.Outside the gym police held up personal objects - a black purse, a blue high-heeled shoe - as people seeking information on loved ones crowded around, hoping not to recognise anything being shown them.Teenagers sprinted from the scene after the fire began, desperately seeking help. Others carried injured and burned friends away in their arms. Many of the victims were under 20 years old, including some minors. About half of those killed were men, about half women.The party was organised by students from several academic departments from the Federal University of Santa Maria. Such organised university parties are common throughout Brazil.'There was so much smoke and fire, it was complete panic, and it took a long time for people to get out, there were so many dead,' survivor Luana Santos Silva told the Globo TV network.The fire spread so fast inside the packed club that firefighters and ambulances could do little to stop it, Silva said.Another survivor, Michele Pereira, told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was near the stage when members of the band lit some sort of flare that started the conflagration.'The band that was on-stage began to use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward," she said. VIDEO  Amateur video shows firefighters battling nightclub blaze  





Play Video




Loading video...





Scroll down for more video 

Firefighters stand at the burnt out entrance of Kiss night club yesterday


Aftermath: A view from inside the Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria which was ablaze in the early hours 
  

Firefighters battle to put out the fire which tore through the Kiss Club in Santa Maria, southern Brazil
  

Emergency services say they feared at least 20 more bodies remained inside the building, and hundreds of others were injured


Horrific: A crowd stands outside the Kiss nightclub in the early hours of Saturday morning as the nightmare unfolds
'At that point, the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak, but in a matter of seconds it spread.'Guitarist Rodrigo Martins told Radio Gaucha that the band, Gurizada Fandangueira, started playing at 2.15am 'and we had played around five songs when I looked up and noticed the roof was burning'.'It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it,' he said.'When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working.'He confirmed that accordion player Danilo Jacques, 28, died, while the five other members made it out safely.Police Major Cleberson Braida Bastianello said by telephone that the toll had risen to 233 with the death of a victim in hospital.He said earlier that the death toll was likely made worse because the nightclub appeared to have just one exit through which patrons could exit.

A victim is carried through the street outside the nightclub as emergency crews rush to the scene


Rescue: Emergency services filled the street outside the club's entrance as more bodies were pulled from the charred building
   

Carnage: Locals help evacuate injured victims as clubbers look on in horror following the nightclub fire
  

Overcome: Police, ambulance staff and firefighters helped the victims receive medical assistance in a street outside the Kiss Club


Traumatised: A police officer helps a woman survivor next to the Kiss nightclub in Brazil's Santa Maria 
 

Similar: A firefighter inspects a club after a fire in which 194 people died on December 31, 2004 in Buenos Aires
Officials earlier counted 232 bodies that had been brought for identification to a gymnasium in Santa Maria, which is located at the southern tip of Brazil, near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay.Federal Health Minister Alexandre Padhilha told a news conference that most of the 117 people treated in hospitals had been poisoned by gases they breathed during the fire. Only a few suffered serious burns, he said.Brazil president Dilma Rousseff arrived to visit the injured after cutting short her trip to a Latin American-European summit in Chile.'It is a tragedy for all of us,' Ms Rousseff said.Most of the dead apparently were asphyxiated, according to Dr Paulo Afonso Beltrame, a professor at the medical school of the Federal University of Santa Maria who went to the city's Caridade Hospital to help victims.Dr Beltrame said he was told the club had been filled far beyond its capacity.

Devastation: Relatives of victims cry in the street after news of the fire is made public
Survivors, police and firefighters gave the same account of a band member setting the ceiling's soundproofing ablaze, he said.'Large amounts of toxic smoke quickly filled the room, and I would say that at least 90% of the victims died of asphyxiation," Dr Beltrame said."The toxic smoke made people lose their sense of direction so they were unable to find their way to the exit. At least 50 bodies were found inside a bathroom. Apparently they confused the bathroom door with the exit door."In the hospital, the doctor 'saw desperate friends and relatives walking and running down the corridors looking for information", he said, calling it 'one of the saddest scenes I have ever witnessed'.Rodrigo Moura, identified by the newspaper Diario de Santa Maria as a security guard at the club, said it was at its maximum capacity of between 1,000 and 2,000, and partygoers were pushing and shoving to escape.Santa Maria mayor Cezar Schirmer declared a 30-day mourning period, and Tarso Genro, the governor of the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul, said officials were investigating the cause of the disaster.The blaze was the deadliest in Brazil since at least 1961, when a fire that swept through a circus killed 503 people in Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro.Santa Maria, at the southern tip of 
Brazil near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay, is a major 
university city with a population of around a quarter of a million.    

Grief-stricken: As news of the tragic blaze reached hundreds of relatives of the victims, they began to arrive at the scene in complete shock 
 

Tearful: Relatives of the victims of the fire console each other in their grief after more than 230 people were reported dead
 VIDEO  Firefighters battle nightclub fire in Brazil  





Play Video




Loading video...





 




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
1
2
3
Next






Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and...





'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert...





EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King...





Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific...





High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself,...





'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of...





Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to...





'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting...





Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last...





Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside...






 


Share this article: 




Facebook




Twitter




Google+




Messenger




LinkedIn




Digg it




Newsvine




Fark




Nowpublic




Reddit















Print article




Email article


























Comments (96)


The comments below have been moderated in advance.





Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated



 View all




This is just awful, those poor people must have been so terrified. 
-
                                    
                                        London girl
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Perth, Australia,
                                     28/1/2013 18:47

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            119
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


God comfort the hearts of the families of brothers from southern Brazil
-
                                    
                                        Alexandrino
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Teresina - BR, Brazil,
                                     28/1/2013 18:42

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            87
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Hey People can we get off the soapbox and simply think of those who lost their lives? RIP to those who lost their lives and God bless the families of those lost .
-
                                    
                                        SkyQuest
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Somewhere, United States,
                                     28/1/2013 18:41

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            60
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


So sad and tragic. Deepest sympathy to all the familes and friends...RIP to those who died..
-
                                    
                                        Katie Boo
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Liverpool,
                                     28/1/2013 17:38

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            68
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Why don't we take lessons from what happened in Pakistan and Bangladesh last year , death in factories with no way out limited exit doors nobody is immune places like this should be analyzed and rectified before its too late or we loose more precious lifes.
-
                                    
                                        zahidahmed
                                    ,
                                    
                                        al baha,
                                     28/1/2013 17:34

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            33
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


These pictures are so intrusive and disrespectful...the fire is news, the funerals aren't - leave these poor families alone in their grief. RIP and prayers to all
-
                                    
                                        Claire
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Home, United Kingdom,
                                     28/1/2013 17:30

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            65
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


And how often do you hear people complain that we are too health and safety concious in this country?  This is why.
-
                                    
                                        Jetty
                                    ,
                                    
                                        London, United Kingdom,
                                     28/1/2013 16:57

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            258
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


......and this is the country we are entrusting our next Olympics and World Cup to.............
They just drove a coach and horses through Health and Safety regs.
-
                                    
                                        janhoppo
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Berchtesgaden, Germany,
                                     28/1/2013 16:57

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            11
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


Hope  a lot is learnt from this tragedy, when we moan about health and safety we should remember this  avoidable, awful fire.these photos make me feel so sad. :(  
-
                                    
                                        lisa
                                    ,
                                    
                                        WI,
                                     28/1/2013 16:56

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            136
                                        
                                    

Report abuse


A horrific tragedy. I can't think of a worse way to go. I hope those who failed them are brought to justice. RIP.
-
                                    
                                        Enni
                                    ,
                                    
                                        Edinburgh, United Kingdom,
                                     28/1/2013 16:34

Click to rate
 
 
Rating
 

                                        
                                            133
                                        
                                    

Report abuse




                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.









Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search



















 
 
Femail Today






Is running making you fat? Tracy Anderson reveals tricks to 'problem area' weight-loss in 15-minute workout for Gwyneth Paltrow's website








Amanda Bynes moves out of New York apartment after eviction threat over 'marijuana smoke complaint from neighbors'
Branded 'disrespectful'








'Just one bite!': Pregnant Kim Kardashian gives into her junk food cravings with a trip to McDonalds
The 31-year-old tweeted a snap of her indulgence








EXCLUSIVE: The Danish beauty who may beat Miss Alabama to win Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue cover
Stunning Nina Agdal is the hot favorite








Miley Cyrus bares her body in lingerie in straight-to-DVD movie filmed BEFORE her blonde hair and weight loss makeover
Watch the trailer here








'I'm your Katniss!' Miley Cyrus gets new tattoo from Kat Von D... and it looks suspiciously like a Hunger Games tribute
Her fiancé stars in the franchise








Penelope Cruz and husband Javier Bardem 'expecting second child'
The 38-year-old actress and her husband Javier Bardem, 43, already have son Leonardo, two








Brandi Glanville used to joke that Eddie Cibrian 'raped' her on their first 'hot' night together... but poses serenely for Glamour
Has she gone too far?








Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each other'
Valeria Lukyanova, 23, and Justin Jedlica, 32








So she CAN do casual! Victoria Beckham dresses down... in skintight jeans and Christian Louboutin boots 
As David trains in Paris








 'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Crazy life of Lady Gaga laid bare as she's sued by 'slave' former assistant








Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place
'Like a bad movie'








'He delusional... fame hungry and just wants money': Khloe Kardashians slams Kris Humphries for dragging out Kim divorce
He wants an annulment








Leonardo DiCaprio's blonde bombshell ex Erin Heatherton smoulders in new fashion campaign
The 23-year-old oozes sex appeal for XOXO








The zombies will touchdown soon: Unseen trailer for Brad Pitt's new movie World War Z will air during the Super Bowl
Watch one trailer here








How does she do it? Natalie Imbruglia, 37, shows off her flawless wrinkle free skin... as she reveals a return to acting
Famed for her hit Torn








The art of overexposure: Joanna Krupa flashes a dangerous amount of sideboob in daring one sleeved mini-dress
Fashion show in Poland








'I'm just like J-Lo!' Adrienne Maloof, 51, reveals why dating Sean Stewart, 32, has made her more fashionable
Says she should NOT be called a cougar!








Guess who! Katie Holmes masters the art of disguise... on a very blustery outing in the Big Apple
Katie was well and truly a celeb undercover 








Who is Lady Mary's new pretty boy?
Downton Abbey's casting directors have auditioned scores of possible suitors, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Not another car controversy! On the same night Justin Bieber's Ferrari is pulled over... his $100K Fisker is towed away
Bad luck on the road








Jennifer Love Hewitt works her curves in tight jeans on set of The Client List... as she prepares to strip off this season
Filming in Los Angeles








Kristin Chenoweth in bitter row with American Airlines after supervisor 'left her in tears when she refused to let her dog on board'
Flew from Dallas to LA








No.1 groupie! Make-up free Jennie Garth keeps boyfriend Jeremy Salken close as she wears his band's hoodie on film set
On the set in Toronto








Pictured: Chris Brown sporting cast on hand... days after 'fight' with gay rapper Frank Ocean 'over parking space at studio'
Known for his temper 








'I disrespected my husband': Coco Austin on those steamy snaps with rapper AP.9... but says marriage to Ice-T is strong
She spoke to MailOnline








'Being part of that world made me feel cooler': Hailee Steinfeld, 16, gushes over her high fashion friends as she poses in designer photo shoot








It's in the genes! Georgia May and her brother James inject a double dose of Jagger into new denim fashion campaign
Watch the video here








Daddy's girls! Bruce Willis' daughters Rumer and Tallulah steal the show at Die Hard mural unveiling
The day was supposed to belong to their father








Pretty in prints! Carly Rae Jepsen shows off her limbs in a floral romper as she poses for colorful Seventeen photo shoot
Spring is on the horizon 








Liberty Ross poses naked for LOVE magazine as she moves on from the breakdown of her marriage to cheating Rupert Sanders








Time to visit daddy! Claire Danes takes baby Cyrus to visit Hugh Dancy on the set of his new movie
He's filming Hannibal in snowy Toronto...








Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen launch 'affordable' handbag line - that looks just like their $39,000 backpacks for The Row
Expanding their range








'I have uneven breasts': Jennifer Lawrence reveals her secret body insecurity as she steps out in a colorful teal dress 
Striking hues








He's eating her alive! Bar Refaeli kisses a geeky extra in cringe-inducing Super Bowl advert
The stunt was for internet firm Go Daddy








Be my Valentine! Bar Refaeli poses in sexy black bra and panties with red high heels for stunning new underwear campaign
Sheer black underwear 








'Shoes create a chemical reaction in women': Sam Edelman on what makes heels so irresistible as he releases racy new video starring Kate Upton








Team Beckham! David shares daughter Harper's first tiny Paris St Germain football shirt
Vowed to donate his entire $270k per-week wages to charity








Alicia Keys recruits husband Swizz Beatz and Jada Pinkett Smith for her new music video... and little Egypt comes too
Plenty of star power 








Is Michelle Obama set to front ANOTHER Vogue cover? Rumor mill in overdrive after magazine crew is spotted at White House
Four years ago 








Are you looking, LeAnn? Brandi Glanville revels in playing with HER boys while she washes the car (showing off her great pins)








Dude Looks Like A Lady! Steven Tyler returns to American Idol dressed in drag as he secretly auditions
Pepper revealed to be former judge








Fat chance! Gamine sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner supersize each other and upload pictures to Twitter
The girls transformed their slender frames








Princess in pleather: Beatrice shows off her legs in a sexy mini skirt for a date night with her long-term boyfriend Dave Clark
Royal in London








Hugh Hefner's new wife Crystal Harris puts wedding dress up for charity auction to honor Playboy secretary Mary O'Connor's death
Wed on New Year's Eve








Single girl Ashlee Simpson hits town in a little red dress as her ex-husband's girlfriend Meagan looks after her son Bronx
Needed a girls' night out








He's bringing SexyBack: Justin Timberlake set to return to 2013 BRIT Awards for a television exclusive performance in the UK
First time since 2004








Old smoothie! Kelsey Grammer gets into Kayte's good books as he looks after baby Faith while she enjoys a spa day
Some pampering time








Asexual 29-year-old who said she'd never have sex again is looking for a man... but admits a celibate relationship is hard to find








More Than A Woman! Toni Braxton defies her age in figure-hugging LBD and towering peep-toe heels
Spotted at The Grove in Los Angeles








No limo today, boys? $150m Winklevoss twins forced to take the subway after failing to find a New York taxi to pick them up
It's a hard life for them...








Her leading men! Catherine Zeta-Jones lives it up with husband Michael Douglas and co-star Jude Law at Side Effects party
The belle of the ball...








Justin Bieber's Ferrari hits headlines again after his friend is pulled over and arrested for 'driving without a license'
Incident occurred in LA








Now that's skin-tight! Melanie Griffith shows off her enviable body in optical illusion leggings and smart jacket for day at the shops
Looks fab at 55








Go faster stripes! Selma Blair and toddler Arthur wear matching patterns as they gambol around the park
Making it clear they come as a pair...








Japanese women pay hundreds of dollars to to get a snaggletooth smile in latest cosmetic craze - because it 'looks cute and childlike'
Known as 'yaeba' look








Aren't you a Countess? Real Housewives star LuAnn de Lesseps wears a leather minidress and racy tights to charity gala
Reality star in New York








Victoria's Secret begins design research on special mastectomy bras after 120,000 sign petition of frustrated breast cancer survivor
Branching out








That's what it's made for! Bikini-clad Alessandra Ambrosio is chucked in ocean after Victoria's Secret shoot
Posed in seven different stunning bikinis








What a transformation! Isabella Cruise updates her look as she ditches the red hair in favor of new lilac pixie crop
Inspired by Kelly Osbourne's color?








Kit Kat gang reunited: Liza Minnelli joins her Cabaret co-stars for 40th anniversary screening of classic musical
At The Ziegfeld Theater








That's better! Britney Spears swaps her holey leggings for Daisy Dukes on a coffee run in Beverly Hills
The newly single star went out solo
















 
 
DON'T MISS






Defeating the object: Ashley Benson enjoys cake baking class after workout session with good friend Izak Rappaport
Earned those calories








Fancy seeing you here: Real Housewife Lisa Vanderpump greets soccer star Robbie Keane as he dines at her restaurant
He's no Beckham...








What not to wear! Katie Holmes risks her cream jumper and light pink jeans as she visits a chocolate shop
Stocking up before Valentine's Day








SPOILER ALERT: It's all over! Tina Fey and her 30 Rock crew bow out with an emotional final episode of the NBC hit comedy
Watch the video here








Keeping him close: Reese Witherspoon flashes her screensaver featuring baby Tennessee during yet another gym visit
Her four-month-old son








The EX factor! One Direction's Harry Styles celebrates his 19th birthday on a night out with former flame Caroline Flack, 33
He was her toyboy








My little prince! Naomi Watts' youngest son Sammy looks regal in a pink crown as he leaves a friend's birthday party
He was with mom in Brentwood, LA








Going back to curt AGAIN? Lindsay Lohan sues her own fashion label for $1.1m over rights to trademark 6126 name
Launched it in 2008








EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'
Former Today co-host was ousted by NBC








Lena Dunham's on a roll! Girls creator working on next comedy series looking at the life of a legendary New York stylist
A Bergdorf employee








Most boys collect toy cars not real ones! Petrol head Harry Styles adds to his growing selection of motors with new classic Ford Capri
A vintage 1970s car 








'Skinny is not appealing to me': Shahs of Sunset star Mercedes Javid is curvy and proud in skimpy monokini
Proudly flaunts her substantial curves 








Baby joy! Former American Idol judge Kara DioGuardi welcomes son via surrogate
Putting years of infertility anguish behind her








Eliza who? Benji Madden moves on from Doolittle romance as he debuts new mystery girlfriend in Australia
Still loving his new life Down Under








Georgia May Jagger models the latest collection of printed jeans for Hudson
The model proudly wore Union Flag pants in honor of her country








'It's not like I'm eating donut after donut... but I HATE my upper arms!' Khloe Kardashian talks body confidence as she shows off her figure in a skintight LBD








'I've tried Botox... but never again': Nicole Kidman insists she's currently natural after giving the cosmetic procedure a go
Planning to avoid it








'I got pregnant with my boyfriend and I gave birth with my girlfriend': How a mom-to-be coped when the father of her child decided to become a woman








'Daddy once flew me to Paris for a bottle of Chanel nail polish': Confessions of a Park Avenue princess - before she got 'cut-off'
Park Avenue princess








Did you feel overdressed? Uma Thurman goes from heels to flats after Whoopi Goldberg turns up to a red carpet in CROCS








Ditching the onesie: Model Cara Delevingne cuts a chic figure in peplum top and leather trousers at exclusive Burberry show
At the London event








She is the Queen Bey! Beyoncé is only missing her crown as stunning singer poses with Miss America at Super Bowl junket
She Runs the World








A talk show pro! Beasts Of The Southern Wild Quvenzhané Wallis, 9, chats to Jay Leno... and reveals she wants to meet Beyoncé at the Oscars








Rooney Mara shows her edgy side in black leather before playing it sweet and innocent in white on the red carpet
New York premiere of Side Effect








Amy Adams goes retro at Santa Barbara Film Festival to accept award for trailblazing career
Pretty in polka dots as she receives Cinema Vanguard Award








Just like old times! Former Dancing With The Stars contestant Chaz Bono goes back to dance class
He loved strutting his stuff on the dance floor








Scared of snakes Adam? Sandler wears chaps to stave off a rattlesnake attack on hike as wife sticks to her jeans
In the Los Angeles hills








Keeping those famous curls under control: Harry Styles wears a hairband as he plays soccer ahead of his birthday night out
He's a hit on the pitch








They've still got it! Rock royalty Joan Jett and Stevie Nicks show their iconic style on the red carpet at Sound City premiere
On red carpet in LA








'Well hello there, baby bump!' Kim Kardashian gives first real glimpse of her pregnancy curves in playful photo shoot
Celebrated her new shape alongside Khloe








Time for some new clothes! Britney exposes her behind in ripped leggings at the upmarket Beverly Hills Hotel
Her bottom is visible








Don't forget my name! Sofia Vergara makes sure fans spot her with an eye-catching 'SV' mobile phone case
It must have cost a pretty penny








Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight'








Don't rain on their parade! Cat Deeley and Patrick Kielty look happy leaving the British cold weather to fly back home to Los Angeles
Spotted at the airport








We get the message! Sharon Stone, 54, and toyboy beau Martin Mica, 27, share a cuddle and a smooch... a day after split reports
Apparently still together








Even celebrities have cheat days! Jennifer Garner drops the diet to grab pizza with daughter Violet
Even she needs a cheat day now and again








Upset the stylist? Annalynne McCord and Shenae Grimes show their legs on 90210... but Jessica Stroup is stuck in trousers
Strutting along LA street








Dressed for success? You bet, says Jennifer Lawrence
She'll bring a sewing kit to the EE British Academy Film Awards, writes BAZ BAMIGBOYE








Charlize Theron makes gym wear stylish as she heads to the dance studio in patterned top and red Toms
Working out  in Beverly Hills








Risky business: Justin Bieber ditches helmet for a muddy four-wheeler bike ride
Willing to risk serious injury to keep his hair looking good.








Al Pacino dons a huge wig as he's transformed into Phil Spector in new stills from controversial TV movie
He stars alongside Helen Mirren








'I didn't sing live for Obama, but I will at the Super Bowl': Beyoncé addresses lip-synching uproar with rendition of National Anthem
Silencing her critics








On the fringe! Christina Applegate wears festive blouse for flamenco documentary premiere
Alongside her partner Martyn LeNoble for a romantic date night








Date night dress sense: Sienna Miller wears LBD for romantic dinner with fiancé Tom Sturridge
At Lulu's restaurant in Mayfair, London








That's an interesting look! Meghan Ory dons head-to-toe red in scenes for fairytale show Once Upon a Time
Modern-day Red Riding Hood








'I basically live in a sorority house with my girlfriends now,' reveals single Eva Longoria as she kicks up her heels in photo shoot
She posed poolside








Julianne Hough shows her perfect dancers legs in a blue dress... as Ryan Seacrest admits her athletic prowess 'scares me'
The perfect couple








'We are overweight kids but want to change': Sisters aged eight and nine launch fitness program in a bid to trim down
From San Antonio, Texas








The simple things: Anne Hathaway enjoys a walk with her husband and dog as she takes a break from accepting awards
Back to normality








Stunt woman! Jennifer Love Hewitt is forced to make a run for it in a low cut halter neck frock on set of The Client List
Got to ditch her heels at least...








Sweet kisses for Marion Cotillard as she's named Harvard's Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year
Honored with a ceremonial pudding pot








A trip to a spa, a day at the seaside and being a bride for a day: The heartbreaking final wishes of the 21-year-old dying from cancer








Never too old for a telling off: Downton Abbey's Brendan Coyle reveals his mother scolded him following his foul-mouthed Twitter spat








He's just a vulture sniffing my blood, waiting for me to die: Screen goddess Gina Lollobrigida blasts toyboy over 'fake wedding'








Style Solidarity! The Saturday's Mollie King and Rochelle Humes co-ordinate colours and coats on night out with British boy band JLS
Pop stars in London








So that's why Sigourney Weaver's dress looked so bad! Actress wore Lanvin gown back-to-front at the SAG Awards
On worst dressed list








EXCLUSIVE: Girl who claimed to be Harry's Vegas lover planning 'tell all' book about parties with Tiger Woods, Jack Nicholson and Mick Jagger








'I'm over the moon!' 30 Rock star Tracy Morgan and fiancée expecting a baby
He announced his engagement to Megan, 26, in September 2011








Zayn Malik sports mystery hand injury as he attends One Direction rehearsals in bandages
No word on how the boy band member could have hurt himself








Inspired by Rainbow Brite? Isabel Lucas wears unusual Christian Dior dress to designer's store opening in Australia
Straight off the runway








Review: With juvenile humor and moronic profanity, Movie 43 might be the saddest, most pathetic film of 2013, and possibly any year
Starring Halle Berry








Meet my dog Dourtney! Courtney Stodden takes her puppy for a walk in HIGH HEELS and a BIKINI
Not even a cute puppy is allowed to steal her limelight








Watch out Posh, Becks is off to Paris for five months... on his own! And he's giving his $270,000-a-week to charity
Just moved from LA








Denzel, your Flight is a fright! Even an Oscar worthy turn from its star can't get this cliched tale off the ground
Review: Washington isn't Denzel at his best








'I don't want that for my kid': Drew Barrymore on why daughter Olive will NOT follow in her child star footsteps
She grew up in the spotlight... and rehab








Will they ever learn? Russell Brand apologizes for 'Sachsgate' before cracking tasteless jokes about Jimmy Savile sex offender scandal








It's really growing! Pregnant Lara Stone makes sure her baby is nourished with the finest food as she eats out AGAIN with husband David Walliams








'It's the saddest thing I've ever been through': Beyoncé opens up about her miscarriage for the first time
Talks about her loss in her HBO documentary








She's going to have a ball! Beyoncé is poised for kickoff in new snap released ahead of her Superbowl performance
She's going to be singing live on Sunday








Honey, I shrunk myself! Morbidly obese groom, 23, loses more than the weight of his 112lbs bride for their wedding day
From XXXL to a medium








Who needs Tom Brady when you have THESE abs to look at? Calvin Klein creates provocative first-ever Super Bowl ad
Will be a 30-second ad








Girls heartthrob Christopher Abbott makes fashion debut in romantic film for Free People (but leaves the modelling to his female co-star)








Iconic 60s designer Celia Birtwell unveils brightly printed collection for Uniqlo and says she is 'delighted'
Combines traditional style with a modern twist








A 'stressed' Zara Phillips moves home to mommy: Removal van arrives to transport the young royal's belongings 20 miles up the road to Princess Anne's estate








Doubleact: New split image show Ashton Kutcher as an older Steve Jobs with receding hairline
The upcoming biopic is set to hit theaters in April








Brandi Glanville reveals she would 'make out with girlfriends' to turn on ex-husband Eddie Cibrian
And it would work like a charm, she says...








Cheeky little number! Rose McGowan steps out to upscale Hollywood event wearing very revealing shorts
Forgot to wear her skirt








One for Instagram? Alessandra Ambrosio masters the art of taking a self portrait as she enjoys down time from swimwear shoot








One expensive joy ride! Famed Beverly Hills hotel foots the bill after Justin Bieber's expensive car is damaged by his friend
Lil Twist damaged it








Why, aged 29, I have decided I'll NEVER have sex again
LISA SMITH faces up to the fact that, since losing her virginity at 16, she has always detested sex








Broke Lindsay Lohan takes her lawyer for dinner... but did he bill her?
After the judge told her she could still face jail during her pre-trial








Forever young: Trendy Robin Wright, 46, is perfectly in sync with toyboy Ben Foster, 32, as they arrive in New York
Actress pulled off twenty-something hipster gear








These boots are made for walking! Khloe Kardashian pulls on her favorite Givenchy fold-over kicks for second day running
Paid $1,695 for them








She wears it well: Rihanna rocks her shaved head and extensions as she prepares to jet out of New York
Her Rolling Stone look








'She could die and MTV could be blamed! Network considers axing Teen Mom 2 due to Janelle Evans' shocking behavior
Rarely out of headlines








Trying to hide something? Lara Flynn Boyle covers up her puffy face and trout pout with dark glasses and cap during day at the park








'You can suck my a**': Chelsea Handler loses her cool as she bickers with Piers Morgan during TV interview
It was a clash of the talk show hosts








Bold in Berlin: Diane Kruger returns home to Germany in floral printed trousers for latest movie photocall
Her latest film is titled Un Plan Parfait








Today host Hoda Kotb told bosses 'you can't scare me' after breast cancer battle gave her the guts to ask for her dream job
Spoke on Anderson Live








Cleaning out her closet! LeAnn Rimes poses in a red bikini as she has a wardrobe makeover
Rarely seen at the top of any best-dressed lists








Saint Beckham signs for St Germain! David agrees $230k-a-week deal to play in Paris... and he's donating his ENTIRE salary to a local children's charity 








Non-stop castings, all-night fittings and three models to each bedroom: 48 hours with a top catwalk star reveals the exhausting reality of Fashion Week








'I'm the victim': Jason London shows off his bruised face as he claims unmarked hands prove he was attacked in bar brawl
Left with broken bones








They kept that quiet! Little House on the Prairie star Melissa Gilbert is engaged to Timothy Busfield
Nobody knew they were even dating








'Live fast and freely': Lana Del Rey shares her views on life and spirituality in Manga-inspired cover shoot
Posed for a Japanese fashion magazine








DWTS' Katherine Jenkins steps out in another Posh dress... despite Victoria Beckham 'removing singer from label's freebie list'








Move over Gisele! Brazilian bombshell Gracie Cavalho shows off her bikini beach body for Victoria's Secret
The brunette showed off stunning figure 








Keeping limber: Heavily pregnant Amber Rose readies herself for the big push with some yoga moves
Keeping fit before her baby arrives








'There's no place like home': Robin Roberts goes on New Orleans road trip with fellow GMA anchors
With Sam Champion and Josh Elliott











 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Marlin wins! Incredible photos show massive fish as it toppled over an entire boat and crew





Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in...





Dozens of cheating Harvard students required to withdraw after last year's scandal,many others were given...





Parents of autistic boy,11, give him medical marijuana to curb his self-destructive rages






Dan Marino kept his love child secret from CBS bosses and his agent for SEVEN YEARS - and only told his wife





Secret Service Director to resign after 30 years with agency and less than a year after Colombian...





'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in...





Mother-of-two loses her EYE after fungus 'caused by contact lenses' eats it away





Smile! Crow's feet make you look clever and more attractive





Our childhood dreams shattered! Real-life Barbie and Ken meet for the first time but 'hate the sight of each...





Dozens of women sue 'revenge porn' websites that show half-naked photos of them posted by jilted lovers





See how a fish thinks! Incredible video that shows a thought swimming through the brain of a Zebrafish





Woman's hidden camera captures shocking footage of her room-mate 'secretly torturing her cat while she was...





Man, 25, faces life in prison for 'having sex with three-year-old girl'





Girl, 7, dies at school of asphyxiation after choking on a balloon





Sick of your colleagues? Why not work in a bubble: Fantastic French invention keeps you sealed off in the...





Jodi Arias 'received lewd photographs from her Mormon elder ex-boyfriend even though he told friends he was...





English teacher who said she 'hit the jackpot' when she got job 'had sex with student, 14, when he was in...





'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy...





Scientists warn fans could suffer Super Bowl withdrawal on Sunday and prescribe watching MORE football as a...





Manti Te'o hoaxer says the pain of 'being molested as a child' drove him to pull prank against Notre Dame...





The adorable foal set to be the star of Sunday's game: Budweiser debuts new Super Bowl ad showing the life...





Does Jasper the 7-year-old rescue dog have a cure for cancer? American scientists increasingly study the...





Couple lucky to be alive after pole pierces their windshield and narrowly misses them both 






'I thought it was kidney stones!' Nurse who didn’t know she was pregnant gives birth to healthy baby...





ANOTHER U.S. newspaper targeted by Chinese hackers as Washington Post reveals it was targeted by cyber spies...





Why February's a bad month for a good night's sleep... takes extra eight minutes to fall to get to sleep...





The luckiest nerd in the world: Geeky actor reveals how it took SIXTY-FIVE takes to film lingering kiss with...





Dow Jones closes above 14,000 for first time since October 2007





MORE HEADLINES







 
Burger King admits it has been selling beef burgers and Whoppers containing horsemeat



 
'It was better for them to die unexpectedly': NASA expert reveals Columbia shuttle crew were not told of problem with re-entry as families mark 10-year anniversary



 
EXCLUSIVE: ANOTHER shake-up at CNN... Will veteran John King be pushed out for political dynamo Jake Tapper? 



 
Russian rocket carrying U.S. satellite plunges into Pacific Ocean 40 seconds after launch 



 
High school teacher, 23, 'tweeted nude photos of herself, called her students JAIL BAIT and talked about getting high'



 
'I give God 10 per cent, why do you get 18?': Pastor leaves rude note objecting to 18 per cent tip on Applebee's check... and waitress is FIRED for posting it on the internet



 
'He has no regard for human life': First picture of 'survivalist killer' holding boy, five, hostage in underground bunker - as cops fear they may be holed up for months 



 
Age of innocence: Beautiful homespun images capture early 20th century 'wonder years' when children ran barefoot instead of playing Xbox



 
'I'm only 115 pounds...I can't carry 20 bags - and I need to know where my toothbrush is!' Inside the crazy life of Lady Gaga, revealed as she's sued for treating ex assistant like a 'slave'




 
'Like a bad Lifetime movie': Katie Couric recounts wanting to escape her horrible date with Larry King after the talk show legend 'lunged' at her back at his place



 
Dog sentenced to death because he is 'gay' saved at the last minute...and his new owner calls him Elton!



 
Working as hit men, drug dealers and clubhouse chums: Inside the most notorious biker gang as man turns into undercover police agent to put a dozen Hells Angels in jail




 
EXCLUSIVE: How biological mother of Super Bowl star Colin Kaepernick gave him up for adoption after her parents' offer to help raise him... and she never even told them who his father is



 
Caught on camera: Horrifying moment security guard Tasers mother in front of her children after row in Atlanta shopping mall



 
EXCLUSIVE: Ann Curry is too expensive for CNN and is forced to knuckle down at NBC after taking her teary plight 'too far'



 
Mother pleads guilty to allowing daughter, 6, to be sexually abused by different men in exchange for drugs and money



 
That's not my dead wife! Grieving widower opens casket at funeral to discover stranger inside



 
'It's a slap in the face': Ravens cheerleader, 23, speaks out about being benched for gaining TWO pounds and missing Super Bowl after coach told her 'to lose weight anyway she could'



 
The 'kindly' Auschwitz commander who sent youngsters to gas chambers then went home to play hide and seek with his children



 
Students of teacher, 23, who posted semi-naked pictures of herself and called a teen 'jail bait' launch Twitter page supporting her


MOST READ IN DETAIL
















Editor's six of the best


 
The spectacular Spider-Man: Artist painstakingly captures webbing to create unique pieces of art


 
Nevada mansion with its own backyard WATER PARK makes a $3 million splash on real estate market 


 
Watch the moment two grown businessmen fight over a NYC cab 


 
A dog acts on her maternal instincts and nurses a stray kitten as if it was her own puppy 


 
Man who pretended to be blind to get sympathy and carers found dead in a ditch


 
Talk about jumping on the bandwagon! Ohio marching band joins the Gangnam craze in hilarious dance video as they stop, drop and roll to the beat














 

























				Find this story at www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2269425/Brazil-nightclub-Woman-trapped-inside-Brazil-nightclub-posts-desperate-plea-help-Facebook-dying-sister.html




 
 
Back to top


 
 
Navigation


 
 
Popular






Home




U.K. Home




News




Sport




U.S. Showbiz




Femail




Health




Science




Money




RightMinds




Travel




Columnists







Popular searches in news:







Sitemap
Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
This is London
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group



© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies




















