Gabriel





















			Friday, 01 February 2013
		




Arabic
Bengali
Bulgarian
Chinese
Dutch
English
Finnish
French
German
Gujarati
Hindi
Hungarian
Indonesian
Japanese
Kannada
Malay
Marathi
Polish
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Visayan




















upload







Login
Edit










wn.com/gabriel 
Gabriel 



















Tweet

sms this page
email this page






















Videos
Video Details

Images


Biography
News
Related

Collage
BBC Results
Shopping

Twitter

Mathematics
history


















Gabriel




All Gabriel Iglesias Videos




Peter Gabriel




Gabriel O Pensador




Juan Gabriel




Ana Gabriel




Gabriel Interviews






Gabriel



All Gabriel Iglesias Videos



Peter Gabriel



Gabriel O Pensador



Juan Gabriel



Ana Gabriel



Gabriel Interviews



Gabriel
Gabriel Iglesias
Peter Gabriel
Kate Bush
Ana Gabriel


Related News
Top Headlines
French
German
Hindi
Indonesian
Italian
Persian
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish


Related Sites
Related Links
People
Places
Video Suggestions




Buy Books


Ebay
Publications






























                    Loading...
                






Branches of Mathematics 
Pure mathematics

Algebra
Calculus
Geometry
Topology
Trignometry
Combinatorics
Logic
Number theory


Applied mathematics

Dynamical systems and differential equations
Mathematical physics
Computing
Information theory and signal processing
Probability and statistics
Game theory
Operations research


Related Topics 

Electromagnetic Spectrum
Linear Equations
Applied Physics
Nano Technology
Engineering Sciences
Mathematical Medicine
Fluid dynamics
Computational Mathematics
Gamma Ray Optics
Onfrared Optics
Relative Velocity
Iciam
Intelligent Imaging Neuroscience
Biomedical Engineering
Neuroscience Research
Quantum Cosmology
Brain Research
































































Open Collage in a new Window
Email the Collage
















Loading...










Sorry your browser does not support IFRAME





Loading suggestions ...







fullscreen









1 Thessalonians
29 September
Aaron
Aaron Douglas
Abaddon
Abraham
Abrahamic religions
Abu Bakr
Abū Lahab
Achaichus
Acts of the Apostles
Adam
Advent
Advent calendar
Advent candle
Advent Conspiracy
Advent wreath
Aeneas (Bible)
Agabus
Agostino di Duccio
Agrippa I
Agrippa II
Aker (angel)
Alexander (Ephesian)
Alphaeus
Amram
Ananias and Sapphira
Ananias of Damascus
Ancient Egypt
Ancient of Days
Androgynous
Andy Whitfield
Angel
Angels in Islam
Angelus
Anglican Communion
Anna (Bible)
Annas
Annunciation
Antipas of Pergamum
Anton Raphael Mengs
Antonius Felix
Anything Goes
Apollos
Apostle (Christian)
Apostle (Islam)
Apostolic Age
Arabic language
Arariel
Archangel
Archangel Ariel
Archippus
Arphugitonos
Asif bin Barkhiya
Axion Estin
Azrael
Babylonian Captivity
Badalisc
Balaam
Barabbas
Barachiel
Barnabas
Bartholomew
Basil II
Basque music
Befana
Belsnickel
Benaki Museum
Benjamin
Bermatingen
Bethlehem
Biblical Magi
Blastus
Boar's Head Feast
Book of Daniel
Book of Ezekiel
Book of Revelation
Botticelli
Boxing Day
Budapest
Byzantine Emperor
Byzantine Empire
Byzantine Rite
Caiaphas
Caleb
Calendar of saints
Camael
Cassiel
Cathedral of Reims
Catholic
Catholic Church
Chant
Chayot
Cherubim
Christ
Christianity
Christingle
Christkind
Christmas
Christmas by medium
Christmas cake
Christmas card
Christmas carol
Christmas club
Christmas cookies
Christmas cracker
Christmas creep
Christmas decoration
Christmas dinner
Christmas elf
Christmas Eve
Christmas in Hawaii
Christmas in Hungary
Christmas in Ireland
Christmas in July
Christmas in Poland
Christmas in Romania
Christmas lights
Christmas market
Christmas Mountains
Christmas music
Christmas ornament
Christmas pudding
Christmas stamp
Christmas stocking
Christmas tree
Christmas truce
Christmas worldwide
Christmastide
Christopher Walken
Chronology of Jesus
Church of England
Claudius Lysias
Cleopas
Clopas
Cole Porter
Crescens
Daniel
Daniel (angel)
Darda'il
Daughter of Jairus
Ded Moroz
Demetrius (Bible)
Devil (Islam)
Dhul-Kifl
Dhul-Qarnayn
Diotrephes
Dobiel
Dominion (angel)
Dorcas
Dumah (angel)
Eastern Orthodoxy
Eggnog
Eisheth
El Greco
Elijah
Elisha
Elymas
End time
Epaphras
Epaphroditus
Epic poetry
Epiphany (holiday)
Epistles
Erastus of Corinth
Ethel Merman
Ethiopian Church
Ethiopian eunuch
Euodia and Syntyche
Eutychus
Eve
Exegesis
Fallen angel
Father Christmas
Feast day
Ferrari Gaudenzio
Firaun
Fleur de lys
Flying Santa
Four Evangelists
Francis Lawrence
Gabriel
Gabriel (film)
Gabriel in Islam
Gabriel's Horn
Gabuthelon
Gagiel
Gamaliel
Garden of Eden
General epistles
Gevurah
Gingerbread
Gjallarhorn
God
God in Christianity
God in Judaism
Godfearers
Gog and Magog
Goliath
Gospel
Gospel of Luke
Gospels
Grace of God
Gregorian Calendar
Grýla
Hadith of Gabriel
Hadraniel
Hafaza
Haman (Islam)
Hamper
Haniel
Harut and Marut
Hebrew
Hebrew Bible
Hebrew language
Hebron
Heimdall
Herod Antipas
Herod Archelaus
Herod Philip II
Herod the Great
Herodian Dynasty
Herodians
Herodias
Historical Jesus
Holy Spirit (Islam)
Hud (prophet)
Humans
Hymenaeus (Ephesian)
Hypocrites
Icon
Idris (prophet)
Impenitent thief
Infinity
Isaac
Ishmael
Islam
Islam and Judaism
Islamic view of Lot
Islamic view of Noah
Israelites
Israfel
Jack Frost
Jacobello del Fiore
James the Just
Jason of Tarsus
Jegudiel
Jerusalem
Jesus
Jesus in Islam
Jesus Justus
Jethro
Jinn
Joachim
Jochebed
John Mark
John Milton
John of Patmos
John the Apostle
John the Baptist
John the Evangelist
Jophiel
Joseph Barsabbas
Joseph of Arimathea
Joses
Joshua
Joulupukki
Judaism
Judas Barsabbas
Judas Iscariot
Judas of Galilee
Judas the Zealot
Jude the Apostle
Julian Calendar
Junia
Kabbalah
Karyes
Kerubiel
Khidr
Kingdom of Judah
Kiraman Katibin
Knecht Ruprecht
Kokabiel
Kol Yisrael
Korvatunturi
Krampus
Kulubi
Kushiel
Las Posadas
Last Judgment
Latter-day Saint
Lazarus of Bethany
Legion (demon)
Leliel
Leonardo Da Vinci
Literary trope
Lucius of Cyrene
Luke the Evangelist
Luqman
Lutheranism
Lydia of Thyatira
Lysanias
Maalik
Madrid
Magians
Malchus
Manahen
Marc Connelly
Mark the Evangelist
Martha
Martyr
Mary (Romans 16 6)
Mary Magdalene
Mary of Bethany
Mary of Clopas
Masolino da Panicale
Mesopotamia
Metatron
Michael
Michael (archangel)
Michaelmas
Midian
Mikulás
Mince pie
Ministry of Jesus
Miriam
Moravian star
Mother Shipton
Mount Athos
Mrs. Claus
Mu'aqqibat
Muhammad
Muhammad in Islam
Muhammad's wives
Munkar and Nakir
Muriel (angel)
Museo del Prado
Muslim
Myrrhbearers
Nathan Alterman
Nativity of Jesus
Nativity scene
Nephilim
Neroccio d'Landi
New Age
New Testament
Nicholas the Deacon
Nicodemus
Nicodemus ben Gurion
Nineveh
Noah
NORAD Tracks Santa
Norse mythology
North Pole
Novgorod
Nuriel
Nutcracker
Nymphas
Old Man Winter
Olentzero
Onesimus
Ophanim
Oriental Orthodoxy
Paganism
Pahaliah
Parables of Jesus
Paradise Lost
Patron saint
Paul the Apostle
Pauline epistles
Penitent thief
People of Ya-Sin
Phanuel (angel)
Pharisees
Philetus (Ephesian)
Philip the Apostle
Phoebe (Bible)
Pietro Perugino
Pisan
Pontius Pilate
Porcius Festus
Portal Saints
Potiphar
Pravuil (angel)
Priscilla and Aquila
Prophet
Prophet of Islam
Proselytes
Père Fouettard
Père Noël
Qarun
Queen of Sheba
Quirinius
Qur'an
Quran
Quraysh (tribe)
Raguel
Ramiel
Raphael (angel)
Raphael (archangel)
Raziel
Recording angel
Remote sensing
Rhoda (Bible)
Richard Speight, Jr.
Ridwan
Robert Campin
Roman citizenship
Russians
Sabians
Sabine Baring-Gould
Sachiel
Sadducees
Saint Andrew
Saint Anne
Saint Joanna
Saint Joseph
Saint Longinus
Saint Matthew
Saint Matthias
Saint Nicholas
Saint Peter
Saint Publius
Saint Stephen
Saint Timothy
Saleh
Salman Rushdie
Salome
Salome (disciple)
Samael
Samaritans
Samuel
Samyaza
Sandalphon
Sanhedrin
Santa Claus
Santa Claus parade
Santa's workshop
SantaCon
Sariel
Satan
Satanic Verses
Saul
Sceva
Scribe
Secret Santa
Selaphiel
Sephirot
Seraph
Seraphiel
Seraphim
Sergius Paulus
Seven Deacons
Seven Sleepers
Seventy disciples
Shamsiel
Sheba
Shoaib
Silas
Simeon Niger
Simon Magus
Simon of Cyrene
Simon the Leper
Simon the Zealot
Sinterklaas
Sodom and Gomorrah
Sofer
Solid of revolution
Sopater
Spiritual (music)
St Petersburg
Star of Bethlehem
State Russian Museum
Super Saturday
Supernatural
Surat al-Fil
Surface area
Suriel
Susanna (disciple)
Synaxis
Synoptic Gospels
Talmud
Template Christmas
Terah
Tertius of Iconium
Thamud
The Beast (Bible)
The Green Pastures
Theotokos
Theudas
Thomas the Apostle
Thrones
Tiberius
Titus (biblical)
Tradition
Tretyakov Gallery
Triptych
Trophimus
Two witnesses
Tychicus
Tzaphqiel
Umm Jamil
Uriel
Uriel (angel)
Uzayr
Vertep
Virgin Mary
Volume
Waldburg
Walters Art Museum
Wassailing
Watcher (angel)
Weihnachten
White Christmas
Whore of Babylon
Wikipedia Persondata
Xmas
Yahoel
Yahweh
YHWH
Yule
Yule Goat
Yule Lads
Yule log
Zacchaeus
Zadkiel
Zayd ibn Harithah
Zealotry
Zebedee
Zebuleon
Zechariah (priest)
Zerachiel
Zipporah
Zulaikha
Zwarte Piet
Æsir
ʿĀd














Benaki Museum

                            The Benaki Museum, established and endowed in 1930 by Antonis Benakis in memory of his father Emmanuel Benakis, is housed in the Benakis family mansion in downtown Athens, Greece. The museum houses Greek works of art from the prehistorical to the modern times, an extensive collection of Asian art, hosts periodic exhibitions and maintains a state-of-the-art restoration and conservation workshop. Although the museum initially housed a collection that included Islamic art, Chinese porcelain and exhibits on toys, its 2000 re-opening led to the creation of satellite museums that focused on specific collections, allowing the main museum to focus on Greek culture over the span of the country's history.

The museum's primary home is in the Benakis' house opposite the National Garden on Queen Sofias Avenue and owes its existence to the generosity of Antonis Benakis, whose family lived in Alexandria, Egypt.

In 1931, the Benakis donated the family's house in Athens and their collection of more than 37,000 Islamic and Byzantine objects. More than 9,000 artefacts were added by the 1970s, which spurred donations from other sources. Benakis remained active in the museum until his death in 1954.

wn.com/Benaki_Museum





Bethlehem

                            Bethlehem (Arabic: بيت لحم‎  Bayt Laḥm (help·info) or Bēt Laḥm, lit "House of Flesh"; Hebrew: בֵּית לֶחֶם‎ Bēṯ Leḥem, Modern: Bet Leḥem, IPA: [bet ˈleχem], lit "House of Bread;" Greek: Βηθλεὲμ, Vithleém) is a Palestinian city located in the central West Bank and approximately 8 kilometers (5.0 mi) south of Jerusalem, with a population of about 30,000 people. It is the capital of the Bethlehem Governorate of the Palestinian National Authority and a hub of Palestinian culture and tourism. The Hebrew Bible identifies Bethlehem as the city David was from and the location where he was crowned as the king of Israel. The New Testament identifies Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus of Nazareth. The town is inhabited by one of the oldest Christian communities in the world, although the size of the community has shrunk due to emigration.

The city was sacked by the Samaritans in 529, but rebuilt by the Byzantine emperor Justinian I. Bethlehem was conquered by the Arab Caliphate of 'Umar ibn al-Khattāb in 637, who guaranteed safety for the city's religious shrines. In 1099, Crusaders captured and fortified Bethlehem and replaced its Greek Orthodox clergy with a Latin one. The Latin clergy were expelled after the city was captured by Saladin, the sultan of Egypt and Syria. With the coming of the Mamluks in 1250, the city's walls were demolished, and were subsequently rebuilt during the rule of the Ottoman Empire.

wn.com/Bethlehem





Budapest

                            Budapest ( /ˈbuːdəpɛst/, /ˈbuːdəpɛʃt/ or /ˈbʊdəpɛst/; Hungarian pronunciation: [ˈbudɒpɛʃt] ( listen); names in other languages) is the capital and the largest city of Hungary, the largest in East-Central Europe and the seventh largest in the European Union. It is the country's principal political, cultural, commercial, industrial, and transportation centre, sometimes described as the primate city of Hungary. According to 2011 Census, Budapest had 1.74 million inhabitants, down from its 1989 peak of 2.1 million due to suburbanization. The Budapest Commuter Area is home to 3.3 million people. The city covers an area of 525 square kilometres (202.7 sq mi) within the city limits. Budapest became a single city occupying both banks of the river Danube with a unification on 17 November 1873 of west-bank Buda and Óbuda with east-bank Pest.

The history of Budapest began with Aquincum, originally a Celtic settlement that became the Roman capital of Lower Pannonia.Hungarians arrived in the territory in the 9th century. Their first settlement was pillaged by the Mongols in 1241-42. The re-established town became one of the centres of Renaissance humanist culture in the 15th century. Following the Battle of Mohács and nearly 150 years of Ottoman rule, development of the region entered a new age of prosperity in the 18th and 19th centuries, and Budapest became a global city after the 1873 unification. It also became the second capital of Austria-Hungary, a great power that dissolved in 1918. After the Treaty of Trianon in 1920, when Hungary lost 72% of its former territory, culturally and economically the country became wholly Budapest-dominated. The capital dominates the country both by the size of its population—which dwarfs those of Hungary's other cities Budapest was the focal point of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, the Hungarian Soviet Republic of 1919, Operation Panzerfaust in 1944, the Battle of Budapest of 1945, and the Revolution of 1956.

wn.com/Budapest





Hebron

                            Hebron (Arabic:  الخليل (help·info) al-Ḫalīl; Hebrew:  חֶבְרוֹן (help·info), Standard Hebrew: Ḥevron, Tiberian: Ḥeḇrôn ISO 259-3: Ḥebron), is located in the southern West Bank, 30 km (19 mi) south of Jerusalem. Nestled in the Judean Mountains, it lies 930 meters (3,050 ft) above sea level. It is the largest city in the West Bank and home to an estimated 175,000 Palestinians, and over 500 Jewish settlers concentrated in and around the old quarter. The city is most notable for containing the traditional burial site of the biblical Patriarchs and Matriarchs and is therefore considered the second-holiest city in Judaism after Jerusalem. The city is also venerated by Muslims for its association with Abraham and was traditionally viewed as one of the "four holy cities of Islam."

Hebron is a busy hub of West Bank trade, responsible for roughly a third of the area's gross domestic product, largely due to the sale of marble from quarries. It is locally well known for its grapes, figs, limestone, pottery workshops and glassblowing factories, and is the location of the major dairy product manufacturer, al-Junaidi. The old city of Hebron is characterized by narrow, winding streets, flat-roofed stone houses, and old bazaars. The city is home to Hebron University and the Palestine Polytechnic University.

wn.com/Hebron





Jerusalem

                            Jerusalem ( /dʒəˈruːsələm/; Hebrew: יְרוּשָׁלַיִם‎‎ Yerushaláyim   ; Arabic: القُدس‎ al-Quds    and/or أورشليم Ûrshalîm) is the capital of Israel, though not internationally recognized as such, and one of the oldest cities in the world. It is located in the Judean Mountains, between the Mediterranean Sea and the northern edge of the Dead Sea. If the area and population of East Jerusalem is included, it is Israel's largest city in both population and area, with a population of 801,000 residents over an area of 125.1 km2 (48.3 sq mi). Jerusalem is also a holy city to the three major Abrahamic religions—Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

During its long history, Jerusalem has been destroyed twice, besieged 23 times, attacked 52 times, and captured and recaptured 44 times. The oldest part of the city was settled in the 4th millennium BCE. In 1538, walls were built around Jerusalem under Suleiman the Magnificent. Today those walls define the Old City, which has been traditionally divided into four quarters—known since the early 19th century as the Armenian, Christian, Jewish, and Muslim Quarters. The Old City became a World Heritage site in 1981, and is on the List of World Heritage in Danger. Modern Jerusalem has grown far beyond its boundaries.

wn.com/Jerusalem





Madrid

                            Madrid (English /məˈdrɪd/, Spanish: [ma'ðrid]) is the capital and largest city of Spain. The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the Madrid metropolitan area is calculated to be 6.271 million. It is the third largest city in the European Union, after London and Berlin, and its metropolitan area is the third largest in the European Union after London and Paris. The city spans a total of 604.3 km2 (233.3 sq mi).

The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid (which comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages); this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha. As the capital city of Spain, seat of government, and residence of the Spanish monarch, Madrid is also the political centre of Spain. The current mayor is Ana Botella from the People's Party (PP).

Madrid urban agglomeration has the 3rd largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics, education, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world's major global cities. Due to its economic output, high standard of living, and market size, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol. Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, and is the 10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 index. Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.

wn.com/Madrid





Mount Athos

                            Mount Athos (/ˈæθɒs/; Greek: Όρος Άθως, Oros Athos Greek pronunciation: [ˈaθos]) is a mountain and peninsula in Macedonia, Greece. A World Heritage Site and self-governed state in the Hellenic Republic, Athos is home to 20 stavropegial Eastern Orthodox monasteries under the direct jurisdiction of the patriarch of Constantinople. Today Greeks commonly refer to Mount Athos as the "Holy Mountain" (Greek: Άγιον Όρος, Agion Oros). In Classical times, while the mountain was called Athos, the peninsula was called Akté (Ἀκτὴ) (sometimes Acte or Akte).

The peninsula, the easternmost "leg" of the larger Halkidiki peninsula, protrudes 50 kilometres (31 mi)  into the Aegean Sea at a width of between 7 and 12 kilometres (4.3 and 7.5 mi) and covers an area of 335.637 square kilometres (129.59 sq mi). The actual Mount Athos has steep, densely forested slopes reaching up to 2,033 metres (6,670 ft). The surrounding seas, especially at the end of the peninsula, can be dangerous. In ancient Greek history two fleet disasters in the area are recorded: In 492 BC Darius, the king of Persia, lost 300 ships under general Mardonius (Herodotus "Histories" book VI (Erato), Aeschylus "The Persians"). In 411 BC the Spartans lost a fleet of 50 ships under admiral Epicleas. (Diodorus Siculus, "Bibliotheca historica" XIII 41, 1–3).

wn.com/Mount_Athos





Museo del Prado

                            The Museo del Prado is the main Spanish national art museum, located in central Madrid. It features one of the world's finest collections of European art, from the 12th century to the early 19th century, based on the former Spanish Royal Collection, and unquestionably the best single collection of Spanish art. Founded as a museum of paintings and sculpture, it also contains important collections of other types of works. A new, recently opened wing enlarged the display area by about 400 paintings, and it is currently used mainly for temporary expositions. El Prado is one of the most visited sites in the world, and it is considered to be among the greatest museums of art. The large numbers of works by Velázquez and Francisco de Goya (the artist more extensively represented in the collection), Titian, Rubens and Bosch are among the highlights of the collection.

The collection currently comprises around 7,600 paintings, 1,000 sculptures, 4,800 prints and 8,200 drawings, in addition to a large number of other works of art and historic documents. By 2012 the Museum will be displaying about 1300 works in the main buildings, while around 3,100 works are on temporary loan to various museums and official institutions. The remainder are in storage.

wn.com/Museo_del_Prado





Nineveh

Coordinates: 36°21′34″N 43°09′10″E﻿ / ﻿36.35944°N 43.15278°E﻿ / 36.35944; 43.15278

Nineveh (English pronunciation: /ˈnɪn.ɪv.ə/; Akkadian: Ninwe; Classical Syriac: ܢܸܢܘܵܐ‎; Hebrew: נינוה‎ Nīnewē; Greek: Νινευη Nineuē; Latin: Nineve; Arabic: نينوى‎ Naynuwa; Persian: نینوا‎ Nainavā) was an ancient Assyrian city on the eastern bank of the Tigris River, and capital of the Neo Assyrian Empire. Its ruins are across the river from the modern-day major city of Mosul, in the Ninawa Governorate of Iraq.

The origin of the name Nineveh is obscure. Possibly it meant originally the seat of Ishtar, since Nina was one of the Babylonian names of that goddess. The ideogram means "house or place of fish," and was perhaps due to popular etymology (comp. Aramaic "nuna," denoting "fish").

Ancient Nineveh's mound-ruins of Kouyunjik and Nabī Yūnus are located on a level part of the plain near the junction of the Tigris and the Khosr Rivers within a 7 km² (1732 acres) area circumscribed by a 12-kilometre (7.5 mi) brick rampart. This whole extensive space is now one immense area of ruins overlaid in parts by new suburbs of the city of Mosul. 

wn.com/Nineveh





North Pole

Coordinates: 90°N 0°W﻿ / ﻿90°N 0°W﻿ / 90; -0

The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole, is, subject to the caveats explained below, defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface. It should not be confused with the North Magnetic Pole.

The North Pole is the northernmost point on Earth, lying diametrically opposite the South Pole. It defines geodetic latitude 90° North, as well as the direction of true north. At the North Pole all directions point south; all lines of longitude converge there, so its longitude can be defined as any degree value.

While the South Pole lies on a continental land mass, the North Pole is located in the middle of the Arctic Ocean amid waters that are almost permanently covered with constantly shifting sea ice. This makes it impractical to construct a permanent station at the North Pole (unlike the South Pole). However, the Soviet Union, and later Russia, have constructed a number of manned drifting stations on a generally annual basis since 1937, some of which have passed over or very close to the Pole. In recent years, a number of studies have predicted that the North Pole may become seasonally ice-free due to Arctic shrinkage, with timescales varying from next year to fifty years or more.

wn.com/North_Pole





Sodom and Gomorrah

                            Sodom and Gomorrah ( /ˈsɒd.əm/; /ɡə.ˈmɔr.ə/) were cities mentioned in the Book of Genesis and throughout the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament and Deuterocanonical sources, as well as the Quran. According to the Torah, the kingdoms of Sodom and Gomorrah were allied with the cities of Admah, Zeboim and Bela. These five cities, also known as the "cities of the plain", were situated on the Jordan river plain in the southern region of the land of Canaan. The Jordan river plain (which corresponds to area just north of the modern day Dead Sea) has been compared to the garden of Eden,[Gen.13:10] being a land well-watered and green, suitable for grazing livestock.

Divine judgment by Yahweh was then passed upon Sodom and Gomorrah along with two other neighboring cities that were completely consumed by fire and brimstone. Neighboring Zoar was the only city to be spared during that day of judgment.[Deut.29:23][Gen.10:19] In Christian and Islamic traditions, Sodom and Gomorrah have become synonymous with impenitent sin, and their fall with a proverbial manifestation of God's wrath.[Jude 1:7] Sodom and Gomorrah have been used as metaphors for vice and homosexuality viewed as a deviation. The story has therefore given rise to words in several languages, including the English word sodomy, used in so-called sodomy laws to describe a sexual "crime against nature" consisting of anal sex, either homosexual or heterosexual.

wn.com/Sodom_and_Gomorrah





Tretyakov Gallery

                            The State Tretyakov Gallery (Russian: Государственная Третьяковская Галерея, Gosudarstvennaâ Tret´âkovskaâ Galereâ; abbreviated Russian: ГТГ, GTG) is an art gallery in Moscow, Russia, the foremost depository of Russian fine art in the world.

The gallery's history starts in 1856 when the Moscow merchant Pavel Mikhailovich Tretyakov acquired works by Russian artists of his day with the aim of creating a collection, which might later grow into a museum of national art. In 1892, Tretyakov presented his already famous collection of approximately 2,000 works (1,362 paintings, 526 drawings, and 9 sculptures) to the Russian nation.

The façade of the gallery building was designed by the painter Viktor Vasnetsov in a peculiar Russian fairy-tale style. It was built in 1902–04 to the south from the Moscow Kremlin. During the 20th century, the gallery expanded to several neighboring buildings, including the 17th-century church of St. Nicholas in Tolmachi.

The collection contains more than 130,000 exhibits, ranging from Theotokos of Vladimir and Andrei Rublev's Trinity to the monumental Composition VII by Wassily Kandinsky and the Black Square by Kazimir Malevich.

wn.com/Tretyakov_Gallery





Waldburg

                            Waldburg is a town in the district of Ravensburg in Baden-Württemberg in Germany. Most notably is the medieval castle that sits atop the large hill in the town. Waldburg castle dates from the twelfth century, when Waldburg was a County of the Holy Roman Empire.

In 1424, the county was partitioned:



wn.com/Waldburg





Walters Art Museum

                            The Walters Art Museum, located in Baltimore, Maryland's Mount Vernon neighborhood, is a public art museum founded in 1934. The museum's collection was amassed substantially by two men, William Thompson Walters (1819–1894), who began serious collecting when he moved to Paris at the outbreak of the American Civil War, and his son Henry Walters (1848–1931), who refined the collection and rehoused it in a palazzo building on Charles Street which opened in 1909. Upon his death, Henry Walters bequeathed the collection of over 22,000 works and the original Charles Street palazzo building to the city of Baltimore, “for the benefit of the public.” The collection touches masterworks of ancient Egypt, Greek sculpture and Roman sarcophagi, medieval ivories, illuminated manuscripts, Renaissance bronzes, Old Master and 19th-century paintings, Chinese ceramics and bronzes, and Art Deco jewelry.

In 2000, the Walters Art Gallery changed its name to the Walters Art Museum to reflect its image as a large public institution. The following year, the museum reopened its largest building after a dramatic three-year renovation. The Walters Art Museum is where the Archimedes Palimpsest is on loan from a private collector for conservation and spectral imaging studies.

wn.com/Walters_Art_Museum














Aaron

                            In the Hebrew Bible and the Qur'an, Aaron ( /ˈærən/ or /ˈɛərən/;Hebrew: אַהֲרֹן‎ Ahărōn, Arabic: هارون‎ Hārūn, Greek (Septuagint): Ααρών ), who is often called "'Aaron the Priest"' (אֵהֲרֹן הֵכֹּהֵן) and once Aaron the Levite (אַהֲרֹן הַלֵּוִי) (Exodus 4:14), was the older brother of Moses, (Exodus 6:16-20, 7:7; Qur'an 28:34) and a prophet of God. He represented the priestly functions of his tribe, becoming the first High Priest of the Israelites. While Moses was receiving his education at the Egyptian royal court, and during his exile among the Midianites, Aaron and his sister Miriam remained with their kinsmen in the eastern border-land of Egypt (Goshen). There, Aaron gained a name for eloquent and persuasive speech, so that when the time came for the demand upon the Pharaoh to release Israel from captivity, Aaron became his brother’s nabi, or spokesman, to his own people (Exodus 7:1) and, after their unwillingness to hear, to the Pharaoh himself (Exodus 7:9). Various dates for his life have been proposed, ranging from approximately 1600 to 1200 BC.

wn.com/Aaron





Aaron Douglas

                            Aaron Douglas (May 26, 1899 – February 3, 1979) was an African American painter and a major figure in the Harlem Renaissance.

Aaron Douglas was born in Topeka, Kansas, to Aaron and Elizabeth Douglas. He developed an interest in art during his childhood and was encouraged in his pursuits by his mother. A native of Topeka, Kansas, Douglas graduated from Topeka High School in 1917. He received his B.A. degree from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 1922. In 1925, Douglas moved to New York City, settling in Harlem. Just a few months after his arrival he began to produce illustrations for both The Crisis and Opportunity, the two most important magazines associated with the Harlem Renaissance. He also began studying with Winold Reiss, a German artist who had been hired by Alain Locke to illustrate The New Negro. Reiss's teaching helped Douglas develop the modernist style he would employ for the next decade. Douglas’s engagement with African and Egyptian design brought him to the attention of W. E. B. Du Bois and Dr. Locke, who were pressing for young African American artists to express their African heritage and African American folk culture in their art.

wn.com/Aaron_Douglas





Abraham

                            Abraham (Hebrew:  אַבְרָהָם (help·info), Modern: Avraham, Tiberian: ʼAḇrāhām, Ashkenazi Avrohom or Avruhom, Arabic: إبراهيم‎ Ibrāhīm, Ge'ez: አብርሃም ʼAbrəham, Greek: Aβραάμ, Russian: Авраам), whose birth name was Abram, is the eponym of the Abrahamic religions, among which are Judaism, Christianity and Islam. According to both the Hebrew Bible and the Qur'an, through his sons Ishmael and Isaac, Abraham is the forefather of many tribes, namely the Ishmaelites, Israelites, Midianites and Edomites. Abraham was a descendant of Noah's son, Shem. Christians believe that Jesus was a descendant of Abraham through Isaac, and Muslims believe that Muhammad was a descendant of Abraham through Ishmael. Abraham is notable for his advocation and promotion of monotheism.

The Book of Genesis narrative that records the life of Abraham presents his role as one that could only be fulfilled through a monotheistic covenant established between him and God. The Qur'an has stories about Abraham and his offspring that are similar to the Bible's. In Islam, Abraham is recognised as a prophet, patriarch and messenger, archetype of the perfect Muslim, and reformer of the Kaaba.

wn.com/Abraham





Abu Bakr

                            Abu Bakr (Abdullah ibn Abi Quhafa) (Arabic: عبد الله بن أبي قحافة, Transliteration: ʿAbd Allāh ibn Abī Quḥāfah, c. 573 CE - 634 CE) also known as Abū Bakr as-Șiddīq (Arabic: أبو بكر الصديق) was a senior companion (Sahabi) and the father-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He ruled over the Rashidun Caliphate from 632–634 CE when he became the first Muslim Caliph following Muhammad's death. As Caliph, Abu Bakr succeeded to the political and administrative functions previously exercised by Muhammad, since the religious function and authority of prophethood ended with Muhammad's death according to Islam. He was called Al-Siddiq (The Truthful) and was known by that title among later generations of Muslims.

As a young man, Abu Bakr became a cloth merchant and he traveled extensively in Arabia and neighboring lands in the Middle East, through which he gained both wealth and experience. He eventually came to be recognized as the chief of his clan. On his return from a business trip to Yemen, he was informed that in his absence Muhammad had openly declared his prophethood. Not long after, Abu Bakr accepted Islam and was the first person outside the family of Muhammad to openly become a Muslim. He was instrumental in the conversion of many people to the Islamic faith and early in 623, Abu Bakr's daughter Aisha was married to Muhammad, strengthening the ties between the two men.

wn.com/Abu_Bakr





Abū Lahab

                            Abū Lahab (Arabic: أبو لهب‎, meaning Father of Flame) (died ca. 624 CE) was Muhammed's uncle, from his father's side, and one of the enemies of Islam at Muhammad's time, condemned by name in the Qur'an in sura Al-Masadd. His full name was Abd-al-Uzza, but he was called Abu Lahab because his cheeks were always red or inflamed. His wife was Umm Jamil, who gave him two sons, Utbah ibn Abu Lahab and Utaybah bin Abu Lahab.

When Muhammad claimed he was instructed by God to spread the message of Islam openly, he was told by the Quran to warn his kinsfolk about the punishment of God. In doing so, Muhammad climbed Mount Safa and shouted: Wa sabahah! which means "O calamity of the morning!" This alarm in Arabia was raised by the person who noticed early at dawn an enemy tribe advancing against his tribe. So when Muhammad did this, people asked who was the one who made the call. They were told that it was Muhammad. When all the people assembled, Muhammad addressed the clans by name. "O Bani Hashim, O Bani Abdul Muttalib... etc., If I were to tell you that behind this hill there is an enemy about to attack you, would you believe me?" The people responded that they would, since Muhammad was known to be honest. Muhammad continued and said "Then I warn you that you are heading for a torment." Before anybody could speak, Abu Lahab said: "Woe be on you the rest of the day! Is that what you summoned us for?" Another tradition recalls Abu Lahab picking up a stone to throw at Muhammad.[citation needed]

wn.com/Abū_Lahab





Adam

                            Adam (Hebrew: אָדָם‎, Arabic: آدم‎, Syriac: ܐܵܕ݂ܵܡ) is a figure in the Book of Genesis, the Qur'an and the Kitáb-i-Íqán. According to the creation myth of Abrahamic religions, he is the first human. In the Genesis creation narratives, he was created by Yahweh-Elohim ("Yahweh-God", the god of Israel), though the term "adam" can refer to both the first individual person, as well as to the general creation of humankind. Christian churches differ on how they view Adam's subsequent behavior (often called the Fall of man), and to the consequences that those actions had on the rest of humanity. Christian and Jewish teachings sometimes hold Adam and Eve (the first woman) to a different level of responsibility for the Fall, though Islamic teaching holds both equally responsible. In addition, Islam holds that Adam was eventually forgiven, while Christianity holds that redemption occurred only later through the sacrifice of God's son, Jesus Christ. Bahá'í Faith, Islam and some Christian denominations consider Adam to be the first Prophet.

wn.com/Adam





Agabus

                            Saint Agabus (Greek: Ἄγαβος) or Saint Agabo was an early follower of Christianity mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles as a prophet. He is traditionally remembered as one of the Seventy Disciples described in Luke 10:1-24.

According to Acts 11:27-28, he was one of a group of prophets who came to Antioch from Jerusalem. While there he predicted a severe famine that the author says came under the reign of the Roman Emperor Claudius.

Acts 21:10-12 records that many years later, in 58, Agabus met Paul of Tarsus at Caesarea Maritima and warned him of his coming capture; he bound his own hands and feet with Paul's belt to demonstrate what the Jews would do if he continued his journey to Jerusalem, though Paul would not be persuaded.

Agabus is revered as a saint in most branches of Christianity. The Roman Catholic Church celebrates his feast day on February 13, while the Eastern Christianity celebrates it on March 8. According to tradition he died a martyr in Antioch.

wn.com/Agabus





Agostino di Duccio

                            Agostino di Duccio (1418 – c. 1481) was an Italian early Renaissance sculptor.

Born in Florence, he worked in Prato with Donatello and Michelozzo, who influenced him greatly. In 1441, he was accused of stealing precious materials from a monastery in Florence and was banished from his native city as a result. The following year he continued the work on the altar of S. Geminiano for the Cathedral of Modena, a work noticeable for the influence of Michelozzo.

In 1446, he studied late Gothic sculpture in Venice and met Matteo de' Pasti who called on him to execute the sculptural decoration of the Tempio Malatestiano in Rimini, where he stayed from 1449 and 1457. The decorations were supposed to be a sort of mediaeval encyclopedia, with reliefs of zodiacal and other allegorical and mythological figures.

Between 1457 and 1462 he created the marble façade of the church of S. Bernardino at Perugia and the following years until 1470 he created many works especially in Florence, such as a Madonna d'Auvillers for Piero di Cosimo de' Medici, now found at the Louvre. In 1473 he designed the outer facade of the Porta di San Pietro in the city walls of Perugia, in a style influenced by Leone Battista Alberti. Other works are at Amelia and at the National Gallery of Umbria at Perugia. He died in about 1481 in Perugia.

wn.com/Agostino_di_Duccio





Agrippa I

                            Agrippa I, also known as Herod Agrippa or simply Herod (10 BC – 44 AD), was a King of the Jews during the 1st century AD. The grandson of Herod the Great and son of Aristobulus IV and Berenice. He was born Marcus Julius Agrippa, so named in honour of Roman statesman Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa. He is the king named Herod in the Acts of the Apostles, in the Bible, "Herod (Agrippa)" (Ἡρώδης Ἀγρίππας). He was, according to Josephus, known in his time as "Agrippa the Great". Christian and Jewish historiography take different views of this king, with the Christians largely opposing Agrippa and the Jews largely favoring Agrippa.

Agrippa's territory comprised most of Israel, including Iudaea, Galilee, Batanaea and Perea. From Galilee his territory extended east to Trachonitis.
Josephus informs us that, after the murder of his father, young Agrippa was sent by Herod the Great to the imperial court in Rome. There, Tiberius conceived a great affection for him, and had him educated alongside his son Drusus, who also befriended him, and future emperor Claudius. On the death of Drusus, Agrippa, who had been recklessly extravagant and was deeply in debt, was obliged to leave Rome, fleeing to the fortress of Malatha in Idumaea. There, it was said, he contemplated suicide.

wn.com/Agrippa_I





Agrippa II

                            Agrippa II (born AD 27/28), son of Agrippa I, and like him originally named Marcus Julius Agrippa, was the seventh and last king of the family of Herod the Great, thus last of the Herodians. He was the brother of Berenice, Mariamne, and Drusilla (second wife of the Roman procurator Antonius Felix). He is sometimes also called Herod Agrippa II.

Agrippa was educated at the court of the emperor Claudius, and at the time of his father's death was only seventeen years old. Claudius therefore kept him at Rome, and sent Cuspius Fadus as procurator of the Roman province of Judaea. While at Rome, he voiced his support for the Jews to Claudius, and against the Samaritans and the procurator of Iudaea Province, Ventidius Cumanus, who was lately thought to have been the cause of some disturbances there. On the death of Herod of Chalcis (in 48), his small principality (Chalcis, Syria) was given to Agrippa, with the right of superintending the Temple in Jerusalem and appointing its high priest. In 53, he was deprived of that kingdom by Claudius, who made him governor over the tetrarchy of Philip and Lysanias. Agrippa celebrated by marrying off his two sisters Mariamne and Drusilla. Flavius Josephus, the Jewish historian, repeats the gossip that Agrippa lived in incestuous carnality with his sister, Berenice.

wn.com/Agrippa_II




Alphaeus

                            Alphaeus is mentioned in the New Testament as the father of two of the Twelve Apostles, namely:

There may have been two separate men named Alphaeus. Though both Matthew and James are described as being the "son of Alphaeus" there is no Biblical account of the two being called brothers, even in the same context where John and James or Peter and Andrew are described as being brothers.

Alphaeus is traditionally identified with Clopas, based on the identification from parallel Gospel accounts of Mary, the mother of James the third woman with Mary Magdalene and Salome wife of Zebedee beside the cross in Matthew with Mary, the wife of Clopas, the third woman in John's account. The Catholic Encyclopedia suggest that etymologically, the names "Clopas" and "Alphaeus" are different, but that they could still be the same person. Other sources propose that Alphaeus, Clophas and Cleophas are variant attempts to render the Aramaic "H" in Aramaic Hilfai into Greek as aspirated, or "K."

wn.com/Alphaeus




Amram

                            In the Book of Exodus, Amram (Hebrew: עַמְרָם, Modern Amram Tiberian ʻAmrām ; Friend of the most high/The people are exalted) Arabic عمران Imran, is the father of Aaron, Moses, and Miriam and the husband of Jochebed.

In addition to being married to Jochebed, Amram is also described in the Bible as having been related to Jochebed prior to the marriage, although the exact relationship is uncertain; some Greek and Latin manuscripts of the Septuagint state that Jochebed was Amram's father's cousin, and others state that Amram was Jochebed's cousin, but the Masoretic text states that he was Jochebed's nephew. Amram's name changes to Imram later in the Bible.

Textual scholars attribute the biblical genealogy to the Book of Generations, a document originating from a similar religiopolitical group and date to the priestly source. According to biblical scholars, the Torah's genealogy for Levi's descendants, is actually an aetiological myth reflecting the fact that there were four different groups among the levites – the Gershonites, Kohathites, Merarites, and Aaronids; Aaron – the eponymous ancestor of the Aaronids – couldn't be portrayed as a brother to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari, as the narrative about the birth of Moses (brother of Aaron), which textual scholars attribute to the earlier Elohist source, mentions only that both his parents were Levites (without identifying their names). Biblical scholars suspect that the Elohist account offers both matrilinial and patrilinial descent from Levites in order to magnify the religious credentials of Moses.

wn.com/Amram





Ananias and Sapphira

                            Ananias ( /ˌænəˈnaɪ.əs/) and his wife Sapphira ( /sæˈfaɪərə/) were, according to the Acts of the Apostles, members of the Early Christian church in Jerusalem. The account records their sudden deaths after lying to the apostles about money.

Acts chapter 4:32 closes by stating that the first followers of Jesus did not consider their possessions to be their own, but they had all things in common to use what they had on behalf of those in want. Barnabas, a Levite from Cyprus, sold a plot of land and donated the profit to the apostles.

As told at the beginning of Acts chapter 5 Ananias and Sapphira, following Barnabas' example but not willing to give all, also sold their land but withheld a portion of the sales. Ananias presented his donation to Peter claiming that it was the entire amount. Peter replied, "Why is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit?" Peter pointed out that Ananias was in control of the money and could give or keep it as he saw fit, but that he had withheld it from Peter and lied about it, and stated that Ananias had not only lied to Peter, but also to God. Ananias died on the spot and was carried out. As a result, everyone who heard the incident feared the Lord. Three hours after Ananias' death his wife told the same lie and also fell dead.

wn.com/Ananias_and_Sapphira





Ananias of Damascus

                            Ananias (pronounced /ænəˈnaɪəs/ AN-ə-NY-əs, Ancient Greek: Ἀνανίας, same as Hebrew חנניה, Hananiah, "favoured of the LORD"), was a disciple of Jesus at Damascus mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles in the Bible, which describes how he was sent by Jesus to restore the sight of "Saul, of Tarsus" (known later as Paul the Apostle) and provide him with additional instruction in the way of the Lord.

According to Acts 9:10, Ananias lived in the city of Damascus. In Paul's speech in Acts 22, he describes Ananias as "a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews" that dwelt in Damascus (Acts 22:12). According to F. F. Bruce, this indicates that he was not one of the refugees from the persecution in Jerusalem described in Acts 8:1.

During his conversion experience, Jesus had told Paul, (who was then called Saul,) to go into the city and wait. Jesus later spoke to Ananias in a vision, and told him to go to the "street which is called Straight", and ask "in the house of Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus". (Acts 9:11) Ananias objected that Saul had been persecuting "thy saints", but the Lord told him that Saul was "a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel". (Acts 9:15). When Ananias went in to Saul and laid his hands on him, the "scales" of dead tissue on the surface of his eyes fell off, and he looked up at Ananias. After additional instruction, Saul was baptized. (Acts 9:18; 22:16)

wn.com/Ananias_of_Damascus





Andy Whitfield

                            Andy Whitfield (died 11 September 2011) was a Welsh-Australian actor and model. He was best known for his leading role in the Starz television series Spartacus: Blood and Sand during 2010.

Whitfield was born in Amlwch, Wales. He studied engineering at the University of Sheffield, England and worked in Lidcombe, New South Wales, Australia as an engineer before settling in Sydney in 1999. He appeared in several Australian television series, such as Opening Up, All Saints, The Strip, Packed to the Rafters, and McLeod's Daughters.

Whitfield gained his first prominent role in the Australian supernatural film Gabriel. He also starred in the 2010 television series Spartacus: Blood and Sand, which was filmed in New Zealand. He portrays a version of the historical Spartacus, although in this retelling he is a conscripted soldier condemned to death who defeats all four of his executioners and is thereby recycled as a gladiator. The actual Spartacus, like this fictional version, was destined to lead a rebellion against the Romans (the Third Servile War). Whitfield also appeared in the Australian thriller The Clinic starring opposite Tabrett Bethell (of Legend of the Seeker fame) which was shot in Deniliquin.

wn.com/Andy_Whitfield





Annas

                            Annas [also Ananus or Ananias], son of Seth (23/22 BC–death date unknown, probably around 40CE), was appointed by the Roman legate Quirinius as the first High Priest of the newly formed Roman province of Iudaea in 6 AD; just after the Romans had deposed Archelaus, Ethnarch of Judaea, thereby putting Judaea directly under Roman rule.

Annas officially served as High Priest for ten years (6–15 AD), when at the age of 36 he was deposed by the procurator Gratus 'for imposing and executing capital sentences which had been forbidden by the imperial government.' Yet while having been officially removed from office, he remained as one of the nation's most influential political and social individuals, aided greatly by the use of his five sons and his son-in-law as puppet High Priests. His death is unrecorded, but his son Annas the Younger, also known as Ananus ben Ananus was assassinated in 66 AD for advocating peace with Rome.

Annas appears in the Gospels and Passion plays as a high priest before whom Jesus is brought for judgment, prior to being brought before Pontius Pilate.

wn.com/Annas





Antipas of Pergamum

                            Many Christian traditions believe Saint Antipas to be the Antipas referred to in the Book of Revelation (Revelation 2:13) as the "faithful martyr" of Pergamon, "where Satan dwells". According to Christian tradition, John the Apostle ordained Antipas as bishop of Pergamon during the reign of the Roman emperor Domitian. The traditional account goes on to say Antipas was martyred in ca. 92 AD by burning in a brazen bull-shaped altar used for casting out demons worshiped by the local population.

There is a tradition of oil ("manna of the saints") being secreted from the relics of Saint Antipas. On the calendars of Eastern Christianity, the feast day of Antipas is April 11.

Some Christians pray to this saint for ailments of the teeth.


wn.com/Antipas_of_Pergamum





Anton Raphael Mengs

                            Anton Raphael Mengs (March 22, 1728 – June 29, 1779) was a German painter, active in Rome, Madrid and Saxony, who became one of the precursors to Neoclassical painting.

Mengs was born in 1728 at Ústí nad Labem (German: Aussig) in Bohemia. His father, Ismael Mengs, a Danish painter, established himself finally at Dresden, whence in 1741 he took his son to Rome.

In Rome, his fresco painting of Parnassus at Villa Albani gained him a reputation as a master painter. The appointment of Mengs in 1749 as first painter to Frederick Augustus, elector of Saxony, did not prevent his spending much time in Rome, where he had married Margarita Guazzi who had sat for him as a model in 1748, and abjured the Protestant faith, and where he became in 1754 director of the Vatican school of painting, nor did this hinder him on two occasions from obeying the call of Charles III of Spain to Madrid. There Mengs produced some of his best work, and specially the ceiling of the banqueting-hall of the Royal Palace of Madrid, the subject of which was the Triumph of Trajan and the Temple of Glory. Among his pupils there was Agustín Esteve. After the completion of this work in 1777, Mengs returned to Rome, and there he died, two years later, in poor circumstances, leaving twenty children, seven of whom were pensioned by the king of Spain. His portraits and self-portraits recall an attention to detail and insight, often lost from the grand manner paintings.

wn.com/Anton_Raphael_Mengs





Antonius Felix

                            Marcus Antonius Felix (Felix in Greek: ο Φηλιξ, born between 5/10-?) was the Roman procurator of Iudaea Province 52-58, in succession to Ventidius Cumanus.

Felix was the younger brother of the Greek freedman Marcus Antonius Pallas. Pallas served as a secretary of the treasury during the reign of the Emperor Claudius. Felix was a Greek freedman either of Claudius, according to which theory Josephus (Antiq. xx. 7) calls him Claudius Felix, or for Claudius's mother Antonia Minor, a daughter of Triumvir Mark Antony to Octavia Minor and niece of Emperor Augustus. According to Tacitus, Pallas and Felix descended from the Greek Kings of Arcadia.

Felix’s cruelty and licentiousness, coupled with his accessibility to bribes (see Book of Acts 24:26), led to a great increase of crime in Judaea. The period of his rule was marked by internal feuds and disturbances, which he put down with severity.

After Paul the Apostle was arrested in Jerusalem and rescued from a plot against his life, the local Roman chiliarch Claudius Lysias transferred him to Caesarea, where he stood trial before Felix. On at least one further occasion Felix and his wife Drusilla heard Paul discourse, and later on frequently sent for Paul and talked with him (Acts 24:24-26). When Felix was succeeded as procurator, having already detained Paul for two years, he left him imprisoned as a favor to the Jews (Acts 24:27).

wn.com/Antonius_Felix




Apollos

                            Saint Apollos (Ἀπολλώς; contracted from Apollonius) is an apostle who is also a 1st century Alexandrian Jewish Christian mentioned several times in the New Testament. After the Christian couple Priscilla and Aquila corrected his incomplete Christian doctrine, his special gifts in preaching Jesus persuasively made him an important person in the congregation at Corinth, Greece after Paul's first visit there.[1 Cor. 3:6] He was with Paul at a later date in Ephesus.[16:12]

Paul considered Apollos to be an apostle (1 Cor 4:6, 9-13)[1] who became a leader in the important Corinthian congregation.[1 Cor 3:6] [4:6] [16:12] In harmony with Paul's notices are the statements in Acts that Apollos was a highly educated Alexandrian Jew, who "spoke and taught accurately about Jesus, even though he knew only the baptism of John." [Acts 18:24-28] He came to Ephesus (probably in the year 52-3). After Christians in Ephesus first wrote to their counterparts recommending Apollos to them, he went to Achaia where Paul names him as an apostle (1 Cor 4:6, 9-13) Given that Paul only saw himself as an apostle 'untimely born' (1 Cor 15:8) it is certain that Apollos became an apostle in the regular way (as a witness to the risen Lord and commissioned by Jesus - 1 Cor 15:5-9; 1 Cor 9:1).

wn.com/Apollos




Archippus

                            Archippus (Greek for "master of the horse") was an early Christian believer mentioned briefly in the New Testament epistles of Philemon and Colossians.

In Paul's letter to Philemon (Philemon 1:2), Archippus is named once alongside Philemon and Apphia as a host of the church, and a "fellow soldier." In Colossians 4:17 (ascribed to Paul), the church is instructed to tell Archippus to "Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it."

According to the 4th century Apostolic Constitutions (7.46), Archippus was the first bishop of Laodicea in Phrygia (now part of Turkey). Another tradition states that he was one of the 72 disciples appointed by Jesus Christ in Luke 10:1. The Roman Catholic Church observes a feast day for Saint Archippus on March 20.

wn.com/Archippus





Asif bin Barkhiya

                            Āṣif bin Barkhiyā (Arabic: آصف بن برخيا‎) is thought to be the Islamic scriptural figure who brought Queen of Sheba's throne to King Solomon "...in the twinkling of an eye". Credited with the role of court vizier, it is a story occasionally recounted in middle-eastern lore, but perhaps more so in occult circles. The figure himself is largely unexpounded, as very few references to him are found in classical texts other than through subtle terms in Chapter 27 of the Qur'an. He is, however, apparent in a number of books that deal with Islamic occultism or Ruhaniyya, and in one that appears to be attributed directly to him (titled, al-Ajnas). In like manner, the Quranic exegetical tradition through the ages held him prominently where the powers he possessed were associated to the Ineffable Name of Allah.

The Qur'an narration is as follows:

He said, 'O Council, which one of you will bring me her throne, before they come to me in surrender?' [Quran 27:38]

An efreet of the jinns said, 'I will bring it to thee, before thou risest from thy place; I have strength for it [Quran 27:39]

wn.com/Asif_bin_Barkhiya





Balaam

                            Balaam (Hebrew: בִּלְעָם, Standard Bilʻam Tiberian Bilʻām) is a diviner in the Torah, his story occurring towards the end of the Book of Numbers (Hebrew: במדבר). The etymology of his name is uncertain, and discussed below. Every ancient reference to Balaam considers him a non-Israelite, a prophet, and the son of Beor, though Beor is not so clearly identified. Though other sources describe the apparently positive blessings he delivers upon the Israelites, he is reviled as a "wicked man"  in the major story concerning him. Balaam attempted to curse God's people. He failed all three tries, each time producing blessings, not curses (Numbers 22-24). Balaam's error and the source of his wickedness came not from the curses he never delivered on, but from sabotaging the Israelites as they entered the Promised Land. According to Numbers 31:16 and St. John (Revelation 2:14), Balaam returned to King Balak and informed the king on how to get the Israelites to curse themselves by enticing them with prostitutes and unclean food sacrificed to idols. The Israelites fell into transgression due to these traps and YHWH sent a deadly plague to them as a result (Numbers 31:16).

wn.com/Balaam





Barabbas

                            Barabbas or Jesus Barabbas (literally "son of the father" or "Jesus, son of the father" respectively) is a figure in the Christian narrative of the Passion of Jesus, in which he is the insurrectionary whom Pontius Pilate freed at the Passover feast in Jerusalem.

The penalty for Barabbas' crime was death by crucifixion, but according to the four canonical gospels and the non-canonical Gospel of Peter there was a prevailing Passover custom in Jerusalem that allowed or required Pilate, the praefectus or governor of Judaea, to commute one prisoner's death sentence by popular acclaim, and the "crowd" (ochlos) — which has become "the Jews" and "the multitude" in some translations — were offered a choice of whether to have Barabbas or Jesus Christ released from Roman custody. According to the closely parallel gospels of Matthew,Mark, and Luke, and the accounts in John and the Gospel of Peter, the crowd chose Barabbas to be released and Jesus of Nazareth to be crucified. A passage found only in the Gospel of Matthew has the crowd saying, "Let his blood be upon us and upon our children".

wn.com/Barabbas





Barachiel

                            Barachiel the Archangel (Heb. ברכיאל "Bārkiʼēl", (Lightning of God); Arabic: بُراقيل‎ "Burāqīl") is one of the seven Archangels in Eastern Orthodox tradition.

In the Third Book of Enoch he is described as one of the angelic princes, with a myriad of some 496,000 ministering angels attending him. He is counted as one of the four ruling seraphim, and counted the prince of the second heaven and of the order of confessors. He is described in the Almadel of Solomon as one of the chief angels of the first and fourth chora. He is regarded as the angel of lightning.

In iconography Barachiel is sometimes shown holding a white rose against the chest, or with rose petals scattered on the clothing, particularly the cloak. In Roman Catholicism, Barachiel is depicted holding a bread basket.

Barachiel's responsibilities are as varied as the blessings for which the archangel is named, Barachiel is also the chief of the guardian angels and it is written that Barachiel may be prayed to for all the benefits which the guardian angel is thought to confer if one is not praying to the guardian angel directly, but as an intercession.

wn.com/Barachiel





Barnabas

                            Barnabas (Ancient Greek: Βαρναβᾶς), born Joseph, was an Early Christian, one of the earliest Christian disciples in Jerusalem. According to Acts 4:36 Barnabas was a Cypriot Jew. Named an apostle in Acts 14:14, he and Saint Paul undertook missionary journeys together and defended Gentile converts against a faction promoting Gentile circumcision (see also Judaizers). They gained many converts in Antioch (c 43-44), traveled together making more converts (c 45-47), and participated in the Council of Jerusalem (c 50). Barnabas and Paul successfully evangelized among the "God-fearing" gentiles who attended synagogues in various Hellenized cities of Anatolia (modern day Turkey).

Barnabas' story appears in the Acts of the Apostles, and Paul mentions him in some of his epistles.Tertullian named him as the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews, but this and other attributions are conjecture.Clement of Alexandria ascribed an early Christian epistle to Barnabas (Epistle of Barnabas), but that is highly improbable.

wn.com/Barnabas





Basil II

                            Basil II (Greek: Βασίλειος Β΄, Basileios II; 958 – December 15, 1025) was a Byzantine Emperor from the Macedonian dynasty who reigned from January 10, 976 to December 15, 1025. He was known in his time as Basil the Porphyrogenitus and Basil the Young to distinguish him from his ancestor Basil I the Macedonian,

The first part of his long reign was dominated by civil war against powerful generals from the Anatolian aristocracy. Following their submission, Basil oversaw the stabilization and expansion of the Byzantine Empire's eastern frontier, and above all, the final and complete subjugation of Bulgaria, the Empire's foremost European foe, after a prolonged struggle. For this he was nicknamed by later authors as "the Bulgar-slayer" (Greek: Βουλγαροκτόνος, Boulgaroktonos), by which he is popularly known. At his death, the Empire stretched from Southern Italy to the Caucasus and from the Danube to the borders of Palestine, its greatest territorial extent since the Muslim conquests, four centuries earlier.

wn.com/Basil_II





Biblical Magi

                            The Magi ( /ˈmædʒaɪ/;Greek: μάγοι, magoi), also referred to as the (Three) Wise Men, (Three) Kings, or Kings from the East, were, according to Christian Scripture, a group of distinguished foreigners who visited Jesus after his birth, bearing gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. They are regular figures in traditional accounts of the nativity celebrations of Christmas and are an important part of the Christian tradition.

The Gospel of Matthew, the only one of the four Canonical gospels to mention the Magi, states that they came "from the east" to worship the Christ, "born King of the Jews." Although the account does not tell how many they were, the three gifts led to a widespread assumption that they were three as well. In the East, the magi traditionally number twelve. Their identification as kings in later Christian writings is probably linked to Psalms 72:11, “May all kings fall down before him”.

The New Revised Standard Version of Matthew 2:1–12 describes the visit of the Magi:

wn.com/Biblical_Magi




Blastus

                            Blastus was the chamberlain of Herod Agrippa (Acts 12:20), and a mediator for the Sidonians and Tyrians. Blastus was involved in the events that led to Herod's death.

According to Acts 12:20, Herod was displeased with the people of Sidon and Tyre (Lebanon), and forbade the export of food to them. Dependent on the food exports, the Sidonians and Tyrians made Blastus "their friend" (possibly through bribery). Blastus helped them obtain an audience with Herod. Acts 12:23 states that Herod was struck dead by God when the people of Sidon and Tyre offered him worship.

The story of Herod's death is somewhat corroborated by the contemporary historian Josephus. However Josephus does not mention the involvement of Blastus.

The 2010 Cartoon Network television show Robotomy includes a character named Blastus, who is an "outsider" robot that lives on the planet of Insanus. Voiced by John Gemberling, Blustus is unlike most robots on Insanus, in being sensitive and non-homicidal. In his quest to become popular, he is incredibly impulsive and overconfident in his abilities. He is the sidekick to another robot, Thrasher.[citation needed]

wn.com/Blastus





Caiaphas

                            Joseph, son of Caiaphas, Hebrew יוסף בַּר קַיָּפָא or Yosef Bar Kayafa, commonly known simply as Caiaphas (Greek: Καϊάφας) in the New Testament, was the Roman-appointed Jewish high priest who is said to have organized the plot to kill Jesus. Caiaphas is also said to have been involved in the Sanhedrin trial of Jesus.

According to the Gospel accounts, Caiaphas was the major antagonist of Jesus. An ossuary of the high priest, Joseph Caiaphas, was found in Jerusalem in 1990. However, the authenticity of that discovery has been challenged by some scholars on various grounds.

The first-century Jewish historian Josephus is considered the most reliable literary source for Caiaphas. His works contain information on the dates for Caiaphas's tenure of the high priesthood, along with reports on other high priests, and also help to establish a coherent description of the responsibilities of the high-priestly office. Josephus (Antiquitates Judaicae 18.33-35) relates that Caiaphas became a high priest during a turbulent period. He also states that the proconsul Vitellius deposed him (Antiquitates Judaicae 18.95-97). Josephus' account is based on an older source in which incumbents of the high priesthood were listed chronologically.

wn.com/Caiaphas





Caleb

                            Caleb ([pronunciation?]; כָּלֵב, Kalev; Tiberian vocalization: Kālēḇ; Hebrew Academy: Kalev) is a male given name. A character called Caleb is named in the Bible. A reference to him may also be found in the Quran, although his name is not mentioned.

When the Hebrews came to the outskirts of Canaan, the land that had been promised to them by God, after having fled slavery in Egypt, Moses (the Hebrew leader) sent twelve spies (Hebrew: מרגלים‎, meraglim) into Canaan to report on what was there—one spy representing each of the Twelve Tribes. Ten of the spies returned to say that the land would be impossible to claim, and that giants lived there who would crush the Hebrew army. Only two, Joshua (from the tribe of Ephraim) and Caleb (representing Judah), returned and said that God would be able to deliver Canaan into the hands of the Hebrew nation.

The Bible records that, because of the testimony of ten of the spies, the Hebrews chose not to enter Canaan. For this disobedience, God caused them to wander in the desert for forty years before being allowed to enter Canaan and conquer it as their home. The only adult Israelites allowed to survive these forty years and enter Canaan were Joshua and Caleb (son of Jephunneh), as a reward for their faith in God. This is recorded in the Book of Numbers. Caleb is called "my servant" by God in Numbers 14:24, a position of the highest honor heretofore used only for Moses. Caleb, son of Jephunneh,first mentioned in the above account (Numbers 13:6) is not to be confused with another Caleb, great-grandson of Judah through Tamar( 1 Chronicles 2:3-9). This other Caleb was the son of Hezron, and his wife was Azubah (I Chronicles 2:18,19).

wn.com/Caleb





Christopher Walken

                            Christopher Walken (/ˈwɔːkən/; born March 31, 1943) is an American stage and screen actor. He has appeared in more than 100 movies and television shows, including The Deer Hunter, Annie Hall, The Prophecy trilogy, The Dogs of War, Sleepy Hollow, Brainstorm, The Dead Zone, A View to a Kill, At Close Range, King of New York, True Romance, Catch Me If You Can, Pulp Fiction, Wedding Crashers, The Rundown, Click, and Hairspray, as well as music videos by recording artists such as Madonna, Journey, Run DMC, The Left Rights and Fatboy Slim.

Walken's films have grossed more than $1.8 billion in the United States. He has also played the main role in the Shakespeare plays Hamlet, Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet, and Coriolanus. He is also a popular guest-host of Saturday Night Live, having hosted 7 times as of April 2008. His most notable roles on the show include record producer Bruce Dickinson (no relation to the singer with the same name) in the "More Cowbell" sketch and his multiple appearances as The Continental.

wn.com/Christopher_Walken




Claudius Lysias

                            Claudius Lysias is a figure mentioned in the New Testament book of the Acts of the Apostles. According to Acts 21:31-24:22, Lysias was a Roman Tribune and the commander (chiliarch) of the Roman garrison ("cohort" Acts 21:31) in Jerusalem.

Claudius Lysias is called "the tribune" (χιλίαρχος chiliarch) 16 times within Acts 21-24 (21.31-33, 37; 22.24, 26-29; 23.10, 15, 17, 19, 22; 24.22); 17 times if Claudius Lysias is also included in among the "military tribunes" in the "audience hall" when Herod Agrippa II and Bernice come to hear Paul (Acts 25:23). However, such a speculation is uncertain especially considering a minimum of two years from when Claudius Lysias sent Paul to the Procurator Marcus Antonius Felix in c. AD 57/58 Acts 23:26-35, to within the first few months of the new Procurator Porcius Festus who rules from AD 60-62 (Acts 24:27-25:1-22).

The Greek term Χιλίαρχος is said to be used to translate the Roman tribunus militum (following Polybius), and also for the phrase tribuni militares consulari potestate (Plutarch). The responsibilities of a χιλίαρχος were as a "commander of a thousand men". Essentially, Claudius Lysias is "a high ranking military officer in charge" of anywhere from 600 to 1,000 men, and this appears to be the case for it is said that his command was over a "cohort" (σπειρα, speira) in Jerusalem which is "the tenth part of a Roman legion having about 600 men" (Acts 21:31).

wn.com/Claudius_Lysias





Cleopas

                            Cleopas (or Cleophas, Greek Κλεόπας) was a figure of early Christianity, one of the two disciples who encountered Jesus during the Road to Emmaus appearance in the Gospel of Luke 24:13-32.

Some writers claim that the name Clopas in John 19 ("Mary of Clopas" Κλόπας) is a Hellenized form of a claimed Aramaic name Qlopha (קלופא), while Cleopas' name (Κλεόπας) is claimed to be an abbreviated form of "Cleopatros," which is claimed to be a "common" Hellenistic name meaning "son of a renowned father". However evidence for the male name Cleopatros (Κλεοπατρος) is unknown.

Others consider that Clophas, Cleophas and Alphaeus are all the same name.

Cleopas appears in Luke 24:13-27 as one of two disciples walking from Jerusalem to Emmaus. Cleopas is named in verse 18, while his companion remains unnamed.

This occurs three days after the crucifixion, on the day of Jesus' resurrection. The two have heard the tomb of Jesus was found empty earlier that day. They are discussing the events of the past few days when a stranger asks them what they are discussing. "Their eyes were kept from recognizing him." He soon rebukes them for their unbelief and gives them a Bible study on prophecies about the Messiah. They ask the stranger to join them for the evening meal. When he breaks the bread "their eyes were opened" and they recognize him as the resurrected Jesus. Jesus immediately vanishes.

wn.com/Cleopas




Clopas

                            Clopas (Greek Klopas Κλωπᾶς; Hebrew possibly חלפי (Halfi); Aramaic חילפאי (Hilfài), is a figure of early Christianity. The name appears only once in the New Testament, specifically in John 19:25:

He is often identified with another figure of a similar name, Cleopas (Κλεοπᾶς), one of the two disciples of Emmaus Luke 24:13-27. There is some variation of the Greek manuscripts in both John 19:25 and Luke 24 as to the spelling Κλ[ε]οπᾶς, and the John "Clopas" is rendered "Cleophas" in the KJV.

The identity of the other women in the parallel passages in Matthew 27:56 and Mark 15:40 is given as Mary Magdalene, "Mary the mother of James and Joses," and "Salome the mother of Zebedee's children" (Matthew), "Salome" (Mark). Luke does not mention the women watching near the cross. The parallels continue again with accounts of the burial. Matthew 28:1 has "Mary Magdalene and the other Mary" with no mention of John's mother Salome, Mark 16:1 has again Mary Magdalene, "Mary the mother of James" and Salome. Luke says "they," John mentions only Mary Magdalene.

wn.com/Clopas





Cole Porter

                            Cole Albert Porter (June 9, 1891 – October 15, 1964) was an American composer and songwriter. Born to a wealthy family in Indiana, he defied the wishes of his domineering grandfather and took up music as a profession. Classically trained, he was drawn towards musical theatre. After a slow start, he began to achieve success in the 1920s, and by the 1930s he was one of the major songwriters for the Broadway musical stage. Unlike most successful Broadway composers, Porter wrote both the lyrics and the music for his songs.

After a serious horseback riding accident in 1937, Porter was left disabled and in constant pain, but he continued to work. His shows of the early 1940s did not contain the lasting hits of his best work of the 1920s and 30s, but in 1948 he made a triumphant comeback with his most successful musical, Kiss Me, Kate.

Porter's other musicals include Fifty Million Frenchmen, DuBarry Was a Lady, Anything Goes and Can-Can, and his numerous hit songs include "Night and Day", "I Get a Kick out of You", "Well, Did You Evah!" and "I've Got You Under My Skin". He also composed scores for films from the 1930s to the 1950s. He was noted for his sophisticated, suggestive lyrics, clever rhymes and complex forms.

wn.com/Cole_Porter





Crescens

                            Crescens was an individual who appears in the New Testament. He was said to be a missionary in Galatia and became a companion of Paul. The name 'Crescens' is the present-active participle of the Latin word crescere, and means 'increasing'.

Crescens, a companion of St. Paul during his second Roman captivity, appears but once in the New Testament, when he is mentioned as having left the Apostle to go into Galatia: "Make haste to come to me quickly", St. Paul writes to Timothy, "for Demas hath left me, loving this world, and is gone to Thessalonica, Crescens into Galatia, Titus into Dalmatia" (2 Timothy 4:8-10). All commentators agree in ranking Crescens with Titus rather than with Demas, and in seeing here, therefore, a reference to a missionary journey into Galatia. This term, in New Testament times, might mean either Gaul or the Roman province of Galatia in Asia Minor, where St. Paul had labored so much; and here it has been interpreted in either sense. In the other passages where it occurs in the New Testament, however, it denotes Galatia, and most probably it would be so understood here by Timothy, especially as the other regions mentioned are likewise to the east of Rome. Moreover, St. Paul might easily have a reason for sending a disciple to visit his old Churches in Galatia, while there is no proof that he had an active interest in Gaul.

wn.com/Crescens





Daniel

                            Daniel (Hebrew: דָּנִיֵּאל, Modern Daniyyel Tiberian Dāniyyêl ; Arabic: دانيال, meaning in Hebrew "God is my Judge") is the protagonist in the Book of Daniel of the Hebrew Bible. In the narrative, when Daniel was a young man, he was taken into Babylonian captivity where he was educated in Chaldean thought. However, he never converted to Neo-Babylonian ways. By Divine Wisdom from his God, Yahweh, he interpreted dreams and visions of kings, thus becoming a prominent figure in the court of Babylon. Eventually, he had apocalyptic visions of his own that have been interpreted as the Four monarchies. Some of the most famous tales of Daniel are: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, The writing on the wall and Daniel in the lions' den.

In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim (BC 606), Daniel and his friends Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah were among the young Jewish nobility carried off to Babylon. The four were chosen for their intellect and beauty to be trained as advisors to the Babylonian court,(Daniel 1) Daniel was given the name Belteshazzar, i.e., prince of Bel, or Bel protect the king!(not to be confused with the neo-Babylonian king, Belshazzar). Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah were given the Babylonian names, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, respectively.

wn.com/Daniel





Daughter of Jairus

                            The record of the daughter of Jairus is a combination of miracles of Jesus in the Gospels (Mark 5:21–43, Matthew 9:18–26, Luke 8:40–56).

The story immediately follows the exorcism at Gerasa. Jairus, a patron of the synagogue, asks Jesus to heal his dying daughter. However, according to Matthew, his daughter is already dead, not dying. As they travel to Jairus's house, a sick woman in the crowd touches Jesus' cloak and is healed of her sickness. This is called the miracle of Christ healing the bleeding woman.

Meanwhile the daughter dies, but Jesus continues to the house and brings her back to life, or in his own words, awakens her. In Mark's account, the Aramaic phrase "Talitha Koum" (transliterated into Greek as ταλιθα κουμ and meaning, "Little girl, I say to you, get up!") is attributed to Jesus.

Donahue and Harrington state that this episode shows that "faith, especially as embodied by the bleeding woman, can exist in seemingly hopeless situations".

The combined stories have been used as an example of intercalation, with one incident inserted within another, and of contrast comparing the older woman with a 12-year ailment and the 12-year-old girl. Michael Keene states that there is a link between Jairus and the woman: "The link between them is faith since both Jairus and the bleeding woman showed great faith in Jesus"

wn.com/Daughter_of_Jairus




Diotrephes

                            Diotrephes was a man mentioned in the (Third Epistle of John, verses 9–11). His name means "nourished by Jupiter". As Raymond E. Brown comments, "Diotrephes is not a particularly common name."

In addition to being ambitious, proud, disrespectful of apostolic authority, rebellious, and inhospitable, the author of the letter says that Diotrephes tried to hinder those desiring to show hospitality to the brothers and to expel these from the congregation. Not even the location of Diotrephes' church can be determined from the letter. It is debatable whether the antipathy expressed in 3 John is based on "a theological dispute, a clash of competing ecclesiastical authorities, a disagreement about financial responsibilities for the mission, or personal dislike".
Adolf von Harnack was of the view that Diotrephes was the first monarchical bishop of whom we have the name.

The following is the passage and notes from the New English Translation.

1:9 I wrote something to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not acknowledge us. 1:10 Therefore, if I come, I will call attention to the deeds he is doing – the bringing of unjustified charges against us with evil words! And not being content with that, he not only refuses to welcome the brothers himself, but hinders the people who want to do so and throws them out of the church! 1:11 Dear friend, do not imitate what is bad but what is good. The one who does good is of God; the one who does what is bad has not seen God.

wn.com/Diotrephes





Dorcas

                            Dorcas (also known as Tabitha) was a disciple who lived in Joppa, referenced in the Book of Acts 9:36–42 of the Bible. Acts recounts that when she died, she was mourned by "all the widows ... crying and showing (Peter) the robes and other clothing that Dorcas had made while she was still with them." (Acts 9:39). This may indicate that Dorcas was a widow, or at the very least that she joined the widows in their works of charity. The disciples present called upon Saint Peter who came from nearby Lydda to the place where her wake was being held and raised her from the dead.

This narrative concerning Tabitha/Dorcas indicates her prominence in community at Joppa. This might also be indicated by the fact that Peter took the trouble to come to her from a neighbouring city, when requested by the community members.

The name Dorcas is Greek translation of the Aramaic name Tabitha, meaning "gazelle". One species of gazelle is now known as the dorcas gazelle. She is commemorated with Lydia of Thyatira and Phoebe on January 27 in the Calendar of Saints of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and on October 25 in the Calendar of Saints of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod.

wn.com/Dorcas





El Greco

                            El Greco born Doménikos Theotokópoulos, (1541 –  7 April 1614) was a painter, sculptor and architect of the Spanish Renaissance. "El Greco" (The Greek) was a nickname, a reference to his ethnic Greek origin, and the artist normally signed his paintings with his full birth name in Greek letters, Δομήνικος Θεοτοκόπουλος (Doménikos Theotokópoulos), often adding the word Κρής (Krēs, "Cretan").

El Greco was born on Crete, which was at that time part of the Republic of Venice, and the centre of Post-Byzantine art. He trained and became a master within that tradition before travelling at age 26 to Venice, as other Greek artists had done. In 1570 he moved to Rome, where he opened a workshop and executed a series of works. During his stay in Italy, El Greco enriched his style with elements of Mannerism and of the Venetian Renaissance. In 1577, he moved to Toledo, Spain, where he lived and worked until his death. In Toledo, El Greco received several major commissions and produced his best-known paintings.

wn.com/El_Greco





Elijah

                            Elijah ( /ɨˈlaɪdʒə/; also Elias /ɨˈlaɪ.əs/; Hebrew: אֱלִיָּהוּ, Eliyahu, meaning "Yahweh is my God";Arabic:إلياس, Ilyās), was a prophet in the northern kingdom of Israel during the reign of Ahab (9th century BC), according to the Books of Kings.

According to the Books of Kings, Elijah defended the worship of Yahweh over that of the Phoenician god Baal; he raised the dead, brought fire down from the sky, and was taken up in a whirlwind (either accompanied by a chariot and horses of flame or riding in it). In the Book of Malachi, Elijah's return is prophesied "before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord," making him a harbinger of the Messiah and the eschaton in various faiths that revere the Hebrew Bible. Derivative references to Elijah appear in the Talmud, Mishnah, the New Testament, and the Qur'an.

In Judaism, Elijah's name is invoked at the weekly Havdalah ritual that marks the end of Shabbat, and Elijah is invoked in other Jewish customs, among them the Passover seder and the Brit milah (ritual circumcision). He appears in numerous stories and references in the Haggadah and rabbinic literature, including the Babylonian Talmud.

wn.com/Elijah





Elisha

                            Elisha ( /ɨˈlaɪʃə/;Hebrew: אֱלִישָׁע, Modern Elisha Tiberian ʼĔlîšāʻ ; "My God is salvation", Greek: Ἐλισσαῖος, Elissaîos or Ἐλισαιέ, Elisaié, Arabic: الْيَسَع‎ Elyasaʻ) is a prophet mentioned in the Hebrew Bible and the Qur'an. His name is commonly transliterated into English as Elisha via Hebrew, Eliseus via Greek and Latin, or Alyasa via Arabic.

Elisha was a prophet of the Northern Kingdom of Israel who was active during the reign of Joram, Jehu, Jehoahaz, and Jehoash (Joash).

Elisha was the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah; he became the attendant and disciple of Elijah (1 Kings 19:16–19), and after Elijah was taken up into the whirlwind, he was accepted as the leader of the sons of the prophets, and became noted in Israel. He possessed, according to his own request, "a double portion" of Elijah's spirit (2 Kings 2:9); and for sixty years (892–832 BC) held the office of "prophet in Israel" (2 Kings 5:8).

His name first occurs in the command given to Elijah to anoint him as his successor (1 Kings 19:16). After learning, in the cave on Mount Horeb, that Elisha, the son of Shaphat, had been selected by God as his successor in the prophetic office, Elijah set out to make known the Divine will. On his way from Sinai to Damascus, Elijah found Elisha "one of them that were ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen". Elisha delayed only long enough to kill the yoke of oxen, whose flesh he boiled with the very wood of his plough. He went over to him, threw his mantle over Elisha's shoulders, and at once adopted him as a son, investing him with the prophetic office. Elisha accepted this call about four years before the death of Israel's King Ahab. For the next seven or eight years Elisha became Elijah's close attendant until Elijah was taken up into heaven. During all these years we hear nothing of Elisha except in connection with the closing scenes of Elijah's life.

wn.com/Elisha





Elymas

                            Elymas, also known as Bar-Jesus (arc. Bar-Yeshua, lat. Bariesu), was a Jewish magician who appears in the New Testament in the Acts of the Apostles, chapter 13. 
Acts of the Apostles calls him a magus, which the King James Bible here translates as "sorcerer". He is represented as opposing Paul of Tarsus and Barnabas in the city of Paphos on Cyprus, when Sergius Paulus, the Roman Proconsul, wishes to hear Paul and Barnabas speak about Jesus. Because of this opposition, Paul states that God has decided to make him temporarily blind. A cloud of darkness immediately begins blocking his sight; After this Sergius Paulus is converted to Christianity.
Elymas means "Wise" in Arabic, while Bar-Yeshua literally means "son of Joshua" in Aramaic.

wn.com/Elymas





Epaphras

                            Epaphras (Greek: Ἐπαφρᾶς) was a Christian preacher who spread the Gospel to his fellow Colossian citizens (Col. 1:7; 4:12). When Paul was a prisoner in Rome, Epaphras came to him with a favourable account of the Church at Colossae. He remained with Paul in Rome and was, in a sense, his "fellow prisoner" (Philemon 1:23). Paul bears witness to the struggling in his prayers for Colossae and his work of service there and in Laodicea and Hierapolis. (Colossians 4:12-13)

wn.com/Epaphras





Epaphroditus

                            Epaphroditus is a New Testament figure appearing as an envoy of the Philippian church to assist the Apostle Paul (Phil. 2.25-30). He is regarded as a saint of the Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church, first Bishop of Philippi, and of Andriaca in Asia Minor, and first Bishop of Terracina, Italy. There is little evidence that these were all the same man.

Epaphroditus appears in the New Testament only in the letter to the Philippians (2.25-30, 4.18). This is a “common personal name”, being derived from Aphrodite meaning “lovely” or “charming”; moreover, the proper name is found in the papyri with alternative spelling (81-2 B.C.) – Epaphrodeitos, Epaphrodeiton.

The name was indeed quite common. The name corresponds to the Latin Venustus (= handsome), and was very common in the Roman period. "The name occurs very frequently in inscriptions both Greek and Latin, whether at full length Epaphroditus, or in its contracted form Epaphras."Flavius Josephus describes a man by the name of Epaphroditus who was “a man who is a lover of all kind of learning” (Ant. 1.8, Life 430, Against Apion 1.1; 2.1, 296).

wn.com/Epaphroditus




Erastus of Corinth

                            According to the New Testament Epistle to the Romans, Erastus (Greek: Ἔραστος, Erastos) was a steward (Greek: οἰκονόμος, oikonomos) in Corinth, a political office of high civic status. The word is defined as "the manager of household or of household affairs" or, in this context, "treasurer"; The King James Version uses the translation "chamberlain", while the New International Version uses "director of public works". A person named Erastus is also mentioned in the Second Epistle to Timothy and Acts. Although, it is not certain if these verses all refer to the one person or multiple persons names Erastus.

In 1929, an inscription mentioning an Erastus was found near a paved area northeast of the theater of Corinth. It has been dated to the mid-first century and reads "Erastus in return for his ship laid the pavement at his own expense." (Latin: ERASTVS. PRO. AED. S. P. STRAVIT) New Testament scholars have identified this aedile Erastus with the Erastus mentioned in The Epistle to the Romans but this is in dispute. This debate has implications relating to the social status of the members of the Pauline churches.

wn.com/Erastus_of_Corinth





Ethel Merman

                            Ethel Merman (January 16, 1908 – February 15, 1984) was an American actress and singer. Known primarily for her powerful voice and roles in musical theatre, she has been called "the undisputed First Lady of the musical comedy stage." Among the many standards introduced by Merman in Broadway musicals are "I Got Rhythm", "Everything's Coming Up Roses", "Some People", "Rose's Turn", "I Get a Kick Out of You", "It's De-Lovely", "Friendship", "You're the Top", "Anything Goes", and "There's No Business Like Show Business", which later became her theme song.

Merman was born Ethel Agnes Zimmermann in her maternal grandmother's house located at 265 4th Street in Astoria, Queens, in New York City in 1908, though she would later emphatically declare that it was actually 1912. Her father, Edward Zimmermann (1879–1977), was an accountant with James H. Dunham & Company, a Manhattan wholesale dry-goods company, and her mother, Agnes (née Gardner; 1883–1974), was a school teacher. Zimmermann had been raised in the Dutch Reformed Church and his wife was Presbyterian, but shortly after they were wed they joined the Episcopalian congregation at Church of the Redeemer, where Merman was baptized. Her parents were strict about church attendance, and every Sunday she spent the day there, first at morning services, followed by Sunday school, an afternoon prayer meeting, and an evening study group for children.

wn.com/Ethel_Merman





Ethiopian eunuch

                            The Ethiopian eunuch is a figure in the New Testament of the Bible. The story of his conversion to Christianity is recounted in Acts 8.
Philip the Evangelist was told by an angel to go to the road from Jerusalem to Gaza, and there he met the Ethiopian eunuch. He had been to Jerusalem to worship (Acts 8:27), and was returning home. The eunuch was sitting in his chariot reading the Book of Isaiah, and had come to Isaiah 53:7-8. Philip asked the Ethiopian, "Do you understand what you are reading?" He said he did not, and asked Philip to explain the text to him. Philip told him the good news about Jesus, and the Ethiopian asked to be baptized. They went down into some water and Philip baptized him.

In the King James Version, the Ethiopian says, "I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God" (verse 37), but this is omitted in most modern versions. Hubbard suggests that confession is "not supported in the better manuscripts," although the Ethiopian is still "one of the outstanding converts in Acts."

wn.com/Ethiopian_eunuch




Euodia and Syntyche

                            Euodia (Greek Εὐοδία, meaning unclear, but possibly "sweet fragrance" or "prosperous journey") and Syntyche (Συντυχη, "fortunate," literally "with fate") are people mentioned in the New Testament. They were female members of the church in Philippi, and according to the text of Philippians 4: 2-3, they were involved in a disagreement together. The author of the letter, Paul of Tarsus, whose writings generally reveal his misgivings that internal disunity will seriously undermine the church, beseeched the two women to "agree in the Lord".

Despite the clear context and gender agreement of the original Greek text, the Authorised Version of the Bible incorrectly assigns Euodia the name "Euodias" (the male gender version of the name) and thus makes the quarrel appear to be between a man and a woman. According to some sources there was a historical theory that Euodias (male) was the gaoler of Philippi (see Acts 16: 25-34) and Syntyche was his wife. This theory is rejected by modern scholarship, not least because of the clarity in the original text that both characters are female. As a Roman colony, Philippi gave a level of independence to women that was not common in most Greek cities of the period; this may account for the prominence of the women and their disagreement.

wn.com/Euodia_and_Syntyche





Eutychus

                            Eutychus was a young man of Troas tended to by St. Paul. Eutychus fell asleep due to the long nature of the discourse Paul was giving and fell from his seat out of a three story window. Paul then picked him up, insisting that he was not dead, and carried him back upstairs; those gathered then had a meal and a long conversation which lasted until dawn. After Paul left, Eutychus was found to be alive. This is related in the New Testament book of Acts 20:9-12.

It is unclear whether the story intends to relate that Eutychus was killed by the fall and Paul raised him, or whether he simply seemed to be dead, with Paul ensuring that he is still alive. Recent translations of the text differ on this point. Regardless of the result of the fall, the implication of the passage is Eutychus' complete recovery, whether by resurrection, by healing or by neither. Interestingly, the accident did not prevent those present from resuming their assembly as a group.

The name Eutychus means "fortunate".

The story may be based on the story of Elpenor from Homer’s Odyssey according to Dennis R. MacDonald of the Iliff School of Theology. MacDonald cites many other similar stories in Greco Roman mythology and storytelling, Er, Misenus, Palinurus and Thespesius are examples. 

wn.com/Eutychus





Eve

                            Eve (Hebrew: חַוָּה‎, Ḥawwāh in Classical Hebrew, Khavah in Modern Israeli Hebrew, Arabic: حواء‎, Syriac: ܚܘܐ ) was, according to the creation myth of Abrahamic religions, the first woman created by God, in the Genesis creation narrative.

In the Bible, Eve (Hebrew: חַוָּה, Ḥawwāh; Arabic: حواء‎, Hawwa'; Ge'ez: ሕይዋን Hiywan; "living one" or "source of life", related to ḥāyâ, "to live"; ultimately from the Semitic root ḥyw; Greek: Εὕα, heúā) is Adam's wife. Her name occurs only four times; the first being Genesis 3:20: "And Adam called his wife's name Ḥawwāh; because she was the mother of all living" (a title previously held by the Babylonian creatrix Tiamat). In Vulgate she appears as "Hava" in the Old Testament, but "Eva" in the New Testament. The name may actually be derived from that of the Hurrian Goddess Kheba, who was shown in the Amarna Letters to be worshipped in Jerusalem during the Late Bronze Age. It has been suggested that the name Kheba may derive from Kubau, a woman who reigned as the first king of the Third Dynasty of Kish Another name of Asherah in the first millennium BCE was Chawat, Hawwah in Aramaic, (Eve in English).

wn.com/Eve





Four Evangelists

                            In Christian tradition the Four Evangelists are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the authors attributed with the creation of the four Gospel accounts in the New Testament that bear the following titles:

The gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke are known as the Synoptic Gospels because they include many of the same stories, often in the same sequence. Convention has traditionally held the authors to have been two of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus, John and Matthew, and two "apostolic men," Mark and Luke:

They are called evangelists, a word meaning 'people who proclaim good news,' because their books aim to tell the "good news" ("gospel") of Jesus.

In iconography the evangelists often appear in Evangelist portraits derived from classical tradition, and are also frequently represented by the following symbols, which originate from the four "living creatures" that draw the throne-chariot of God, the Merkabah, in the vision in the Book of Ezekiel (Chapter 1) reflected in the Book of Revelation (4.6-9ff), though neither source links the creatures to the Evangelists. They are normally, but not invariably, all shown with wings like angels. The meanings accruing to the symbols grew over centuries, with an early formulation by Jerome, and were fully expressed by Rabanus Maurus, who set out three layers of meaning for the beasts, as representing firstly the Evangelists, secondly the nature of Christ, and thirdly the virtues required of a Christian for salvation:

wn.com/Four_Evangelists





Francis Lawrence

                            Francis Lawrence (born March 26, 1970 in Vienna) is an American music video, film, and television director and producer.

Lawrence was born in Vienna, Austria. His father is a physicist who taught at California State University, Northridge and his mother is V.P. Technology at a PR agency. He moved to Los Angeles at the age of three. Lawrence worked as 2nd assistant camera on the feature Pump Up the Volume directed by Allan Moyle prior to earning his bachelors degree in film production at Loyola Marymount University Film School. He went on to work as first AD on the feature Marching out of Time directed by Anton Vassil in 1993. Francis Lawrence then joined ex-classmate Mike Rosen in co-directing music videos. Lawrence shot his first music video for Michael Blakey President of Atco Records with the band Tidal Force which became a great success. Soon, Lawrence became known for his original and imaginative music video scripts and visual directing style.

He eventually joined a major new production company and his successful career as music video director, having worked with stars like Green Day, Britney Spears, The Black Eyed Peas, Jay-Z, Avril Lavigne, Aerosmith, Janet Jackson, Jennifer Lopez, Lady Gaga, Lisa Marie Presley, Destiny's Child, Garbage, Gwen Stefani, Pink, Shakira, and Missy Elliott. He has also directed numerous commercials for clients such as Coca-Cola, L'Oréal, Calvin Klein, Pepsi-Cola, Maybelline, Kid's Footlocker, Bacardi, McDonalds, GAP, Bud Light, CoverGirl, Oldsmobile and Disneyland. In 2005, his feature film debut was Constantine based on the Hellblazer comic book, starring Keanu Reeves.

wn.com/Francis_Lawrence





Gabriel

                            In Abrahamic religions, Gabriel (Hebrew: גַּבְרִיאֵל, Modern Gavri'el Tiberian Gaḇrîʼēl, God is my strength; Arabic: جبريل, Jibrīl or جبرائيل Jibrāʾīl) is an angel who typically serves as a messenger to humans from God.

He first appears in the Book of Daniel, delivering explanations of Daniel's visions. In the Gospel of Luke Gabriel foretold the births of both John the Baptist and of Jesus. Christians of the Catholic traditions refer to him as Gabriel the Archangel.

Gabriel is referred to as "he" in the Bible, and in Daniel 9:21 he is explicitly called "The man Gabriel". Some moderns, especially New Age exponents, portray Gabriel as female or androgynous.

In Latter-day Saint theology, Gabriel is believed to have lived a mortal life as the prophet Noah. The two are regarded as the same individual; Noah being his mortal name and Gabriel being his heavenly name.

Gabriel is mentioned in the Book of Daniel, in the Hebrew Bible where he is sent as a messenger of YHWH (see God in Judaism) to Daniel during the Jewish captivity in Babylon. He is later mentioned in the Talmud.

wn.com/Gabriel





Gamaliel

                            Gamaliel the Elder (English pronunciation: /ɡəˈmeɪljəl/), or Rabban Gamaliel I (רבן גמליאל הזקן; Greek: Γαμαλιήλ ο Πρεσβύτερος), was a leading authority in the Sanhedrin in the mid 1st century CE. He was son of Simeon ben Hillel, and grandson of the great Jewish teacher Hillel the Elder, and died twenty years before the destruction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem (70 CE). He fathered a son, whom he called Simeon, after his father, and a daughter, whose daughter (i.e., Gamaliel's granddaughter) married a priest named Simon ben Nathanael. The name Gamaliel is the Greek form of the Hebrew name meaning reward of God.

In the Christian tradition, Gamaliel is celebrated as a Pharisee doctor of Jewish Law.Acts of the Apostles speaks of Gamaliel as a man of great respect who spoke in favor of arrested Christian apostles  and the Jewish Law teacher of Paul the Apostle. 

In the Talmud, Gamaliel is described as bearing the titles Nasi and Rabban (our master), as the president of the Great Sanhedrin in Jerusalem; although some dispute this, it is not doubted that he held a senior position in the highest court in Jerusalem. Gamaliel holds a reputation in the Mishnah for being one of the greatest teachers in all the annals of Judaism:

wn.com/Gamaliel





Gog and Magog

                            Gog and Magog (Hebrew: גּוֹג וּמָגוֹג‎‎ Gog u-Magog; Arabic: يَأْجُوج وَمَأْجُوج‎ Yaʾjūj wa-Maʾjūj) are names that appear primarily in various Jewish, Christian and Muslim scriptures, as well as numerous subsequent references in other works. Their context can be either genealogical (as Magog in Genesis 10:2) or eschatological and apocalyptic, as in Ezekiel and Revelation. They are sometimes individuals, sometimes peoples, and sometimes geographic regions. The passages from Ezekiel and Revelation in particular have attracted attention due to their prophetic descriptions of conflicts said to occur near the "End times".

The etymology of both the names Gog and Magog remains uncertain. The ma- at the beginning of Magog may indicate a land, or it may mean "from", so that Magog means "of the land of Gog" or "from Gog". Gog may originate as the Hebrew version of the name of Gyges of Lydia, who made his kingdom a great power in the early 7th century BC, but this explanation, although common, is not universally accepted. A different theory is that "Magog" might be a reference to Babylon, by turning BBL ("Babylon" in Hebrew script, which originally had no vowel-signs) into MGG (Magog), but this account, like the others, has problems.

wn.com/Gog_and_Magog





Goliath

                            Goliath (Hebrew: גָּלְיָת, Modern Golyat Tiberian Golyāṯ; Arabic: جالوت, Ǧālūt (Qur'anic term), جليات Ǧulyāt (Christian term)) or Goliath of Gath (one of five city states of the Philistines) is a figure in the Hebrew Bible (Christian Old Testament). Described as a giant Philistine warrior, he is famous for his combat with the young David, the future king of Israel. The fight between them is described in the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament and, more briefly, in the Qur'an.

The purpose of the original story was to show David's identity as the true king of Israel. Post-Classical Jewish traditions stressed Goliath's status as the representative of paganism, in contrast to David, the champion of the God of Israel. Christian tradition gave him a distinctively Christian twist, seeing in David's battle with Goliath the victory of God's King over the enemies of God's helpless people as a prefiguring of Jesus' victory over sin on the Cross and the Church's ongoing struggle against Satan.

The account of the battle between David and Goliath is given in 1 Samuel, chapter 17.Saul and the Israelites are facing the Philistines at the Valley of Elah. Twice a day for 40 days, Goliath, the champion of the Philistines, comes out between the lines and challenges the Israelites to send out a champion of their own to decide the outcome in single combat, but Saul and all the Israelites are afraid. David, bringing food for his elder brothers, hears that Saul has promised to reward any man who defeats Goliath, and accepts the challenge. Saul reluctantly agrees and offers his armor, which David declines, taking only his sling and five stones from a brook.

wn.com/Goliath





Herod Antipas

                            Herod Antipater (Greek: Ἡρῴδης Ἀντίπατρος, Hērǭdēs Antipatros; born before 20 BC – died after 39 AD), known by the nickname Antipas, was a 1st-century AD ruler of Galilee and Perea, who bore the title of tetrarch ("ruler of a quarter"). He is best known today for accounts in the New Testament of his role in events that led to the executions of John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth.

After inheriting his territories when the kingdom of his father Herod the Great was divided upon his death in 4 BC, Antipas ruled them as a client state of the Roman Empire. He was responsible for building projects at Sepphoris and Betharamphtha, and more important for the construction of his capital Tiberias on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee. Named in honor of his patron, the emperor Tiberius, the city later became a center of rabbinic learning.

Antipas divorced his first wife Phasaelis, the daughter of King Aretas IV of Nabatea, in favour of Herodias, who had formerly been married to his brother Herod Philip I. According to the New Testament Gospels, it was John the Baptist's condemnation of this arrangement that led Antipas to have him arrested; John was subsequently put to death. Besides provoking his conflict with the Baptizer, the tetrarch's divorce added a personal grievance to previous disputes with Aretas over territory on the border of Perea and Nabatea. The result was a war that proved disastrous for Antipas; a Roman counter-offensive was ordered by Tiberius, but abandoned upon that emperor's death in 37 AD. In 39 AD Antipas was accused by his nephew Agrippa I of conspiracy against the new Roman emperor Caligula, who sent him into exile in Gaul. Accompanied there by Herodias, he died at an unknown date.

wn.com/Herod_Antipas





Herod Archelaus

                            Herod Archelaus (23 BC – c. 18 AD) was the ethnarch of Samaria, Judea, and Idumea (biblical Edom) from 4 BC to 6 AD. He was the son of Herod the Great and Malthace the Samaritan, the brother of Herod Antipas, and the half-brother of Herod Philip I.

Archelaus received the Tetrarchy of Judea by the last will of his father, though a previous will had bequeathed it to his brother Antipas. He was proclaimed king by the army, but declined to assume the title until he had submitted his claims to Caesar Augustus in Rome. Before setting out, he quelled with the utmost cruelty a sedition of the Pharisees, slaying nearly three thousand of them. In Rome he was opposed by Antipas and by many of the Jews, who feared his cruelty; but in 4 BC Augustus allotted to him the greater part of the kingdom (Samaria, Judea, and Idumea) with the title of ethnarch (not king) until 6 AD when Judaea province was formed, under direct Roman rule, at the time of the Census of Quirinius.

The first wife of Archelaus is given by Josephus simply as Mariamne, perhaps Mariamne III (Mariamne bint Aristobulus), whom he divorced to marry Glaphyra. She was the widow of Archelaus' brother Alexander, though her second husband, Juba, king of Mauretania, was alive. This violation of the Mosaic law along with Archelaus' continued cruelty roused the ire of the Jews, who complained to Augustus. Archelaus was deposed in the year 6 and banished to Vienne in Gaul; Samaria, Judea proper, and Idumea became the Roman province of Iudaea.

wn.com/Herod_Archelaus





Herod the Great

                            Herod (Hebrew: הוֹרְדוֹס‎, Hordos, Greek: Ἡρῴδης, Hērōdēs), also known as Herod the Great (born 73 or 74 BCE, died 4 BCE in Jericho), was a Roman client king of Judea. His epithet of "the Great" is widely disputed as he is described as "a madman who murdered his own family and a great many rabbis." He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem (sometimes referred to as Herod's Temple) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima. Important details of his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman-Jewish historian Josephus Flavius.

The Romans made Herod's son Herod Archelaus ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea (biblical Edom) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea. Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria, Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until 41. Herod's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE – 39 CE.

wn.com/Herod_the_Great





Herodias

                            Herodias (c. 15 BC-after 39 AD) was a Jewish princess of the Herodian Dynasty. Asteroid 546 Herodias is named after her.
Herod II (born - ca. 27 BC; died - 33 AD) was the son of Herod the Great and his third wife Mariamne II, who was the daughter of Simon Boethus the High Priest (Mark 6:17). For a brief period he was his father's heir. Some writers call him Herod Philip I (not to be confused with Philip the Tetrarch, whom some writers call Herod Philip II).

Herod was the first husband of Herodias, and because the Gospel of Mark states that Herodias was married to Philip, some scholars have argued that his name was actually Herod Philip. Many scholars dispute this, however, and believe the Gospel writer was in error, a suggestion supported by the fact that the later Gospel of Luke drops the name Philip. Because he was the grandson of the high priest Simon Boethus he is sometimes described as Herod Boethus, but there is no evidence he was actually called this.

Herod the Great's execution of his Hasmonean sons, Alexander and Aristobulus IV in 7 BC, left the latter's daughter Herodias an orphaned minor. Herod engaged her to Herod II, her half-uncle, and her connection to the Hasmonean bloodline supported her new husband's right to succeed his father.

wn.com/Herodias





Historical Jesus

                            The term historical Jesus refers to scholarly reconstructions of the 1st-century figure Jesus of Nazareth. These reconstructions are based upon historical methods including critical analysis of gospel texts as the primary source for his biography, along with consideration of the historical and cultural context in which he lived.

The historical Jesus is believed to be a Galilean Jew who undertook at least one pilgrimage to Jerusalem, then part of Roman Judaea, during a time of messianic and apocalyptic expectations in late Second Temple Judaism. He was baptized by John the Baptist, whose example he may have followed, and after John was executed, began his own preaching in Galilee for only about two to three years prior to his death. He was an eschatological prophet and an autonomous ethical teacher. He told surprising and original parables, many of them about the coming Kingdom of God. Some scholars credit the apocalyptic declarations of the Gospels to him, while others portray his Kingdom of God as a moral one, and not apocalyptic in nature. He sent his apostles out to heal and to preach the Kingdom of God. Later, he traveled to Jerusalem where he caused a disturbance at the Temple. It was the time of Passover, when political and religious tensions were high in Jerusalem. The Gospels say that the temple guards (believed to be Sadducees) arrested him and turned him over to the Roman governor Pontius Pilate for execution. The movement he had started survived his death and was carried on by his brother James the Just and the apostles who proclaimed the resurrection of Jesus. After splitting with Rabbinic Judaism, it developed into Early Christianity.

wn.com/Historical_Jesus





Impenitent thief

                            The impenitent thief was one of the two thieves who was crucified alongside Jesus. According to the Gospels, he taunted Jesus about not saving himself, while the penitent thief asked for mercy. The impenitent thief is given the apocryphal name Gestas, which first appears in the Gospel of Nicodemus, while his companion is called Dismas. Gestas was on the cross to the left of Jesus and Dismas was on the cross to the right of Jesus. In Jacobus de Voragine's "Golden Legend" the name of the impenitent thief is given as Gesmas. The impenitent thief is sometimes referred to as the "bad thief" in contrast to the good thief.

The apocryphal Arabic Infancy Gospel refers to Gestas and Dismas as Dumachus and Titus, respectively. According to tradition, Dumachus was one of a band of robbers who attacked Saint Joseph and the Holy Family on their Flight into Egypt as recorded in Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's The Golden Legend.

Among Filipino Catholics, the name is popularly exclaimed as Hudas, Barabas, Hestas!, a term invoked as an exclamation of disappointment or chastisement, mentioning Gestas along with two other individuals Judas Iscariot and Barabbas, which widely gained prominence in the 1980 Filipino Hit Television Series John En Marsha (1973-1990), starring actor Dolphy and actress Nida Blanca.

wn.com/Impenitent_thief





Isaac

                            Isaac ( /ˈaɪzək/;Hebrew: יִצְחָק, Modern Yitsẖak Tiberian Yiṣḥāq, ISO 259-3 Yiçḥaq, "he will laugh"; Yiddish: יצחק, Yitskhok; Ancient Greek: Ἰσαάκ, Isaak; Latin: Isaac; Arabic: إسحاق‎ or Arabic: إسحٰق‎ʼIsḥāq) as described in the Hebrew Bible, was the only son Abraham had with his wife Sarah, and was the father of Jacob and Esau. Isaac was one of the three patriarchs of the Israelites. According to the Book of Genesis, Abraham was 100 years old when Isaac was born, and Sarah was beyond childbearing years.

Isaac was the only biblical patriarch whose name was not changed, and the only one who did not leave Canaan. Compared to those of Abraham and Jacob, Isaac's story relates fewer incidents of his life. He died when he was 180 years old, making him the longest-lived patriarch.

The anglicized name Isaac is a transliteration of the Hebrew term Yiṣḥāq which literally means "He laughs/will laugh."Ugaritic texts dating from the 13th century BCE refer to the benevolent smile of the Canaanite deity El. Genesis, however, ascribes the laughter to Isaac's parents, Abraham and Sarah, rather than El. According to the biblical narrative, Abraham fell on his face and laughed when Elohim imparted the news of their son's eventual birth. He laughed because Sarah was past the age of childbearing; both she and Abraham were advanced in age. Later, when Sarah overheard three messengers of the Lord renew the promise, she laughed inwardly for the same reason. Sarah denied laughing when Elohim questioned Abraham about it.

wn.com/Isaac





Ishmael

                            Ishmael (Hebrew: יִשְׁמָעֵאל, Modern Yishma'el Tiberian Yišmāʻēl ISO 259-3 Yišmaˁel; Greek: Ισμαήλ Ismaēl; Latin: Ismael; Arabic: إسماعيل‎ ʾIsmāʿīl) is a figure in the Hebrew Bible and the Qur'an, and was Abraham's first son according to Jews, Christians and Muslims. Ishmael was born of Abraham's marriage to Sarah's handmaiden Hagar (Genesis 16:3). According to the Genesis account, he died at the age of 137 (Genesis 25:17).

Cognates of Hebrew Yishma'el existed in various ancient Semitic cultures, including early Babylonian and Minæan. It is translated literally as "God has hearkened", suggesting that "a child so named was regarded as the fulfillment of a divine promise".
This is the account of Ishmael from Genesis Chapters 16, 17, 21, 25

In Genesis 16, the birth of Ishmael was planned by the Patriarch Abraham’s first wife, who at that time was known as Sarai. She and her husband Abram (Abraham), sought a way to have children in order to fulfill the Abrahamic covenant that was established in Genesis 15. Since Sarai had yet to bear Abram a child, her idea was to offer her Egyptian handmaiden Hagar to Abram, so that they could have a child by her. Abram consented to a marital arrangement taking Hagar as his second wife when he was in his late 85th year of age. Customs of that time dictated that, although Hagar was the birth mother, any child conceived would belong to Sarai and Abram (Sarah and Abraham).

wn.com/Ishmael





Islamic view of Lot

                            Lot (Arabic: لوط‎, Lut) is an apostle and prophet of God in the Quran. He also appears in the Bible, but the Biblical stories of Lot are not entirely accepted within Islam. According to Islamic tradition, Lot lived in Ur and was the son of Haran and nephew of Abraham. He migrated with Abraham to Canaan in Palestine. He was commissioned as a prophet to the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. His story is used as a reference by Muslims to demonstrate Islam's disapproval of homosexuality. He was commanded by God to go to the land of Sodom and Gomorrah to preach to his people on monotheism and to stop them from their lustful and violent acts. According to both the Qur'an and the Hebrew Bible, Lot's messages were ignored by the inhabitants and Sodom and Gomorrah were subsequently destroyed. They cannot be exactly located, but it may be supposed that they were somewhere in the plain cast of the Dead Sea. The story of their destruction is told in the 19th chapter of Genesis. Two angels in the shape of handsome young men came to Lot in the evening and became his guests by night. The inhabitants of Sodom in their lust for unnatural crime invaded Lut's house but were repulsed. In the morning, the angels warned Lut to escape with his family. "Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven; and He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground. But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt." (Gen. 19:24–26). Note that Lut's people are the people to whom he is sent on a mission. He was not one of their own brethren, as was Salih or Shu'aib. But he looked upon his people as his brethren (50:13), as a man of God always does."</ref> is that the Biblical version includes the story of Lot being induced to incestuous relations with his own daughters. The Qur'an says that Lot is a prophet, and holds that all prophets were examples of moral and spiritual rectitude. Though it is not altogether clear in the Bible story that Lot consented to his action, in Islam these stories of incest are considered to be false.

wn.com/Islamic_view_of_Lot





Israelites

                            The Israelites (בני ישראל, Standard: Bnai Yisraʾel; Tiberian: Bnai Yiśrāʾēl; ISO 259-3: Bnai Yiśraˀel) were a Hebrew-speaking people of the Ancient Near East, who inhabited the Land of Canaan during the tribal and monarchic periods (15th to 6th centuries BCE), later evolving into Jews and Samaritans of the classic period, inhabiting Judea and Samaria respectively. In Modern Hebrew usage, an Israelite is, broadly speaking, a lay member of the Jewish ethnoreligious community, as opposed to the priestly orders of Kohanim and Levites.

The word "Israelite" derives from the Biblical Hebrew word "Israel". Although most literary references to Israelites are located in the Hebrew Bible, there is also abundant non-biblical archaeological and historical evidence of ancient Israel and Judah. The ethnonym is attested as early as the 13th century BCE in an Egyptian inscription. The Hebrew Bible etymologizes the name as from yisra "to prevail over" or "to struggle/wrestle with", and el, "God, the divine". The eponymous biblical patriarch of the Israelites is Jacob, who wrestled with God who gave him a blessing and renamed him "Israel" because he had "striven with God and with men, and have prevailed." (Genesis 32:24-32) According to the Hebrew Bible, Israelites were the "chosen people" of God. The name Hebrews is sometimes used synonymously with "Israelites". The Qurʾānic term is for Israelites is Banī Israʾīl (children of Israel).

wn.com/Israelites





Jacobello del Fiore

                            Jacobello del Fiore (c. 1370 - 1439) was an Italian painter of the 15th century active mainly in Venice. He was the son and pupil of the painter Francesco del Fiore. One of his pupils was Carlo Crivelli.

Among Jacobello's works are a Coronation of the Virgin for Cathedral in Ceneda and the polyptych in the Teramo Cathedral. A Madonna was once in the Manfredi Gallery.

There is also a painting by this painter in Moscow's Pushkin Museum.


wn.com/Jacobello_del_Fiore





James the Just

                            James (Hebrew: יעקב Ya'akov; Greek Ἰάκωβος Iákōbos), first Bishop of Jerusalem, who died in 62 or 69, was an important figure in Early Christianity. He is distinguished from the Apostle James by various epithets; he is called James the brother of the Lord by Paul (Galatians 1:19), James the brother of the Lord, surnamed the Just by Hegesippus and others, "James the Righteous", "James of Jerusalem", "James Adelphotheos" (Ἰάκωβος ὁ ἀδελφόθεος), and so on.

James became the leader of the Christian movement in Jerusalem in the decades after Jesus' death, but information about his life is scarce and ambiguous. Apart from a handful of references in the Gospels, the main sources for his life are the Acts of the Apostles, the Pauline epistles, the historian Josephus, and St. Jerome, who also quotes the early Christian author Hegesippus. The Epistle of James in the New Testament is traditionally attributed to him, and he is a principal author of the Apostolic Decree of Acts 15. In the extant lists of Hippolytus of Rome, Dorotheus of Tyre, the Chronicon Paschale, and Dimitry of Rostov, he is the first of the Seventy Apostles, though some sources, such as the Catholic Encyclopedia, draw the conclusion that "these lists are unfortunately worthless".

wn.com/James_the_Just




Jason of Tarsus

                            Jason of Tarsus is numbered among the Seventy Disciples. Jason appears in the Bible in Acts 17. His house is used as a refuge by Paul, Silas, and Timothy in Thessalonica. Jason was arrested when the authorities could locate neither Paul nor Silas, and was made to post bail.

Jason is also mentioned in Romans 16:21. Jason is venerated as a saint in Catholic and Orthodox traditions. His feast day is July 12 (Catholic) and April 28 (Orthodox). His feast is celebrated on 3 Pashons in the Coptic Orthodox Church and on January 4 among the Seventy.

Born in Tarsus, he was appointed Bishop of Tarsus by the Apostle Paul. With the Apostle Sosipater he traveled to the island of Corfu where they built a church in honor of the Apostle Stephen the Protomartyr and converted many pagans to the Christian faith. Seeing this, the king of Corfu threw them into prison where they converted seven other prisoners to the Christian faith: Saturninus, Jakischolus, Faustianus, Januarius, Marsalius, Euphrasius and Mammius. The king had those seven put to death for their faith in boiling pitch.

wn.com/Jason_of_Tarsus





Jegudiel

                            Saint Jegudiel the Archangel also Jhudiel or Jehudiel (Heb. יהודיאל Yehudiel "laudation of God") is one of the seven Archangels in Eastern Orthodox tradition. He is often depicted in iconography holding a crown and a three-thonged whip. Jeguidiel is the patron of all who work in some field of endeavor, and the crown he holds symbolizes the reward for successful spiritual labors. Along with his subordinate angels he is the advisor and defender of all who work in positions of responsibility to the glory of God, and as such is resorted to by kings, judges, and others in positions of leadership.

Jegudiel is also known as the bearer of God's merciful love and also angel over Friday. Considered as one of the seven archangels in a variant Catholic system, which pairs each archangel with a specific day of the week and attribute. St Jehudiel is usually depicted with a flaming heart or the Sacred Heart in hand.


wn.com/Jegudiel





Jesus

                            Jesus ( /ˈdʒiːzəs/; Greek: Ἰησοῦς; 7–2 BC/BCE to 30–36 AD/CE), also referred to as Jesus Christ or simply Christ, is the central figure of Christianity and most Christian denominations venerate him as God the Son incarnated. In Islam, Jesus (in Arabic: عيسى‎ in Islamic usage, commonly transliterated as Isa) is considered one of God's important prophets.

Most modern historians agree that Jesus existed and was a Jewish teacher from Galilee in Roman Judaea, who was baptized by John the Baptist, and was crucified in Jerusalem on the orders of the Roman Prefect, Pontius Pilate. Scholars have offered competing descriptions and portraits of Jesus, which at times share a number of overlapping attributes, such as a rabbi, a charismatic healer, the leader of an apocalyptic movement, a self-described Messiah, a sage and philosopher, or a social reformer who preached of the "Kingdom of God" as a means for personal and egalitarian social transformation. Scholars have correlated the New Testament accounts with non-Christian historical records to arrive at an estimated chronology of Jesus' life.

wn.com/Jesus




Jesus Justus

                            Jesus Justus (Greek Iesous ho legomenos Ioustos) was one of several Jewish Christians in the church at Rome mentioned by Apostle Paul in the greetings at the end of Colossians 4:11.

Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you have received instructions--if he comes to you, welcome him), and Jesus who is called Justus. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me.. Colossians 4:10-11

It is generally thought that Paul wrote Colossians while in prison in Rome most likely during AD 50’s. Of those with Paul, Justus, Aristarchus, and Mark are said in the letter to be “of the circumcision”, that is, Jewish and to have "proved a comfort to me."

The name Jesus was not uncommon at the time of Jesus of Nazareth, as it was a form of the Old Testament name Joshua (Yeshua ישוע).

wn.com/Jesus_Justus





Joachim

                            Saint Joachim ("he whom YHWH has set up", Hebrew: יְהוֹיָקִים Yəhôyāqîm, Greek Ἰωακείμ Iōākeím) was the husband of Saint Anne and the father of Mary, the mother of Jesus in the Roman Catholic, Orthodox, and Anglican traditions. The story of Joachim and Anne appears first in the apocryphal Gospel of James. Joachim and Anne are not mentioned in the Bible.

Since the genealogies of Jesus in Matthew and Luke do not explicitly name either of Mary's parents, but apparently name two different fathers for Saint Joseph, many scholars from John of Damascus (8th C.), and particularly Protestant scholars, argue that the genealogy in Luke is actually the family tree of Mary, and that Heli is her father. To resolve the problem of Joseph having two fathers - one descended from Solomon, one descended from Nathan, son of David, traditions from the 7th Century specify that Heli was a first cousin of Joachim.

In the Protoevangelium of James, Joachim is described as a rich and pious man of the house of David who regularly gave to the poor and to the temple (synagogue) at Sepphoris. However, as his wife was barren, the high priest rejected Joachim and his sacrifice, as his wife's childlessness was interpreted as a sign of divine displeasure. Joachim consequently withdrew to the desert where he fasted and did penance for forty days. Angels then appeared to both Joachim and Anne to promise them a child. Joachim later returned to Jerusalem and embraced Anne at the city gate. The cycle of legends concerning Joachim and Anne were included in the Golden Legend and remained popular in Christian art until the Council of Trent restricted the depiction of apocryphal events. Traditional depictions (e.g., vestibular statuary) of Joachim show him bearing a shovel.

wn.com/Joachim





Jochebed

                            According to the Torah, Jochebed ( /ˈjɒkɨbɛd/; Hebrew: יוֹכֶבֶד / יוֹכָבֶד, Modern Yoḫéved / Yoḫáved Tiberian Yôḵéḇeḏ / Yôḵāḇeḏ ; "Yahweh is glory") was a daughter of Levi and mother of Aaron, Miriam and Moses. She was the wife of Amram, as well as his aunt. No details are given concerning her life. According to Jewish legend, Jochebed is buried in the Tomb of the Matriarchs, in Tiberias.

The story of Jochebed is found in the second book of the Torah (Exodus 2:1–10). She lived in Egypt, where the descendants of Israel were being oppressed. The Pharaoh had decreed that all their baby boys were to be thrown into the Nile, because he feared that they might become too powerful. When Moses, her youngest child, was born, Jochebed therefore hid him for three months until she could hide him no longer. To save her son's life, she made a wooded chest of bulrushes, made it watertight with slime and pitch and put the child in it. She then let the chest float in the Nile while Miriam, her daughter, kept watch over it from a distance. It was found by the Pharaoh's daughter, who had come to bathe in the river. Moved with compassion when she discovered the child, she decided to adopt him. Miriam, who had come forward, suggested to find her a Hebrew woman to nurse the child. The Pharaoh's daughter agreed and so Miriam called her mother, who was appointed to take care of him. Thus Jochebed nursed her son until he was old enough and brought him to the Pharaoh's daughter, who adopted him as her son. The story continues with Moses, who grew up to become the leader of the Exodus, leading his people out of the land of Egypt.

wn.com/Jochebed





John Mark

                            John Mark is a character in the New Testament. According to William Lane, an "unbroken tradition" identifies him with Mark the Evangelist. John Mark is mentioned several times in the Acts of the Apostles. The first mention is in Acts 12:12, when Peter is coming to his mother's house:

When this had dawned on him, he went to the house of Mary the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying.

John Mark himself appears a bit later in the same chapter, in Acts 12:25, as the travel companion of Saul (Apostle Paul) and Barnabas:

When Barnabas and Saul had finished their mission, they returned from Jerusalem, taking with them John, also called Mark.

John Mark is mentioned soon after the Council of Jerusalem in Acts 15:37-41. Paul (Saul) does not have a too flattering impression of his former associate, arguing over him with Barnabas in Antioch:
Barnabas wanted to take John, also called Mark, with them, but Paul did not think it wise to take him, because he had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not continued with them in the work. They had such a sharp disagreement that they parted company. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus, but Paul chose Silas and left, commended by the believers to the grace of the Lord. He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.

wn.com/John_Mark





John Milton

                            John Milton (9 December 1608 – 8 November 1674) was an English poet, polemicist, a scholarly man of letters, and a civil servant for the Commonwealth (republic) of England under Oliver Cromwell. He wrote at a time of religious flux and political upheaval, and is best known for his epic poem Paradise Lost.

Milton's poetry and prose reflect deep personal convictions, a passion for freedom and self determination, and the urgent issues and political turbulence of his day. Writing in English, Latin, and Italian, he achieved international renown within his lifetime, and his celebrated Areopagitica, (written in condemnation of pre-publication censorship) is among history's most influential and impassioned defenses of free speech and freedom of the press.
William Hayley's 1796 biography called him the "greatest English author", and he remains generally regarded "as one of the preeminent writers in the English language"; though critical reception has oscillated in the centuries since his death (often on account of his republicanism). Samuel Johnson praised Paradise Lost as "a poem which...with respect to design may claim the first place, and with respect to performance, the second, among the productions of the human mind". Though Johnson (a Tory and recipient of royal patronage) described his politics as those of an "acrimonious and surly republican".

wn.com/John_Milton





John of Patmos

                            John of Patmos is the name given, in the Book of Revelation, as the author of the apocalyptic text that is traditionally canonized in the New Testament. According to the text of Revelation, John is living on the Greek island of Patmos, where by some, he is considered to be in exile.

In Christian denominations, John of Patmos is regarded as a prophet and a saint who receives divine revelation. He has been referred to as John the Divine, John the Revelator, John the Theologian, Eagle of Patmos and John the Seer.

According to the text in Revelation, John of Patmos is instructed to write to the Seven Churches of Asia. Traditionally, this named author is believed to be the same person as both John the apostle of Jesus and John the author of the Fourth Gospel. The early 2nd century writer, Justin Martyr, was the first to equate the author of Revelation with John the Apostle. However, some biblical scholars now contend that these were separate individuals.
John the Presbyter, an obscure figure in the early church, has also been identified with the seer of the Book of Revelation by such authors as Eusebius of Caesarea and Jerome.

wn.com/John_of_Patmos





John the Apostle

                            John the Apostle (Aramaic Yoħanna, Koine Greek Ἰωάννης) (c. AD 6 – c. 100) was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. He was the son of Zebedee and Salome and brother of James, son of Zebedee, another of the Twelve Apostles. Christian tradition holds that he outlived the remaining apostles—all of whom suffered martyrdom (except Judas Iscariot)—and ultimately died of natural causes "in great old age in Ephesus" at the beginning of the second century. The Church Fathers consider him the same person as John the Evangelist, John of Patmos, and the Beloved Disciple.

The Church Fathers generally identify him as the author of five books in the New Testament: the Gospel of John, three Epistles of John, and the Book of Revelation. The Gospel according to John differs considerably from the synoptic gospels, likely written decades earlier than John's Gospel. The bishops of Asia Minor supposedly requested him to write his gospel to deal with the heresy of the Ebionites, who asserted that Christ did not exist before Mary. John probably knew and undoubtedly approved of the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, but these gospels spoke of Jesus primarily in the year following the imprisonment and death of John the Baptist). Around 600, however, Sophronius of Jerusalem noted that "two epistles bearing his name ... are considered by some to be the work of a certain John the Elder" and, while stating that Revelation was written by John on Patmos, it was “later translated by Justin Martyr and Irenaeus”,  presumably in an attempt to reconcile tradition with the obvious differences in Greek style. On the other hand, many authors in those days employed secretaries often called scribes whose personal styles influenced the final documents. John perhaps employed different scribes for his several works who dictated his words as he was influenced by the Holy Spirit through his meditation, visions, and dreams.

wn.com/John_the_Apostle





John the Baptist

                            John the Baptist (Hebrew: יוחנן המטביל, Yoḥanan ha-mmaṭbil, Arabic: يحيى بن زكريا‎ Yahya ibn Zakariya, Aramaic: ܝܘܚܢܢ Yoḥanan, Greek: Ὁ Ἅγιος/Τίμιος Ἐνδοξος Προφήτης, Πρόδρομος καὶ Βαπτιστής Ἰωάννης Ho Hágios/Tímios Endoxos, Profḗtēs, Pródromos, kaì Baptistḗs Ioánnes) (c. 6 BC – c. AD 30-36) was an itinerant preacher and a major religious figure mentioned in the Canonical gospels and the Qur'an. He is described in the Gospel of Luke as a relative of Jesus who led a movement of baptism at the Jordan River. Some scholars maintain that he was influenced by the Essenes, who were semi-ascetic, expected an apocalypse, and practiced rituals corresponding strongly with baptism, although there is no direct evidence to substantiate this. John is regarded as a prophet in Christianity, Islam, the Bahá'í Faith, and Mandaeism.

Most biblical scholars agree that John baptized Jesus at "Bethany beyond the Jordan," by wading into the water with Jesus from the eastern bank. John the Baptist is also mentioned by Jewish historian Josephus, in Aramaic Matthew, in Pseudo-Clementine, and in the Qur'an. Accounts of John in the New Testament appear compatible with the account in Josephus. There are no other historical accounts of John the Baptist from around the period of his lifetime.

wn.com/John_the_Baptist





John the Evangelist

                            John the Evangelist (יוחנן Standard Hebrew Yoḥanan, Tiberian Hebrew Yôḥānān meaning "Yahweh is gracious", Greek: Εὐαγγελιστής Ἰωάννης) (c. AD 1 - c. 100)[citation needed][dubious – discuss] is the conventional name for the author of the Gospel of John. Traditionally he has been identified with the author of the other Johannine works in the New Testament – the three Epistles of John and the Book of Revelation, written by a John of Patmos – as well as with John the Apostle and the Beloved Disciple mentioned in the Gospel of John. However, at least some of these connections have been debated since about 200.

The Gospel of John refers to an unnamed "Beloved Disciple" of Jesus who bore witness to the gospel's message. The composer of the Gospel of John seemed interested in maintaining the internal anonymity of the author's identity.

The apostle John was a historical figure, one of the "pillars" of the Jerusalem church after Jesus' death. Some scholars believe that John was martyred along with his brother (Acts 12:1-2), although many other scholars doubt this. Harris believes that the tradition that John lived to old age in Ephesus developed in the late 2nd century, although the tradition does appear in the last chapter of the gospel. By the late 2nd century, the tradition was held by most Christians.

wn.com/John_the_Evangelist




Joseph Barsabbas

                            In the Christian New Testament, Joseph Justus (also known as Barsabbas) figures momentarily in the casting of lots among the 120 or so gathered together after the Ascension of Jesus, to replace Judas Iscariot and bring the Apostles again to the number twelve. According to Acts of the Apostles i.23 – 26:

23.So they proposed two men: Joseph called Barsabbas (also known as Justus) and Matthias. 24.Then they prayed, "Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen 25.to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left to go where he belongs." 26.Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Matthias; so he was added to the eleven apostles."

Since the passage identifies the candidates as "of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us", Joseph was a member of the wider circle of disciples.

Further identification of this shadowy figure is insecure, though in Christian tradition, he is numbered among the Seventy Disciples mentioned in Luke 10:1-24. No names are given among the Seventy-Two or Seventy Apostles of Christ—depending on the manuscripts—that were sent out in Luke 10.1:"two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go." Nor is this "Joseph the Just, son of the 'sabbath'"—as his name translates— identified as one of the adelphoi of Jesus— however this Greek word for "brothers" may be interpreted—in this one passage in Acts in which he appears. Nor does such a "Joseph Justus" appear among the disciples in the lists given in the synoptic gospels, unless he were represented unrecognized in some way under an alias. It would appear to be an inexplicable choice made by Peter among the assembled adelphoi (Acts 1.15, translated in the New International Version "believers").

wn.com/Joseph_Barsabbas





Joseph of Arimathea

                            Joseph of Arimathea was, according to the Gospels, the man who donated his own prepared tomb for the burial of Jesus after Jesus' Crucifixion. He is mentioned in all four Gospels.

A native of Arimathea, in Judea, Joseph was apparently a man of wealth—and probably a member of the Sanhedrin, which is the way bouleutēs, literally "counsellor", Luke 23:50 is most often interpreted. According to Mark 15:43, Joseph was an "honourable counsellor, who waited (or "was searching") for the kingdom of God". In Matthew 27:57 he is not described as a counsellor, but as a rich man and a disciple of Jesus. In John 19:38 he was secretly a disciple of Jesus: as soon as he heard the news of Jesus' death, he "went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus." R.J. Miller notes this act as "unexpected… Is Joseph in effect bringing Jesus into his family?"

Pilate, reassured by a centurion that the death had taken place, allowed Joseph's request. Joseph immediately purchased fine linen (Mark 15:46) and proceeded to Golgotha to take the body of Jesus down from the cross. There, assisted by Nicodemus, Joseph took the body and wrapped it in the fine linen and applied myrrh and aloes (these are substances which Nicodemus had brought, according to John 19:39). Jesus' body then was conveyed to the place that had been prepared for Joseph's own body, a man-made cave hewn from rock in the garden of his house nearby. This was done speedily, "for the Sabbath was drawing on".

wn.com/Joseph_of_Arimathea




Joses

                            Joses (Greek Ἰωσῆς Iōsēs) is a name, usually regarded as a form of Joseph, occurring four times in the New Testament:

Joses is a short Greek form of Joseph. Unlike Greek Joseph however, which remains frozen as Joseph in all grammatical cases, Joses functions like a true Greek name and is declined in Greek, taking the ending -etos in the genitive case, hence Josetos, "of Joses." Although spelling of Joseph is fairly constant in Greek, spellings of the short forms Joses and Josis vary. Tal Ilan's catalogue of Jewish name inscriptions of the period (2002) notes variation is the spelling of "Joseph" (indeclinable in Greek) and various shorter (and sometimes declined) Greek variants but also notes that the full form Joseph is dominant with 47 of 69 Greek inscriptions.

The Jose mentioned as 15th descendant of David (in the line from Solomon's younger brother Nathan in the Gospel of Luke) is otherwise unknown. The Greek spelling (Ἰωσή Iōsē) is a variant of Joses.

Joses is only mentioned twice in the New Testament, in parallel passages in Matthew 13:5 and Mark 6:3, which record the people of Nazareth's rejection of Jesus:

wn.com/Joses





Joshua

                            Joshua (Hebrew: יְהוֹשֻׁעַ‎‎ Yĕhôshúa‘; Greek: Ἰησοῦς, Arabic: يوشع بن نون‎ Yūshaʿ ibn Nūn), is a figure in the Torah, being one of the spies for Israel (Num 13-14) and in few passages as Moses's assistant. He is the central character in the Hebrew Bible's Book of Joshua. According to the books Exodus, Numbers and Joshua, he became the leader of the Israelite tribes after the death of Moses; his name was Hoshe'a the son of Nun, of the tribe of Ephraim, but Moses called him Yehoshu'a (Joshua) (Numbers 13:16) the name by which he is commonly known; and he was born in Egypt prior to the Exodus, and was probably the same age as Caleb, with whom he is occasionally associated.

He was one of the twelve spies of Israel sent by Moses to explore the land of Canaan. (Numbers 13:1-16) After the death of Moses, he led the Israelite tribes in the conquest of Canaan, and allocated the land to the tribes. According to Biblical chronology, Joshua lived between 1500–1390 BCE, or sometime in the late Bronze Age. According to Joshua 24:29, Joshua died at the age of 110.

wn.com/Joshua




Judas Barsabbas

                            Judas Barsabbas is a minor character in the New Testament. He is mentioned in Acts 15:22, where he and Silas are described as a "leaders among the believers" (NIV). Judas and Silas are delegated the task of accompanying Paul and Barnabas to Antioch and delivering the letter from the Council of Jerusalem. Acts 15:32 further describes Judas and Silas as prophets, and says that they "said much to encourage and strengthen the believers."

wn.com/Judas_Barsabbas





Judas Iscariot

                            Judas Iscariot (Hebrew: יהודה איש־קריות‎, Yehuda, Yəhûḏāh ʾÎš-qrayyôṯ) was, according to the New Testament, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. He is infamously known for his kiss and betrayal of Jesus to the hands of the chief Sanhedrin priests for a ransom of 30 pieces of silver.

In the Greek New Testament, Judas is called Ιούδας Ισκάριωθ and Ισκαριώτης . "Judas" (spelled "Ioudas" in ancient Greek and "Iudas" in Latin, pronounced yudas in both) is the Greek form of the common name Judah (יהודה, Yehûdâh, Hebrew for "God is praised"). The Greek spelling underlies other names in the New Testament that are traditionally rendered differently in English: Judah and Jude.

The significance of "Iscariot" is uncertain. There are several major theories on etymology:

Judas is mentioned in the synoptic gospels, the Gospel of John and at the beginning of Acts of the Apostles.

Mark states that the chief priests were looking for a sly way to arrest Jesus. They decided not to do so during the feast since they were afraid that people would riot; instead, they chose the night before the feast to arrest him. In the Gospel of Luke, Satan enters Judas at this time.

wn.com/Judas_Iscariot




Judas of Galilee

                            Judas of Galilee or Judas of Gamala led a violent resistance to the census imposed for Roman tax purposes by Quirinius in Iudaea Province around AD 6. The revolt was crushed brutally by the Romans. These events are discussed by Josephus in Jewish Wars and in Antiquities of the Jews.

In Antiquities of the Jews Josephus states that Judas, along with Zadok the Pharisee founded the "fourth sect", of 1st century Judaism (the first three are the Sadducees, the Pharisees, and the Essenes). Josephus blames this sect, usually identified with the later Zealots, a group of theocratical-nationalists who preached that God alone was the ruler of Israel and later urged that no taxes should be paid to Rome, for the Great Jewish Revolt and for the destruction of Herod's Temple.

Josephus does not relate the death of Judas, although he does report that Judas' "sons" (it could also mean disciples) James and Simon were executed by procurator Tiberius Julius Alexander in about 46 AD. He also reports that Menahem, one of the early leaders of the Jewish Revolt in AD 66, was Judas' "son", but most scholars doubt this. Menahem may have been Judas' grandson, however. Menahem's cousin, Eleazar ben Ya'ir, then escaped to the fortress of Masada where he became a leader of the last defenders against the Roman Empire.

wn.com/Judas_of_Galilee




Judas the Zealot

                            The name Judas the Zealot (Judas Zelotes) is mentioned in the Epistle of the Apostles (Epistula Apostolorum), written in the 2nd century. He is usually identified with the Apostle Simon the Zealot, with whom he shares a surname, or with the Apostle Jude.
Bruce Metzger, in his Textual Commentary on the Greek NT, comments on Matthew 10:3:



wn.com/Judas_the_Zealot





Jude the Apostle

                            Jude was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. He is generally identified with Thaddeus, and is also variously called Jude of James, Jude Thaddaeus, Judas Thaddaeus or Lebbaeus. He is sometimes identified with Jude, "brother of Jesus", but is clearly distinguished from Judas Iscariot, another disciple, the betrayer of Jesus.

The Armenian Apostolic Church honors Thaddeus along with Saint Bartholomew as its patron saints. In the Roman Catholic Church he is the patron saint of desperate cases and lost causes.

Saint Jude's attribute is a club. He is also often shown in icons with a flame around his head. This represents his presence at Pentecost, when he received the Holy Spirit with the other apostles. Another common attribute is Jude holding an image of Jesus Christ, in the image of Edessa. In some instances he may be shown with a scroll or a book (the Epistle of Jude) or holding a carpenter's rule.

Jude is clearly distinguished from Judas Iscariot, another disciple and later the betrayer of Jesus. Both "Jude" and "Judas" are translations of the name Ιούδας in the Greek original New Testament, which in turn is a Greek variant of Judah, a name which was common among Jews at the time. In most bibles in languages other than English and French, Jude and Judas are referred to by the same name.

wn.com/Jude_the_Apostle





Junia

                            Junia or Junias was a 1st century Christian highly regarded and complimented by the apostle Paul:

Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellowprisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
— Romans 16:7 Authorized Version
(other versions: Romans 16:7)

Paul describes Junia (and Andronicus) as kinsmen, fellow prisoners, and as being "in Christ" before Paul's dramatic Damascus road conversion. The phrase, "of note among the apostles," (KJV, Douay, Darby, ERV, YLT, KJ21, NKJV, AKJV) leads many to the conclusion that she is the only woman apostle mentioned in the New Testament. It is assumed by some that Andronicus of Pannonia (Greek: Ανδρόνικος) was her husband. Both her gender and her apostleship are subjects of considerable debate. Understandably, this verse has received and continues to draw a great deal of attention in scholarly literature.

The identification of Junia in Romans 16:7 has been a familiar problem in biblical interpretation. Most studies, however, are preoccupied with the gender of the name, assuming that Junia's apostolic status is not in doubt. Burer and Wallace propose that the converse is true. They agree that Junia was a woman. However, they assert that the correct rendition of the Greek text places her as well known to the apostles rather than prominent among the apostles. That translation would indicate that the pair were not apostles, but that they enjoyed a high reputation among the apostles.

wn.com/Junia





Khidr

                            Khidr "the Green One", also transcribed as Khidar, Khizr, Khyzer, Khizar, Kezr) is a revered figure in Islam, whom the Qur'an describes as a righteous servant of God, who possessed great wisdom or mystic knowledge, represented iconically by a fish. He is most often said to be a contemporary of Moses, but in other variations of his story, he lived at the same time as Abraham, the mythical Persian king Afridun, Alexander the Great, and Nashiya bin Amus  . The 18th sura ("The Cave") presents a narrative where Khidr accompanies Moses and tests him about his oath to not ask any questions.

In medieval Islamic tradition, Khidr is variously described as a messenger or a prophet.

In chapter 18, verses 65–82, Moses meets the Servant of God, referred in the Quran as "one from among Our friend whom We had granted mercy from Us and whom We had taught knowledge from Ourselves", at the junction of the two seas and asks for permission to accompany him so Moses can learn "right knowledge of what [he has] been taught". The Servant of God informs him in a stern manner that their knowledge is of different nature and that "Surely you [Moses] cannot have patience with me. And how canst thou have patience about things about which thy understanding is not complete?" Moses promises to be patient and obey him unquestioningly, and they set out together. After they board a ship, the Servant of God damages the vessel. Forgetting his oath, Moses says, "Have you made a hole in it to drown its inmates? Certainly you have done a grievous thing." The Servant of God reminds Moses of his warning, "Did I not say that you will not be able to have patience with me?" and Moses pleads not to be rebuked.

wn.com/Khidr





Lazarus of Bethany

                            Lazarus of Bethany, also known as Saint Lazarus or Lazarus of the Four Days, is the subject of a prominent miracle attributed to Jesus in the Gospel of John, in which Jesus restores him to life four days after his death. The Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic traditions offer varying accounts of the later events of his life.

In the context of the Gospel of John, the narrative of the Raising of Lazarus forms "the climactic sign... Each of Jesus' seven signs illustrates some particular aspect of his divine authority, but this one exemplifies his power over the last and most irresistible enemy of humanity--death. For this reason it is given a prominent place in the gospel."

The name Lazarus (Latinised from the Hebrew: אלעזר, Elʿāzār, Eleazar - "God is my help") is also given to a second figure in the Bible: in the narrative of Lazarus and Dives, attributed to Jesus in the Gospel of Luke. Also called Dives and Lazarus, or The Rich Man and the Beggar Lazarus, the narrative tells of the relationship (in life and in death) between an unnamed rich man and a poor beggar named Lazarus. While the two characters named Lazarus have sometimes been conflated historically, they are generally understood to be two separate characters. Allusions to Lazarus as a poor beggar taken to the "Bosom of Abraham" should be understood as referring to the Lazarus mentioned in Luke, rather than the Lazarus raised from the dead in John.

wn.com/Lazarus_of_Bethany





Leonardo Da Vinci

                            Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci (Italian pronunciation: [leoˈnardo da ˈvintʃi]  pronunciation (help·info); April 15, 1452 – May 2, 1519, Old Style) was an Italian Renaissance polymath: painter, sculptor, architect, musician, scientist, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, geologist, cartographer, botanist, and writer whose genius, perhaps more than that of any other figure, epitomized the Renaissance humanist ideal. Leonardo has often been described as the archetype of the Renaissance Man, a man of "unquenchable curiosity" and "feverishly inventive imagination". He is widely considered to be one of the greatest painters of all time and perhaps the most diversely talented person ever to have lived. According to art historian Helen Gardner, the scope and depth of his interests were without precedent and "his mind and personality seem to us superhuman, the man himself mysterious and remote". Marco Rosci points out, however, that while there is much speculation about Leonardo, his vision of the world is essentially logical rather than mysterious, and that the empirical methods he employed were unusual for his time.

wn.com/Leonardo_Da_Vinci




Lucius of Cyrene

                            Lucius of Cyrene (Loukios o Kurenaios, Λούκιος ὁ Κυρηναῖος) was, according to the Book of Acts, one of the founders of the Christian Church in Antioch, then part of Roman Syria. He is mentioned by name as a member of the church there, after King Herod's Death:

Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Symeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen who was a close friend of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. [Acts 13:1 NAB].

Lucius is indicated as a founder by an inference in an earlier passage:

Now those who had been scattered by the persecution that arose because of Stephen went as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but Jews. There were some Cypriots and Cyrenians, among them, however, who came to Antioch and began to speak to the Greeks as well, proclaiming the Lord Jesus. [Acts 11:19,20 NAB]

He was supposed to have been the first bishop of Cyrene.

There is a Lucius mentioned also in Romans 16:21, but there is no way of knowing if this is the same person.

wn.com/Lucius_of_Cyrene





Luke the Evangelist

                            Luke the Evangelist (Ancient Greek: Λουκᾶς, Loukás) is a character in the New Testament. He is mentioned in three of the Pauline Epistles including Colossians where he is described by Paul as "Our dear friend Luke, the doctor" (NIV). Early Church Fathers such as Jerome and Eusebius claimed that he was the author of the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles and this is the traditional Christian view today.

He is venerated as Saint Luke, patron saint of artists, physicians, surgeons, students, butchers; his feast day is 18 October.

Luke was a Greco-Syrian physician who lived in the Greek city of Antioch in Ancient Syria.

His earliest notice is in Paul's Epistle to Philemon, verse 24. He is also mentioned in Colossians 4:14 and 2 Timothy 4:11, two works commonly ascribed to Paul. The next earliest account of Luke is in the Anti-Marcionite Prologue to the Gospel of Luke, a document once thought to date to the 2nd century, but which has more recently been dated to the later 4th century. Helmut Koester, however, claims that the following part – the only part preserved in the original Greek – may have been composed in the late 2nd century:

wn.com/Luke_the_Evangelist





Lydia of Thyatira

                            Lydia of Thyatira is a character in the New Testament. She is regarded as the first recorded convert to Christianity in Europe.

The name, "Lydia", meaning "the Lydian woman", by which she was known indicates that she was from Lydia in Asia Minor. Though she is commonly known as “St. Lydia” or even more simply “The Woman of Purple,” Lydia is given other titles: “of Thyatira,” “Purpuraria,” and “of Phillippi (‘Philippisia’ in Greek).” “[Lydia’s] name is an ethnicon, deriving from her place of origin”. The first refers to her place of birth, which is a city in the Greek region of Lydia. The second comes from the Latin word for purple and relates to her connection with purple dye. Philippi was the city in which Lydia was living when she met St. Paul and his companions. All of these titles expound upon this woman’s background.
Acts 16 describes Lydia as follows:
Wayne Grudem sees the story of Lydia as being an example of effectual calling.

Lydia was most likely a Greek even though she lived in a Roman settlement. She was evidently a well-to-do agent of a purple-dye firm in Thyatira, a city southeast of Pergamum and approximately 40 miles inland, across the Aegean Sea from Athens. Lydia insisted on giving hospitality to Saint Paul and his companions in Philippi. They stayed with her until their departure, through Amphipolis and Apollonia, to Thessalonica (Acts 16:40-17:1).

wn.com/Lydia_of_Thyatira




Lysanias

                            Lysanias was the ruler of a small realm on the western slopes of Mount Hermon, attested to by the Jewish writer Josephus and in coins from circa 40 BC. There is also mention of a Lysanias dated to 29 AD in the gospel of Luke. It has been debated whether these are the same person.

Lysanias was the ruler of a tetrarchy, centered on the town of Abila. This has been referred to by various names including Abilene, Chalcis and Iturea, from about 40-36 BC. Josephus is our main source for the life of Lysanias.

His father was Ptolemy son of Mennaeus who ruled the tetrarchy before him. Lysanias was cousin of Antigonus, who he helped during the latter's attempt to claim the throne of Judea in 40 BC with the military support of the Parthians.

According to Josephus (B.J. 1.248), he offered the Parthian satrap Barzapharnes "a thousand talents and 500 women to bring Antigonus back and raise him to the throne, after deposing Hyrcanus". However, Josephus in his later work, the Jewish Antiquities 14.330-331, relates that it was Antigonus who made the offer to the Parthians. Whichever the case, Lysanias was put to death by Mark Antony for his Parthian sympathies, at the instigation of Cleopatra, who had eyes on the territories of Lysanias.

wn.com/Lysanias





Malchus

                            In the Gospel of John in the New Testament of the Bible, Malchus is the servant of the Jewish High Priest, Caiaphas, who participated in the arrest of Jesus. According to John, one of the disciples, the Apostle Peter, being armed with a sword, cut off the servant's ear in an attempt to prevent his Master's arrest.

The story is related in all four gospels, John 18:10–11; Matthew 26:51; Mark 14:47; and Luke 22:51, but the servant and the disciple are named only in John. Also, Luke is the only gospel that says Jesus healed the ear.

The relevant passage in the Gospel of John, KJV, reads:

The story is often used to illustrate Jesus' rejection of violence[citation needed] and surrender to God's will.
Thornton Wilder wrote a short play entitled, "The Servant's Name Was Malchus." It appeared in the collection "The Angel That Troubled the Waters and Other Plays."

wn.com/Malchus




Manahen

                            Saint Manahen (also Manaen) was a teacher of the Church of Antioch and the foster brother (Gk. syntrophos, Vulg. collactaneus) of Herod Antipas.

Little is known of Manahen's life. He is said to be one those who, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, laid hands upon Saul and Barnabas and sent the two Apostles on the first of St. Paul's missionary journeys (Acts 13:3). Since St. Luke was an Antiochene, it is not unlikely that Manahen was one of "the prophets and doctors" of the Church of Antioch was one of the "eyewitnesses and ministers of the word" (Luke 1:2), who delivered unto Luke the details which that sacred writer has in regard to Antipas and other members of the Herodian family (Luke 3:1, 19, 20; 8:3; 9:7-9; 13:31, 32; 23:8-12; Acts 12). He may have become a disciple of Jesus with "Joanna, the wife of Chusa, Herod's steward" (Luke 8:3).

In A.D. 39, Antipas left for Rome to gain the favor of Caligula, but instead received an order of perpetual exile. (Jos., "Ant.", XVIII, vii, 2). During this time, the Church of Antioch was founded by Jewish Christians, who "had been dispersed by the persecution that arose on the occasion of Stephen" and had taught the Gospel also to the Greeks of Antioch, (Acts 11:19-24). It is quite likely that St. Manahen was one of these founders of the Antiochene Church.

wn.com/Manahen





Marc Connelly

                            Marcus Cook Connelly (13 December 1890 – 21 December 1980) was an American playwright, director, producer, performer, and lyricist. He was a key member of the Algonquin Round Table, and received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1930.

Connelly was born to actor and hotelier Patrick Joseph Connelly and actress Mabel Louise Cook in McKeesport, Pennsylvania. He began writing plays at the age of five, and would later become a journalist for the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph until he moved to New York City. In 1919 he joined the Algonquin Round Table.

Connelly had contributed to several Broadway musicals before teaming up with his most important collaborator, George S. Kaufman, in 1921. During their four-year partnership, they wrote five comedies – Dulcy (1921), To the Ladies (1922), Merton of the Movies (1922), The Deep Tangled Wildwood (1923) and Beggar on Horseback (1924) – and also co-directed and contributed sketches to the 1922 revue The '49ers, collaborated on the book to the musical comedy Helen of Troy, New York (1923), and wrote both the book and lyrics for another musical comedy, Be Yourself (1924).

wn.com/Marc_Connelly





Mark the Evangelist

                            Mark the Evangelist (Latin: Mārcus; Greek: Μᾶρκος; Coptic: Μαρκοϲ; Hebrew: מרקוס‎) is the traditional author of the Gospel of Mark. He is one of the Seventy Disciples, and the founder of the Church of Alexandria, one of the original four main episcopal sees of Christianity.

According to William Lane (1974), an "unbroken tradition" identifies Mark the Evangelist with John Mark, and John Mark as the cousin of Barnabas. An exception is found in Hippolytus of Rome, who in his work On the Seventy Apostles, distinguishes Mark the Evangelist (2 Tim 4:11), John Mark (Acts 12:12, 25; 13:5, 13; 15:37), and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (Col 4:10; Phlm 24). According to Hippolytus, they all belonged to the "Seventy Disciples" who were sent out by Jesus to saturate Judea with the gospel (Luke 10:1ff.). However, when Jesus explained that his flesh was "real food" and his blood was "real drink", many disciples left him (John 6:44-6:66), presumably including Mark. He was later restored to faith by the apostle Peter; he then became Peter’s interpreter, wrote the Gospel of Mark, founded the church of Africa, and became the bishop of Alexandria.

wn.com/Mark_the_Evangelist





Martha

                            Martha of Bethany (Aramaic מַרְתָּא Martâ) is a biblical figure described in the Gospels of Luke and John. Together with her siblings Lazarus and Mary, she is described as living in the village of Bethany near Jerusalem. She is the middle child of her family with Lazarus being the eldest and her sister Mary Magdalene the youngest. She was witness to Jesus' resurrection of her brother, Lazarus.

The name Martha is a Latin transliteration of the Koine Greek Μαρθα, itself a translation of the Aramaic מַרְתָּא Martâ, "The mistress" or "the lady", from מרה "mistress", feminine of מר "master". The Aramaic form occurs in a Nabatean inscription found at Puteoli, and now in the Naples Museum; it is dated AD. 5 (Corpus Inscr. Semit., 158); also in a Palmyrene inscription, where the Greek translation has the form Marthein. 

In the Gospel of Luke, Jesus visits the home of two sisters named Mary and Martha. The two sisters are contrasted: Martha was "cumbered about many things" while Jesus was their guest, while Mary had chosen "the better part", that of listening to the master's discourse. The name of their village is not recorded, nor any mention of whether Jesus was near Jerusalem:

wn.com/Martha





Mary Magdalene

                            Mary Magdalene (original Greek Μαρία ἡ Μαγδαληνή), or Mary of Magdala, was one of Jesus' most celebrated disciples, and the most important female disciple in the movement of Jesus. Jesus cleansed her of "seven demons", [Lu 8:2] [Mk 16:9] sometimes interpreted as referring to complex illnesses. She became Jesus' close friend and most prominent during his last days, being present at the cross after the male disciples (excepting John the Beloved) had fled, and at his burial. She was the first person to see Jesus after his Resurrection, according to both John 20 and Mark 16:9.

Mary Magdalene is considered by the Catholic, Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran churches to be a saint, with a feast day of July 22. The Eastern Orthodox churches also commemorate her on the Sunday of the Myrrhbearers.

Consistently in the four Gospels, Mary Magdalene seems to be distinguished from other women named Mary by adding "Magdalene" (η Μαγδαληνή) to her name. Traditionally, this has been interpreted to mean that she was from Magdala, a town thought to have been on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee. Luke 8:2 says that she was actually "called Magdalene." In Hebrew מגדל Migdal means "tower", "fortress"; in Aramaic, "Magdala" means "tower" or "elevated, great, magnificent".

wn.com/Mary_Magdalene





Mary of Bethany

                            Mary of Bethany (Judeo-Aramaic מרים, Maryām, rendered Μαρία, Maria, in the Koine Greek of the New Testament; form of Hebrew מִרְיָם, Miryām, or Miriam, "wished for child", "bitter" or "rebellious") is a biblical figure described in the Gospels of John and Luke in the Christian New Testament. Together with her siblings Lazarus and Martha, she is described as living in the village of Bethany near Jerusalem.

In Latin tradition, Mary of Bethany is often identified as Mary Magdalene (of whom more is recorded in the gospels as well as in later traditions), while in Eastern Orthodox and Protestant traditions they are considered separate persons. The Orthodox Church has its own traditions regarding Mary of Bethany's life beyond the gospel accounts.

In the Gospel of Luke, Jesus visits the home of two sisters named Mary and Martha. Mary is contrasted with her sister Martha, who was "cumbered about many things"[Lk 10:40] while Jesus was their guest, while Mary had chosen "the better part," that of listening to the master's discourse. The name of their village is not recorded, nor any mention of whether Jesus was near Jerusalem:

wn.com/Mary_of_Bethany





Mary of Clopas

                            Mary of Clopas (or of Cleopas) (Ancient Greek: Μαρία ἡ τοῦ Κλωπᾶ, Maria he tou Klopa) the wife of Clopas was one of various Marys named in the New Testament.

Mary of Clopas is explicitly mentioned only in John 19:25, where she is among the women present at the Crucifixion of Jesus:

Now there stood by the cross of Jesus His mother, and His mother’s sister, Mary [the wife] of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.

The expression Mary of Clopas in the Greek text is ambiguous as to whether Mary was the daughter or wife of Clopas, but exegesis has commonly favoured the reading "wife of Clopas" (as reflected in above translation). Hegesippus thought that Clopas as the brother of Saint Joseph.

According to some interpretations, the same Mary was also among the women that on Easter morning went to the tomb to anoint Jesus' body with spices. Matthew 28:1 calls her "the other Mary" to distinguish her from Mary Magdalene, while Mark 16:1 uses the name "Mary of James", most probably derived from James the Less. The Latin version of that name, Maria Iacobi, is often used in tradition. Stephen S. Smalley (1982) says that it is "very probable" that Mary of Clopas is Mary the mother of James son of Alphaeus. Both "Clophas" and "Alphaeus" may be Greek spellings of the Aramaic name Hilfai.

wn.com/Mary_of_Clopas





Masolino da Panicale

                            Masolino da Panicale (nickname of Tommaso di Cristoforo Fini; c. 1383 – c. 1447) was an Italian painter. His best known works are probably his collaborations with Masaccio: Madonna with Child and St. Anne (1424) and the frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel (1424–1428).

Masolino ("Little Tom") was born in Panicale. He may have been an assistant to Ghiberti in Florence between 1403 and 1407. In 1423, he joined the Florentine guild Arte dei Medici e Speziali (Doctors and Apothecaries), which included painters as an independent branch. He may have been the first artist to create of oil paintings in the 1420s, rather than Jan van Eyck in the 1430s, as was previously supposed. He spent many years traveling, including a trip to Hungary from September 1425 to July 1427 under the patronage of Pipo of Ozora, a mercenary captain. He also worked in Rome and Todi. He spent his later years, after 1435, working for Cardinal Branda Castiglione in Castiglione Olona.

Complete works
In Florence:

In Empoli:

In Rome:

wn.com/Masolino_da_Panicale





Metatron

                            Metatron (Hebrew מטטרון) or Mattatron (a differentiation of Metatron) is the name of an angel in Judaism and some branches[citation needed] of Christian mythology. There are no references to him in the Jewish Tanakh or Christian Scriptures (New and Old Testament). Although he is mentioned in a few brief passages in the Talmud, Metatron appears primarily in medieval Jewish mystical texts and other post-scriptural esoteric and occult sources. In Rabbinic tradition, he is the highest of the angels and serves as the celestial scribe.

The Talmud relates that Elisha ben Abuyah (a rabbi and Jewish religious authority born in Jerusalem sometime before 70 CE), also called Acher, (אחר, "other", as he became an apostate), entered Paradise and saw Metatron sitting down (an action that is not done in the presence of God). Elishah ben Abuyah therefore looked to Metatron as a deity and said heretically, "There are indeed two powers in heaven!" The rabbis explain that Metatron was allowed to sit because of his function as the Heavenly Scribe, writing down the deeds of Israel (Babylonian Talmud, Hagiga 15a).

wn.com/Metatron





Miriam

                            Miriam (Hebrew: מִרְיָם, Modern Miryam Tiberian Miryām ; Arabic: مريم (Maryam); see Miriam (given name)) was the sister of Moses and Aaron, and the daughter of Amram and Jochebed. She appears first in the Book of Exodus in the Hebrew Bible.

At her mother Jochebed's request, Miriam hid her baby brother Moses by the side of a river to evade the Pharaoh’s order that newborn Hebrew boys be killed. She watched as the Pharaoh’s daughter discovered the infant and decided to adopt him. Miriam then suggested that the princess take on a nurse for the child, and suggested Jochebed; as a result, Moses was raised to be familiar with his background as a Hebrew. (Exodus 2:1-10)

Miriam is called a prophetess, and is traditionally believed to have sung a brief victory song after Pharaoh’s army was drowned in the Red Sea (Exodus 15:20-21).

“Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously;
Horse and rider he has thrown into the sea.”

It is considered by many that this poetic couplet is one of the oldest parts of the Biblical account.

wn.com/Miriam





Mother Shipton

                            Ursula Southeil (c. 1488–1561) (also variously spelt as Ursula Southill, Ursula Soothtell or Ursula Sontheil), better known as Mother Shipton, was an English soothsayer and prophetess. The first publication of her prophecies, which did not appear until 1641, eighty years after her reported death, contained a number of mainly regional predictions, but only two prophetic verses – neither of which foretold the End of the World, despite widespread assumptions to that effect.

One of the most notable editions of her prophecies was published in 1684. It states that she was born in Knaresborough, Yorkshire, in a cave now known as Mother Shipton's Cave, that along with the Petrifying Well and associated parkland is operated as a visitor attraction. She was reputed to be hideously ugly. The book also claims that she married Toby Shipton, a local carpenter, near York in 1512 and told fortunes and made predictions throughout her life.

It is recorded in the diaries of Samuel Pepys that whilst surveying the damage to London caused by the Great Fire in the company of the Royal Family they were heard to discuss Mother Shipton's prophecy of the event.

wn.com/Mother_Shipton





Muhammad

                            Muhammad (c. 26 April 570 – 8 June 632; also transliterated as Mohammad, Mohammed, or Muhammed; Arabic: محمد‎), full name: Muhammad Ibn `Abd Allāh Ibn `Abd al-Muttalib (Arabic: محمد بن عبدالله بن عبد المطلب ‎) was a leader from Mecca who unified the tribes of Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam. He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God. Muslims believe that Islam was not his own invention but was revealed by God, and most consider him to be the last prophet of God Muslims thus consider him the restorer of an uncorrupted original monotheistic faith (islām) of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus and other prophets.

Born in 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib. He later worked mostly as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25. Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of meditation and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God. Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that "God is One", that complete "surrender" to Him (lit. islām) is the only way (dīn) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.

wn.com/Muhammad





Nathan Alterman

                            Nathan Alterman (Hebrew: נתן אלתרמן‎, August 14, 1910, Warsaw – March 28, 1970, Tel Aviv) was an Israeli poet, playwright, journalist, and translator who – though never holding any elected office – was highly influential in Socialist Zionist politics, both before and after the establishment of the State of Israel.

Nathan Alterman was born in Warsaw, Poland (then part of the Russian Empire). He moved to Tel Aviv with his family in 1925, when he was 15 years old, and continued his studies at the Herzliya Hebrew High School.

When he was 19 years old, he travelled to Paris to study at the University of Paris (a.k.a. La Sorbonne), but a year later he decided to go to Nancy to study Agronomy. Though maintaining close contacts with his family and friends in Tel Aviv and visiting them on vacations, Alterman spent three years in France and was highly influenced by his occasional meetings with French artists and writers. When he returned to Tel Aviv in 1932, he started working at the Mikveh Yisrael agricultural school, but soon left it in favour of working as a journalist and publishing Hebrew poems.

wn.com/Nathan_Alterman




Nephilim

                            The Nephilim[pronunciation?] (plural) are the offspring of the "sons of God" and the "daughters of men" in Genesis 6:4, or giants who inhabit Canaan in Numbers 13:33. A similar word with different vowel-sounds is used in Ezekiel 32:27 to refer to dead Philistine warriors.

"Nephilim" (נְפִילִים) probably derives from the Hebrew root npl (נָפַל), "to fall" which also includes "to cause to fall" and "to kill, to ruin". The Brown-Driver-Briggs Lexicon gives the meaning as "giants"Robert Baker Girdlestone argued the word comes from the Hiphil causative stem. Adam Clarke took it as passive, "fallen", "apostates". Ronald Hendel states that it is a passive form "ones who have fallen", equivalent grammatically to paqid "one who is appointed" (i.e. overseer), asir, "one who is bound", (i.e. prisoner) etc.
(Translations according to New International Version. Note that translations frequently differ. In the King James Version of the Bible, "Nephilim" is translated as "giants" in the following examples.)

wn.com/Nephilim




Nicodemus ben Gurion

                            Nicodemus ben Gurion was a wealthy Jew who lived in Jerusalem in the 1st century CE. He is widely believed to be identical to the Nicodemus mentioned in the Gospel of John.

Nicodemus appears to have been a wealthy and respected figure, known for his holiness and generosity. He was an opponent of the Zealots and of the rebellion against Rome which led to the destruction of Jerusalem.

When Vespasian became emperor, Nicodemus sought peace with the emperor's son Titus, who was conducting the war. He agitated against the prosecution of the war by the Zealots. In retaliation they destroyed the stores of provisions that he and his friends had accumulated for the use of pilgrims.

wn.com/Nicodemus_ben_Gurion





Noah

                            Noah ( /ˈnoʊ.ə/; or Noé, Noach; Hebrew: נֹחַ,‎ נוֹחַ, Modern Noaẖ Tiberian Nōăḥ; Arabic: نُوح‎ Nūḥ; Ancient Greek: Νῶε) was the tenth and last of the antediluvian Patriarchs. The story of Noah and the ark is told in chapters 6–9 of the book of Genesis, which is followed by the story of the Curse of Ham. Outside Genesis his name is mentioned in Ezekiel, Isaiah and Chronicles. He was the subject of much elaboration in later Abrahamic traditions, including the Qur'an.

Noah was the tenth of the pre-Flood Patriarchs. His father Lamech named him nûaḥ (the final ḥ is a more gutteral sound than the English h), saying, "This same shall comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, which cometh from the ground which the LORD hath cursed." This connects the future patriarch's name with nāḥam, "comfort", but it seems better related to the word nûaḥ, meaning "rest", and is more a play on words than a true etymology.

In his five hundredth year Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth. In his six hundredth year God, saddened at the wickedness of mankind, sent a great deluge to destroy all life, but because Noah was "righteous in his generation" God instructed him to build an ark and save a remnant of life. After the Flood Noah offered a sacrifice (the word nihoah, describing the "pleasant" odour of the sacrifice, is yet another pun on Noah's name) and entered into a covenant with God regulating the shedding of blood (i.e., mankind's permnission to kill under regulated circumstances). After this he became "the first tiller of the soil", planted a vineyard, and drank the wine, and fell asleep naked; Noah's son Ham saw his father naked and told his brothers, and Noah cursed Ham's son Canaan.

wn.com/Noah




Nymphas

                            Nymphas meaning nymph. A man or a woman, depending on accenting of the Greek text, in the New Testament saluted by Paul of Tarsus in his Epistle to the Colossians as a member of the church of Laodicea[disambiguation needed ] (Colossians 4:15). Possibly a contraction of Nymphodorus. The church met in his or her house.
This article incorporates text from Easton's Bible Dictionary (1897), a publication now in the public domain.

wn.com/Nymphas





Onesimus

                            Saint Onesimus (d. ca. 68 AD) (Greek: Ὀνήσιμος, Onēsimos, meaning "useful," also called Onesimus of Byzantium and The Holy Apostle Onesimus in some Eastern Orthodox churches) was a slave to Philemon of Colossae, a man of Christian faith. He may be the same Onesimus named by Ignatius of Antioch as Bishop in Ephesus.

The name 'Onesimus' appears in two New Testament epistles. In Colossians 4:9 a person of this name is identified as a Christian accompanying Tychicus to visit the Christians in Colossae; nothing else is stated about him in this context.

The Epistle to Philemon was written by the Apostle Paul to the slave-master Philemon concerning a runaway slave called Onesimus. This slave found his way to the site of Paul's imprisonment (most probably Rome or Caesarea) to escape punishment for a theft he was said to have committed. After hearing the Gospel from Paul, Onesimus converted to Christianity. Paul, having earlier converted Philemon to Christianity, sought to reconcile the two by writing the letter to Philemon which today exists in the New Testament.). The letter read (in part):

wn.com/Onesimus





Paul the Apostle

                            Paul the Apostle (c. AD 5 – c. AD 67; variously referred to as the "Apostle Paul" or "Saint Paul"), also known as Saul of Tarsus, is perhaps the most influential early Christian missionary. The writings ascribed to him by the church form a considerable portion of the New Testament. The influence on Christian thinking of the epistles ascribed to him has been significant, due in part to his association as a prominent apostle of Christianity during the spreading of the Gospel through early Christian communities across the Roman Empire.

According to the writings in the New Testament, Paul was known as Saul prior to his conversion, and was dedicated to the persecution of the early disciples of Jesus in the area of Jerusalem. While traveling from Jerusalem to Damascus on a mission to "bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem", the resurrected Jesus appeared to him in a great light. Saul was struck blind, but after three days his sight was restored by Ananias of Damascus, and Paul began to preach that Jesus of Nazareth is the Jewish Messiah and the Son of God.

wn.com/Paul_the_Apostle





Penitent thief

                            The Penitent thief, also known as the Thief on the Cross or the Good Thief, is an unnamed character mentioned in the Gospel of Luke who was crucified alongside Jesus and asked Jesus to remember him in his kingdom, unlike his companion the Impenitent thief.

In different Christian traditions different names have been given to the thief:

Two men were crucified at the same time as Jesus, one on his right hand and one on his left (Matthew 27:38, Mark 15:27-28, Luke 23:33, John 19:18), which Mark interprets as fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah 53:12. According to Matthew, both of the "thieves" mocked Jesus (Matthew 27:44); Luke however, mentions that
39 Now one of the criminals hanging there reviled Jesus, saying, "Are you not the Messiah? Save yourself and us." 40 The other, however, rebuking him, said in reply, "Have you no fear of God, for you are subject to the same condemnation? 41 And indeed, we have been condemned justly, for the sentence we received corresponds to our crimes, but this man has done nothing criminal." 42 Then he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom." 43 He replied to him, "Amen, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise." 23:39-43

wn.com/Penitent_thief





Philip the Apostle

                            Philip the Apostle (Greek: Φίλιππος, Philippos) was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. Later Christian traditions describe Philip as the apostle who preached in Greece, Syria, and Phrygia.

In the Roman Catholic Church, the feast day of Philip, along with that of James the Just, was traditionally observed on 1 May, the anniversary of the dedication of the church dedicated to them in Rome (now called the Church of the Twelve Apostles). The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Philip's feast day on 14 November. One of the Gnostic texts found in the Nag Hammadi library in 1945 has been given the modern title "Gospel of Philip", though this text makes no claim to have been written by Philip. It gets the name simply because Philip is the only apostle ever mentioned in the text (73:8).

The Gospel of John describes Philip's calling as a disciple of Jesus.[Jn 1:43] Philip is described as a disciple from the city of Bethsaida, and connects him to Andrew and Peter, who were from the same town.[1:43–44] It further connects him to Nathanael (sometimes identified with Bartholomew) whom Philip first introduces to Jesus.[Jn 1:45–47] The authors of the Synoptic Gospels also describe Philip as a disciple of Jesus.[Mt 10:3][Mk 3:18][Lk 6:14] Philip was tested by Jesus about how to feed 5,000 people (John 6:4-7), and he was approached by Greeks who wanted to see Jesus (John 12:20-21).

wn.com/Philip_the_Apostle





Pietro Perugino

                            Pietro Perugino (Italian pronunciation: [ˈpjɛːtro peruˈdʒiːno]) (c. 1446/1450–1523), born Pietro Vannucci, was an Italian Renaissance painter of the Umbrian school, who developed some of the qualities that found classic expression in the High Renaissance. Raphael was his most famous pupil.

He was born Pietro Vannucci in Città della Pieve, Umbria, the son of Cristoforo Vannucci; his nickname characterizes him as from Perugia, the chief city of Umbria. Despite what stated by his biographer Giorgio Vasari, the Vannucci were one of the richest in the town. His exact date of birth is not known, although, basing on his age at the death mentioned by Vasari and Giovanni Santi, it has been dated between 1446 and 1452.

He most likely began to study painting in Perugia, in local workshops such as those of Bartolomeo Caporali or Fiorenzo di Lorenzo. The date of this first Florentine sojourn is unknown; some make it as early as 1466/1470, others push the date to 1479. According to Vasari, he apprenticed in the workshop of Andrea del Verrocchio alongside Leonardo da Vinci, Domenico Ghirlandaio, Lorenzo di Credi, Filippino Lippi and others. He may have learned perspective from Piero della Francesca. In 1472 he must have completed his apprenticeship, for he was enrolled as a painter in the confraternity of St Luke.

wn.com/Pietro_Perugino





Pontius Pilate

                            Pontius Pilatus (Ancient Greek: Πόντιος Πιλᾶτος, Pontios Pīlātos), known in the English-speaking world as Pontius Pilate ( /ˈpɒntʃəs ˈpaɪlət/(US),  /ˈpɒnti.əs ˈpaɪlət/ (UK)), was the fifth Prefect of the Roman province of Judaea, from AD 26–36. He is best known as the judge at Jesus' trial and the man who authorized the crucifixion of Jesus. As prefect, he served under Emperor Tiberius.

The sources for Pilate's life are the four canonical gospels, Philo of Alexandria, Josephus, a brief mention by Tacitus, and an inscription known as the Pilate Stone, which confirms his historicity and establishes his title as prefect. Based on these sources, it appears that Pilate was an equestrian of the Pontii family, and succeeded Valerius Gratus as prefect of Judaea in AD 26. Once in his post he offended the religious sensibilities of his subjects, leading to harsh criticism from Philo and Josephus. According to Josephus, he was ordered back to Rome after harshly suppressing a Samaritan uprising, arriving just after the death of Tiberius, which occurred on 16 March in the year 37. He was replaced by Marcellus.

wn.com/Pontius_Pilate





Porcius Festus

                            Porcius Festus was procurator of Judea from about AD 59 to 62, succeeding Antonius Felix. His exact time in office is not known. The earliest proposed date for the start of his term is c. A.D. 55-6, while the latest is A.D. 61. These extremes have not gained much support and most scholars opt for a date between 58 to 60. F. F. Bruce says that, "The date of his [Felix's] recall and replacement by Porcius Festus is disputed, but a change in the provincial coinage of Judaea attested for Nero's fifth year points to A.D. 59" Conybeare and Howson lay out an extended argument for the replacement taking place in A.D. 60.

Festus inherited all of the problems of his predecessor in regard to the Roman practice of creating civic privileges for Jews. Only one other issue bedeviled his administration, the controversy between Agrippa II and the priests in Jerusalem regarding the wall erected at the temple to break the view of the new wing of Agrippa's palace.

During his administration, Jewish hostility to Rome was greatly inflamed by the civic privileges issue. Feelings were aroused which played an important part in the closely following Jewish War of AD 66.

wn.com/Porcius_Festus





Potiphar

                            Potiphar or Potifar /ˈpɒtɨfər/ is a person in the Book of Genesis's account of Joseph. Potiphar is said to be the captain of the palace guard and is referred to without name in the Quran. Joseph, sold into slavery by his brothers, is taken to Egypt where he is sold to Potiphar as a household slave. Potiphar makes Joseph the head of his household, but Potiphar's wife, furious at Joseph for resisting her attempts to seduce him into sleeping with her, accuses him falsely of attempting to rape her. Potiphar casts Joseph into prison, where he comes to the notice of Pharaoh through his ability to interpret the dreams of other prisoners.

Potiphar's wife is named in neither the Bible nor the Quran. The mediaeval Sefer HaYashar, a commentary on the Torah, gives it as Zuleikha, as do many Islamic traditions and thus the Persian poem called Yusuf and Zulaikha (from Jami's Haft Awrang ("Seven thrones")). Because of the Egyptian location wherein the scene is staged, it is not impossible to scope in this biblical tale also a more recent echo of the very old Egyptian fable of the two brothers Bata and Anpu.

wn.com/Potiphar





Priscilla and Aquila

                            Priscilla and Aquila were a first century Christian missionary couple described in the New Testament and traditionally listed among the Seventy Disciples. They lived, worked, and traveled with the Apostle Paul, becoming his honored, much-loved friends and coworkers in Christ Jesus. Priscilla and Aquila are described in the New Testament as providing a presence that strengthened the early Jesus groups. Paul was generous in his recognition and acknowledgment of his indebtedness to them.[Rom. 16:3-4] Their mutuality in ministry and their leadership can inspire members of church communities today to work together as teachers and preachers of the gospel.

According to the account in Acts 18:26, Priscilla and Aquila privately explained to Apollos a 'more accurate' Christian presentation. Apollos, an important preacher of the period was identified by Paul in 1 Corinthians 4:6, 9-13 as an apostle who had shared the privations of the traveling apostolic life. Apollos must have been active in Corinth prior to 55 CE when Paul wrote his letter, as by the time of writing he is back in Ephesus with Paul.[1Cor 16:12] Apollos is also mentioned by Luke in a retrospective account in Acts 18:24-28 which details Apollos' teaching in the synagogue in Ephesus in about 52/3 CE, prior to his tenure in Corinth. Luke speaks highly of Apollos as a native of Alexandria and an ‘eloquent man’ who had a ‘thorough knowledge of the Scriptures’ and ‘taught about Jesus accurately’ (thus using the earliest Christian exegetical method taught by Christ to the apostles post resurrection). [Lu 24:27,32,44] [Acts 1:3] [1Cor 15:3-8]

wn.com/Priscilla_and_Aquila





Queen of Sheba



The Queen of Sheba (Hebrew: מלכת שבא‎, Malkaṯ Šəḇâ in Biblical Hebrew; Malkat Sh'va in Modern Hebrew; Ge'ez: ንግሥተ ሳባ, Nigiste Saba (Nəgəstä Saba); Arabic: ملكة سبأ‎, Malikat Sabaʾ) was a monarch of the ancient kingdom of Sheba and is referred to in Ethiopian history, the Bible, the Qur'an, Yoruba customary tradition, and Josephus. She is widely assumed to have been a queen regnant, although there is no historical proof of this; in fact, she may have been a queen consort. The location of her kingdom is believed to have been in Ethiopia and Yemen.

The queen of Sheba has been called a variety of names by different peoples in different times. To King Solomon of Israel she was the Queen of Sheba. In Islamic tradition she was called Bilqis or Balqis by the Arabs, who say she came from the city of Sheba, also called Mareb, in Yemen or Arabia Felix. The Roman historian Josephus calls her Nicaule. The Ethiopian people claim her as Makeda or Maqueda. She is thought to have been born sometime in the 10th century BC. Her lineage was part of the Ethiopian dynasty established in 1370 BCE by Za Besi Angabo, which lasted 350 years; Makeda's grandfather and father were the last two rulers of this dynasty. Makeda's mother was known as Queen Ismenie. In 1005 BCE, Makeda's father appointed her as his successor from his deathbed.

wn.com/Queen_of_Sheba





Quirinius

                            Publius Sulpicius Quirinius (Greek Κυρήνιος - Kyrenios or Cyrenius, c. 51 BC - AD 21) was a Roman aristocrat. After the banishment of the ethnarch Herod Archelaus from the tetrarchy of Judea in AD 6, Quirinius was appointed legate governor of Syria, to which the province of Iudaea had been added for the purpose of a census.

Born in the neighborhood of Lanuvium, a Latin town near Rome, of an undistinguished family, Quirinius followed the normal pathway of service for an ambitious young man of his social class. According to the Roman historian Florus, Quirinius defeated the Marmaridae, a tribe of desert raiders from Cyrenaica, possibly while governor of Crete and Cyrene around 14 BC, declining however the honorific name Marmaricus. In 12 BC he was named consul, a sign that he enjoyed the favour of Augustus.

Some years later, he led a campaign against the Homonadenses, a tribe based in the mountainous region of Galatia and Cilicia, around 5 - 3 BC, probably as legate of Galatia. He won by reducing their strongholds and starving out the defenders. For this victory, he was awarded a triumph.

wn.com/Quirinius





Robert Campin

                            Robert Campin (c. 1375 – 26 April 1444), now usually identified as the artist known as the Master of Flémalle, is usually considered the first great master of Flemish and Early Netherlandish painting. This had been a matter of controversy for decades; Campin's life is relatively well documented for the period, but no works in assessable condition could be securely connected with him, whilst a corpus of work had been attached to the unidentified "Master of Flémalle", named after the supposed origin of a work.

Campin first appears as settled in Tournai from the archives of 1405-6, as a free master of the guild of painters, and there has been a lot of speculation about his origin and birthplace which is actually unknown. However, in 1410 he bought citizenship, which suggests he was not born there. He eventually attained the office of dean of the guild, and wardenship of a church and other civic offices, and was running a large workshop. By 1432, however, he lost his civic positions because of scandals, and probably his role in political disturbances in the city. In 1429 he was found guilty of withholding evidence, and sentenced to go on a pilgrimage, and in 1432 was convicted of adultery and banished for a year. Margaret of Burgundy, wife of the Count of Holland and sister of John the Fearless, Duke of Burgundy intervened on his behalf, and this was reduced to a fine. The dated Werl Altarpiece (1438) shows he continued to work (the two outer wings are in the Prado; the main panel is lost).

wn.com/Robert_Campin





Russians

                            The Russian people (Russian: русские, russkiye) are an East Slavic ethnic group native to Russia, speaking the Russian language and primarily living in Russia and neighboring countries.

The English term Russians is also used to refer to the citizens of Russia, regardless of their ethnicity; the demonym Russian is translated into Russian as rossiyanin (россиянин, plural rossiyane), while the ethnic Russians are referred to as russkiye (sg. русский, russkiy).

According to the 2010 census, ethnic Russians make up about 81% of the population of Russia.

The modern Russian is formed from two groups, Northern and Southern, which were made up of Kriviches, Ilmen Slavs, Radimichs, Vyatiches and Severians East Slavic tribes. Genetic studies show that modern Russians do not differ significantly from Poles or Slovenians or Ukrainians. Some ethnographers, like Zelenin, affirm that Russians are more similar to Belarusians and Ukrainians than southern Russians to northern Russians. Russians in northern European Russia share moderate genetic similarities with Uralic peoples, who lived in modern north central European Russia and were partly assimilated by the Slavs as the Slavs migrated northeastwards. Among those peoples were Merya and Muromian.

wn.com/Russians





Saint Andrew

                            Saint Andrew (Greek: Ἀνδρέας, Andreas; from the early 1st century—mid to late 1st century AD), called in the Orthodox tradition Prōtoklētos, or the First-called, is a Christian Apostle and the brother of Saint Peter. The name "Andrew" (Greek: manly, brave, from ἀνδρεία, Andreia, "manhood, valour"), like other Greek names, appears to have been common among the Jews, Christians, and other Hellenized peoples of the region. No Hebrew or Aramaic name is recorded for him. He is considered the founder and the first bishop of the Church of Byzantium and is consequently the patron saint of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople.

The New Testament states that Andrew was the brother of Simon Peter, by which it is inferred that he was likewise a son of John, or Jonah.[Mt. 16:17] [Jn. 1:42] He was born in Bethsaida on the Sea of Galilee.[Jn. 1:44] Both he and his brother Peter were fishermen by trade, hence the tradition that Jesus called them to be his disciples by saying that he will make them "fishers of men" (Greek: ἁλιεῖς ἀνθρώπων, halieĩs anthrōpōn). At the beginning of Jesus' public life, they were said to have occupied the same house at Capernaum.[Mk. 1:21-29]

wn.com/Saint_Andrew





Saint Anne

                            Saint Anne (also Ann or Anna, from Hebrew Hannah חַנָּה, meaning "favor" or "grace") of David's house and line, was the mother of the Virgin Mary and grandmother of Jesus Christ according to Christian and Islamic tradition. English Anne is derived from Greek rendering of her Hebrew name Hannah. Mary's mother is not named in the canonical gospels or the Qur'an, and her name and that of her husband Joachim come only from New Testament apocrypha, of which the Protoevangelium of James, written perhaps around 150, seems to be the earliest that mentions them.

The story bears a similarity to that of the birth of Samuel, whose mother Hannah had also been childless. Although Hanna receives little attention in the Western church prior to the late 12th century, dedications to Hanna in the Eastern church occur as early as the 6th century. In the Eastern Orthodox Churches and Eastern Catholic Churches, she is revered as Hanna. In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, Hanna, is ascribed the title Forbear of God, and both the Birth of Mary and the Dedication of Mary to the Temple are celebrated as two of the Twelve Great Feasts. The Dormition of Hanna is also a minor feast in the Eastern Church. In Protestant tradition it is held that Martin Luther chose to enter religious life as a monk after receiving heavenly aid from St. Anne.

wn.com/Saint_Anne





Saint Joseph

                            Joseph (Hebrew יוֹסֵף, "Yosef"; Greek: Ἰωσήφ) is a figure in the Gospels, the husband of the Virgin Mary and the earthly father of Jesus Christ (in distinction to God the Father, his "heavenly father"). In Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Anglican Christian traditions he is regarded as Saint Joseph.

The Pauline epistles, generally considered the earliest extant Christian records, make no reference to Jesus' father; nor does the Gospel of Mark, generally considered the first of the gospels. The first appearance of Joseph is therefore in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. Each contains a genealogy of Jesus tracing his ancestry back to King David, but the two are from different sons of David; Matthew follows the major royal line from Solomon, while Luke follows a minor line from Nathan, another son of David and Bathsheba. Consequently all the names between David and Joseph are different. According to Matthew "Jacob was the father of Joseph," while according to Luke, Joseph, or possibly Jesus, is said to be "of Heli." Some scholars reconcile the genealogies by viewing the Solomonic lineage as Joseph's major royal line, and the Nathanic lineage in Luke to be Mary's minor line.

wn.com/Saint_Joseph





Saint Longinus

                            Longinus is the name given in medieval and some modern Christian traditions to the Roman soldier who pierced Jesus in his side with a lance, the "Holy Lance" (lancea, in the Latin Vulgate) while he was on the Cross. The figure is unnamed in the gospels. The Longinus legend further identifies this soldier as the centurion present at the Crucifixion, who testified, "In truth this man was son of God." Longinus' legend grew over the years to the point that he was said to have converted to Christianity after the Crucifixion, and he is traditionally venerated as a saint in the Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Church, and several other Christian communions.

No name for this soldier is given in the Gospels; the name Longinus is found in the pseudepigraphal Gospel of Nicodemus that was appended to the apocryphal Acts of Pilate. Longinus did not start out as a saint. An early tradition, found in the 4th-century pseudepigraphal "Letter of Herod to Pilate," claims that Longinus suffered for having pierced Jesus, and that he was condemned to a cave where every night a lion came and mauled him until dawn, after which his body healed back to normal, in a pattern that would repeat till the end of time.  Later traditions turned him into a Christian convert, but as Sabine Baring-Gould observed, "The name of Longinus was not known to the Greeks previous to the patriarch Germanus, in 715. It was introduced amongst the Westerns from the Apocryphal Gospel of Nicodemus. There is no reliable authority for the Acts and martyrdom of this saint." However, there is an old tradition linking the birthplace of Longinus with the small village of Lanciano, Samnite territory, in today's Abruzzo region of Central Italy.

wn.com/Saint_Longinus





Saint Matthew

                            Saint Matthew (מַתִּתְיָהוּ Mattityahu or מתי Mattay "Gift of YHVH"; Greek: Ματθαῖος, Matthaios) was one of the twelve Apostles of Jesus and one of the four Evangelists.

Among the early followers and apostles of Jesus, Matthew is mentioned in Mt 9:9 and Mt 10:3 as a former tax collector from Capernaum who was called into the circle of the Twelve by Jesus. He is also named among the number of the Twelve, but without identification of his background, in Mk 3:18, Lk 6:15 and Acts 1:13. He is often equated with the figure of Levi, son of Alpheus, also a tax collector, who is mentioned in Mk 2:14 and Lk 5:27. He may have collected taxes from the Hebrew people for Herod Antipas. Matthew was "called" by Jesus of Nazareth to be one of the Twelve Disciples. According to the New Testament he was one of the witnesses of the Resurrection and the Ascension.

Matthew was a first century Galilean (presumably born in Galilee, which was not part of Judea or the Roman Iudaea province) and the son of Alpheus. During the Roman occupation (which began in 63 BC with the conquest of Pompey), Matthew collected taxes from the Hebrew people for Herod Antipas, the tetrarch of Galilee. His tax office was located in Capernaum. Jews who became rich in such a fashion were despised and considered outcasts. However, as a tax collector he would have been literate in Aramaic and Greek.

wn.com/Saint_Matthew





Saint Matthias

                            Matthias (Hebrew transliteration Mattityahu) (d. 80), according to the Acts of the Apostles, was the apostle chosen by the remaining eleven apostles to replace Judas Iscariot following Judas' betrayal of Jesus and suicide. His calling as an apostle is unique in that his appointment was not made personally by Jesus, who had already ascended to heaven, and, it was made before the descending of the Holy Spirit upon the early Church.

There is no mention of a Matthias among the lists of disciples or followers of Jesus in the three synoptic gospels. According to Acts 1, in the days following the Ascension of Jesus, to the assembled disciples, who numbered about one hundred and twenty, that they nominated two men to replace Judas: Joseph called Barsabbas (also known as Justus) and Matthias. Then they prayed, "Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left to go where he belongs." Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Matthias; so he was added to the eleven apostles. (Acts 1:23-26)

wn.com/Saint_Matthias





Saint Nicholas

                            Saint Nicholas (Greek: Ἅγιος Νικόλαος, Hagios ["Saint", literally "Holy", Latin: Sanctus] Nicolaos ["victory of the people"]) (270 – 6 December 343), also called Nikolaos of Myra, was a historic 4th-century saint and Greek Bishop of Myra (Demre, part of modern-day Turkey) in Lycia. Because of the many miracles attributed to his intercession, he is also known as Nikolaos the Wonderworker (Νικόλαος ὁ Θαυματουργός, Nikolaos ho Thaumaturgos). He had a reputation for secret gift-giving, such as putting coins in the shoes of those who left them out for him, and thus became the model for Santa Claus, whose modern name comes from the Dutch Sinterklaas, itself from a series of elisions and corruptions of the transliteration of "Saint Nikolaos". His reputation evolved among the faithful, as was common for early Christian saints. In 1087, part of the relics (about half of the bones) were furtively translated to Bari, in southeastern Italy; for this reason, he is also known as Nikolaos of Bari. The remaining bones were taken to Venice in 1100. His feastday is 6 December [O.S. 19 December].

wn.com/Saint_Nicholas





Saint Peter

                            Saint Peter or Simon Peter was an early Christian leader and one of the twelve apostles of Jesus who is featured prominently in the New Testament Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles and who is venerated as a saint. The son of John or of Jonah, he was from the village of Bethsaida in the province of Galilee or Gaulanitis. His brother Andrew was also an apostle. Peter is venerated in multiple churches and is regarded as the first Pope by the Catholic Church. After working to establish the church of Antioch, presiding for seven years as the leader of the city's Christian community, he preached to scattered communities of believers, Jews, Hebrew Christians and the gentiles, in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia Minor and Bithynia.[citation needed] He then went to Rome, where in the second year of Claudius, it is claimed, he overthrew Simon Magus and held the Sacerdotal Chair for 25 years.[citation needed] He is said to have been put to death at the hand of Emperor Nero.

Peter wrote two General epistles. The Gospel of Mark is also ascribed to him (as Mark was his disciple and interpreter). On the other hand, several books bearing his name—the Acts of Peter, Gospel of Peter, Preaching of Peter, Revelation of Peter, and Judgement of Peter—are rejected by the Catholic Church as Apocryphal.

wn.com/Saint_Peter





Saint Publius

                            Saint Publius (in Maltese, San Publju) is the first Maltese Saint. He is venerated as the first Bishop of Malta. Publius' conversion led to Malta being the first Christian nation in the West, and one of the first in the world.

It was the same Publius who received the Apostle Paul during his shipwreck on the island as recounted in the Acts of the Apostles. According to the Acts of the Apostles, St. Paul cured Publius' dysentery-afflicted father.
"In the vicinity of that place were lands belonging to a man named Publius, the chief of the island. He welcomed us and received us cordially as his guests for three days. It so happened that the father of Publius was sick with a fever and dysentery. Paul visited him and, after praying, laid his hands on him and healed him. After this had taken place, the rest of the sick on the island came to Paul and were cured. They paid us great honor and when we eventually set sail they brought us the provisions we needed." - Acts 28:7-10, New American Bible

In fact apart from being the particular patron saint of the town of Floriana, Saint Publius is also one of the patron saints of Malta. He was martyred c. 125, during the persecution of Emperor Hadrian.

wn.com/Saint_Publius





Saint Stephen

                            Saint Stephen (Koine Greek: Στέφανος, Stephanos; sometimes spelled "Stephan"), the protomartyr of Christianity, is venerated as a saint in the Roman Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran,Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Orthodox Churches.

Stephen's name is derived from the Greek language Stephanos, meaning "crown". Traditionally, Stephen is invested with a crown of martyrdom; he is often depicted in art with three stones and the martyrs' palm. In Eastern Christian iconography, he is shown as a young, beardless man with a tonsure, wearing a deacon's vestments, and often holding a miniature church building or a censer. Rembrandt depicted his martyrdom in his work The Stoning of Saint Stephen.

History approximates Stephen's story around A.D. 34-35, shortly after Jesus' crucifixion[citation needed]. According to Chapter 6 of The Acts of the Apostles, Stephen was among seven men of the early church at Jerusalem appointed to serve as deacon. However, he is depicted as also successfully preaching to his fellow Jews and bringing many to accept Jesus as the Messiah. After a dispute with the members of a synagogue of "Roman Freedmen," he is denounced for blasphemy against God and Moses (Acts 6:11) and speaking against the Temple and the Law. Stephen is tried before the Sanhedrin. His defense is presented as accusing the Jews of persecuting the prophets who had spoken out against the sins of the nation:

wn.com/Saint_Stephen





Saint Timothy

                            Timothy (Greek: Τιμόθεος; Timótheos, meaning "honouring God" or "honored by God") was a first-century Christian bishop who died around the year 80. The New Testament indicates that Timothy traveled with Saint Paul, who was also his mentor. He is addressed as the recipient of the Epistles to Timothy.

Saint Timothy is mentioned in the Bible at the time of Paul's second visit to Lystra in Anatolia, where Timothy is mentioned as a "disciple". Paul, impressed by his "own son in the faith," arranged that he should become his companion. Timothy was the son of a Jewess, but had not been circumcised, and Paul now ensured that this was done, according to the text, to ensure Timothy’s acceptability to the Jews. According to McGarvey Paul performed the operation "with his own hand", but others claim this is unlikely and nowhere attested[citation needed]. He was ordained and went with Paul on his journeys through Phrygia, Galatia, Mysia, Troas, Philippi, Veria, and Corinth. His mother, Eunice, and his grandmother, Lois, are noted as eminent for their piety and faith, which indicates that they may have also been Christians. Timothy is praised by Paul for his knowledge of the Scriptures (in the 1st century mostly the Septuagint, see Development of the New Testament canon#Clement of Rome), and is said to have been acquainted with the Scriptures since childhood. Little is known about Timothy's father; only that he was Greek.

wn.com/Saint_Timothy





Saleh

                            Saleh or Șāliḥ (Arabic: صالح‎; meaning Pious) was an Arabic prophet of ancient Arabia mentioned in the Qur'an, who prophesied to the tribe of Thamud. He is mentioned nine times throughout the Qur'an and his people are frequently referenced as a wicked community who, because of their sins, were ultimately destroyed. Saleh is sometimes equated with the Shelah of the Hebrew Bible, however there is almost nothing in common between the Qur'anic narrative of Saleh and the Biblical narrative of Shelah. The preaching and prophecy of Saleh is linked to the famous Islamic story of the She-Camel, which was the gift given by God to the people of Thamud when they desired a miracle to confirm the truth of the message Saleh was preaching. Chronologically, scholars believe Saleh's prophesying to have been post-Antediluvian[clarification needed] but pre-Abrahamic.
Thamud people are believed to have been the successors to the ancient tribe of ʿĀd. Their ancestral descendant may have been Eber, the great-grandson of Noah and their location is likely to have been in the Northwest corner of Arabia, between Madinah and Syria. In later Islamic history, when Muhammad led his expedition to Tabuk against the Romans, on a reported Roman invasion from Syria, the prophet - and his companions - came across the remains of Thamud. With the advance of material civilization, the people of Thamud became materialistic and arrogant as well as godless. Thus, God sent the prophet and seer Saleh, to warn them about the impending doom they would face if they did not mend their sinful ways.

wn.com/Saleh





Salman Rushdie

                            Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie (Hindi: अहमद सलमान रुशदी (Devanagari), احمد سلمان رشدی (Nastaʿlīq);  /sælˈmɑːn ˈrʊʃdi/; born 19 June 1947) is a British Indian novelist and essayist. His second novel, Midnight's Children (1981), won the Booker Prize in 1981. Much of his fiction is set on the Indian subcontinent. He is said to combine magical realism with historical fiction; his work is concerned with the many connections, disruptions and migrations between East and West.

His fourth novel, The Satanic Verses (1988), was the centre of a major controversy, provoking protests from Muslims in several countries, some violent. Death threats were made against him, including a fatwā issued by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Supreme Leader of Iran, on 14 February 1989.

Rushdie was appointed Commandeur dans Ordre des Arts et des Lettres of France in January 1999. In June 2007, Queen Elizabeth II dubbed him Knight Bachelor for his services to literature. In 2008, The Times ranked him thirteenth on its list of the fifty greatest British writers since 1945.

wn.com/Salman_Rushdie





Salome

                            Salome (Greek: Σαλωμη, Salōmē), the Daughter of Herodias (c AD 14 - between 62 and 71), is known from the New Testament (Mark 6:17-29 and Matthew 14:3-11, where, however, her name is not given). Another source from Antiquity, Flavius Josephus's Jewish Antiquities, gives her name and some detail about her family relations.

Her name in Hebrew is שלומית (Shlomiẗ, IPA: [ʃlomiθ]) and is derived from the root word ŠLM (שלם), meaning "peace".

Christian traditions depict her as an icon of dangerous female seductiveness, for instance depicting as erotic her dance mentioned in the New Testament (in some later transformations further iconised to the dance of the seven veils), or concentrate on her lighthearted and cold foolishness that, according to the gospels, led to John the Baptist's death.

A new ramification was added by Oscar Wilde, who in his play Salome portrayed her as something of a femme fatale. This last interpretation, made even more memorable by Richard Strauss's opera based on Wilde, is not consistent with Josephus's account; according to the Romanized Jewish historian, she lived long enough to marry twice and raise several children. Few literary accounts elaborate the biographical data given by Josephus.

wn.com/Salome





Samaritans

                            The Samaritans (Hebrew: שומרונים‎ Shomronim, Arabic: السامريون‎ as-Sāmariyyūn) are an ethnoreligious group of the Levant. Religiously the Samaritans are adherents of Samaritanism, an Abrahamic religion closely related to Judaism. Based on the Samaritan Torah, Samaritans claim their worship is the true religion of the ancient Israelites prior to the Babylonian Exile, preserved by those who remained in the Land of Israel, as opposed to Judaism, which they assert is a related but altered and amended religion brought back by those returning from exile.

Ancestrally, Samaritans claim descent from a group of Israelite inhabitants from the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh (the two sons of Joseph) as well as some descendants from the priestly tribe of Levi, who have connections to ancient Samaria from the period of their entry into the land of Canaan, while some suggest that it was from the beginning of the Babylonian Exile up to the Samaritan Kingdom of Baba Rabba. The Samaritans, however, derive their name not from this geographical designation, but rather from the Hebrew term Shamerim שַמֶרִים, "Keepers [of the Law]".

wn.com/Samaritans





Samuel

                            Samuel ( /ˈsæm.juː.əl/;Hebrew: שְׁמוּאֶל, Modern Shmu'el Tiberian Šəmûʼēl; Greek: Σαμουήλ Samouēl; Latin: Samvel; صموئيل, Ṣamu’īl; Strong's: Shemuwel) is a leader of ancient Israel in the Books of Samuel in the Hebrew Bible. He is also known as a prophet and is mentioned in the Qur'an.

His status, as viewed by rabbinical literature, is that he was the last of the Hebrew Judges and the first of the major prophets who began to prophesy inside the Land of Israel. He was thus at the cusp between two eras. According to the text of the Books of Samuel, he also anointed the first two kings of the Kingdom of Israel: Saul and David.

Samuel's mother was Hannah and his father was Elkanah. Hannah, at the beginning of the narrative, is barren and childless, like Abraham's wife Sarah. Hannah prays to God for a child. Eli who is sitting at the foot of the doorpost in the sanctuary at Shiloh, sees her apparently mumbling and thinks Hannah is drunk, but is soon assured of her motivation and sobriety. Eli was, according to the Books of Samuel, the name of a priest of Shiloh, and one of the last Israelite Judges before the rule of kings in ancient Israel. He blesses her after she promises the child to God. Subsequently Hannah becomes pregnant; her child is Samuel. After he is weaned, she leaves him in Eli's care.

wn.com/Samuel





Saul

                            Saul (Hebrew: שָׁאוּל, Šāʼûl ; "asked for, prayed for"; Arabic: طالوت‎, Ṭālūt; Greek: Σαούλ Saoul; Latin: Saul) (circa 1079 BC – 1007 BC) was the first king of the united Kingdom of Israel. He was anointed by the prophet Samuel and reigned from Gibeah. He fell on his sword to avoid capture in the battle against the Philistines at Mount Gilboa, during which three of his sons were also killed. The succession to his throne was contested by Ish-bosheth, his only surviving son, and his son-in-law David, who eventually prevailed. The main account of Saul's life and reign is found in the Books of Samuel.

According to the Tanakh, Saul was the son of Kish, of the family of the Matrites, and a member of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the twelve Tribes of Israel. (1 Samuel 9:1-2; 10:21; 14:51; Acts 13:21) It appears that he came from Gibeah.

Saul married Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz. They had four sons and two daughters. The sons were Jonathan, Abinadab, Malchishua and Ish-bosheth. Their daughters were named Merab and Michal.

wn.com/Saul




Sceva

                            Sceva, or Scevas, apparently related to the Greek word skeuos meaning a vessel or implement, a Jew called a "chief priest" (archiereus in Greek) in Acts 19:14. There was no high priest in Jerusalem by this name--some speculate that he was the head of one of the twenty-four courses of the house of Levi. He had seven sons, who in Ephesus "took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus," in imitation of Paul. They tried their method of exorcism on a fierce demon, and failed. His answer to them was "Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are ye?" (Acts 19:15) This has been interpreted as, "The Jesus whom you invoke is One whose authority I acknowledge; and the Paul whom you name I recognize to be a servant or messenger of God; but what sort of men are ye who have been empowered to act as you do by neither?" (Thomas Lindsay on the Acts of the Apostles.)
This article incorporates text from Easton's Bible Dictionary (1897), a publication now in the public domain.

wn.com/Sceva





Selaphiel

                            Saint Selaphiel the Archangel or Saint Sealtiel, Selatiel (Aramaic צלתיאל Tzelathiel "Prayer of God", Heb. שאלתיאל Shealtiel), sometimes identified with Salathiel from the Second Book of Esdras. He is one of the seven archangels in Eastern Orthodox tradition, and in traditional folk Catholicism. When depicted in iconography by himself or with individual characteristics, he is shown in an attitude of humble prayer, with downcast eyes and arms crossed over his breast. Prayer is considered his special attribute, and Orthodox Christians will seek his help if their prayer is suffering from distractions, inattentiveness, or coldness. In Catholic Tradition, he is depicted as a thurifer.


wn.com/Selaphiel





Sergius Paulus

This article incorporates text from Easton's Bible Dictionary (1897), a publication now in the public domain.

Lucius Sergius Paulus or Paullus was a Proconsul of Cyprus under Claudius (1st century AD). He appears in Acts (13:6-13), where in Paphos Paul, accompanied by Barnabas and John Mark, overcame the attempts of Bar-Jesus or Elymas and converted Sergius to Christianity.

A boundary stone of Claudius mentioning Sergius was discovered at Rome in 1887. It records the appointment (AD 47) of the Curators of the banks and the channel of the river Tiber, one of whom was Sergius. Since Paul's journey to Cyprus is usually dated to the first half of the 40s (and some scholars would date his visit even earlier), it is thought Sergius first served his three years as Proconsul at Cyprus, then returned to Rome, where he was appointed curator. As he is not greeted in Paul's Epistle to the Romans, it is possible he died before it was written.

Some mediæval legends have anachronistically identified him with Paul of Narbonne.

wn.com/Sergius_Paulus





Seven Deacons

                            The Seven Deacons were leaders elected by the Early Christian church to minister to the people of Jerusalem. They are described in the Acts of the Apostles, and are the subject of later traditions as well; for instance they are supposed to have been members of the Seventy Disciples who appear in the Gospel of Luke.

The Seven Deacons were:


Only Stephen and Philip are discussed in much detail in Acts; tradition provides nothing more about Nicanor or Parmenas. Stephen became the first martyr of the church when he was killed by a mob; and whose death was agreed to by Saul of Tarsus, the future Paul (Acts 8:1). Philip evangelized in Samaria, where he converted Simon Magus and an Ethiopian eunuch, traditionally beginning the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Tradition calls Prochorus the nephew of Stephen and a companion of John the Evangelist, who consecrated him bishop of Nicomedia in Bithynia (modern-day Turkey). He was traditionally ascribed the authorship of the apocryphal Acts of John, and was said to have ended his life as a martyr in Antioch in the 1st century. According to Caesar Baronius' Annales Ecclesiastici, now considered historically inaccurate, Nicanor was a Cypriot Jew who returned to his native island and died a martyr in 76. Other accounts say he was martyred in "Berj," an unidentified place possibly confused with Botrys. Timon was said to have been a Hellenized Jew who became a bishop in Greece or in Bosra, Syria; in the latter account, his preaching brought the ire of the local governor, who martyred him with fire. After preaching for years in Asia Minor, where Hippolytus of Rome claimed he was bishop of Soli (Pompeiopolis; though he may have been referring to Soli, Cyprus), Parmenas was said to have settled down in Macedonia, where he died at Philippi in 98 during Trajan's persecutions.[citation needed]

wn.com/Seven_Deacons





Seven Sleepers

                            The Seven Sleepers, commonly called the "Seven Sleepers of Ephesus", refers to a group of Christian youths who hid inside a cave outside the city of Ephesus around 250 AD, to escape a persecution of Christians being conducted during the reign of the Roman emperor Decius. Having fallen asleep inside the cave, they purportedly awoke approximately 150-200 years later during the reign of Theodosius II, following which they were reportedly seen by the people of the now-Christian city before dying. An outline of this tale appears in Gregory of Tours (b. 538, d. 594), and in Paul the Deacon's (b. 720, d. 799) History of the Lombards. The best-known Western version of the story appears in Jacobus de Voragine's Golden Legend.

The story has its highest prominence, however, in the Muslim world; it is told in the Qur'an (Surah 18, verse 9-26). While not giving the number of youths involved, the Quranic rendering of the Seven Sleepers story largely parallels the Christian account. Unlike the Christian story, the Islamic version includes a dog who allegedly accompanied the youths into the cave, and kept watch at the entrance for the entire time[citation needed] (see Islamic interpretation). In Islam, these youths are referred to as "The People of the Cave". It represents one of the trials of Muhammad by the Jewish elders of Madina while he was in Makkah; by explaining this mystery to his followers, Muhammad would confirm his being a Prophet of God.

wn.com/Seven_Sleepers





Seventy disciples

                            The seventy disciples or seventy-two disciples (known in the Eastern Christian tradition as the seventy apostles) were early followers of Jesus mentioned in the Gospel of Luke 10:1–24. According to Luke, the only gospel in which they appear, Jesus appointed them and sent them out in pairs on a specific mission which is detailed in the text. In Western Christianity, they are usually referred to as disciples, whereas in Eastern Christianity they are usually referred to as apostles. Using the original Greek words, both titles are descriptive as an apostle is one sent on a mission (the Greek uses the verb form: apesteilen) whereas a disciple is a student, but the two traditions differ on the scope of the words apostle and disciple.

The passage from Luke 10 reads:

This is the only mention of the group in the Bible. The number is seventy in manuscripts in the Alexandrian (such as Codex Sinaiticus) and Caesarean text traditions but seventy-two in most other Alexandrian and Western texts. It may derive from the 70 nations of Genesis or the many other 70 in the Bible, or the 72 translators of the Septuagint from the Letter of Aristeas. In translating the Vulgate, Jerome selected the reading of seventy-two.

wn.com/Seventy_disciples




Sheba

                            Sheba Ge'ez: ሳባ, Saba,(Arabic: سبأ, Sabāʾ, South Arabian , Hebrew: שבא, Sh'va, also referred to as the people of Tubba) was a kingdom mentioned in the Jewish scriptures (Old Testament) and the Qur'an. Sheba features in Ethiopian, Jewish and Qur'anic traditions. Among other things it was the home of the Biblical "Queen of Sheba" (named Makeda in Ethiopian tradition and Bilqis in Islamic tradition).

The actual location of the historical kingdom is disputed. Owing to the connection with the Queen of Sheba, the location has become closely linked with national prestige, as various royal houses have claimed descent from the Queen of Sheba and Solomon. In the medieval Ethiopian cultural work called the Kebra Nagast, Sheba was located in Ethiopia. Ruins in many other countries, including Yemen, Somalia, Sudan, Egypt, Ethiopia and Iran have been credited as being Sheba, but with only minimal evidence.

Modern archaeological evidence increasingly supports Sheba being located in modern Yemen at or near the site of the famous Marib Dam, which was first built more than 2500 years ago. They may have expanded at some point from Arabia into Africa to found trading posts in the lands currently called Eritrea and Somalia. Some scholars suggest a link to the Sabaeans of southern Arabia.

wn.com/Sheba





Silas

                            Saint Silas or Saint Silvanus (Greek: Σίλας / Σιλουανός; fl. 1st century AD) was a leading member of the Early Christian community, who later accompanied Paul on parts of his first and second missionary journeys.

There is some disagreement over the proper form of his name: he is consistently called "Silas" in Acts, but the Latin Silvanus, which means "of the forest," is always used by Paul and in the First Epistle of Peter; it may be that "Silvanus" is the Romanized version of the original "Silas," or that "Silas" is the Greek nickname for "Silvanus." Fitzmyer points out that Silas is the Greek version of the Aramaic "Seila," a version of the Hebrew "Saul," which is attested in Palmyrene inscriptions. The name Latin "Silvanus" may be derived from pre-Roman Italian languages (see, e.g., the character "Asilas," an Etruscan leader and warrior-prophet who plays a prominent role in assisting Aeneas in Virgil's epic poem the Aeneid).[citation needed]

He was with Paul in Phillipi when they were imprisoned, but were freed when an earthequake broke their chains and opened the prison door. He is thus sometimes depicted carrying broken chains.

wn.com/Silas




Simeon Niger

                            Simeon Niger is a person in the Book of Acts in the New Testament. He is mentioned in Acts 13:1 as being one of the "prophets and teachers" in the church of Antioch:

In the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen (who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch) and Saul. (Acts 13:1, NIV)

The nickname Niger means "black", which is usually taken to mean a dark complexion and/or African descent.

wn.com/Simeon_Niger





Simon Magus

Simon the Sorcerer or Simon the Magician, in Latin Simon Magus, (Greek Σίμων ὁ μάγος) was a Samaritan magus or religious figure and a convert to Christianity, baptised by Philip the Evangelist, whose later confrontation with Peter is recorded in Acts 8:9-24. The sin of simony, or paying for position and influence in the church, is named for Simon. The Apostolic Constitutions also accuses him of lawlessness. According to Recognitions, Simon's parents were named Antonius and Rachel.

Surviving traditions about Simon appear in anti-heretical texts, such as those of Irenaeus, Justin Martyr, Hippolytus, and Epiphanius, where he is often regarded as the source of all heresies. Justin wrote that nearly all the Samaritans in his time were adherents of a certain Simon of Gitta, a village not far from Flavia Neapolis. Irenaeus held him as being one of the founders of Gnosticism and the sect of the Simonians. Hippolytus quotes from a work he attributes to Simon or his followers the Simonians, Apophasis Megale, or Great Declaration. According to the early church heresiologists Simon is also supposed to have written several lost treatises, two of which bear the titles The Four Quarters of the World and The Sermons of the Refuter.

wn.com/Simon_Magus





Simon of Cyrene

                            Simon of Cyrene (שמעון "Hearkening; listening", Standard Hebrew Šimʿon, Tiberian Hebrew Šimʿôn) was the man compelled by the Romans to carry the cross of Jesus as Jesus was taken to his crucifixion, according to all three Synoptic Gospels

By contrast, the Gospel of John does not mention Simon, saying only that Jesus carried the cross himself, or carried his own cross (John 19:17). This may mean that Jesus received no assistance on the journey to Calvary; or it may be that John wished to emphasise that Jesus took the load of the cross and therefore of the sins of mankind upon himself.

Because his home town, Cyrene, Libya, was located in northern Africa, a connection arose making Simon of Cyrene the first saintly Christian. Cyrene, a Greek colony, also had a Jewish community where 100,000 Judean Jews had settled during the reign of Ptolemy Soter (323-285 BC) and was an early center of Christianity. The Cyrenian Jews had a synagogue in Jerusalem, where many went for annual feasts. Tradition states his sons Rufus and Alexander became missionaries; the inclusion of their names in Mark suggests that they were of some standing in the Early Christian community at Rome. It has even been suggested that the Rufus mentioned by Paul in Romans 16:13 is the son of Simon of Cyrene. Some also link Simon himself with the "men of Cyrene" who preached the Gospel to the Greeks in Acts 11:20. On the other hand, Simon's name does not prove he was Jewish, and Alexander and Rufus were both common names and may have referred to others.

wn.com/Simon_of_Cyrene




Simon the Leper

                            Simon the Leper is a biblical figure mentioned by the Gospels according to Matthew (26:6-13) and Mark (14:3-9). These two books narrate how Jesus made a visit to the house of Simon the Leper at Bethany during the course of which a woman anoints the head of Jesus with costly ointment. Bethany was the home of Simon the Leper as well as Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. The Gospel according to John (12:1-8) recounts that Mary, Martha and Lazarus attended a supper for Jesus Christ six days before the Passover and Crucifixion of Jesus. Martha served. According to John's Gospel, the feet of Jesus were also anointed. Comparing them suggests that Judas Iscariot and other disciples of Jesus also attended and protested the costly anointing of Jesus.

Simon the Leper is sometimes identified with Simon the Pharisee (see Shimon ben Gamliel), who is mentioned in the Gospel of Luke (7:36-50) as the host of a meal during which the feet of Jesus are anointed by a woman. Because of these similarities, efforts have been made to reconcile the events and characters but some scholars have pointed out differences between the two events. An alternative explanation for the similarities is that the Luke 7 anointing and the anointing at Bethany (Matthew 26:6, Mark 14:3, John 12:1) happened with some of the same participants, but several years apart.

wn.com/Simon_the_Leper





Simon the Zealot

                            The apostle called Simon Zelotes, Simon the Zealot, in Luke 6:15 and Acts 1:13; and Simon Kananaios or Simon Cananeus ("Simon" signifying שמעון "hearkening; listening", Standard Hebrew Šimʿon, Tiberian Hebrew Šimʿôn), was one of the most obscure among the apostles of Jesus. Little is recorded of him aside from his name. A few pseudepigraphical writings were connected to him, and Jerome does not include him in De viris illustribus.

The name of Simon occurs in all of the synoptic gospels and Acts that give a list of apostles, without further details:

To distinguish him from Simon Peter, he is called Kananaios, or Kananites (Matthew 10:4; Mark 3:18), and in the list of apostles in Luke 6:15, repeated in Acts 1:13, Zelotes, the "Zealot". Both titles derive from the Hebrew word qana, meaning The Zealous, though Jerome and others mistook the word to signify the apostle was from the town of Cana, in which case his epithet would have been "Kanaios" or even from the region of Canaan. As such, the translation of the word as "the Cananite" or "the Canaanite" is traditional and without contemporary extra-canonic parallel.

wn.com/Simon_the_Zealot




Sopater

                            Sopater (so'-pa-ter, sop'-a-ter (gr Σωπατρoς; Sopatros, "saviour of his father", Easton's reads "The father who saves", Holman's reads “sound parentage”) was the son of Pyrhus, a man from the city of Berea. Sopater and others accompanied Paul out of Macedonia after a group of Jews began to plot against Paul, and then sailed from Philippi to Alexandria Troas where they met Paul who had gone by land.

It is commonly accepted that Sopater is the kinsman of Paul noted in Romans 16:21. as Sosipater He is hounored as Saint Sosipater, April 29, by the Eastern Orthodox Church.

wn.com/Sopater





Terah

                            Terah or Térach (Hebrew: תֶּרַח / תָּרַח, Modern Téraḥ / Táraḥ Tiberian Téraḥ / Tāraḥ ; "Ibex, wild goat", or "Wanderer; loiterer") is a biblical figure in the book of Genesis, son of Nahor, son of Serug and father of the Patriarch Abraham, all descendants of Shem's son Arpachshad. Terah is mentioned in the Hebrew Bible  and in the New Testament.

Most of what is told about Terah is recorded in Genesis 11:26-28. Terah's father was Nahor, son of Serug, descendants of Shem.[v.10] They and many of their ancestors were polytheistic. Regarding his children, Terah had three sons: Abram, Haran, and Nahor II.[v.26] He also had a daughter Sarai, wife of Abram. The entire family, including grandchildren, lived in Ur of the Chaldees.[v.31] One of his grandchildren was Lot, whose father Haran, Terah's son, died while living in Ur.[v.28]

Terah's son, Abram, had an encounter with God who directed him to take the entire family and leave Haran to the land of Canaan. Terah coordinated the journey intending to go to this new land, however, he ended up staying in Haran (biblical place),[v.31] a city that was along the way. He died in Haran at 205 years of age.[v.32]

wn.com/Terah




Tertius of Iconium

                            Tertius of Iconium (also Tertios) acted as an amanuensis for the Apostle Paul, writing down his letter to the Romans. According to church tradition he is numbered among the Seventy Disciples, and was Bishop in Iconium after the Apostle Sosipater. He died a martyr. The Church remembers St. Tertius on October 30 and November 10.
Troparion (Tone 3) [1]
Kontakion (Tone 2)

wn.com/Tertius_of_Iconium





Thamud

                            The Thamūd (Arabic: ثمود) were a people of ancient Arabia who were known from the 1st millennium BC to near the time of Muhammad. Although they are thought to have originated in southern Arabia, Arabic tradition has them moving north to settle on the slopes of Mount Athlab near Mada'in Saleh. According to the Qur'an, the Thamud were punished and destroyed by a soundwave (rajfa).

Numerous Thamudic rock writings and pictures have been found on Mount Athlab and throughout central Arabia.

The oldest known reference to Thamud is a 715 BC inscription of the Assyrian king Sargon II which mentions them as being among the people of eastern and central Arabia subjugated by the Assyrians.

They are referred to as "Tamudaei" in the writings of Aristo of Chios, Ptolemy, and Pliny.

The Qur'an mentions Thamud in Sura Al-A'raf in the context of several prophets who warned their people of coming judgement. Verse 74 says of Thamud, "Ye build for yourselves palaces and castles in (open) plains, and carve out homes in the mountains". This could refer to the rock-cut tombs of Mada'in Saleh (the Cities of Saleh)

wn.com/Thamud




Theudas

                            Theudas (thyū'dăs) (died c. 46 AD) was a Jewish rebel of the 1st century AD. His name, if a Greek compound, may mean "gift of God", although other scholars believe its etymology is Semitic and might mean “flowing with water”. At some point between 44 and 46 AD, Theudas led his followers in a short-lived revolt.

Our principal source for the story is Josephus, who wrote:

It came to pass, while Cuspius Fadus was procurator of Judea, that a certain charlatan, whose name was Theudas, persuaded a great part of the people to take their effects with them, and follow him to the Jordan river; for he told them he was a prophet, and that he would, by his own command, divide the river, and afford them an easy passage over it. Many were deluded by his words. However, Fadus did not permit them to make any advantage of his wild attempt, but sent a troop of horsemen out against them. After falling upon them unexpectedly, they slew many of them, and took many of them alive. They also took Theudas alive, cut off his head, and carried it to Jerusalem. (Jewish Antiquities 20.97-98)[dead link]

wn.com/Theudas





Thomas the Apostle

                            Thomas the Apostle, also called Doubting Thomas or Didymus (meaning "Twin," as does "Thomas" in Aramaic") was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. He is best known for questioning Jesus' resurrection when first told of it, then proclaiming "My Lord and my God" on seeing Jesus in John 20:28. He was perhaps the only Apostle who went outside the Roman Empire to preach the Gospel. He is also believed to have crossed the largest area, which includes the Parthian Empire and India.

Thomas speaks in the Gospel of John. In John 11:16, when Lazarus has just died, the apostles don't want to go back to Judea, where Jesus' fellow Jews had attempted to stone him to death. Thomas says bravely: "Let us also go, that we may die with him" (NIV).

In Thomas' best known appearance in the New Testament, [Jn. 20:24–29] he doubts the resurrection of Jesus and demands to touch Jesus' wounds before being convinced. Caravaggio's painting, The Incredulity of Saint Thomas (illustration above), depicts this scene. This story is the origin of the term Doubting Thomas. After seeing Jesus alive, Thomas exclaimed, "My Lord and my God!".

wn.com/Thomas_the_Apostle





Tiberius

                            Tiberius (Latin: Tiberius Julius Caesar Augustus; 16 November 42 BC – 16 March 37 AD), was Roman Emperor from 14 AD to 37 AD. Tiberius was by birth a Claudian, son of Tiberius Claudius Nero and Livia Drusilla. His mother divorced Nero and married Augustus in 39 BC, making him a step-son of Octavian. Tiberius would later marry Augustus' daughter Julia the Elder (from his marriage to Scribonia) and even later be adopted by Augustus, by which act he officially became a Julian, bearing the name Tiberius Julius Caesar. The subsequent emperors after Tiberius would continue this blended dynasty of both families for the next forty years; historians have named it the Julio-Claudian dynasty. In relations to the other emperors of this dynasty, Tiberius was the stepson of Augustus, great-uncle of Caligula, paternal uncle of Claudius, and great-great uncle of Nero.

Tiberius was one of Rome's greatest generals, conquering Pannonia, Dalmatia, Raetia, and temporarily Germania; laying the foundations for the northern frontier. But he came to be remembered as a dark, reclusive, and sombre ruler who never really desired to be emperor; Pliny the Elder called him tristissimus hominum, "the gloomiest of men." After the death of Tiberius’ son Drusus Julius Caesar in 23 he became more reclusive and aloof. In 26, against better judgement, Tiberius exiled himself from Rome and left administration largely in the hands of his unscrupulous Praetorian Prefects Lucius Aelius Sejanus and Quintus Naevius Sutorius Macro. Caligula, Tiberius' grand-nephew and adopted grandson, succeeded the emperor upon his death.

wn.com/Tiberius




Trophimus

                            Trophimus (Greek: Τρόφιμος, Trophimos) or Trophimus the Ephesian Greek: Τρόφιμος ὁ Ἐφέσιος, Trophimos ho Ephesios) was a Christian who accompanied Paul during a part of his third missionary journey. He was with Paul in Jerusalem, and the Jews, supposing that the apostle had brought him with him into the temple, raised a tumult which resulted in Paul’s imprisonment. (See Herod's Temple). In writing to Timothy, the apostle comments that he left Trophimus in Miletus due to illness. This must refer to some event not noticed in the Acts.

wn.com/Trophimus




Tychicus

                            Tychicus is one of Paul's companions in the New Testament. He is mentioned five times (Acts 20:4; Colossians 4:7; Ephesians 6:21; 2 Timothy 4:12; Titus 3:12).

In both Ephesians and Colossians, Paul indicates that he is sending Tychicus to the Christians to whom he is writing, in order to encourage them.

The Catholic Encyclopedia notes that different traditions make him out to be the Bishop of Colophon, Chalcedon or Neapolis in Cyprus.
Hippolytus of Rome lists Tychicus as one of the seventy disciples. His feast is kept on 29 April.

wn.com/Tychicus




Umm Jamil

                            Umm Jamil bint Harb (Arabic: أم جميل بنت حرب‎) was the wife of Abu Lahab, an enemy of Muhammad and the sister of Abu Sufyan. According to some, her full name was "'Arwaa' bint Harb bin Ummayyah". She is mentioned in Sura 111 of the Quran. It is said that one day she went to the Ka'aba where Abu Bakr and Muhammad were praying. She did not see Muhammad and addressed Abu Bakr saying:


wn.com/Umm_Jamil





Uriel

                            Uriel (אוּרִיאֵל "El/God is my light", Auriel/Oriel (God is my light) Standard Hebrew Uriʾel, Tiberian Hebrew ʾÛrîʾēl) is one of the archangels of post-Exilic Rabbinic tradition, and also of certain Christian traditions. His name may have analogies with Uriah.

In apocryphal, kabbalistic and occult works Uriel has been equated or confused with Urial,Nuriel, Uryan, Jeremiel, Vretil, Sariel, Suriel, Puruel, Phanuel, Jehoel, Jacob, Ezrail/Azrael and Israfil/Raphael.

The angels mentioned in the older books of the Hebrew Bible are without names. Indeed, rabbi Simeon ben Lakish of Tiberias (230–270), asserted that all the specific names for the angels were brought back by the Jews from Babylon, and some modern commentators would tend to agree. Of the seven Archangels in the angelology of post-Exilic Judaism, only two, Gabriel, and Michael, are mentioned by name in the Scriptures consistently recognised by both the post-Jamnia Jewish tradition and the books common to both the Catholic biblical canon and the smaller Protestant one. Raphael features prominently in the deuterocanonical book Tobit (initially accepted by both the Jewish and Christian canons, but removed from the Jewish canon in late antiquity and rejected by the Protestant reformers in the 17th century). The Book of Tobit is accepted as scriptural by the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Oriental Orthodox Church.

wn.com/Uriel




Wikipedia Persondata

wn.com/Wikipedia_Persondata




Zayd ibn Harithah

                            Zayd ibn Harithah (Arabic: زيد بن حارثة‎) or Zayd mawla Muhammad (c. 588-629 CE) was a prominent figure in the early Islamic community and the only one of sahaba whose name appears in the Qur'an (33:37). As he was the adopted son of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, before Islam abolished adoption in exchange of Kafala. He was an early convert to Islam and later, a military leader. He died c. 629 CE at the Battle of Mu'tah.

Zayd bin Harith was the son of Harith, of the Makhdhoom tribe that lived to the north of Mecca. During a raid, raiders had captured the boy, Zayd. He was taken as a slave and sold at the great fair of Ukaz. At the festival of Ukaz, Zayd along with a few other slaves were purchased by Hakim bin Hizam and taken back to Mecca. Hakim bin Hizam then offered to Khadijah bint Khuwaylid, the wife of Muhammad, to choose any slave for herself. She chose Zayd, who was then taken to her household. On the occasion of her marriage to Muhammad, Muhammad had set free his slave Baraka. Baraka was a slave woman who was owned by the late father of Muhammad, Abdullah bin Abdul Muttalib. After the passing away of his father, this slave Baraka, had come into the custody of Muhammad. He had set her free on the occasion of marriage to Khadijah bint Khuwaylid. He often referred to (Baraka) her as his ummi (mother) in later days. Also on the occasion of marriage, Khadijah had given Zayd as a gift to her new husband.

wn.com/Zayd_ibn_Harithah





Zebedee

                            Zebedee (Greek: Ζεβεδαῖος, Zebedaios, Greek word #2199 in Strong's; Hebrew: זְבַדְיָה‎, Zebadyah, Hebrew word #2069 in Strong's), according to all four Canonical gospels, was the father of James and John, two disciples of Jesus. The gospels also suggest that he was the husband of Salome: whereas Mark 15:40 names the women present at the crucifixion as "Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Less and of Joses, and Salome," the parallel passage in Matthew 27:56 has "Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children." The Catholic Encyclopedia concludes that the Salome of Mark 15:40 is probably identical with the mother of the sons of Zebedee in Matthew.

Zebedee was a fisherman, "probably of some means." Although he is named several times in the gospels, the only times he actually appears are in Matthew 4:21-22 and Mark 1:20, where he is left in the boat after Jesus called James and John. Mark notes that Zebedee was left with the "hired men."

wn.com/Zebedee





Zipporah

                            Zipporah or Tzipora ( /ˈzɪpərə/ or /zɨˈpɔərə/; Hebrew: צִפוֹרָה, Modern Tsippora Tiberian Ṣippôrā; Greek: Σεπφώρα Sepphōra/Sephora; Arabic: صِفُّورَةَ, صوانة‎ Ṣaffūrah or Safrawa; "bird") is mentioned in the Book of Exodus as the wife of Moses, and the daughter of Reuel/Jethro, the priest or prince of Midian. In the Book of Chronicles, two of her grandsons are mentioned: Shebuel, son of Gershom, and Rehabiah, son of Eliezer.

Zipporah was one of the seven daughters of Reuel, the Midianite priest or prince, who is also called Jethro (Exodus 3:1, 4:18, 18:1-2 ff.) and Hobab (Judges 4:11). While the Israelites/Hebrews were captives in Egypt, Moses killed an Egyptian who was striking a Hebrew, for which offense Pharaoh sought to kill Moses. Moses therefore fled from Egypt and arrived in Midian. One day while he sat by a well, Reuel's daughters came to water their father's flocks. Other shep­herds arrived and drove the girls away so they could water their own flocks first. Moses helped the girls and watered their flock.

wn.com/Zipporah





Zwarte Piet

                            In the folklore and legends of the Netherlands and Belgium, Zwarte Piet ( pronunciation (help·info)) (meaning Black Pete) is a companion of Saint Nicholas (Dutch: Sinterklaas) whose yearly feast in the Netherlands is usually celebrated on the evening of 5 December (Sinterklaas-avond, that is, St. Nicholas Eve) and 6 December in Belgium, when they distribute sweets and presents to all good children.

The characters of Zwarte Pieten appear only in the weeks before Saint Nicholas's feast, first when the saint is welcomed with a parade as he arrives in the country (generally by boat, having traveled from Madrid, Spain). The tasks of the Zwarte Pieten are mostly to amuse children, and to scatter pepernoten, Kruidnoten and "strooigoed" (special sinterklaas-candies) for those who come to meet the saint as he visits stores, schools, and other places.

The original Zwarte Piet is sometimes associated with Knecht Ruprecht, but in the Low Countries the tradition has not merged with Christmas.

The Dutch now celebrate Sinterklaas (5 December) with an exchange of gifts. These presents are given anonymously, but are often accompanied by poems (Sinterklaasgedicht), signed by "Zwarte Piet" or "Sint", which are read aloud during Sinterklaas evening for the enjoyment of the ones assembled. The poems often are teasing in nature.

wn.com/Zwarte_Piet




ʿĀd

                            ʿĀd (Arabic عاد) was an ancient Arab tribe and a district in South Arabia that was led by 'Ad ibn Kin'ad.

The ʿĀd are thought[by whom?] to have lived in what is now eastern Yemen and western Oman, running from the Arabian Sea up into the Dhofar Mountains and to the edge of the Rub' al Khali. Some speculate that this was the first site of camel domestication.Ubar, located in ʿĀd, was a major transshipment point for ancient frankincense trade.

The ʿĀd tribe settled in an area to the East of the Qahtan tribe and established the Kingdom of ʿĀd in South Arabia sometime between 10th century BC and 3rd century AD. The rulers of ʿĀd included Ad ibn Kin'ad, the first leader of 'Ad, who lived some time between the 23rd and 10th century BC; Aldahn Khuljan, who lived some time in the 4th to 3rd centuries BC; and, according to legend, Shaddad, known to the Himyarites as the last leader of 'Ad, who lived in the 6th to 4th centuries AD.
Claudius Ptolemy's Geographos includes mention of the inhabitants of 'Ad's capital, Ubar.

wn.com/ʿĀd
















Gabriel - Ash



Gabriel - Mary Black



Gabriel - Lamb



Gabriel - Memphis May Fire



Gabriel - The Nixons



Gabriel - Ashes To Ashes



Gabriel - CSI: Miami Soundtrack



Gabriel - Cafe Del Mar



Gabriel - Najoua Belyzel








Ash, Gabriel


Well I guess I gotta go now,Saying farewell until the next time,But I know we'll meet again.Seem so early to be leaving,Feel so tired,Just want to sleep now,Fade away.Gabriel,Am I finished,Trapped inside,You got me in it.Is it over in a minute,Gabriel.Gabriel,Am I finished,Trapped inside,You got me in it.Is it over in a minute,Gabriel.Hear them in the distance,Singing so softly,Oh so peaceful,Calling me on.Being drawn in ever closer,Down towards the cool calm river,I can hear their song.Gabriel,Am I finished,Trapped inside,You got me in it.Is it over in a minute,Gabriel.Gabriel, I am finished,Trapped inside,You got me in it.Is it over in a minute,Gabriel.


Mary Black, Gabriel


ChorusGabriel GabrielOpen you heart and mine as wellOh Gabriel GabrielSave this heart from hellHeaven knows I love youAnd heaven knows how trueI'd be for youPeople have their failingsAnd I know that I've got mineI know I've been ungratefulI know I've been unkindChorusGabriel GabrielOpen you heart and mine as wellOh come on Gabriel GabrielSave this heart from hellDown into the valleysAnd out across the seaOur dreams goCaught up in a lovingSo much stronger than we knewThat could tear our world apartOr with some fate just pull us throughChorusGabriel oh GabrielOpen you heart and mine as wellGabriel GabrielSave this heart from hellTime will wait for no oneAnd time will take it's tollAnd we'll grow oldWeary from the fightingWorn out from a warWhere no one can surrenderOr wants to fight anymoreChorusGabriel GabrielOpen you heart and mine as wellGabriel GabrielSave this heart from hellGabriel GabrielOpen you heart and mine as wellOh Gabriel GabrielThis heart's in hellRepeat


Lamb, Gabriel


I can fly but I want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut I crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel GabrielI can love but I need his heartI am strong even on my ownBut from him I never want to partHe?s been there since the very startMy angel Gabriel, my angel GabrielBless the day he came to beAngel?s wings carried him to meHeavenly I can fly but I want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut I crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel Gabriel, my angel GabrielMy angel GabrielMy angel GabrielMy angel Gabriel


Memphis May Fire, Gabriel


Heed my words!I have come to prepare the wayThis message will open your eyesOpen your eyesOur doubts are traitorsThey lead us from our goalsThe fearful are the fallenIt's dismay that corrupts your soulI know this but I can't stray away from Christ.Let faith live strong, it carries me, pain for so long.You're all I need.Let faith live strong, it carries me, pain for so long.He's the one that will open your eyes,Allow him inside.Let faith live strong, it carries me, pain for so long.Let faith live strong, it carries me, pain for so long


The Nixons, Gabriel


Come and make me feel a little betterMy crime is not for you but rather heavenYou were lying grounded angel and I clipped your wingsOh don't you know you're beautiful to sufferDon't you know that you could make it all betterAnd you willCome and make me feel a little saferDon't judge before the angels in the basementI got Michael and Abadon and I got GabrielAnd oh don't you know you're beautiful to sufferDon't you know that you could make it all betterAnd you willCome and make me feel a little betterHe never told no one what he had thereAnd if he had they'd just say you're crazyCome and make me feel a little betterMy crime is not for you but rather heaven


Ashes To Ashes, Gabriel


- I Control the lightThe darkness reigns, and the sun descends- Dark spirits awaken in meEerie movements in his mighty kingdom- The salvation of the black soulA star formation, a warning in the sky.- The second war is mineA new dungeon of the dark,Like a shadow in duskHis scent, his aura, the all-embracingDarkest one.Destruction of all mankind,Will shape the second purgatory land.The devours of souls.- An abandoned priestThe savior beckons for him to rise- An abandoned angelAn encounter with the fallen one- The final conflictHe's come to put an end to all- HypocrisyThis soul belongs in Hell,But not with this savage og envy.I took a deep breath, and together withThe mighty evil embrace, it was so intense.I felt my desire, all hell in my hands.Without repentance, my mind's in oblivion.


CSI: Miami Soundtrack, Gabriel


I can flyBut I want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut I crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel GabrielI can loveBut I need his heartI am strong even on my ownBut from him I never want to partHe's been there since the very startMy angel GabrielMy angel GabrielBless the day he came to beAngel's wings carried him to meHeavenlyI can flyBut I want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut I crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel GabrielMy angel GabrielMy angel Gabriel


Cafe Del Mar, Gabriel


I can flyBut i want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut i crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel gabrielI can loveBut i need his heartI am strong even on my ownBut from him i never want to partHe’s been there since the very startMy angel gabrielMy angel gabrielBless the day he came to beAngel’s wings carried him to meHeavenlyI can flyBut i want his wingsI can shine even in the darknessBut i crave the light that he bringsRevel in the songs that he singsMy angel gabrielMy angel gabriel


Najoua Belyzel, Gabriel


GabrielGabriel, j'attendsUn peu de sentimentsQue ton âme se jette à l'eauDans mon corps océanDu zéphyr, du ventTu mens comme un enfantEt tu fuis vers tout là-hautDès que ton ciel se fendEs-tu fait pour luiEs-tu fait pour moiJe n'attends qu'un signe de toiSi tu as le mal de luiJ'ai le mal de toiQu'il en soit ainsi mais dis-moi, dis-moiEs-tu fait pour luiES-tu fait pour moiJe n'attends qu'un signe de toiSi tu as le mal de luiJ'ai le mal de toiDis-moi oh oh oh ohGabrielMon roiMon ange en qui je croisSi l'amour vient de là-hautSauras-tu faire un choix oh ohTu sais fuirTu meursLa fièvre dans le sangMoi je prie pour qu'à nouveauTu me reviennes à tempsEs-tu fait pour luiES-tu fait pour moiJe n'attends qu'un signe de toiSi tu as le mal de luiJ'ai le mal de toiQu'il en soit ainsi mais dis-moi, dis-moiEs-tu fait pour luiEs-tu fait pour moiJe n'attends qu'un signe de toiSi tu as le mal de luiJ'ai le mal de toi, dis-moiGabrielGabriel, s'attendA plus qu'un sentimentQu'un plaisir brûle sa peau,Les deux ailes en avantEs-tu fait pour luiEs-tu fait pour moiEs-tu fait pour luiEs-tu fait pour moiGabriel...



















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Joe Goddard feat. Valentina - Gabriel (Official Video)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:44
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


Out now: itunes.apple.com 12" and Download available at the Greco-Roman store: www.surus.co.uk Ltd edition T-shirts available at the Millionhands store: bit.ly P&C 2011 Greco-Roman: www.facebook.com Exclusively licensed to DFA in North America and Avoca Drive in Australia. Video by Utile Creative and Jazz Goddard
http://wn.com/Joe_Goddard_feat_Valentina_Gabriel_Official_Video




				
					Out now: itunes.apple.com 12" and Download available at the Greco-Roman store: www.surus.co.uk Ltd edition T-shirts available at the Millionhands store: bit.ly P&C 2011 Greco-Roman: www.facebook.com Exclusively licensed to DFA in North America and Avoca Drive in Australia. Video by Utile Creative and Jazz Goddard

published: 31 Aug 2011
views: 833336

author:
GrecoRomanMusic















Gabriel (2007) Trailer

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:50
Updated: 31 Jan 2013


GABRIEL tells the story of an archangel who fights to bring light back to purgatory - a place where darkness rules - and save the souls of the city's inhabitants. Starring Andy Whitfield
http://wn.com/Gabriel_2007_Trailer




				
					GABRIEL tells the story of an archangel who fights to bring light back to purgatory - a place where darkness rules - and save the souls of the city's inhabitants. Starring Andy Whitfield

published: 18 Jul 2010
views: 489373

author:
glows















"Road Trip" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:47
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Road_Trip_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 02 May 2010
views: 13645982

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:56
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel
http://wn.com/Drinking_Driving_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 01 Nov 2009
views: 11132097

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Pregnancy Scare" -Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:02
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Here's a clip from my show "Stand-Up Revolution" that aired on Comedy Central! ;P Enjoy! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... www.fluffyshop.com If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!? Like me on Facebook. facebook.com Subscribe on my YouTube. youtube.com Add me on Google+ fluffyguy.com and Follow me on Twitter. twitter.com Website. fluffyguy.com Webstore. http ITUNES LINK: Get Ozomatli's song "Hey It's Fluffy" featured at the end of this video on iTunes now! itunes.apple.com -Gabriel aka FLUFFY ;p
http://wn.com/Pregnancy_Scare_-Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Here's a clip from my show "Stand-Up Revolution" that aired on Comedy Central! ;P Enjoy! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... www.fluffyshop.com If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!? Like me on Facebook. facebook.com Subscribe on my YouTube. youtube.com Add me on Google+ fluffyguy.com and Follow me on Twitter. twitter.com Website. fluffyguy.com Webstore. http ITUNES LINK: Get Ozomatli's song "Hey It's Fluffy" featured at the end of this video on iTunes now! itunes.apple.com -Gabriel aka FLUFFY ;p

published: 23 Apr 2012
views: 2672517

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (1986)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:01
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Music video of 1986 directed by Stephen R. Johnson From Peter Gabriel's 'So' album In 1987, this video won 9 MTV Video Music Awards. For more information about Peter Gabriel, visit the website : www.landofgenesis.fr
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Sledgehammer_1986




				
					Music video of 1986 directed by Stephen R. Johnson From Peter Gabriel's 'So' album In 1987, this video won 9 MTV Video Music Awards. For more information about Peter Gabriel, visit the website : www.landofgenesis.fr

published: 07 Apr 2008
views: 3606777

author:
pcfrlog















Gabriel Davi - Beautiful (Official Video) [HD]

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:20
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


contact@qmusic.ro www.facebook.com www.facebook.com (c) & (p) ROTON ROMANIA 2011 Music & Lyrics: Gabriel Davi, Hat Man, Vanotek Director: Mayer Vira DoP: Ovidiu Dumitriade International Licensing: pr@roton.ro
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Davi_Beautiful_Official_Video_HD_




				
					contact@qmusic.ro www.facebook.com www.facebook.com (c) & (p) ROTON ROMANIA 2011 Music & Lyrics: Gabriel Davi, Hat Man, Vanotek Director: Mayer Vira DoP: Ovidiu Dumitriade International Licensing: pr@roton.ro

published: 22 Aug 2011
views: 26053797

author:
QmusicRomania















"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:24
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel
http://wn.com/Drive_Thru_Voice_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 01 Nov 2009
views: 15765420

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:15
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Dance,_Dance,_Revolution_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 14 May 2011
views: 6752812

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:18
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" ‪www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" ‪www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" ‪www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" ‪www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" ‪www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/E-glesias_with_a_I_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" ‪www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" ‪www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" ‪www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" ‪www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" ‪www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪www.youtube.com

published: 13 May 2011
views: 5232736

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:51
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :) -Gabriel Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/RACIST?_OR_FUNNY?_Gift_Basket_Prank_Gabriel_Iglesias_uncensored




				
					A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :) -Gabriel Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 14 Aug 2010
views: 7325879

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Australian Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:03
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Australian_Memories_Gabriel_Iglesias_Standup_Revolution




				
					SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 25 Jan 2013
views: 169778

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Crocodile Hunter" - Gabriel Iglesias (from Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:49
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel
http://wn.com/Crocodile_Hunter_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 15 Apr 2010
views: 10382296

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:37
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.
http://wn.com/Chocolate_Cake_Made_Me_Late_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.

published: 06 Oct 2009
views: 7787316

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















Peter Gabriel - The Book of Love

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:37
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Peter Gabriel's cover of The Magnetic Fields' song. It was also a song from the movie "Shall We Dance?" To be submitted as a requirement for school Produced by sakuramiyu sakuramiyu.deviantart.com
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_The_Book_of_Love




				
					Peter Gabriel's cover of The Magnetic Fields' song. It was also a song from the movie "Shall We Dance?" To be submitted as a requirement for school Produced by sakuramiyu sakuramiyu.deviantart.com

published: 15 Feb 2009
views: 5164561

author:
sakuramiyu777















Peter Gabriel & Kate Bush -Don't Give Up

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:13
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Don't give up In this proud land we grew up strong We were wanted all along I was taught to fight, taught to win I never thought I could fail No fight left or so it seems I am a man whose dreams have all deserted Ive changed my face, Ive changed my name But no one wants you when you lose Dont give up cos you have friends Dont give up Youre not beaten yet Dont give up I know you can make it good Though I saw it all around Never thought I could be affected Thought that wed be the last to go It is so strange the way things turn Drove the night toward my home The place that I was born, on the lakeside As daylight broke, I saw the earth The trees had burned down to the ground Dont give up You still have us Dont give up We dont need much of anything Dont give up cause somewhere theres a place Where we belong Rest your head You worry too much Its going to be alright When times get rough You can fall back on us Dont give up Please dont give up got to walk out of here I cant take anymore Going to stand on that bridge Keep my eyes down below Whatever may come And whatever may go That rivers flowing That rivers flowing Moved on to another town Tried hard to settle down For every job, so many men So many men no-one needs Dont give up cause you have friends Dont give up Youre not the only one Dont give up No reason to be ashamed Dont give up You still have us Dont give up now Were proud of who you are Dont give up You know its never been easy Dont give up cause I believe theres the a ...
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Kate_Bush_-Don't_Give_Up




				
					Don't give up In this proud land we grew up strong We were wanted all along I was taught to fight, taught to win I never thought I could fail No fight left or so it seems I am a man whose dreams have all deserted Ive changed my face, Ive changed my name But no one wants you when you lose Dont give up cos you have friends Dont give up Youre not beaten yet Dont give up I know you can make it good Though I saw it all around Never thought I could be affected Thought that wed be the last to go It is so strange the way things turn Drove the night toward my home The place that I was born, on the lakeside As daylight broke, I saw the earth The trees had burned down to the ground Dont give up You still have us Dont give up We dont need much of anything Dont give up cause somewhere theres a place Where we belong Rest your head You worry too much Its going to be alright When times get rough You can fall back on us Dont give up Please dont give up got to walk out of here I cant take anymore Going to stand on that bridge Keep my eyes down below Whatever may come And whatever may go That rivers flowing That rivers flowing Moved on to another town Tried hard to settle down For every job, so many men So many men no-one needs Dont give up cause you have friends Dont give up Youre not the only one Dont give up No reason to be ashamed Dont give up You still have us Dont give up now Were proud of who you are Dont give up You know its never been easy Dont give up cause I believe theres the a ...

published: 12 Nov 2008
views: 7625496

author:
ibs11















"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:23
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Hey guys, Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/High_School_Reunion_-Gabriel_Iglesias_exclusive_bonus_footage_from_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy




				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 28 Jul 2010
views: 9728677

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Bears Love Me" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:26
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com
http://wn.com/Bears_Love_Me_Gabriel_Iglesias_Standup_Revolution




				
					SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 18 Jan 2013
views: 375178

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Strippers" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:09
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Here is a clip of me talking about going to a strip club with my friend Paul Rodriguez from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Strippers_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about going to a strip club with my friend Paul Rodriguez from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 02 May 2010
views: 7355614

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















Ana Gabriel Mi Talisman

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:23
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Ana Gabriel Mi Talisman En Especial Para Telemundo 2005 AG records All Rights Reserved © 2011
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Mi_Talisman




				
					Ana Gabriel Mi Talisman En Especial Para Telemundo 2005 AG records All Rights Reserved © 2011

published: 22 Jun 2011
views: 3414474

author:
AnaGabrielMusic















Peter Gabriel - Secret World Live

Order: Reorder
Duration: 102:34
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Secret World Live in Modena, Italy 1993 "Come Talk to Me" "Steam" "Across the River" (Stewart Copeland, Gabriel, David Rhodes, L. Shankar) "Slow Marimbas" "Shaking the Tree" (Gabriel, Youssou N'Dour) "Red Rain" "Blood of Eden" "Kiss That Frog" "Washing of the Water" "Solsbury Hill" "Digging in the Dirt" "Sledgehammer" "Secret World" "Don't Give Up" "In Your Eyes"
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Secret_World_Live




				
					Secret World Live in Modena, Italy 1993 "Come Talk to Me" "Steam" "Across the River" (Stewart Copeland, Gabriel, David Rhodes, L. Shankar) "Slow Marimbas" "Shaking the Tree" (Gabriel, Youssou N'Dour) "Red Rain" "Blood of Eden" "Kiss That Frog" "Washing of the Water" "Solsbury Hill" "Digging in the Dirt" "Sledgehammer" "Secret World" "Don't Give Up" "In Your Eyes"

published: 07 Apr 2012
views: 883828

author:
petergabrielfan1















"Making Cops Laugh / Krispy Kreme Doughnuts" - Gabriel Iglesias - (From Hot & Fluffy)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:19
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Here is a clip about my friend Felipe making cops laugh from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Making_Cops_Laugh_Krispy_Kreme_Doughnuts_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy




				
					Here is a clip about my friend Felipe making cops laugh from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 01 May 2010
views: 6593127

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"New Car / Volkswagen Beetle" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:41
Updated: 01 Feb 2013


Here is a clip about my new car from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/New_Car_Volkswagen_Beetle_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip about my new car from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 02 May 2010
views: 5698929

author:
hotandfluffycomedy
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












"Hey It's Fluffy" - Ozomatli (feat. Gabriel Iglesias) - world premiere MUSIC VIDEO

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


ITUNES LINK: Get it now! http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/hey-its-fluffy-feat.-gabriel/id472441407


Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in every Thursday starting October 6th at 10pm! Enjoy this Music Video from 3 time Grammy nominated OZOMATLI! :)

Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

OZOMATLI...
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/ozomatli
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ozomatli
Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/Ozomatli

Again, tune into Comedy Central every Thursday starting Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel a.k.a. FLUFFY ;p

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com
http://wn.com/Hey_It's_Fluffy_Ozomatli_feat_Gabriel_Iglesias_world_premiere_MUSIC_VIDEO




				
					ITUNES LINK: Get it now! http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/hey-its-fluffy-feat.-gabriel/id472441407


Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in every Thursday starting October 6th at 10pm! Enjoy this Music Video from 3 time Grammy nominated OZOMATLI! :)

Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

OZOMATLI...
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/ozomatli
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ozomatli
Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/Ozomatli

Again, tune into Comedy Central every Thursday starting Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel a.k.a. FLUFFY ;p

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com

published: 08 Oct 2011
views: 1212047

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















Gabriel Iglesias: Stand-Up Revolution starting Oct. 6th @10pm on Comedy Central

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:26
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in on October 6th at 10pm for the series premiere! 

I'm on Tour! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

Again, tune in on Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Iglesias_Stand-Up_Revolution_starting_Oct_6th_@10pm_on_Comedy_Central




				
					Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in on October 6th at 10pm for the series premiere! 

I'm on Tour! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

Again, tune in on Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com

published: 03 Oct 2011
views: 649049

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:18
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 


  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/E-glesias_with_a_I_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 


  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 13 May 2011
views: 5232652

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:24
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel
http://wn.com/Drive_Thru_Voice_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 15765275

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:15
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/Dance,_Dance,_Revolution_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 6752659

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:51
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :)
-Gabriel 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 
"High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/RACIST?_OR_FUNNY?_Gift_Basket_Prank_Gabriel_Iglesias_uncensored




				
					A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :)
-Gabriel 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 
"High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 Aug 2010
views: 7325711

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Cops" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:19
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/Cops_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 4117738

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:37
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.
http://wn.com/Chocolate_Cake_Made_Me_Late_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 7789901

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Chicos Taco's" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:03
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/Chicos_Taco's_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 3429684

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"The President" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:04
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 

  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/The_President_Gabriel_Iglesias_from_my_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 

  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 13 May 2011
views: 3743221

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















How the Hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p - Gabriel Iglesias FLUFFYSHOP.COM

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:56
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a little funny commercial part of the show. How the hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p I've got that "Im Not Fat, Im Fluffy" shirt and a lot of other funny ones at http://fluffyshop.com

Enjoy!
http://wn.com/How_the_Hell_did_he_fit_into_that_shirt?_;p_Gabriel_Iglesias_FLUFFYSHOPCOM




				
					Here is a little funny commercial part of the show. How the hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p I've got that "Im Not Fat, Im Fluffy" shirt and a lot of other funny ones at http://fluffyshop.com

Enjoy!

published: 17 Aug 2011
views: 782711

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:23
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Hey guys,
Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8
http://wn.com/High_School_Reunion_-Gabriel_Iglesias_exclusive_bonus_footage_from_I'm_Not_Fat_I'm_Fluffy




				
					Hey guys,
Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 06 Aug 2010
views: 9728502

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:56
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel
http://wn.com/Drinking_Driving_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 11134987

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Last Comic Standing and My Mom" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:42
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about my experience on Last Comic and how supportive my mother is from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy."
http://wn.com/Last_Comic_Standing_and_My_Mom_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about my experience on Last Comic and how supportive my mother is from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy."

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 4573545

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Latino TV, Soda & Cake" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:09
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about Latino TV, Soda and Cake from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Latino_TV,_Soda_Cake_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about Latino TV, Soda and Cake from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 5556249

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:54
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about memories from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Memories_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about memories from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 3423977

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Livin' Life" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:05
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about living life and enjoying yourself from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Livin'_Life_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about living life and enjoying yourself from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 3776856

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Spanish Radio" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:17
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about Spanish radio from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Spanish_Radio_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about Spanish radio from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 4911889

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Broke Back Mexican" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:41
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about my flashing before my eyes from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Broke_Back_Mexican_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about my flashing before my eyes from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 6228673

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Road Trip" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:47
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Road_Trip_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 13645702

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Strippers" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:09
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip of me talking about going to a strip club with my friend Paul Rodriguez from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Strippers_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip of me talking about going to a strip club with my friend Paul Rodriguez from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 7355484

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"New Car / Volkswagen Beetle" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:41
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip about my new car from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/New_Car_Volkswagen_Beetle_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy_comedy_special




				
					Here is a clip about my new car from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 5701081

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















"Making Cops Laugh / Krispy Kreme Doughnuts" - Gabriel Iglesias - (From Hot & Fluffy)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:19
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Here is a clip about my friend Felipe making cops laugh from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.
http://wn.com/Making_Cops_Laugh_Krispy_Kreme_Doughnuts_Gabriel_Iglesias_From_Hot_Fluffy




				
					Here is a clip about my friend Felipe making cops laugh from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 6593006

author:
hotandfluffycomedy
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Coopenhagen 1983

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Wallflower_Coopenhagen_1983




				
					Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 106268

author:
giovannigambale















PETER GABRIEL - moribund the burgermeister

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:18
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Live in Brescia - 02/07/2007
http://wn.com/PETER_GABRIEL_moribund_the_burgermeister




				
					Live in Brescia - 02/07/2007

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 57841

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen 1983

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:40
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_San_Jacinto_Coopenhagen_1983




				
					Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 48975

author:
giovannigambale















Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:00
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel
http://wn.com/Sledgehammer_Peter_Gabriel




				
					Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 6848922

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Shock The Monkey

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:59
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel preforming Shock the Monkey in San Remo 1983
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Shock_The_Monkey




				
					Peter Gabriel preforming Shock the Monkey in San Remo 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 537489

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:27
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Here_Comes_The_Flood




				
					Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 2846090

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:20
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Solsbury_Hill_Live_in_Arzachena




				
					Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 71387

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (Live)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:48
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Live Concert from the 2003 Growing Up Tour in Filaforum, Milan, Italy
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Sledgehammer_Live




				
					Live Concert from the 2003 Growing Up Tour in Filaforum, Milan, Italy

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 169427

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003, accompanied by The Blind Boys of Alabama.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Sky_Blue




				
					Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003, accompanied by The Blind Boys of Alabama.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 681887

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel Live in Amsterdam, Biko (end of concert)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:23
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Westergasfabriek, 29 juni 2007
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Live_in_Amsterdam,_Biko_end_of_concert




				
					Westergasfabriek, 29 juni 2007

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 16200

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:17
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


PG & Co. playing a funny Solsbury Hill!
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Solsbury_Hill




				
					PG & Co. playing a funny Solsbury Hill!

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 6643997

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel Biko Live 1986

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:13
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


The final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  This was the set closer, an emotional version of Biko.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Biko_Live_1986




				
					The final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  This was the set closer, an emotional version of Biko.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 1860577

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel & Youssou Ndour - Shakin' The Tree

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:36
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


awesome song...wonderful when Peter Gabriel and Youssou Ndour work together
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Youssou_Ndour_Shakin'_The_Tree




				
					awesome song...wonderful when Peter Gabriel and Youssou Ndour work together

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 742487

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Biko

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:24
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel - Biko
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Biko




				
					Peter Gabriel - Biko

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 352434

author:
giovannigambale















PETER GABRIEL SECRET WORLD (DVD QUALITY)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:37
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


FROM PETER GABRIEL'S GROWING UP LIVE TOUR
http://wn.com/PETER_GABRIEL_SECRET_WORLD_DVD_QUALITY




				
					FROM PETER GABRIEL'S GROWING UP LIVE TOUR

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 1179622

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel : I Grieve 2002 9/11 Tribute

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:45
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel Performing I Grieve, September 2002 on Larry King Weekend 9/11 Tribute Show.  I recorded this on my TiVo and had to re-render it to get it less than 100meg.  Enjoy! - MJ
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_I_Grieve_2002_9_11_Tribute




				
					Peter Gabriel Performing I Grieve, September 2002 on Larry King Weekend 9/11 Tribute Show.  I recorded this on my TiVo and had to re-render it to get it less than 100meg.  Enjoy! - MJ

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 502633

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel and Fairlight CMI

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:18
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


French documentary about Peter Gabriel demonstrating his new toy - The Fairlight CMI.
He also talks about the song The Rythmn of the Heat which used the Fairlight extensively.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_and_Fairlight_CMI




				
					French documentary about Peter Gabriel demonstrating his new toy - The Fairlight CMI.
He also talks about the song The Rythmn of the Heat which used the Fairlight extensively.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 210805

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel, Sledgehammer cover by Blues Brothers Reloaded

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:52
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. Durante la manifestazione "MusiCampus 2008" presso l'Università degli studi di Salerno, il gruppo dei "Blues Brother Reloaded" esegue la cover dal vivo del brano "Sledgehammer" di Peter Gabriel.

20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. "Blues Brother Reloaded" covering live "Sledgehammer" by Peter Gabriel at the University of Salerno.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel,_Sledgehammer_cover_by_Blues_Brothers_Reloaded




				
					20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. Durante la manifestazione "MusiCampus 2008" presso l'Università degli studi di Salerno, il gruppo dei "Blues Brother Reloaded" esegue la cover dal vivo del brano "Sledgehammer" di Peter Gabriel.

20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. "Blues Brother Reloaded" covering live "Sledgehammer" by Peter Gabriel at the University of Salerno.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 7818

author:
giovannigambale















Deep Forest & Peter Gabriel - While The Earth Sleeps

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:22
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


NOTE: I don't own the rights of this song. Just making an unofficial video clip, since the music is just sublime.

I QUOTE haywire151,

" its a solid﻿ fuel tablet!!! used for heating camp food. Get them at any sporting good stores. "

that is NOT urinal cake ;~

unofficial video



To download ALL DAFT PUNK songs and TONS of REMIXES, check my media fire account and download as much as you want!
http://www.mediafire.com/daftpunk
http://wn.com/Deep_Forest_Peter_Gabriel_While_The_Earth_Sleeps




				
					NOTE: I don't own the rights of this song. Just making an unofficial video clip, since the music is just sublime.

I QUOTE haywire151,

" its a solid﻿ fuel tablet!!! used for heating camp food. Get them at any sporting good stores. "

that is NOT urinal cake ;~

unofficial video



To download ALL DAFT PUNK songs and TONS of REMIXES, check my media fire account and download as much as you want!
http://www.mediafire.com/daftpunk

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 601106

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel - Solidays Qui Sait

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:14
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel, Zucchero, Anggun and other in charity for kids with AIDS. In 2000 Erick Benzi have write words and music and Patrick Bruel, Stephan Eicher, Faudel, Lokua Kanza, Laam, Nourith, Axelle Red have accept to sing it.

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai peut-être un jour besoin de ça
D'une main douce et puissante

Qui sait, qui sait ?
D'un chemin plus sûr, où poser mes pas
Pour une guerre non-violente

Tout seul
J'irai pas plus haut, mais peut-être plus bas
Peut-être plus bas

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai sans doute besoin de toi, de toi
Si je ne suis plus le même

Apprends-moi
Que donner c'est recevoir en plus fort
Si je me fais attendre

Rappelle-moi
Que toutes les vies se valent encore
Les petites et les grandes

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai peut-être besoin de secours, un jour
Où je n'aurai plus personne
Qui sait, qui sait ?
Une douce phrase dans un matin sourd, qui court
Un petit feu pour les hommes

Who knows if one day
I will need your smile to color my day, my day
If I can't see any rainbow

Qui sait, qui sait ?
L'aube d'un regard qui ne juge pas, non pas
Mais qui partage les peines
Apprends-moi
Que donner c'est recevoir du soleil
Sans qu'on ne le demande

Rappelle-moi
Que toutes les vies se valent pareil
Les petites et les grandes

Oh qui sait, qui sait ?
Oh qui sait ce qu'on sera ?
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Solidays_Qui_Sait




				
					Peter Gabriel, Zucchero, Anggun and other in charity for kids with AIDS. In 2000 Erick Benzi have write words and music and Patrick Bruel, Stephan Eicher, Faudel, Lokua Kanza, Laam, Nourith, Axelle Red have accept to sing it.

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai peut-être un jour besoin de ça
D'une main douce et puissante

Qui sait, qui sait ?
D'un chemin plus sûr, où poser mes pas
Pour une guerre non-violente

Tout seul
J'irai pas plus haut, mais peut-être plus bas
Peut-être plus bas

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai sans doute besoin de toi, de toi
Si je ne suis plus le même

Apprends-moi
Que donner c'est recevoir en plus fort
Si je me fais attendre

Rappelle-moi
Que toutes les vies se valent encore
Les petites et les grandes

Qui sait, qui sait ?
J'aurai peut-être besoin de secours, un jour
Où je n'aurai plus personne
Qui sait, qui sait ?
Une douce phrase dans un matin sourd, qui court
Un petit feu pour les hommes

Who knows if one day
I will need your smile to color my day, my day
If I can't see any rainbow

Qui sait, qui sait ?
L'aube d'un regard qui ne juge pas, non pas
Mais qui partage les peines
Apprends-moi
Que donner c'est recevoir du soleil
Sans qu'on ne le demande

Rappelle-moi
Que toutes les vies se valent pareil
Les petites et les grandes

Oh qui sait, qui sait ?
Oh qui sait ce qu'on sera ?

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 282793

author:
giovannigambale















IN your eyes - Peter Gabriel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 10:17
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Peter Gabriel performing 'In your eyes' live.  Nice to see Melanie Gabriel with him. Probably one of the best love songs ever!
http://wn.com/IN_your_eyes_Peter_Gabriel




				
					Peter Gabriel performing 'In your eyes' live.  Nice to see Melanie Gabriel with him. Probably one of the best love songs ever!

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 424132

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel & Youssou N'Dour In Your Eyes

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:32
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


From Geneva 8/10/2005
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Youssou_N'Dour_In_Your_Eyes




				
					From Geneva 8/10/2005

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 1372771

author:
giovannigambale















Peter Gabriel Red Rain Live 1986 (best ver)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:56
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  Peter Gabriels 1st performances of material from So, which had come out a few weeks before.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Red_Rain_Live_1986_best_ver




				
					Final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  Peter Gabriels 1st performances of material from So, which had come out a few weeks before.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 500878

author:
giovannigambale
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:00
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Cachimbo_da_Paz




				
					Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 116365

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:23
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Videoclipe
Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando

Proprietário do conteúdo:  Sony Music Entertainment
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_Até_Quando




				
					Videoclipe
Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando

Proprietário do conteúdo:  Sony Music Entertainment

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 919740

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador -Nunca Serão (Dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:15
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Videoclipe montado por Renato Martins e dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves com cenas dos filmes "Tropa de Elite" e "Tropa de Elite 2: O inimigo agora é outro". A música "Nunca serão", é de autoria de Gabriel O Pensador, e narra um encontro entre o cantor e o Capitão Nascimento.

Letra

Eu caminhava no meu Rio de Janeiro
Quando alguém me parou e falou:
Aí parceiro
Me dá tua mão que eu quero ver se tá com cheiro
Por que eu sou um cara honesto e detesto maconheiro
Eu tinha acabado de sair do banheiro
Dei a mão pra ele cheirar, mas foi uma cena bisonha
Ele cheirou minha mão por um tempo
Eu disse: "Espera, tu não é o Capitão Nascimento? Que vergonha meu capitão!"
"Procurando maconha no calçadão"
"Qual é tua missão?"
"Eu vi teu filme, mas não me leva mal".
"Não me tortura assim não, que eu sou um cara legal"
"Em certas coisas, eu concordo contigo"
"Mas não é assim que você vai achar os grandes bandidos: esse país tá fodido"
ele falou "eu sei disso
quando eu entrei na PM, eu assumi um compromisso, eu luto pela justiça"
eu também
sem justiça não tem paz, e sem paz eu sou refém
a injustiça é cega e a justiça enxerga bem
mas só quando convém
a lei é do mais forte, no BOPE ou na FEBEM
na boca ou no Supremo
que justiça a gente tem, que justiça nós queremos?

Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Capitão, não sei se você soube dessa história 
que rolou num povoado peruano se não me falha a memória
um político foi morto pelo povo
um corrupto linchado por um povo que cansou de desrespeito
e resolveu fazer justiça desse jeito
foi um linchamento, foi um mau exemplo
foi um mau exemplo, mas não deixa de ser um exemplo
eu sou contra a violência mas aqui a gente peca por excesso de paciência
com o "rouba, mas faz" dos verdadeiros marginais
chamados de "doutor" e "vossa excelência"
cujos nomes não preciso dizer
a imprensa publica, mas tudo indica que a justiça não lê
Diz que é cega, mas o lado dos colegas ela sempre vê
Capitão, isso é um serviço pra você

Deputado! pede pra sair!
Pede pra sair, deputado!
Você é moleque!
Senador, pede pra sair!
Vagabundo, cadê o dinheiro que você desviou dessa obra aqui?
Fala, V. Excelência, é melhor falar!
Cadê a verba da merenda que sumiu?
02, o corrupto não quer falar não! Pode pegar o cabo de vassoura!
(Tá bom, eu vou falar, eu vou falar!)
Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Conversei com o Nascimento que não pensa como eu penso mas pensando, nós chegamos num consenso
nós somos vítimas da violência estúpida que afeta todo mundo, menos esses vagabundos lá da cúpula corrupta hipócrita e nojenta
que alimenta a desigualdade e da desigualdade se alimenta
mantendo essa política perversa
que joga preto contra branco, pobre contra rico e vice-versa
pra eles isso é jogo, esse é o jogo
se morre mais um assaltante ou mais um assaltado, tanto faz
pra eles não importa, gente viva ou gente morta
é tudo a mesma merda
os velhos nas portas dos hospitais, as crianças mendigando nos sinais
pra eles nós somos todos iguais
operários, empresários e presidiários e policiais
nós somos os otários ideais
enquanto a gente sua e morre
só os bandidos de gravata seguem faturando e descansando em paz
enquanto esses covardes continuam livres, nós só temos grades
liberdade já não temos mais.
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_-Nunca_Serão_Dirigido_por_José_Padilha_e_Oscar_Rodrigues_Alves




				
					Videoclipe montado por Renato Martins e dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves com cenas dos filmes "Tropa de Elite" e "Tropa de Elite 2: O inimigo agora é outro". A música "Nunca serão", é de autoria de Gabriel O Pensador, e narra um encontro entre o cantor e o Capitão Nascimento.

Letra

Eu caminhava no meu Rio de Janeiro
Quando alguém me parou e falou:
Aí parceiro
Me dá tua mão que eu quero ver se tá com cheiro
Por que eu sou um cara honesto e detesto maconheiro
Eu tinha acabado de sair do banheiro
Dei a mão pra ele cheirar, mas foi uma cena bisonha
Ele cheirou minha mão por um tempo
Eu disse: "Espera, tu não é o Capitão Nascimento? Que vergonha meu capitão!"
"Procurando maconha no calçadão"
"Qual é tua missão?"
"Eu vi teu filme, mas não me leva mal".
"Não me tortura assim não, que eu sou um cara legal"
"Em certas coisas, eu concordo contigo"
"Mas não é assim que você vai achar os grandes bandidos: esse país tá fodido"
ele falou "eu sei disso
quando eu entrei na PM, eu assumi um compromisso, eu luto pela justiça"
eu também
sem justiça não tem paz, e sem paz eu sou refém
a injustiça é cega e a justiça enxerga bem
mas só quando convém
a lei é do mais forte, no BOPE ou na FEBEM
na boca ou no Supremo
que justiça a gente tem, que justiça nós queremos?

Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Capitão, não sei se você soube dessa história 
que rolou num povoado peruano se não me falha a memória
um político foi morto pelo povo
um corrupto linchado por um povo que cansou de desrespeito
e resolveu fazer justiça desse jeito
foi um linchamento, foi um mau exemplo
foi um mau exemplo, mas não deixa de ser um exemplo
eu sou contra a violência mas aqui a gente peca por excesso de paciência
com o "rouba, mas faz" dos verdadeiros marginais
chamados de "doutor" e "vossa excelência"
cujos nomes não preciso dizer
a imprensa publica, mas tudo indica que a justiça não lê
Diz que é cega, mas o lado dos colegas ela sempre vê
Capitão, isso é um serviço pra você

Deputado! pede pra sair!
Pede pra sair, deputado!
Você é moleque!
Senador, pede pra sair!
Vagabundo, cadê o dinheiro que você desviou dessa obra aqui?
Fala, V. Excelência, é melhor falar!
Cadê a verba da merenda que sumiu?
02, o corrupto não quer falar não! Pode pegar o cabo de vassoura!
(Tá bom, eu vou falar, eu vou falar!)
Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Conversei com o Nascimento que não pensa como eu penso mas pensando, nós chegamos num consenso
nós somos vítimas da violência estúpida que afeta todo mundo, menos esses vagabundos lá da cúpula corrupta hipócrita e nojenta
que alimenta a desigualdade e da desigualdade se alimenta
mantendo essa política perversa
que joga preto contra branco, pobre contra rico e vice-versa
pra eles isso é jogo, esse é o jogo
se morre mais um assaltante ou mais um assaltado, tanto faz
pra eles não importa, gente viva ou gente morta
é tudo a mesma merda
os velhos nas portas dos hospitais, as crianças mendigando nos sinais
pra eles nós somos todos iguais
operários, empresários e presidiários e policiais
nós somos os otários ideais
enquanto a gente sua e morre
só os bandidos de gravata seguem faturando e descansando em paz
enquanto esses covardes continuam livres, nós só temos grades
liberdade já não temos mais.
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 1380245

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel Pensador-2345 meia 78

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:10
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


video do gabriel pensador de rap 2345678 muito maneiro olhem vcs vão gostar
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Pensador-2345_meia_78




				
					video do gabriel pensador de rap 2345678 muito maneiro olhem vcs vão gostar

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 1351716

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador  1993  - 05 Lavagem Cerebral

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:38
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Racismo preconceito e discriminação em geral
É uma burrice coletiva sem explicação
Afinal que justificativa você me dá para um povo que precisa de união
Mas demonstra claramente
Infelizmente
Preconceitos mil
De naturezas diferentes
Mostrando que essa gente
Essa gente do Brasil é muito burra
E não enxerga um palmo à sua frente
Porque se fosse inteligente esse povo já teria agido de forma mais consciente
Eliminando da mente todo o preconceito
E não agindo com a burrice estampada no peito
A "elite" que devia dar um bom exemplo
É a primeira a demonstrar esse tipo de sentimento
Num complexo de superioridade infantil
Ou justificando um sistema de relação servil
E o povão vai como um bundão na onda do racismo e da discriminação
Não tem a união e não vê a solução da questão
Que por incrível que pareça está em nossas mãos
Só precisamos de uma reformulação geral
Uma espécie de lavagem cerebral

Não seja um imbecil
Não seja um Paulo Francis
Não se importe com a origem ou a cor do seu semelhante
O quê que importa se ele é nordestino e você não?
O quê que importa se ele é preto e você é branco?
Aliás branco no Brasil é difícil porque no Brasil somos todos mestiços
Se você discorda então olhe pra trás
Olhe a nossa história
Os nossos ancestrais
O Brasil colonial não era igual a Portugal
A raiz do meu país era multirracial
Tinha índio, branco, amarelo, preto
Nascemos da mistura então porque o preconceito?
Barrigas cresceram
O tempo passou...
Nasceram os brasileiros cada um com a sua cor
Uns com a pele clara outros mais escura
Mas todos viemos da mesma mistura
Então presta atenção nessa sua babaquice
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Dê a ignorância um ponto final:
Faça uma lavagem cerebral

Negro e nordestino constróem seu chão
Trabalhador da construção civil conhecido como peão
No Brasil o mesmo negro que constrói o seu apartamento ou que lava o chão de uma delegacia
É revistado e humilhado por um guarda nojento que ainda recebe o salário e o pão de cada dia graças ao negro ao nordestino e a todos nós
Pagamos homens que pensam que ser humilhado não dói
O preconceito é uma coisa sem sentido
Tire a burrice do peito e me dê ouvidos
Me responda se você discriminaria
Um sujeito com a cara do PC Farias
Não você não faria isso não...
Você aprendeu que o preto é ladrão
Muitos negros roubam mas muitos são roubados
E cuidado com esse branco aí parado do seu lado
Porque se ele passa fome
Sabe como é:
Ele rouba e mata um homem
Seja você ou seja o Pelé
Você e o Pelé morreriam igual
Então que morra o preconceito e viva a união racial
Quero ver essa musica você aprender e fazer
A lavagem cerebral

O racismo é burrice mas o mais burro não é o racista
É o que pensa que o racismo não existe
O pior cego é o que não quer ver
E o racismo está dentro de você
Porque o racista na verdade é um tremendo babaca
Que assimila os preconceitos porque tem cabeça fraca
E desde sempre não para pra pensar
Nos conceitos que a sociedade insiste em lhe ensinar
E de pai pra filho o racismo passa
Em forma de piadas que teriam bem mais graça
Se não fossem o retrato da nossa ignorância
Transmitindo a discriminação desde a infância
E o que as crianças aprendem brincando
É nada mais nada menos do que a estupidez se propagando
Qualquer tipo de racismo não se justifica
Ninguém explica
Precisamos da lavagem cerebral pra acabar com esse lixo que é uma herança cultural
Todo mundo é racista mas não sabe a razão
Então eu digo meu irmão
Seja do povão ou da "elite"
Não participe
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
E se você é mais um burro
Não me leve a mal
É hora de fazer uma lavagem cerebral
Mas isso é compromisso seu
Eu nem vou me meter
Quem vai lavar a sua mente não sou eu
É você
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_1993_05_Lavagem_Cerebral




				
					Racismo preconceito e discriminação em geral
É uma burrice coletiva sem explicação
Afinal que justificativa você me dá para um povo que precisa de união
Mas demonstra claramente
Infelizmente
Preconceitos mil
De naturezas diferentes
Mostrando que essa gente
Essa gente do Brasil é muito burra
E não enxerga um palmo à sua frente
Porque se fosse inteligente esse povo já teria agido de forma mais consciente
Eliminando da mente todo o preconceito
E não agindo com a burrice estampada no peito
A "elite" que devia dar um bom exemplo
É a primeira a demonstrar esse tipo de sentimento
Num complexo de superioridade infantil
Ou justificando um sistema de relação servil
E o povão vai como um bundão na onda do racismo e da discriminação
Não tem a união e não vê a solução da questão
Que por incrível que pareça está em nossas mãos
Só precisamos de uma reformulação geral
Uma espécie de lavagem cerebral

Não seja um imbecil
Não seja um Paulo Francis
Não se importe com a origem ou a cor do seu semelhante
O quê que importa se ele é nordestino e você não?
O quê que importa se ele é preto e você é branco?
Aliás branco no Brasil é difícil porque no Brasil somos todos mestiços
Se você discorda então olhe pra trás
Olhe a nossa história
Os nossos ancestrais
O Brasil colonial não era igual a Portugal
A raiz do meu país era multirracial
Tinha índio, branco, amarelo, preto
Nascemos da mistura então porque o preconceito?
Barrigas cresceram
O tempo passou...
Nasceram os brasileiros cada um com a sua cor
Uns com a pele clara outros mais escura
Mas todos viemos da mesma mistura
Então presta atenção nessa sua babaquice
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Dê a ignorância um ponto final:
Faça uma lavagem cerebral

Negro e nordestino constróem seu chão
Trabalhador da construção civil conhecido como peão
No Brasil o mesmo negro que constrói o seu apartamento ou que lava o chão de uma delegacia
É revistado e humilhado por um guarda nojento que ainda recebe o salário e o pão de cada dia graças ao negro ao nordestino e a todos nós
Pagamos homens que pensam que ser humilhado não dói
O preconceito é uma coisa sem sentido
Tire a burrice do peito e me dê ouvidos
Me responda se você discriminaria
Um sujeito com a cara do PC Farias
Não você não faria isso não...
Você aprendeu que o preto é ladrão
Muitos negros roubam mas muitos são roubados
E cuidado com esse branco aí parado do seu lado
Porque se ele passa fome
Sabe como é:
Ele rouba e mata um homem
Seja você ou seja o Pelé
Você e o Pelé morreriam igual
Então que morra o preconceito e viva a união racial
Quero ver essa musica você aprender e fazer
A lavagem cerebral

O racismo é burrice mas o mais burro não é o racista
É o que pensa que o racismo não existe
O pior cego é o que não quer ver
E o racismo está dentro de você
Porque o racista na verdade é um tremendo babaca
Que assimila os preconceitos porque tem cabeça fraca
E desde sempre não para pra pensar
Nos conceitos que a sociedade insiste em lhe ensinar
E de pai pra filho o racismo passa
Em forma de piadas que teriam bem mais graça
Se não fossem o retrato da nossa ignorância
Transmitindo a discriminação desde a infância
E o que as crianças aprendem brincando
É nada mais nada menos do que a estupidez se propagando
Qualquer tipo de racismo não se justifica
Ninguém explica
Precisamos da lavagem cerebral pra acabar com esse lixo que é uma herança cultural
Todo mundo é racista mas não sabe a razão
Então eu digo meu irmão
Seja do povão ou da "elite"
Não participe
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
E se você é mais um burro
Não me leve a mal
É hora de fazer uma lavagem cerebral
Mas isso é compromisso seu
Eu nem vou me meter
Quem vai lavar a sua mente não sou eu
É você

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 163302

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador-Retrato de Um Playboy- Juventude Perdida

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:05
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Video clipe feito em 1993, Gabriel o Pensador, retrato de um playboy ,Juventude Perdida
mais informações

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador-Retrato_de_Um_Playboy_Juventude_Perdida




				
					Video clipe feito em 1993, Gabriel o Pensador, retrato de um playboy ,Juventude Perdida
mais informações

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 630721

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Astronauta - Gabriel o Pensador DESENHO

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:53
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Clipe desenhado da musica Astronauta do Gabriel o Pensador com Lulu Santos
http://wn.com/Astronauta_Gabriel_o_Pensador_DESENHO




				
					Clipe desenhado da musica Astronauta do Gabriel o Pensador com Lulu Santos

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 649296

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador Fala Sério!

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Depois de um grampo telefonico entre 2 playboy traficante de niteroi foi divulgada a conversa onde um contava pro outro q estava fumando um baseado com o gabriel pensador , como o ronaldo fenomeno e com o julio cesar..

no video inteiro o pensador conta a historia detalhadamente..
mas nesse trecho aparece somente uma musica q ele escreveu

fica ligado q eh muito irado!


tinha sido tirado do orcute mas eu to botando de novo pq esse video eh punk!
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Fala_Sério!




				
					Depois de um grampo telefonico entre 2 playboy traficante de niteroi foi divulgada a conversa onde um contava pro outro q estava fumando um baseado com o gabriel pensador , como o ronaldo fenomeno e com o julio cesar..

no video inteiro o pensador conta a historia detalhadamente..
mas nesse trecho aparece somente uma musica q ele escreveu

fica ligado q eh muito irado!


tinha sido tirado do orcute mas eu to botando de novo pq esse video eh punk!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 595023

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel, O Pensador - Dança do Desempregado

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:56
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Clipe Oficial da música Dança do Desempregado do álbum Quebra-Cabeça.
http://wn.com/Gabriel,_O_Pensador_Dança_do_Desempregado




				
					Clipe Oficial da música Dança do Desempregado do álbum Quebra-Cabeça.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 331945

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador - Tas a Ver

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:20
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Brazillian rapper
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Tas_a_Ver




				
					Brazillian rapper

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 369131

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador - Tô Vazando

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:05
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Gabriel O Pensador -  Tô Vazando (Gabriel O Pensador/Harry Wayne Casey/D. Carter) 
Album: Nádegas A Declarar


Tô vazando, mulher, sem choradeira
Pode derramar uma cachoeira
Mas depois de tanta mágoa eu tô vazando feito água
E não adianta fechar a torneira porque
As feridas vão continuar abertas
Ah, querida, se tu fosse mais esperta
Você não estaria implorando o meu amor
Só que quando deveria você nunca deu valor
Agora você tem medo de ficar sozinha
Mas o nosso trem já chegou ao fim da linha, meu bem
Vou descer na estação da Liberdade
Toma o meu retrato e se você sentir saudade
Olhe o meu sorriso e exercite a memória
Relembre todos os lances da nossa estória
Todos os momentos felizes que eu te dei
Todas as cicatrizes que eu guardei
Todas as palavras bonitas que eu te disse
Todo o seu silêncio como se eu não existisse
Todas as rosas que eu te ofereci
Todos os espinhos que eu tive que engolir
Todos os planos que abandonei por você
Todas as vezes que você me fez sofrer
Sua consciência agora pesa muitos quilos
Se afundando nessas lágrimas de crocodilo
Mas eu vou deixar você se afogando
E vou tocar o barco, tô vazando

Tô vazando!
Tô vazando feito a maré
Tô vazando!
Eu não sou palhaço, mulher
Tô vazando!
Eu te dei a mão você quer o meu braço
Vira a bunda que eu te dou um pé
"Adeus também foi feito pra se dizer
Bye bye, so long, farewell"

Adios, arrivederte, sayonara
Good Bye, hasta la vista, au revoir
Eu vou voar, sair da gaiola
E vou botar as asinhas de fora, tá na hora
De zoar, curtir tudo o que eu não pude
Feito um velho mergulhando na fonte da juventude
Tu devia se orgulhar
Pelo bem que tu me fez ao me transformar em "ex"
Porque hoje eu tô feliz
Mas foi você que quis
Que tudo terminasse desse jeito
E eu fico satisfeito desse modo
E eu não me incomodo dessa forma
E você não se conforma de ter feito
Tanta coisa pra tentar me machucar
E agora não poder remediar
A minha dor de cabeça você já conseguiu
Mas eu que vou sumir e você que vai tomar doril...
Chega de compras, chega de jóias
Chega de aturar seus ciúmes e paranóias
Mais uma chance? Uma pinóia!
Nosso barco naufragou e eu não vou jogar a bóia
Eu tô na boa, eu tô na proa e vou te dar um pé na popa pra acabar com a sua sopa
A minha âncora já tá fora do mar
Marujo que é marujo sabe a hora de zarpar

Refrão

Tô evacuando, saindo fora
Se quiser chorar, chora, mas eu vou embora
Sim senhora, já aturei tudo que eu podia
Mas agora tô vazando, até outro dia
Ou quem sabe, até nunca mais
Longe de você eu vou viver em paz
Amor só é bom enquanto dura
Mas já faz muito tempo que o papai aqui te atura
Era tão perfeito mas virou uma tortura
Então eu tô ralando peito, não me segura
Bye bye, tchau, fui
Fica aí chorando buá - buá, ai, ui,
Ei! Eu já falei, baby, you don't understand
A chama depois que vira cinza não se acende
Seu drama já não me convence
C'est fini, o nosso love já chegou ao the end..
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_Tô_Vazando




				
					Gabriel O Pensador -  Tô Vazando (Gabriel O Pensador/Harry Wayne Casey/D. Carter) 
Album: Nádegas A Declarar


Tô vazando, mulher, sem choradeira
Pode derramar uma cachoeira
Mas depois de tanta mágoa eu tô vazando feito água
E não adianta fechar a torneira porque
As feridas vão continuar abertas
Ah, querida, se tu fosse mais esperta
Você não estaria implorando o meu amor
Só que quando deveria você nunca deu valor
Agora você tem medo de ficar sozinha
Mas o nosso trem já chegou ao fim da linha, meu bem
Vou descer na estação da Liberdade
Toma o meu retrato e se você sentir saudade
Olhe o meu sorriso e exercite a memória
Relembre todos os lances da nossa estória
Todos os momentos felizes que eu te dei
Todas as cicatrizes que eu guardei
Todas as palavras bonitas que eu te disse
Todo o seu silêncio como se eu não existisse
Todas as rosas que eu te ofereci
Todos os espinhos que eu tive que engolir
Todos os planos que abandonei por você
Todas as vezes que você me fez sofrer
Sua consciência agora pesa muitos quilos
Se afundando nessas lágrimas de crocodilo
Mas eu vou deixar você se afogando
E vou tocar o barco, tô vazando

Tô vazando!
Tô vazando feito a maré
Tô vazando!
Eu não sou palhaço, mulher
Tô vazando!
Eu te dei a mão você quer o meu braço
Vira a bunda que eu te dou um pé
"Adeus também foi feito pra se dizer
Bye bye, so long, farewell"

Adios, arrivederte, sayonara
Good Bye, hasta la vista, au revoir
Eu vou voar, sair da gaiola
E vou botar as asinhas de fora, tá na hora
De zoar, curtir tudo o que eu não pude
Feito um velho mergulhando na fonte da juventude
Tu devia se orgulhar
Pelo bem que tu me fez ao me transformar em "ex"
Porque hoje eu tô feliz
Mas foi você que quis
Que tudo terminasse desse jeito
E eu fico satisfeito desse modo
E eu não me incomodo dessa forma
E você não se conforma de ter feito
Tanta coisa pra tentar me machucar
E agora não poder remediar
A minha dor de cabeça você já conseguiu
Mas eu que vou sumir e você que vai tomar doril...
Chega de compras, chega de jóias
Chega de aturar seus ciúmes e paranóias
Mais uma chance? Uma pinóia!
Nosso barco naufragou e eu não vou jogar a bóia
Eu tô na boa, eu tô na proa e vou te dar um pé na popa pra acabar com a sua sopa
A minha âncora já tá fora do mar
Marujo que é marujo sabe a hora de zarpar

Refrão

Tô evacuando, saindo fora
Se quiser chorar, chora, mas eu vou embora
Sim senhora, já aturei tudo que eu podia
Mas agora tô vazando, até outro dia
Ou quem sabe, até nunca mais
Longe de você eu vou viver em paz
Amor só é bom enquanto dura
Mas já faz muito tempo que o papai aqui te atura
Era tão perfeito mas virou uma tortura
Então eu tô ralando peito, não me segura
Bye bye, tchau, fui
Fica aí chorando buá - buá, ai, ui,
Ei! Eu já falei, baby, you don't understand
A chama depois que vira cinza não se acende
Seu drama já não me convence
C'est fini, o nosso love já chegou ao the end..

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 123504

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador - Festa da Música

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:04
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Gabriel, o Pensador - Festa da Música.

Quando pequeno sempre imaginei um clip para esta música, então fiz um mais ou menos assim, como eu imaginava que seria! hahahaha

Clipe feito em flash durante as férias da faculdade em Dez/Jan de 2007/2008.

Animação produzida em Flash 8, Camtasia e Media Subtitler.

Produdizo por um fã!
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_Festa_da_Música




				
					Gabriel, o Pensador - Festa da Música.

Quando pequeno sempre imaginei um clip para esta música, então fiz um mais ou menos assim, como eu imaginava que seria! hahahaha

Clipe feito em flash durante as férias da faculdade em Dez/Jan de 2007/2008.

Animação produzida em Flash 8, Camtasia e Media Subtitler.

Produdizo por um fã!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 103847

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador- Lôrabúrra

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:57
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Um dos vídeo clipes mais polêmicos do Gabriel O Pensador, que é esse , da música "Lôrabúrra", antes de dizerem que o gabriel ta falando mal das loiras, preste atenção no final da letra e veja que não esta falando mal das só das loiras "o problema não esta no cabelo, esta na cabeça, não se esqueça, lôrabúrra pode ser morena, ruiva, preta, careca, natural"

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_Lôrabúrra




				
					Um dos vídeo clipes mais polêmicos do Gabriel O Pensador, que é esse , da música "Lôrabúrra", antes de dizerem que o gabriel ta falando mal das loiras, preste atenção no final da letra e veja que não esta falando mal das só das loiras "o problema não esta no cabelo, esta na cabeça, não se esqueça, lôrabúrra pode ser morena, ruiva, preta, careca, natural"

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 459687

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador - Estudo errado

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:04
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


só atores globais... :P
apresentação do trabalho de estudos
pedagógicos. Curso Enfermagem da UFRN- abril de 2007
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Estudo_errado




				
					só atores globais... :P
apresentação do trabalho de estudos
pedagógicos. Curso Enfermagem da UFRN- abril de 2007

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 428573

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel O Pensador - Pega Ladrão

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Clipe feito por Renan Araujo...
http://wn.com/Gabriel_O_Pensador_Pega_Ladrão




				
					Clipe feito por Renan Araujo...

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 294045

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador - Sei Lá

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:57
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


relax
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Sei_Lá




				
					relax

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 218234

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o  Pensador Rap Do Feio

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:30
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Eu editei esse video com muito carinho... E é dedicado as todas as pessoas que gosta do Gabriel O Pensador no video que postei as imagens é só uma brincadeira em nunhum momento eu quis ofender ninguém
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Rap_Do_Feio




				
					Eu editei esse video com muito carinho... E é dedicado as todas as pessoas que gosta do Gabriel O Pensador no video que postei as imagens é só uma brincadeira em nunhum momento eu quis ofender ninguém

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 844627

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Deixa Quieto "Gabriel o Pensador" Leon

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:04
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Vem gata...
Vem sentir o calor dos lábios meus a procura dos teus
Vem matar essa paixão que me devora o coração
E só assim então serei feliz
Bem feliz.
http://wn.com/Deixa_Quieto_Gabriel_o_Pensador_Leon




				
					Vem gata...
Vem sentir o calor dos lábios meus a procura dos teus
Vem matar essa paixão que me devora o coração
E só assim então serei feliz
Bem feliz.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 35207

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Pátria que me Pariu - Gabriel, o pensador

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:22
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Trabalho de redação, 1º ano D do colégio motivo.
http://wn.com/Pátria_que_me_Pariu_Gabriel,_o_pensador




				
					Trabalho de redação, 1º ano D do colégio motivo.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 255696

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Gabriel o Pensador - Brazuca

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:10
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Gabriel o Pensador - Brazuca
http://wn.com/Gabriel_o_Pensador_Brazuca




				
					Gabriel o Pensador - Brazuca

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 98495

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















GABRIEL O PENSADOR - Tô Feliz (Matei o Presidente)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ouça na Opção Web Rádio (Listen on the Web Radio Option): http://www.radioopcaofm.com.br
SÉRIE Músicas que não existem em vídeo.
PRIMEIRA MÚSICA DO GABRIEL O PENSADOR, GRAVADA EM 1992, SENDO CENSURADA NA ÉPOCA.
ÁUDIO DO VINIL ORIGINAL, SEM NENHUM CORTE !!
RARIDADE !!!
QUALIDADE DE SOM EM 128K STEREO.
http://wn.com/GABRIEL_O_PENSADOR_Tô_Feliz_Matei_o_Presidente




				
					Ouça na Opção Web Rádio (Listen on the Web Radio Option): http://www.radioopcaofm.com.br
SÉRIE Músicas que não existem em vídeo.
PRIMEIRA MÚSICA DO GABRIEL O PENSADOR, GRAVADA EM 1992, SENDO CENSURADA NA ÉPOCA.
ÁUDIO DO VINIL ORIGINAL, SEM NENHUM CORTE !!
RARIDADE !!!
QUALIDADE DE SOM EM 128K STEREO.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 355054

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















Masturbação Mental Gabriel Pensador

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:07
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


ATENÇÃO: Quando fiz esse vídeo, em 2008, não havia nenhum lugar online que disponibilizasse essa música. Então saiba, desde já, que esse vídeo não foi feito para ser apreciado pelas imagens, mas sim para possibilitar a mim e outras pessoas a ouvir e conhecer esse trabalho maravilhoso do Gabriel O Pensador. 
Se você não está satisfeito, sinto muito, deveria ter pensando nisso há 4 anos atrás e feito um vídeo melhor... 

Quase todas as imagens foram encontradas no Google. (Não tenho como fazer referência a todas as imagens)
.........................................................................................


MASTURBAÇÃO MENTAL LETRA

Ontem eu te liguei, só pra dar um oi.
Mas você não tava, eu gostaria imensamente de saber onde "cê" foi.
Por que não me chamou?
Eu tô aqui à toa sem saber qual é a boa sem saber aonde eu vou
(achar algum remédio, que faça algum efeito contra a falta de respeito e dê um jeito nesse tédio).
Alguma vitamina, que force uma mudança nessa falta de assunto e dê um break na rotina.
Repetição!
Eu tô cansado de ficar aqui parado só nessa masturbação mental.
Prefiro algo mais original.

Masturbação mental!
Tá me fazendo mal, tá me fazendo mal!
Masturbação mental!
Se isso for normal eu quero ser anormal!
Masturbação mental!
Tá me fazendo mal, tá me fazendo mal!
Masturbação mental!
Se isso é diferente eu prefiro ser igual!

Hoje eu acordei meio indisposto.
E resolvi ouvir um som bem diferente pra poder mudar o gosto.
Indigesto!
E me peguei assobiando aquela música cafona que eu detesto, mas que me emociona, porque me lembra alguém que me fez bem e depois me pôs na lona.
Fazer o quê?
A gente cospe no prato que come, pra depois querer comer no prato que cuspiu.
A vida continua e eu agora tô a mil!
Agora eu sou mais eu!
Você que eu não vou ser.
Mas pra ter liberdade de verdade eu aprendi a desaprender o que só me prendia.
A mente é livre, livre mente, a gente é livre, Deus me livre dessa rebeldia que fala e não diz nada.
Ouvi dizer que a vida recomeça a cada dia e aprendi essa piada.
Depois talvez esqueça.
O mundo muda, tudo muda, todo mundo muda mas só mudo minha cabeça se for melhor pra mim (quando eu achar que é, e se eu tiver afim).

(Refrão)

Amanhã não sei.
Bola de cristal nunca funcionou comigo porque eu não consigo fazer tudo sempre igual, a não ser que eu tente.
Só que eu nunca tento sempre invento um movimento cada vez mais diferente.
Não que eu só acerte, mas errar também faz parte em qualquer parte eu não vou ficar inerte, esperando a morte.
Não reclamo do azar porque o azar às vezes vem trazendo sorte.
Saúde! Vitamina C, pode crer, pode ser que o tempo mude...
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu vou gozar, Maria, eu vou gozar, José.
Eu vou gozar a vida do jeito que eu quiser.
E se eu fizer cagada, eu sei limpar.
Não vem cagando regra. Na regra que cê caga eu vou pisar.
Não vem ditando norma... Pensando bem, tô pensando de outra forma.
Você acha que é loucura? Eu acho que é careta.
A vida é muito curta pra ficar nessa punheta.
Ontem eu te liguei. Onde você foi?
Eu gostaria imensamente de te achar mas era só pra dar um oi.
Ouvi dizer que a vida recomeça a cada dia e aprendi a dar risada.
http://wn.com/Masturbação_Mental_Gabriel_Pensador




				
					ATENÇÃO: Quando fiz esse vídeo, em 2008, não havia nenhum lugar online que disponibilizasse essa música. Então saiba, desde já, que esse vídeo não foi feito para ser apreciado pelas imagens, mas sim para possibilitar a mim e outras pessoas a ouvir e conhecer esse trabalho maravilhoso do Gabriel O Pensador. 
Se você não está satisfeito, sinto muito, deveria ter pensando nisso há 4 anos atrás e feito um vídeo melhor... 

Quase todas as imagens foram encontradas no Google. (Não tenho como fazer referência a todas as imagens)
.........................................................................................


MASTURBAÇÃO MENTAL LETRA

Ontem eu te liguei, só pra dar um oi.
Mas você não tava, eu gostaria imensamente de saber onde "cê" foi.
Por que não me chamou?
Eu tô aqui à toa sem saber qual é a boa sem saber aonde eu vou
(achar algum remédio, que faça algum efeito contra a falta de respeito e dê um jeito nesse tédio).
Alguma vitamina, que force uma mudança nessa falta de assunto e dê um break na rotina.
Repetição!
Eu tô cansado de ficar aqui parado só nessa masturbação mental.
Prefiro algo mais original.

Masturbação mental!
Tá me fazendo mal, tá me fazendo mal!
Masturbação mental!
Se isso for normal eu quero ser anormal!
Masturbação mental!
Tá me fazendo mal, tá me fazendo mal!
Masturbação mental!
Se isso é diferente eu prefiro ser igual!

Hoje eu acordei meio indisposto.
E resolvi ouvir um som bem diferente pra poder mudar o gosto.
Indigesto!
E me peguei assobiando aquela música cafona que eu detesto, mas que me emociona, porque me lembra alguém que me fez bem e depois me pôs na lona.
Fazer o quê?
A gente cospe no prato que come, pra depois querer comer no prato que cuspiu.
A vida continua e eu agora tô a mil!
Agora eu sou mais eu!
Você que eu não vou ser.
Mas pra ter liberdade de verdade eu aprendi a desaprender o que só me prendia.
A mente é livre, livre mente, a gente é livre, Deus me livre dessa rebeldia que fala e não diz nada.
Ouvi dizer que a vida recomeça a cada dia e aprendi essa piada.
Depois talvez esqueça.
O mundo muda, tudo muda, todo mundo muda mas só mudo minha cabeça se for melhor pra mim (quando eu achar que é, e se eu tiver afim).

(Refrão)

Amanhã não sei.
Bola de cristal nunca funcionou comigo porque eu não consigo fazer tudo sempre igual, a não ser que eu tente.
Só que eu nunca tento sempre invento um movimento cada vez mais diferente.
Não que eu só acerte, mas errar também faz parte em qualquer parte eu não vou ficar inerte, esperando a morte.
Não reclamo do azar porque o azar às vezes vem trazendo sorte.
Saúde! Vitamina C, pode crer, pode ser que o tempo mude...
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu já cansei de ouvir o que eu já cansei de ouvir!
Eu vou gozar, Maria, eu vou gozar, José.
Eu vou gozar a vida do jeito que eu quiser.
E se eu fizer cagada, eu sei limpar.
Não vem cagando regra. Na regra que cê caga eu vou pisar.
Não vem ditando norma... Pensando bem, tô pensando de outra forma.
Você acha que é loucura? Eu acho que é careta.
A vida é muito curta pra ficar nessa punheta.
Ontem eu te liguei. Onde você foi?
Eu gostaria imensamente de te achar mas era só pra dar um oi.
Ouvi dizer que a vida recomeça a cada dia e aprendi a dar risada.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 255831

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















retrato de um play boy

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


retrato de um play boy gabriel pensador
http://wn.com/retrato_de_um_play_boy




				
					retrato de um play boy gabriel pensador

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 2120876

author:
Danilo Loschiavo
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:10
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Amor_Eterno




				
					Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5523350

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Querida

Order: Reorder
Duration: 10:48
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Querida
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Querida




				
					Juan Gabriel - Querida

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5655615

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:34
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Siempre_En_Mi_Mente




				
					Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 966952

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Siempre en Mi Mente

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:19
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Siempre en mi Mente
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Siempre_en_Mi_Mente




				
					Juan Gabriel - Siempre en mi Mente

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 4573581

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:00
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Inocente_Pobre_Amigo




				
					Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 2133213

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:01
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Ya_Lo_Se_Que_Tu_Te_Vas




				
					Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 3613971

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:10
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Te_Voy_a_Olvidar




				
					Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 3056319

author:
sobeida1985















Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:01
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO
http://wn.com/Juan_Gabriel_Te_Sigo_Amando_En_VIVO




				
					Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 578678

author:
sobeida1985















DUETOS CLÁSICOS DE LOS 80s EN ESPAÑOL - PARTE 1 Generación X

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:09
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


videos que incluye:

1.- LAURA FLORES Y SERGIO FACHELLI - Lo Que Me Tiene Aquí.
2.- YURI Y OSCAR ATHIE - Y Ahora Juntos.
3.- ANGELA CARRASCO Y CAMILO SESTO - Callados.
4.- DANIELA ROMO Y MIJARES - Me Alimento De Tí.
5.- SHEENA EASTON Y LUIS MIGUEL - Me Gustas Tal Como Eres.
6.- ANN KELLEY Y JOSÉ FELICIANO - Para Decir Adiós.
7.- MARISELA Y MARCO A. SOLÍS - La Pareja Ideal.
8.- EDNITA NAZARIO Y LAUREANO BRIZUELA - Mi Pequeño Amor.
9.- MARÍA DEL SOL Y JORGE MUÑIZ - No Prometas Lo Que No Será.
10.- ROCÍO DURCAL Y JUAN GABRIEL - Déjame Vivir.
11.- LANI HALL Y CAMILO SESTO - Corazón Encadenado.
http://wn.com/DUETOS_CLÁSICOS_DE_LOS_80s_EN_ESPAÑOL_PARTE_1_Generación_X




				
					videos que incluye:

1.- LAURA FLORES Y SERGIO FACHELLI - Lo Que Me Tiene Aquí.
2.- YURI Y OSCAR ATHIE - Y Ahora Juntos.
3.- ANGELA CARRASCO Y CAMILO SESTO - Callados.
4.- DANIELA ROMO Y MIJARES - Me Alimento De Tí.
5.- SHEENA EASTON Y LUIS MIGUEL - Me Gustas Tal Como Eres.
6.- ANN KELLEY Y JOSÉ FELICIANO - Para Decir Adiós.
7.- MARISELA Y MARCO A. SOLÍS - La Pareja Ideal.
8.- EDNITA NAZARIO Y LAUREANO BRIZUELA - Mi Pequeño Amor.
9.- MARÍA DEL SOL Y JORGE MUÑIZ - No Prometas Lo Que No Será.
10.- ROCÍO DURCAL Y JUAN GABRIEL - Déjame Vivir.
11.- LANI HALL Y CAMILO SESTO - Corazón Encadenado.

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 916098

author:
sobeida1985















juan gabriel luisa maria princesa hemosa

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:35
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


mi linda y hemosa primitha
http://wn.com/juan_gabriel_luisa_maria_princesa_hemosa




				
					mi linda y hemosa primitha

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 274762

author:
sobeida1985















LUISA MARIA

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:24
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


LUISA MARIA: Una hermosa bebé que ha demostrado una gran  Fortaleza y que siempre irradia mucha ternura, amor y alegrias constantes a tus papás y  a  todos  los  que te  rodeamos.   TE AMAMOS
http://wn.com/LUISA_MARIA




				
					LUISA MARIA: Una hermosa bebé que ha demostrado una gran  Fortaleza y que siempre irradia mucha ternura, amor y alegrias constantes a tus papás y  a  todos  los  que te  rodeamos.   TE AMAMOS

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 119534

author:
sobeida1985















Camila-Coleccionista de canciones

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:12
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


camila
http://wn.com/Camila-Coleccionista_de_canciones




				
					camila

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 118073

author:
sobeida1985















Santana - Maria Maria [TheWraith]

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:24
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


For the Xvid version please go to MusicInjection.net or BlockBurnaz.net
http://wn.com/Santana_Maria_Maria_TheWraith_




				
					For the Xvid version please go to MusicInjection.net or BlockBurnaz.net

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 20499868

author:
sobeida1985















Carlos Santana & Rob Thomas - Smooth

Order: Reorder
Duration: 6:45
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


From the Supernatural Tour!  Imagine listening to your favorite iPod tunes in your car!  Check out my website www.performancemp3.com for iPod integration for your car!
http://wn.com/Carlos_Santana_Rob_Thomas_Smooth




				
					From the Supernatural Tour!  Imagine listening to your favorite iPod tunes in your car!  Check out my website www.performancemp3.com for iPod integration for your car!

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 4540017

author:
sobeida1985















Carlos Santana con Maná  Corazon Espinado

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:45
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


http://fansdemana.es.tl
http://wn.com/Carlos_Santana_con_Maná_Corazon_Espinado




				
					http://fansdemana.es.tl

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 405102

author:
sobeida1985















Carlos Santana & Sarah Mclachlan - Angel (live)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:59
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


MarinoShop.com.br - Carlos Santana Sarah Mclachlan Angel live
http://wn.com/Carlos_Santana_Sarah_Mclachlan_Angel_live




				
					MarinoShop.com.br - Carlos Santana Sarah Mclachlan Angel live

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 1904790

author:
sobeida1985















The Game of Love - Carlos Santana Feat Michelle Branch

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:14
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


un video muy bueno con el talento de carlos sanTana y la voz de michelle branch*!
cLiiFiiqn ii comenTn xFa!
http://wn.com/The_Game_of_Love_Carlos_Santana_Feat_Michelle_Branch




				
					un video muy bueno con el talento de carlos sanTana y la voz de michelle branch*!
cLiiFiiqn ii comenTn xFa!

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5725

author:
sobeida1985















I'm feeling you (Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:17
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


I'm feeling you - Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch
http://wn.com/I'm_feeling_you_Carlos_Santana_ft_Michelle_Branch




				
					I'm feeling you - Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 1369589

author:
sobeida1985















reik - me duele amarte (video)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:23
Updated: 01 Jan 1970



http://wn.com/reik_me_duele_amarte_video






published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 2762614

author:
sobeida1985
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












UN VIEJO AMOR. ANA GABRIEL.

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:16
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Por unos ojasos negros, igual que penas de amores 
hace tiempo tuve anhelos, alegras y sin sabores 
y al dejarlos algn da, me decan as llorando 
no te olvides vida ma, de lo que te estoy cantando 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor 

Ha pasado mucho tiempo, y otra vez vi aquellos ojos 
me miraron con despejo, framente y sin enojos 
y al notar ese desprecio de ojos que por mi lloraron, 
pregunte si con el tiempo, sus recuerdos olvidaron 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor
http://wn.com/UN_VIEJO_AMOR_ANA_GABRIEL




				
					Por unos ojasos negros, igual que penas de amores 
hace tiempo tuve anhelos, alegras y sin sabores 
y al dejarlos algn da, me decan as llorando 
no te olvides vida ma, de lo que te estoy cantando 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor 

Ha pasado mucho tiempo, y otra vez vi aquellos ojos 
me miraron con despejo, framente y sin enojos 
y al notar ese desprecio de ojos que por mi lloraron, 
pregunte si con el tiempo, sus recuerdos olvidaron 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1792544

author:
NONITA66















a pesar de todo  ana gabriel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:50
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


amor   desamor  las   cosas  que  pansan  sin  saber  las   concecuensias   despues
http://wn.com/a_pesar_de_todo_ana_gabriel




				
					amor   desamor  las   cosas  que  pansan  sin  saber  las   concecuensias   despues

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 422472

author:
NONITA66















LA REINA. ANA GABRIEL.

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:31
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Tú te sientes muy seguro..que conmigo prefieres jugar.,... No te olvides que el valiente vive.....hasta que el cobarde quiere....
http://wn.com/LA_REINA_ANA_GABRIEL




				
					Tú te sientes muy seguro..que conmigo prefieres jugar.,... No te olvides que el valiente vive.....hasta que el cobarde quiere....

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 413893

author:
NONITA66















Cielo Rojo Ana Gabriel ((Completa))

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:06
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Cielo Rojo, canción interpretada por la reina de México Ana Gabriel... Excelente y bella interpretación de la diva de américa.
http://wn.com/Cielo_Rojo_Ana_Gabriel_Completa




				
					Cielo Rojo, canción interpretada por la reina de México Ana Gabriel... Excelente y bella interpretación de la diva de américa.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 84883

author:
NONITA66















ANA GABRIEL. RANCHERAS.

Order: Reorder
Duration: 8:16
Updated: 01 Jan 1970



http://wn.com/ANA_GABRIEL_RANCHERAS






published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 2200826

author:
NONITA66















LA DESPEDIDA. ANA GABRIEL.

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:53
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Dicen que no se siente la despedida. Dile a quien te lo dijo, que se despida.
http://wn.com/LA_DESPEDIDA_ANA_GABRIEL




				
					Dicen que no se siente la despedida. Dile a quien te lo dijo, que se despida.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 481856

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Por Tu Maldito Amor

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:57
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel 
Por Tu Maldito Amor
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Por-Tu-Maldito-Amor/dp/B000TD6YFS/ref=sr_1_1/187-7234246-1394437?ie=UTF8&qid=1265317579&sr=1-1
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Por_Tu_Maldito_Amor




				
					Ana Gabriel 
Por Tu Maldito Amor
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Por-Tu-Maldito-Amor/dp/B000TD6YFS/ref=sr_1_1/187-7234246-1394437?ie=UTF8&qid=1265317579&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 860371

author:
NONITA66















AY AMOR  ANA GABRIEL  Disco PECADO ORIGINAL (1987)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:58
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Los invito a conocer más de esta gran artista en mi blog MIS CANTANTES FAVORITOS
http://romanticacamilista-marifian1.blogspot.mx/2012/07/ana-gabriel.htm

María Guadalupe Araujo Yong, artísticamente Ana Gabriel (nacida el 10 de diciembre del 1955 en Guamúchil, Sinaloa) es una cantautora mexicana.
Ana Gabriel inicia su carrera el 15 de septiembre de 1974 en Tijuana, B.C.N y en el año 1979, Bertha Altamirano, su manager en ese entonces, buscó un nombre con el cual dar a conocer a la cantante, y entre búsquedas y juegos, descubrió "Ana Gabriel", con el cual se le conoce hasta ahora.
A principios de los años 80 empieza a cantar en los bares de Tijuana hasta que en 1984 participó en valores como compositora, nunca como intérprete. El tema "No me lastimes más" quedó en segundo lugar y ese fue el trampolín que la ha llevado hasta el lugar en que se encuentra ahora, todo gracias al apoyo del Sr. Javier Martínez, de la compañía C.B.S., hoy Sony Music.
Pero es hasta 1987 cuando Ana Gabriel logra triunfar tras alcanzar el primer lugar en el festival de la OTI nacional y un tercer lugar en el OTI internacional celebrado en Lisboa con la canción Ay Amor.
Ha alcanzado la popularidad con éxitos como "Quién como tú", "Luna", "Simplemente amigos", "Huelo a soledad", "Evidencias",del cantautor brasileño José Augusto "Obsesión" o "No a pedir perdón" entre otros, que han sido escuchados internacionalmente. Grabo para discos GAS cuando se hacia llamar Lupita Araujo fue a mediados de los 70s canciones como: Criminal, Dejalos, Protesta, Dulce amor, Castigo, No me mires a los ojos, Mitad tu mitad yo, Mi vida vuelve, Pasaran los años, No niegues que me quisiste, Un nuevo ser ha nacido, Cuando ya no me quieras.
Es la cantante mexicana que más ventas de discos ha tenido a nivel internacional. A lo largo de su trayectoria musical ha vendido mas de 100 millones de discos. Además Ana Gabriel representa uno de los más sorprendentes fenómenos de los últimos años pues su voz ha cautivado al mundo entero, no en vano toda América Latina disfruta de sus éxitos al saber que se ha convertido en una cantante muy talentosa hasta llamarse la "Diva de América" y la reina de México. Una artista que a pesar de su juventud cuenta con una carrera muy exitosa. Incluso Ana Gabriel ha sido ganadora de varios premios Grammy latinos y 4 veces ganadora del Grammy Americano por estar en listas de popularidad mas de 5 años consecutivos hasta nombrarse la reina del pop y la mas escuchada en la radio a nivel internacional.
Te encuentro de nuevo,
me inquieto y no puedo,
fingir que da lo mismo tu presencia,
frente a mi, frente a mi.

Miradas casuales,
que aumenta latidos,
que el tiempo se hace corto,
si te tengo junto a mi,
junto a mi.

Mas no se,
cono explicarte de mi amor,
como decirte que hace tiempo,
me robaste el corazón, mi corazón.

coro:
Ay amor,
no se que tiene tu mirar,
que día a día me conquista
mas y mas,
Ay amor,
cuanto daría por romper,
ese misterio que me atrapa
sin querer.

Mis días se alargan,
cuando no te miro,
y busco entre mil cosas
una que me hable de ti,
solo de ti.

Mas no se como explicarte
de mi amor... se repite.
http://wn.com/AY_AMOR_ANA_GABRIEL_Disco_PECADO_ORIGINAL_1987




				
					Los invito a conocer más de esta gran artista en mi blog MIS CANTANTES FAVORITOS
http://romanticacamilista-marifian1.blogspot.mx/2012/07/ana-gabriel.htm

María Guadalupe Araujo Yong, artísticamente Ana Gabriel (nacida el 10 de diciembre del 1955 en Guamúchil, Sinaloa) es una cantautora mexicana.
Ana Gabriel inicia su carrera el 15 de septiembre de 1974 en Tijuana, B.C.N y en el año 1979, Bertha Altamirano, su manager en ese entonces, buscó un nombre con el cual dar a conocer a la cantante, y entre búsquedas y juegos, descubrió "Ana Gabriel", con el cual se le conoce hasta ahora.
A principios de los años 80 empieza a cantar en los bares de Tijuana hasta que en 1984 participó en valores como compositora, nunca como intérprete. El tema "No me lastimes más" quedó en segundo lugar y ese fue el trampolín que la ha llevado hasta el lugar en que se encuentra ahora, todo gracias al apoyo del Sr. Javier Martínez, de la compañía C.B.S., hoy Sony Music.
Pero es hasta 1987 cuando Ana Gabriel logra triunfar tras alcanzar el primer lugar en el festival de la OTI nacional y un tercer lugar en el OTI internacional celebrado en Lisboa con la canción Ay Amor.
Ha alcanzado la popularidad con éxitos como "Quién como tú", "Luna", "Simplemente amigos", "Huelo a soledad", "Evidencias",del cantautor brasileño José Augusto "Obsesión" o "No a pedir perdón" entre otros, que han sido escuchados internacionalmente. Grabo para discos GAS cuando se hacia llamar Lupita Araujo fue a mediados de los 70s canciones como: Criminal, Dejalos, Protesta, Dulce amor, Castigo, No me mires a los ojos, Mitad tu mitad yo, Mi vida vuelve, Pasaran los años, No niegues que me quisiste, Un nuevo ser ha nacido, Cuando ya no me quieras.
Es la cantante mexicana que más ventas de discos ha tenido a nivel internacional. A lo largo de su trayectoria musical ha vendido mas de 100 millones de discos. Además Ana Gabriel representa uno de los más sorprendentes fenómenos de los últimos años pues su voz ha cautivado al mundo entero, no en vano toda América Latina disfruta de sus éxitos al saber que se ha convertido en una cantante muy talentosa hasta llamarse la "Diva de América" y la reina de México. Una artista que a pesar de su juventud cuenta con una carrera muy exitosa. Incluso Ana Gabriel ha sido ganadora de varios premios Grammy latinos y 4 veces ganadora del Grammy Americano por estar en listas de popularidad mas de 5 años consecutivos hasta nombrarse la reina del pop y la mas escuchada en la radio a nivel internacional.
Te encuentro de nuevo,
me inquieto y no puedo,
fingir que da lo mismo tu presencia,
frente a mi, frente a mi.

Miradas casuales,
que aumenta latidos,
que el tiempo se hace corto,
si te tengo junto a mi,
junto a mi.

Mas no se,
cono explicarte de mi amor,
como decirte que hace tiempo,
me robaste el corazón, mi corazón.

coro:
Ay amor,
no se que tiene tu mirar,
que día a día me conquista
mas y mas,
Ay amor,
cuanto daría por romper,
ese misterio que me atrapa
sin querer.

Mis días se alargan,
cuando no te miro,
y busco entre mil cosas
una que me hable de ti,
solo de ti.

Mas no se como explicarte
de mi amor... se repite.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 107854

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Como Duele

Order: Reorder
Duration: 2:04
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel
Como Duele
Arpeggios De Amor 2007
AG & EMI music
To get full song please go to:
http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Ddigital-music&field-keywords=ANA+GABRIEL+COMO+DUELE
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Como_Duele




				
					Ana Gabriel
Como Duele
Arpeggios De Amor 2007
AG & EMI music
To get full song please go to:
http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Ddigital-music&field-keywords=ANA+GABRIEL+COMO+DUELE

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1791999

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - La Distancia

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:51
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel
La Distancia
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/La-Distancia/dp/B000TDEV7G/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265236744&sr=1-1
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_La_Distancia




				
					Ana Gabriel
La Distancia
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/La-Distancia/dp/B000TDEV7G/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265236744&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1177815

author:
NONITA66















Clemencia-Ana Gabriel.wmv

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:12
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


este video esta dedicado para todos los sufridores
http://wn.com/Clemencia-Ana_Gabrielwmv




				
					este video esta dedicado para todos los sufridores

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 125020

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Nos Falto Valor

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:44
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Con Mucho cariño para  ti . Aydeee
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Nos_Falto_Valor




				
					Con Mucho cariño para  ti . Aydeee

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1283715

author:
NONITA66















ni un roce-ana gabriel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:25
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


ni un roce
http://wn.com/ni_un_roce-ana_gabriel




				
					ni un roce

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 693689

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Aprendiste A Volar

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:50
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel 
Aprendiste A Volar
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song please go to :
http://www.amazon.com/Aprendiste-A-Volar/dp/B000TDEV8A/ref=sr_1_1/178-8482750-3645202?ie=UTF8&s=dmusic&qid=1265312712&sr=8-1
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Aprendiste_A_Volar




				
					Ana Gabriel 
Aprendiste A Volar
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song please go to :
http://www.amazon.com/Aprendiste-A-Volar/dp/B000TDEV8A/ref=sr_1_1/178-8482750-3645202?ie=UTF8&s=dmusic&qid=1265312712&sr=8-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 245985

author:
NONITA66















Ay Amor de Ana Gabriel

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:23
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Es una cancion muy lindaaaa.......
http://wn.com/Ay_Amor_de_Ana_Gabriel




				
					Es una cancion muy lindaaaa.......

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 595165

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Las Llaves De Mi Alma

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:33
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel
Las Llaves De Mi Alma
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Las-Llaves-De-Mi-Alma/dp/B000TD94SC/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265313999&sr=1-1
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Las_Llaves_De_Mi_Alma




				
					Ana Gabriel
Las Llaves De Mi Alma
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Las-Llaves-De-Mi-Alma/dp/B000TD94SC/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265313999&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 287334

author:
NONITA66















ANA GABRIEL Y TU NO ESTAS ,

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:16
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


UNA CANCION MUY LINDA DE NUESTRA REINA ANA GABRIEL ,,Y TU NO ESTAS CD DULCE Y SALDO  (2003)
http://wn.com/ANA_GABRIEL_Y_TU_NO_ESTAS_,




				
					UNA CANCION MUY LINDA DE NUESTRA REINA ANA GABRIEL ,,Y TU NO ESTAS CD DULCE Y SALDO  (2003)

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 87150

author:
NONITA66















ana gabriel   es de masiado tarde

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:11
Updated: 01 Jan 1970



http://wn.com/ana_gabriel_es_de_masiado_tarde






published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 2159366

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Boda Negra

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:47
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel reviviendo este clasico para su disco "Joyas de dos siglos", sin duda una historia estremecedora y una verdadera obra de arte.
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Boda_Negra




				
					Ana Gabriel reviviendo este clasico para su disco "Joyas de dos siglos", sin duda una historia estremecedora y una verdadera obra de arte.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 194250

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - El Cigarrillo.wmv

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:51
Updated: 01 Jan 1970



http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_El_Cigarrillowmv






published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 2823050

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - Tú lo decidiste (Arena de Santiago CHILE)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:46
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


http://tinyurl.com/464uln
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_Tú_lo_decidiste_Arena_de_Santiago_CHILE




				
					http://tinyurl.com/464uln

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 179987

author:
NONITA66















Ana Gabriel - La Chancla

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:39
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


Ana Gabriel
La Chancla
Renacer... Homenaje A Lucha Villa 
AG records & ARDC music division
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/no-discutamos/id348840877?i=348840884
http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel_La_Chancla




				
					Ana Gabriel
La Chancla
Renacer... Homenaje A Lucha Villa 
AG records & ARDC music division
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/no-discutamos/id348840877?i=348840884

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 139901

author:
NONITA66















YO NO TE HAGO FALTA  ANA GABRIEL

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:43
Updated: 01 Jan 1970


yo no te hago falta ya lose
busco una salida yo no se q hacer
estoy decesperada voy a eloqueser...
http://wn.com/YO_NO_TE_HAGO_FALTA_ANA_GABRIEL




				
					yo no te hago falta ya lose
busco una salida yo no se q hacer
estoy decesperada voy a eloqueser...

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 12804

author:
NONITA66
















Make changes yourself !
Login to edit and save this page


Send this Playlist by SMS



Email this Page












Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Music Club

Order: Reorder
Duration: 3:50
Updated: 12 Jan 2013


Peter Gabriel talks about his newest project, a joint venture with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins to promote unheard artists in lossless sound. The Bowers & Wilkins Music Club offers an album per month in lossless quality downloads in collaboration with Gabriel's Real World Records. To get a free 3 month trial, please see www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/musicclub
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Interview_for_B&W_Music_Club




				
					Peter Gabriel talks about his newest project, a joint venture with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins to promote unheard artists in lossless sound. The Bowers & Wilkins Music Club offers an album per month in lossless quality downloads in collaboration with Gabriel's Real World Records. To get a free 3 month trial, please see www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/musicclub

published: 04 Jul 2008
views: 18958

author:
BWMusicclub















Peter Gabriel Tv Interview On The Human Rughts Tour

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:13
Updated: 24 Oct 2012


Peter Gabriel Interviews On Human Rights Tour With Sting
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Tv_Interview_On_The_Human_Rughts_Tour




				
					Peter Gabriel Interviews On Human Rights Tour With Sting

published: 22 Apr 2008
views: 7681

author:
ovian29















Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:03
Updated: 12 Dec 2012


Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Interview_Later_with_Jools_Holland_Live_2011_720p_HD




				
					Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD

published: 16 Oct 2011
views: 10429

author:
Tabi S















Gabriel Iglesias Interview

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:40
Updated: 12 Jan 2013


JC Flores interviews Gabriel Iglesias, Señor Fluffy himself, before the St. Valentine's Day show at the Majestic Theatre in downtown San Antonio. Gabriel is on a super multi-city, sold out tour. You can get info on "The Fluffly Shop Tour" by visiting his website FluffyGuy.com.
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Iglesias_Interview




				
					JC Flores interviews Gabriel Iglesias, Señor Fluffy himself, before the St. Valentine's Day show at the Majestic Theatre in downtown San Antonio. Gabriel is on a super multi-city, sold out tour. You can get info on "The Fluffly Shop Tour" by visiting his website FluffyGuy.com.

published: 16 Feb 2010
views: 73349

author:
210tv















Misha Gabriel Interview - Step Up Revolution Premiere

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:47
Updated: 09 Jan 2013


Bit.ly - Click to Subscribe! Facebook.com - Become a Fan! Twitter.com - Follow Us! Joslyn Davis talked with Misha Gabriel at the 'Step Up Revolution' premiere about his character Eddie, the incredible dance scenes and working with the cast.
http://wn.com/Misha_Gabriel_Interview_Step_Up_Revolution_Premiere




				
					Bit.ly - Click to Subscribe! Facebook.com - Become a Fan! Twitter.com - Follow Us! Joslyn Davis talked with Misha Gabriel at the 'Step Up Revolution' premiere about his character Eddie, the incredible dance scenes and working with the cast.

published: 18 Jul 2012
views: 9851

author:
clevverTV















News to Go - Mariz Umali interviews John Gabriel Pelias, record-setting UP summa cum laude 4/12/11

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:21
Updated: 19 Dec 2012


John Gabriel Pelias, 19, is graduating summa cum laude with a degree in Bachelor of Science in Math and a general weighted average (GWA) of 1.016 — breaking the previous record at the University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman held by a professor emeritus in political science for the past 63 years. For more information visit: www.gmanews.tv
http://wn.com/News_to_Go_Mariz_Umali_interviews_John_Gabriel_Pelias,_record-setting_UP_summa_cum_laude_4_12_11




				
					John Gabriel Pelias, 19, is graduating summa cum laude with a degree in Bachelor of Science in Math and a general weighted average (GWA) of 1.016 — breaking the previous record at the University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman held by a professor emeritus in political science for the past 63 years. For more information visit: www.gmanews.tv

published: 12 Apr 2011
views: 15987

author:
gmanews















Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Society of Sound

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:50
Updated: 14 Mar 2012


Peter Gabriel is interviewed about his collaboration with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins. The Society of Sound features interviews and videos with musicians, producers, sound engineers, composers, and rock stars as they share their love of music. Find out more about the Society of Sound at www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/sos
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Interview_for_B&W_Society_of_Sound




				
					Peter Gabriel is interviewed about his collaboration with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins. The Society of Sound features interviews and videos with musicians, producers, sound engineers, composers, and rock stars as they share their love of music. Find out more about the Society of Sound at www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/sos

published: 04 Jul 2008
views: 5358

author:
BWMusicclub















Eva Mendes Gabriel Macht interview for The Spirit

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:21
Updated: 14 Jan 2013


Chuck the Movieguy interviews Eva Mendes and Gabriel Macht for the movie The Spirit.
http://wn.com/Eva_Mendes_Gabriel_Macht_interview_for_The_Spirit




				
					Chuck the Movieguy interviews Eva Mendes and Gabriel Macht for the movie The Spirit.

published: 24 Dec 2008
views: 77853

author:
chuckthemovieguy















Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) Interview - FCW TV 21 Feb 2010

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:14
Updated: 05 Jan 2013


Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) is interviewed in the FCW Arena by Byron Saxton about last week's brutal attack by Wade Barrett, who was allegedly paid by a mysterious caller to unleash the assault on the FCW Florida Heavyweight Champion. From the 21 February 2010 edition of Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) TV. Prior to the interview we see a highlight package of last week's incident, and following the interview is a promo for WWE NXT which Justin Gabriel along with 7 other FCW wrestlers will be part of.
http://wn.com/Justin_Angel_Justin_Gabriel_Interview_FCW_TV_21_Feb_2010




				
					Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) is interviewed in the FCW Arena by Byron Saxton about last week's brutal attack by Wade Barrett, who was allegedly paid by a mysterious caller to unleash the assault on the FCW Florida Heavyweight Champion. From the 21 February 2010 edition of Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) TV. Prior to the interview we see a highlight package of last week's incident, and following the interview is a promo for WWE NXT which Justin Gabriel along with 7 other FCW wrestlers will be part of.

published: 23 Feb 2010
views: 35046

author:
205043569















Middle Men - Exclusive: Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi Interview

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:01
Updated: 11 Dec 2012


We go for an exclusive interview with actors Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi to talk about their roles in Middle Men. For more movie trailers, movie reviews, celebrity interviews, full movies, clips and more, go to: www.movieweb.com Connect with other movie fans on Facebook www.facebook.com Follow us on Twitter: twitter.com
http://wn.com/Middle_Men_Exclusive_Gabriel_Macht_and_Giovanni_Ribisi_Interview




				
					We go for an exclusive interview with actors Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi to talk about their roles in Middle Men. For more movie trailers, movie reviews, celebrity interviews, full movies, clips and more, go to: www.movieweb.com Connect with other movie fans on Facebook www.facebook.com Follow us on Twitter: twitter.com

published: 25 Sep 2010
views: 9316

author:
movieweb















Peter Gabriel Interview 2011

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:44
Updated: 08 Jan 2013



http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Interview_2011






published: 03 Dec 2011
views: 4993

author:
nicknameSGB















WSTK-ITV- Sid Roth Interviews Bridget Gabriel On "It's Supernatural"

Order: Reorder
Duration: 28:31
Updated: 14 Jan 2013


A Word Of Urgency To The President of The United States: Dear Mr President: I am a Christian leader who loves Israel and who hears from the Lord regarding world events. I produced a video in August 2008 when your campaign was struggling and the attacks were high that you would be the 44th President of the United States and then I gave you some directives about why God would grant your prayer request for the highest office of the land. To refresh your mind, I will upload this on Vimeo and send it to you. Having visited Israel my one and only time in October of 1987, I witnessed first hand the beginning emergence of Intifada. The Muslims have a 20 year plan to set up their mosques in the different places throughout the world and in key major cities to gain power, prestige and favor. All to woo people into converting to Islam. In the long run if they don't convert they will kill all they consider to be infidels on the spot who do not wish to convert. This day will be called the day of fanaticism. They look upon America as the great satan and Israel as satan. If a mosque goes up at the place where 911 happened, it will serve as a sign and calling card to the terrorists and the sleeper cells that the coast is clear to do their thing. This will open up a new can of worms for the American people and the world economy. America will be held hostage once again. Many American people do not want the mosque built where ground zero happened. It would be a betrayal of this nations ...
http://wn.com/WSTK-ITV_Sid_Roth_Interviews_Bridget_Gabriel_On_It's_Supernatural




				
					A Word Of Urgency To The President of The United States: Dear Mr President: I am a Christian leader who loves Israel and who hears from the Lord regarding world events. I produced a video in August 2008 when your campaign was struggling and the attacks were high that you would be the 44th President of the United States and then I gave you some directives about why God would grant your prayer request for the highest office of the land. To refresh your mind, I will upload this on Vimeo and send it to you. Having visited Israel my one and only time in October of 1987, I witnessed first hand the beginning emergence of Intifada. The Muslims have a 20 year plan to set up their mosques in the different places throughout the world and in key major cities to gain power, prestige and favor. All to woo people into converting to Islam. In the long run if they don't convert they will kill all they consider to be infidels on the spot who do not wish to convert. This day will be called the day of fanaticism. They look upon America as the great satan and Israel as satan. If a mosque goes up at the place where 911 happened, it will serve as a sign and calling card to the terrorists and the sleeper cells that the coast is clear to do their thing. This will open up a new can of worms for the American people and the world economy. America will be held hostage once again. Many American people do not want the mosque built where ground zero happened. It would be a betrayal of this nations ...

published: 13 Jun 2008
views: 67193

author:
WSTKTV WSCIRO















Gabriel Mann Interview at ZOOEY Magazine RELAUNCH Party - Exclusive

Order: Reorder
Duration: 7:23
Updated: 10 Jan 2013


Zooey Magazine Relaunch Party PLAYLIST www.youtube.com Subscribe bit.ly www.maximotv.com REVENGE Gabriel Mann interview at ZOOEY Magazine Relaunch Issue Party Event with actress Kaley Cuoco at Bardot Hollywood in Los Angeles, CaUSA March 17, 2012 - Interview by Gabrielle Loren ZOOEY http ***This footage is available for licensing*** The viewing of this clip by website visitors is only permissible for personal use; copying, commercial use, distribution, broadcast, download, additional use or transfer is expressly prohibited. Contact us for more information at maximotv.com for proper clearance. ©Ricomix Productions - maximotv.com - Maximo TV ***Original video source is HD 720p 60P***
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Mann_Interview_at_ZOOEY_Magazine_RELAUNCH_Party_Exclusive




				
					Zooey Magazine Relaunch Party PLAYLIST www.youtube.com Subscribe bit.ly www.maximotv.com REVENGE Gabriel Mann interview at ZOOEY Magazine Relaunch Issue Party Event with actress Kaley Cuoco at Bardot Hollywood in Los Angeles, CaUSA March 17, 2012 - Interview by Gabrielle Loren ZOOEY http ***This footage is available for licensing*** The viewing of this clip by website visitors is only permissible for personal use; copying, commercial use, distribution, broadcast, download, additional use or transfer is expressly prohibited. Contact us for more information at maximotv.com for proper clearance. ©Ricomix Productions - maximotv.com - Maximo TV ***Original video source is HD 720p 60P***

published: 18 Mar 2012
views: 3094

author:
maximotv















Into the West interview with Gabriel Byrne

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:06
Updated: 09 Jan 2013


interviews with the cast of Into the West (including Gabriel Byrne and Ellen Barkin) and director Mike Newell. Extras from the French DVD edition.
http://wn.com/Into_the_West_interview_with_Gabriel_Byrne




				
					interviews with the cast of Into the West (including Gabriel Byrne and Ellen Barkin) and director Mike Newell. Extras from the French DVD edition.

published: 08 Dec 2009
views: 14986

author:
BillyBOO2404















Gabriel Macht USA Upfronts Interview

Order: Reorder
Duration: 0:42
Updated: 09 Dec 2012


For more USA tv news head to theentertainmenthotline.net and http Ourvideo vault is full of tons of video clips and interviews - multipleversesvault.com Video interviews with the stars of USA Network's shows at the 2011 Upfronts in New York city earlier this week. Fairly Legal, Covert Affairs, Burn Notice, White Collar, Psych, Royal Pains, Necessary Roughness
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Macht_USA_Upfronts_Interview




				
					For more USA tv news head to theentertainmenthotline.net and http Ourvideo vault is full of tons of video clips and interviews - multipleversesvault.com Video interviews with the stars of USA Network's shows at the 2011 Upfronts in New York city earlier this week. Fairly Legal, Covert Affairs, Burn Notice, White Collar, Psych, Royal Pains, Necessary Roughness

published: 04 May 2011
views: 35019

author:
EHIdolVideo















Peter Gabriel - Rockaplast interview 1978

Order: Reorder
Duration: 9:08
Updated: 05 Jan 2013


rare and beautiful! "i like to expose my scalp so i can feel the raindrops falling on my head" haha luff you, Pete!
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Rockaplast_interview_1978




				
					rare and beautiful! "i like to expose my scalp so i can feel the raindrops falling on my head" haha luff you, Pete!

published: 21 Aug 2007
views: 31554

author:
CircusOfHeaven















Peter Gabriel - Extended Interview (Later With Jools Holland)

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:53
Updated: 07 Oct 2012


Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is a British singer, musician, and songwriter who rose to fame as the lead vocalist and flautist of the progressive rock group Genesis. After leaving Genesis, Gabriel went on to a successful solo career. More recently he has focused on producing and promoting world music and pioneering digital distribution methods for music. He has also been involved in various humanitarian efforts. In 2007 Gabriel was honoured as a BMI Icon at the 57th annual BMI London Awards for his "influence on generations of music makers." Gabriel was also awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2009 and inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Genesis in 2010.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_Extended_Interview_Later_With_Jools_Holland




				
					Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is a British singer, musician, and songwriter who rose to fame as the lead vocalist and flautist of the progressive rock group Genesis. After leaving Genesis, Gabriel went on to a successful solo career. More recently he has focused on producing and promoting world music and pioneering digital distribution methods for music. He has also been involved in various humanitarian efforts. In 2007 Gabriel was honoured as a BMI Icon at the 57th annual BMI London Awards for his "influence on generations of music makers." Gabriel was also awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2009 and inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Genesis in 2010.

published: 16 Oct 2011
views: 3158

author:
harednuta















Gabriel Garcia - Black Tide Interview at River Riot 2011 - Backstage Entertainment

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:08
Updated: 11 Jan 2013


Jeremy Lafrentz of Backstage Entertainment interviews Gabriel Garcia from Black Tide after their show at the Rockstar Energy Drink Uproar Festival / 89.7 The River's River Riot in Council Bluffs, IA, on September 23, 2011. Check out Black Tide here: www.blacktidemusic.com and 89.7 The River www.897theriver.com Check out Backstage Entertainment on Facebook at their fanpage www.facebook.com and be sure to click "LIKE" on the fanpage to participate in contests for autographed prizes! Subscribe to our YouTube channel by clicking the button above the video. Also follow Backstage Entertainment on Twitter: twitter.com
http://wn.com/Gabriel_Garcia_Black_Tide_Interview_at_River_Riot_2011_Backstage_Entertainment




				
					Jeremy Lafrentz of Backstage Entertainment interviews Gabriel Garcia from Black Tide after their show at the Rockstar Energy Drink Uproar Festival / 89.7 The River's River Riot in Council Bluffs, IA, on September 23, 2011. Check out Black Tide here: www.blacktidemusic.com and 89.7 The River www.897theriver.com Check out Backstage Entertainment on Facebook at their fanpage www.facebook.com and be sure to click "LIKE" on the fanpage to participate in contests for autographed prizes! Subscribe to our YouTube channel by clicking the button above the video. Also follow Backstage Entertainment on Twitter: twitter.com

published: 04 Oct 2011
views: 16007

author:
backstgentertainment















"Revenge" Gabriel Mann and Christa B. Allen Red Carpet Interview AMA 2011

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:49
Updated: 27 Nov 2012


Michael Buckley and Josh Sussman interview Christa B. Allen and Gabriel Mann on the red carpet of the American Music Awards 2011. The "Revenge" actors discuss what to expect in the season finale and how excited they are to be working on such an amazing show. License American Music Awards Clips Here: www.dickclarklicensing.com Follow us on Twitter: twitter.com "Like" us on Facebook: www.facebook.com
http://wn.com/Revenge_Gabriel_Mann_and_Christa_B_Allen_Red_Carpet_Interview_AMA_2011




				
					Michael Buckley and Josh Sussman interview Christa B. Allen and Gabriel Mann on the red carpet of the American Music Awards 2011. The "Revenge" actors discuss what to expect in the season finale and how excited they are to be working on such an amazing show. License American Music Awards Clips Here: www.dickclarklicensing.com Follow us on Twitter: twitter.com "Like" us on Facebook: www.facebook.com

published: 21 Nov 2011
views: 9924

author:
AwardsShowNetwork















Nutshack Interviews Gabriel Iglesias

Order: Reorder
Duration: 1:59
Updated: 25 Nov 2012


Jesse Hernandez of the Nutshack interviews comedian Gabriel Iglesias at the Wild 94.9 Comedy Jam. Check it out!
http://wn.com/Nutshack_Interviews_Gabriel_Iglesias




				
					Jesse Hernandez of the Nutshack interviews comedian Gabriel Iglesias at the Wild 94.9 Comedy Jam. Check it out!

published: 20 Sep 2007
views: 28097

author:
thenutshack















Art Bell Interviews "Gabriel" The Mercenary on Coast to Coast AM

Order: Reorder
Duration: 119:37
Updated: 14 Jan 2013


A portion of a Coast to Coast AM program with Art Bell from May 17, 2002. Art's guest is "Gabriel", a young man claiming to be a lethal mercenary. Is he legit? You be the judge.
http://wn.com/Art_Bell_Interviews_Gabriel_The_Mercenary_on_Coast_to_Coast_AM




				
					A portion of a Coast to Coast AM program with Art Bell from May 17, 2002. Art's guest is "Gabriel", a young man claiming to be a lethal mercenary. Is he legit? You be the judge.

published: 11 Dec 2011
views: 19635

author:
devoidzer0















Vijay Singh's Fitness Trainer (Gabriel Lopez) Interviewed by Gabriel Writer

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:49
Updated: 16 Nov 2012


pureswingtv.com - www.golfstrengthcoach.com - Hey Everybody its Gabriel Writer. This is an interview i did with Fitness Specialist Gabriel Lopez. Gabriel Lopez has trained body builders, NFL athletes, College athletes, CEO's, and many more. Gabriel is now training PGA Tour player Vijay Singh. Gabriel travels week in and week out with Vijay giving him world class strength and conditioning coaching. Check out Gabriels website where he showes you the same excercises he does with Vijay. www.golfstrengthcoach.com And check out my website forvideo golf tips, drills, lessons, and more interviews. pureswingtv.com PS Click the video to go to part 2 ATTENTION! GOLFERS ONLY! Check out my new golf community website pgatourdriven.com . Where golfers from all over the world can chat, and discuss everything golf. You can make your own profile; upload photos, vids, and friend request other golfers. And since I made it, ITS FREE! Check it out and let me know what you think! pgatourdriven.com
http://wn.com/Vijay_Singh's_Fitness_Trainer_Gabriel_Lopez_Interviewed_by_Gabriel_Writer




				
					pureswingtv.com - www.golfstrengthcoach.com - Hey Everybody its Gabriel Writer. This is an interview i did with Fitness Specialist Gabriel Lopez. Gabriel Lopez has trained body builders, NFL athletes, College athletes, CEO's, and many more. Gabriel is now training PGA Tour player Vijay Singh. Gabriel travels week in and week out with Vijay giving him world class strength and conditioning coaching. Check out Gabriels website where he showes you the same excercises he does with Vijay. www.golfstrengthcoach.com And check out my website forvideo golf tips, drills, lessons, and more interviews. pureswingtv.com PS Click the video to go to part 2 ATTENTION! GOLFERS ONLY! Check out my new golf community website pgatourdriven.com . Where golfers from all over the world can chat, and discuss everything golf. You can make your own profile; upload photos, vids, and friend request other golfers. And since I made it, ITS FREE! Check it out and let me know what you think! pgatourdriven.com

published: 13 Feb 2010
views: 4145

author:
PureSwingTV















Peter Gabriel interview at Womad 2008 july-25

Order: Reorder
Duration: 4:09
Updated: 06 Jun 2012


Peter Gabriel interview at Womad 2008 july-25. He helped launch music festival which is now in it's 26th year.
http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel_interview_at_Womad_2008_july-25




				
					Peter Gabriel interview at Womad 2008 july-25. He helped launch music festival which is now in it's 26th year.

published: 01 Aug 2008
views: 32138

author:
raelmatrix





























Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































3:44



Joe Goddard feat. Valentina - Gabriel (Official Video)
Out now: itunes.apple.com 12" and Download available at the Greco-Roman store: www.surus.c...


published: 31 Aug 2011
author: GrecoRomanMusic


Joe Goddard feat. Valentina - Gabriel (Official Video)


				
					Out now: itunes.apple.com 12" and Download available at the Greco-Roman store: www.surus.co.uk Ltd edition T-shirts available at the Millionhands store: bit.ly P&C 2011 Greco-Roman: www.facebook.com Exclusively licensed to DFA in North America and Avoca Drive in Australia. Video by Utile Creative and Jazz Goddard

published: 31 Aug 2011
views: 833336

author:
GrecoRomanMusic















1:50



Gabriel (2007) Trailer
GABRIEL tells the story of an archangel who fights to bring light back to purgatory - a pl...


published: 18 Jul 2010
author: glows


Gabriel (2007) Trailer


				
					GABRIEL tells the story of an archangel who fights to bring light back to purgatory - a place where darkness rules - and save the souls of the city's inhabitants. Starring Andy Whitfield

published: 18 Jul 2010
views: 489373

author:
glows















9:47



"Road Trip" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy centr...


published: 02 May 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Road Trip" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about taking a road trip with my friends from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 02 May 2010
views: 13645982

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:56



"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias
Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! En...


published: 01 Nov 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 01 Nov 2009
views: 11132097

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:02



"Pregnancy Scare" -Gabriel Iglesias
Here's a clip from my show "Stand-Up Revolution" that aired on Comedy Central! ;P Enjoy! B...


published: 23 Apr 2012
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Pregnancy Scare" -Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Here's a clip from my show "Stand-Up Revolution" that aired on Comedy Central! ;P Enjoy! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... www.fluffyshop.com If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!? Like me on Facebook. facebook.com Subscribe on my YouTube. youtube.com Add me on Google+ fluffyguy.com and Follow me on Twitter. twitter.com Website. fluffyguy.com Webstore. http ITUNES LINK: Get Ozomatli's song "Hey It's Fluffy" featured at the end of this video on iTunes now! itunes.apple.com -Gabriel aka FLUFFY ;p

published: 23 Apr 2012
views: 2672517

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















5:01



Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (1986)
Music video of 1986 directed by Stephen R. Johnson From Peter Gabriel's 'So' album In 1987...


published: 07 Apr 2008
author: pcfrlog


Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (1986)


				
					Music video of 1986 directed by Stephen R. Johnson From Peter Gabriel's 'So' album In 1987, this video won 9 MTV Video Music Awards. For more information about Peter Gabriel, visit the website : www.landofgenesis.fr

published: 07 Apr 2008
views: 3606777

author:
pcfrlog















3:20



Gabriel Davi - Beautiful (Official Video) [HD]
contact@qmusic.ro www.facebook.com www.facebook.com (c) & (p) ROTON ROMANIA 2011 Music & L...


published: 22 Aug 2011
author: QmusicRomania


Gabriel Davi - Beautiful (Official Video) [HD]


				
					contact@qmusic.ro www.facebook.com www.facebook.com (c) & (p) ROTON ROMANIA 2011 Music & Lyrics: Gabriel Davi, Hat Man, Vanotek Director: Mayer Vira DoP: Ovidiu Dumitriade International Licensing: pr@roton.ro

published: 22 Aug 2011
views: 26053797

author:
QmusicRomania















1:24



"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias
Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! En...


published: 01 Nov 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 01 Nov 2009
views: 15765420

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:15



"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! S...


published: 14 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 14 May 2011
views: 6752812

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:18



"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! S...


published: 13 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪youtube.com a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special..... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" ‪www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" ‪www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" ‪www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" ‪www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" ‪www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪www.youtube.com

published: 13 May 2011
views: 5232736

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















8:51



"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)
A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we s...


published: 14 Aug 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)


				
					A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :) -Gabriel Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 14 Aug 2010
views: 7325879

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















5:03



"Australian Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution
SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you wan...


published: 25 Jan 2013
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Australian Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution


				
					SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 25 Jan 2013
views: 169778

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:49



"Crocodile Hunter" - Gabriel Iglesias (from Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! En...


published: 15 Apr 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Crocodile Hunter" - Gabriel Iglesias (from Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 15 Apr 2010
views: 10382296

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:37



"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias
Too much cake lead to drama in the morning....


published: 06 Oct 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.

published: 06 Oct 2009
views: 7787316

author:
hotandfluffycomedy










Youtube results:







3:37



Peter Gabriel - The Book of Love
Peter Gabriel's cover of The Magnetic Fields' song. It was also a song from the movie "Sha...


published: 15 Feb 2009
author: sakuramiyu777


Peter Gabriel - The Book of Love


				
					Peter Gabriel's cover of The Magnetic Fields' song. It was also a song from the movie "Shall We Dance?" To be submitted as a requirement for school Produced by sakuramiyu sakuramiyu.deviantart.com

published: 15 Feb 2009
views: 5164561

author:
sakuramiyu777















6:13



Peter Gabriel & Kate Bush -Don't Give Up
Don't give up In this proud land we grew up strong We were wanted all along I was taught t...


published: 12 Nov 2008
author: ibs11


Peter Gabriel & Kate Bush -Don't Give Up


				
					Don't give up In this proud land we grew up strong We were wanted all along I was taught to fight, taught to win I never thought I could fail No fight left or so it seems I am a man whose dreams have all deserted Ive changed my face, Ive changed my name But no one wants you when you lose Dont give up cos you have friends Dont give up Youre not beaten yet Dont give up I know you can make it good Though I saw it all around Never thought I could be affected Thought that wed be the last to go It is so strange the way things turn Drove the night toward my home The place that I was born, on the lakeside As daylight broke, I saw the earth The trees had burned down to the ground Dont give up You still have us Dont give up We dont need much of anything Dont give up cause somewhere theres a place Where we belong Rest your head You worry too much Its going to be alright When times get rough You can fall back on us Dont give up Please dont give up got to walk out of here I cant take anymore Going to stand on that bridge Keep my eyes down below Whatever may come And whatever may go That rivers flowing That rivers flowing Moved on to another town Tried hard to settle down For every job, so many men So many men no-one needs Dont give up cause you have friends Dont give up Youre not the only one Dont give up No reason to be ashamed Dont give up You still have us Dont give up now Were proud of who you are Dont give up You know its never been easy Dont give up cause I believe theres the a ...

published: 12 Nov 2008
views: 7625496

author:
ibs11















5:23



"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")
Hey guys, Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm ...


published: 28 Jul 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")


				
					Hey guys, Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! Check out my official youtube channel youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"..... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 28 Jul 2010
views: 9728677

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:26



"Bears Love Me" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution
SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you wan...


published: 18 Jan 2013
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Bears Love Me" - Gabriel Iglesias - Standup Revolution


				
					SUB me baby: www.youtube.com Thanks for watching! Here's all my social info.... If you want to take our relationship to the next level... Follow me on Twitter: twitter.com Like me on Facebook: fb.com Add me on Google+: fluffyguy.com Follow me on Instagram: instagram.com Website: fluffyguy.com Store fluffyshop.com I'm on a world tour! Check my LIVE dates here.... http More of my stand-up comedy... a few clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special... "Chico's Taco's" www.youtube.com "Cops" www.youtube.com "Dance Dance Revolution" www.youtube.com "E-Glesias with a I" www.youtube.com "High School Reunion" www.youtube.com or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy"... "Drinking & Driving" www.youtube.com "Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" www.youtube.com "Drive Thru Voice" www.youtube.com "Crocodile Hunter" www.youtube.com "Making Cops Laugh" www.youtube.com "New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" www.youtube.com

published: 18 Jan 2013
views: 375178

author:
hotandfluffycomedy











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































4:11



"Hey It's Fluffy" - Ozomatli (feat. Gabriel Iglesias) - world premiere MUSIC VIDEO
ITUNES LINK: Get it now! http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/hey-its-fluffy-feat.-gabriel/id4...


published: 08 Oct 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Hey It's Fluffy" - Ozomatli (feat. Gabriel Iglesias) - world premiere MUSIC VIDEO


				
					ITUNES LINK: Get it now! http://itunes.apple.com/us/album/hey-its-fluffy-feat.-gabriel/id472441407


Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in every Thursday starting October 6th at 10pm! Enjoy this Music Video from 3 time Grammy nominated OZOMATLI! :)

Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

OZOMATLI...
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/ozomatli
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ozomatli
Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/Ozomatli

Again, tune into Comedy Central every Thursday starting Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel a.k.a. FLUFFY ;p

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com

published: 08 Oct 2011
views: 1212047

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















0:26



Gabriel Iglesias: Stand-Up Revolution starting Oct. 6th @10pm on Comedy Central
Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in on Oc...


published: 03 Oct 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


Gabriel Iglesias: Stand-Up Revolution starting Oct. 6th @10pm on Comedy Central


				
					Team Fluffy, Comedy Central messed up and gave me my own show! ;P Be sure to tune in on October 6th at 10pm for the series premiere! 

I'm on Tour! Be sure to check out "Stand-Up Revolution The Tour". Click here for all dates and cities.... http://www.fluffyshop.com/live-shows.php

If you really want to take our relationship to the next level?!?
Like me on Facebook. http://facebook.com/fluffyguy
Subscribe on my YouTube. http://youtube.com/fluffyguy
Add me on Google+ http://fluffyguy.com/googleplus
and Follow me on Twitter. http://twitter.com/fluffyguy

Website. http://fluffyguy.com
Webstore. http://fluffyshop.com

Again, tune in on Oct 6th at 10pm then hit me up on my social sites to let me know what you think of the show! 

-Gabriel

video directed by: Alex Ferrari http://alexferrari.com

published: 03 Oct 2011
views: 649049

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:18



"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!...


published: 13 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"E-glesias with a I" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 


  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 13 May 2011
views: 5232652

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















1:24



"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias
Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! En...


published: 11 Nov 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Drive Thru Voice" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 15765275

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:15



"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!...


published: 14 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Dance, Dance, Revolution" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 6752659

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















8:51



"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)
A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we s...


published: 14 Aug 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"RACIST? OR FUNNY? Gift Basket Prank" - Gabriel Iglesias (uncensored)


				
					A practical joke my friend Martin and I played on another comedian named G Reily when we sent a racist gift basket to his hotel room. SO WRONG but funny :)
-Gabriel 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 
"High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 Aug 2010
views: 7325711

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















3:19



"Cops" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!...


published: 14 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Cops" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 4117738

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















4:37



"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias
Too much cake lead to drama in the morning....


published: 11 Nov 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Too much cake lead to drama in the morning.

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 7789901

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















3:03



"Chicos Taco's" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!...


published: 14 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Chicos Taco's" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!     Subscribe to my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

     a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0   

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8  
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g  
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho  
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0  
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o  
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 14 May 2011
views: 3429684

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:04



"The President" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)
Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it!...


published: 13 May 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"The President" - Gabriel Iglesias (from my I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Hey guys, 

Here is a quick clip from my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy" Hope you enjoy it! 

  Subscribe to my official youtube channel ‪http://youtube.com/fluffyguy‬ 

  a few more clips from my "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy" comedy special.....  
"Chico's Taco's" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K7cvr7zmhug 
"Dance Dance Revolution" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J29A9nBtp2U
 "Cops" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sijAbpgmaXU 
"E-Glesias with a I" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CxgIbznAV84
 "High School Reunion" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QQzusr4IH0‬  

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

  "Drinking & Driving" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8‬ 
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g‬ 
"Drive Thru Voice" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho‬ 
"Crocodile Hunter" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0‬ 
"Making Cops Laugh" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o‬ 
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" ‪http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 13 May 2011
views: 3743221

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:56



How the Hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p - Gabriel Iglesias FLUFFYSHOP.COM
Here is a little funny commercial part of the show. How the hell did he fit into that shir...


published: 17 Aug 2011
author: hotandfluffycomedy


How the Hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p - Gabriel Iglesias FLUFFYSHOP.COM


				
					Here is a little funny commercial part of the show. How the hell did he fit into that shirt? ;p I've got that "Im Not Fat, Im Fluffy" shirt and a lot of other funny ones at http://fluffyshop.com

Enjoy!

published: 17 Aug 2011
views: 782711

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















5:23



"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")
Hey guys,
Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm ...


published: 06 Aug 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"High School Reunion" -Gabriel Iglesias (exclusive bonus footage from "I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy")


				
					Hey guys,
Here is a quick clip that you won't see in my special, it's only on my DVD "I'm Not Fat...I'm Fluffy and here on Youtube! :) Hope you enjoy it! 

Check out my official youtube channel http://youtube.com/fluffyguy 

or check out other clips from my previous special "Hot & Fluffy".....

"Drinking & Driving" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6--kTcODn8
"Chocolate Cake Made Me Late" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-ruZ7zad8g
"Drive Thru Voice" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOQJiZ_g3Ho
"Crocodile Hunter" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2owUI45FL0
"Making Cops Laugh" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a77Dw3tNv8o
"New Car/ Volkswagen Beetle" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPqcTFm2ID8

published: 06 Aug 2010
views: 9728502

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:56



"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias
Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! En...


published: 11 Nov 2009
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Drinking & Driving" - Gabriel Iglesias


				
					Check out this quick bit from my special "Hot & Fluffy" and let me know what you think! Enjoy! -Gabriel

published: 11 Nov 2009
views: 11134987

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















3:42



"Last Comic Standing and My Mom" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about my experience on Last Comic and how supportive my mothe...


published: 13 Jun 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Last Comic Standing and My Mom" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about my experience on Last Comic and how supportive my mother is from my comedy special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy."

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 4573545

author:
hotandfluffycomedy










Youtube results:







3:09



"Latino TV, Soda & Cake" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about Latino TV, Soda and Cake from my Comedy Central special...


published: 13 Jun 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Latino TV, Soda & Cake" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about Latino TV, Soda and Cake from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 5556249

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















1:54



"Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about memories from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy...


published: 13 Jun 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Memories" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about memories from my Comedy Central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 3423977

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















3:05



"Livin' Life" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about living life and enjoying yourself from my comedy centra...


published: 13 Jun 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Livin' Life" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about living life and enjoying yourself from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy Comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 3776856

author:
hotandfluffycomedy















2:17



"Spanish Radio" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)
Here is a clip of me talking about Spanish radio from my comedy central special "Hot and F...


published: 13 Jun 2010
author: hotandfluffycomedy


"Spanish Radio" - Gabriel Iglesias- (From Hot & Fluffy comedy special)


				
					Here is a clip of me talking about Spanish radio from my comedy central special "Hot and Fluffy comedy." Watch it and let me know what you think.

published: 13 Jun 2010
views: 4911889

author:
hotandfluffycomedy











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































6:11



Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Coopenhagen 1983
Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Coopenhagen 1983


				
					Peter Gabriel - Wallflower Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 106268

author:
giovannigambale















4:18



PETER GABRIEL - moribund the burgermeister
Live in Brescia - 02/07/2007...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


PETER GABRIEL - moribund the burgermeister


				
					Live in Brescia - 02/07/2007

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 57841

author:
giovannigambale















9:40



Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen 1983
Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen 1983


				
					Peter Gabriel - San Jacinto Coopenhagen Falkoner Theatrit, Copenhagen 1 Ott 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 48975

author:
giovannigambale















5:00



Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel
Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel


				
					Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 6848922

author:
giovannigambale















3:59



Peter Gabriel - Shock The Monkey
Peter Gabriel preforming Shock the Monkey in San Remo 1983...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Shock The Monkey


				
					Peter Gabriel preforming Shock the Monkey in San Remo 1983

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 537489

author:
giovannigambale















4:27



Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood
Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood


				
					Peter Gabriel - Here Comes The Flood, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 2846090

author:
giovannigambale















4:20



Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena
Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena


				
					Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill - Live in Arzachena

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 71387

author:
giovannigambale















4:48



Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (Live)
Live Concert from the 2003 Growing Up Tour in Filaforum, Milan, Italy...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Sledgehammer (Live)


				
					Live Concert from the 2003 Growing Up Tour in Filaforum, Milan, Italy

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 169427

author:
giovannigambale















8:11



Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue
Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003, accompanied by The B...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue


				
					Peter Gabriel - Sky Blue, from the Growing Up Live tour, Milano 2003, accompanied by The Blind Boys of Alabama.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 681887

author:
giovannigambale















2:23



Peter Gabriel Live in Amsterdam, Biko (end of concert)
Westergasfabriek, 29 juni 2007...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel Live in Amsterdam, Biko (end of concert)


				
					Westergasfabriek, 29 juni 2007

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 16200

author:
giovannigambale















4:17



Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill
PG & Co. playing a funny Solsbury Hill!...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Solsbury Hill


				
					PG & Co. playing a funny Solsbury Hill!

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 6643997

author:
giovannigambale















9:13



Peter Gabriel Biko Live 1986
The final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  This was the se...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel Biko Live 1986


				
					The final date of the 1986 Amnesty International Conspiracy of Hope Tour.  This was the set closer, an emotional version of Biko.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 1860577

author:
giovannigambale















5:36



Peter Gabriel & Youssou Ndour - Shakin' The Tree
awesome song...wonderful when Peter Gabriel and Youssou Ndour work together...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel & Youssou Ndour - Shakin' The Tree


				
					awesome song...wonderful when Peter Gabriel and Youssou Ndour work together

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 742487

author:
giovannigambale















6:24



Peter Gabriel - Biko
Peter Gabriel - Biko...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel - Biko


				
					Peter Gabriel - Biko

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 352434

author:
giovannigambale










Youtube results:







8:37



PETER GABRIEL SECRET WORLD (DVD QUALITY)
FROM PETER GABRIEL'S GROWING UP LIVE TOUR...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


PETER GABRIEL SECRET WORLD (DVD QUALITY)


				
					FROM PETER GABRIEL'S GROWING UP LIVE TOUR

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 1179622

author:
giovannigambale















6:45



Peter Gabriel : I Grieve 2002 9/11 Tribute
Peter Gabriel Performing I Grieve, September 2002 on Larry King Weekend 9/11 Tribute Show....


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel : I Grieve 2002 9/11 Tribute


				
					Peter Gabriel Performing I Grieve, September 2002 on Larry King Weekend 9/11 Tribute Show.  I recorded this on my TiVo and had to re-render it to get it less than 100meg.  Enjoy! - MJ

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 502633

author:
giovannigambale















7:18



Peter Gabriel and Fairlight CMI
French documentary about Peter Gabriel demonstrating his new toy - The Fairlight CMI.
He a...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel and Fairlight CMI


				
					French documentary about Peter Gabriel demonstrating his new toy - The Fairlight CMI.
He also talks about the song The Rythmn of the Heat which used the Fairlight extensively.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 210805

author:
giovannigambale















4:52



Peter Gabriel, Sledgehammer cover by Blues Brothers Reloaded
20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. Durante la manifestazione "MusiCampus 2008" presso l'Univer...


published: 16 Oct 2008
author: giovannigambale


Peter Gabriel, Sledgehammer cover by Blues Brothers Reloaded


				
					20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. Durante la manifestazione "MusiCampus 2008" presso l'Università degli studi di Salerno, il gruppo dei "Blues Brother Reloaded" esegue la cover dal vivo del brano "Sledgehammer" di Peter Gabriel.

20/05/2008. Fisciano, Salerno. "Blues Brother Reloaded" covering live "Sledgehammer" by Peter Gabriel at the University of Salerno.

published: 16 Oct 2008
views: 7818

author:
giovannigambale











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































6:00



Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz
Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz


				
					Gabriel o Pensador - Cachimbo da Paz

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 116365

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















4:23



Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando
Videoclipe
Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando

Proprietário do conteúdo:  Sony Music Entertai...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando


				
					Videoclipe
Gabriel O Pensador - Até Quando

Proprietário do conteúdo:  Sony Music Entertainment

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 919740

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















4:15



Gabriel O Pensador -Nunca Serão (Dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves)
Videoclipe montado por Renato Martins e dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves ...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador -Nunca Serão (Dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves)


				
					Videoclipe montado por Renato Martins e dirigido por José Padilha e Oscar Rodrigues Alves com cenas dos filmes "Tropa de Elite" e "Tropa de Elite 2: O inimigo agora é outro". A música "Nunca serão", é de autoria de Gabriel O Pensador, e narra um encontro entre o cantor e o Capitão Nascimento.

Letra

Eu caminhava no meu Rio de Janeiro
Quando alguém me parou e falou:
Aí parceiro
Me dá tua mão que eu quero ver se tá com cheiro
Por que eu sou um cara honesto e detesto maconheiro
Eu tinha acabado de sair do banheiro
Dei a mão pra ele cheirar, mas foi uma cena bisonha
Ele cheirou minha mão por um tempo
Eu disse: "Espera, tu não é o Capitão Nascimento? Que vergonha meu capitão!"
"Procurando maconha no calçadão"
"Qual é tua missão?"
"Eu vi teu filme, mas não me leva mal".
"Não me tortura assim não, que eu sou um cara legal"
"Em certas coisas, eu concordo contigo"
"Mas não é assim que você vai achar os grandes bandidos: esse país tá fodido"
ele falou "eu sei disso
quando eu entrei na PM, eu assumi um compromisso, eu luto pela justiça"
eu também
sem justiça não tem paz, e sem paz eu sou refém
a injustiça é cega e a justiça enxerga bem
mas só quando convém
a lei é do mais forte, no BOPE ou na FEBEM
na boca ou no Supremo
que justiça a gente tem, que justiça nós queremos?

Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Capitão, não sei se você soube dessa história 
que rolou num povoado peruano se não me falha a memória
um político foi morto pelo povo
um corrupto linchado por um povo que cansou de desrespeito
e resolveu fazer justiça desse jeito
foi um linchamento, foi um mau exemplo
foi um mau exemplo, mas não deixa de ser um exemplo
eu sou contra a violência mas aqui a gente peca por excesso de paciência
com o "rouba, mas faz" dos verdadeiros marginais
chamados de "doutor" e "vossa excelência"
cujos nomes não preciso dizer
a imprensa publica, mas tudo indica que a justiça não lê
Diz que é cega, mas o lado dos colegas ela sempre vê
Capitão, isso é um serviço pra você

Deputado! pede pra sair!
Pede pra sair, deputado!
Você é moleque!
Senador, pede pra sair!
Vagabundo, cadê o dinheiro que você desviou dessa obra aqui?
Fala, V. Excelência, é melhor falar!
Cadê a verba da merenda que sumiu?
02, o corrupto não quer falar não! Pode pegar o cabo de vassoura!
(Tá bom, eu vou falar, eu vou falar!)
Os corruptos cassados?
Nunca serão!
Cidadãos bem informados?
Nunca serão!
Hospitais bem equipados
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!

Os impostos bem usados?
Nunca serão!
os menores educados?
Nunca serão!
Todos alfabetizados?
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

Conversei com o Nascimento que não pensa como eu penso mas pensando, nós chegamos num consenso
nós somos vítimas da violência estúpida que afeta todo mundo, menos esses vagabundos lá da cúpula corrupta hipócrita e nojenta
que alimenta a desigualdade e da desigualdade se alimenta
mantendo essa política perversa
que joga preto contra branco, pobre contra rico e vice-versa
pra eles isso é jogo, esse é o jogo
se morre mais um assaltante ou mais um assaltado, tanto faz
pra eles não importa, gente viva ou gente morta
é tudo a mesma merda
os velhos nas portas dos hospitais, as crianças mendigando nos sinais
pra eles nós somos todos iguais
operários, empresários e presidiários e policiais
nós somos os otários ideais
enquanto a gente sua e morre
só os bandidos de gravata seguem faturando e descansando em paz
enquanto esses covardes continuam livres, nós só temos grades
liberdade já não temos mais.
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!
Nunca serão! Nunca serão!!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 1380245

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:10



Gabriel Pensador-2345 meia 78
video do gabriel pensador de rap 2345678 muito maneiro olhem vcs vão gostar...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel Pensador-2345 meia 78


				
					video do gabriel pensador de rap 2345678 muito maneiro olhem vcs vão gostar

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 1351716

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:38



Gabriel o Pensador  1993  - 05 Lavagem Cerebral
Racismo preconceito e discriminação em geral
É uma burrice coletiva sem explicação
Afinal ...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador  1993  - 05 Lavagem Cerebral


				
					Racismo preconceito e discriminação em geral
É uma burrice coletiva sem explicação
Afinal que justificativa você me dá para um povo que precisa de união
Mas demonstra claramente
Infelizmente
Preconceitos mil
De naturezas diferentes
Mostrando que essa gente
Essa gente do Brasil é muito burra
E não enxerga um palmo à sua frente
Porque se fosse inteligente esse povo já teria agido de forma mais consciente
Eliminando da mente todo o preconceito
E não agindo com a burrice estampada no peito
A "elite" que devia dar um bom exemplo
É a primeira a demonstrar esse tipo de sentimento
Num complexo de superioridade infantil
Ou justificando um sistema de relação servil
E o povão vai como um bundão na onda do racismo e da discriminação
Não tem a união e não vê a solução da questão
Que por incrível que pareça está em nossas mãos
Só precisamos de uma reformulação geral
Uma espécie de lavagem cerebral

Não seja um imbecil
Não seja um Paulo Francis
Não se importe com a origem ou a cor do seu semelhante
O quê que importa se ele é nordestino e você não?
O quê que importa se ele é preto e você é branco?
Aliás branco no Brasil é difícil porque no Brasil somos todos mestiços
Se você discorda então olhe pra trás
Olhe a nossa história
Os nossos ancestrais
O Brasil colonial não era igual a Portugal
A raiz do meu país era multirracial
Tinha índio, branco, amarelo, preto
Nascemos da mistura então porque o preconceito?
Barrigas cresceram
O tempo passou...
Nasceram os brasileiros cada um com a sua cor
Uns com a pele clara outros mais escura
Mas todos viemos da mesma mistura
Então presta atenção nessa sua babaquice
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Dê a ignorância um ponto final:
Faça uma lavagem cerebral

Negro e nordestino constróem seu chão
Trabalhador da construção civil conhecido como peão
No Brasil o mesmo negro que constrói o seu apartamento ou que lava o chão de uma delegacia
É revistado e humilhado por um guarda nojento que ainda recebe o salário e o pão de cada dia graças ao negro ao nordestino e a todos nós
Pagamos homens que pensam que ser humilhado não dói
O preconceito é uma coisa sem sentido
Tire a burrice do peito e me dê ouvidos
Me responda se você discriminaria
Um sujeito com a cara do PC Farias
Não você não faria isso não...
Você aprendeu que o preto é ladrão
Muitos negros roubam mas muitos são roubados
E cuidado com esse branco aí parado do seu lado
Porque se ele passa fome
Sabe como é:
Ele rouba e mata um homem
Seja você ou seja o Pelé
Você e o Pelé morreriam igual
Então que morra o preconceito e viva a união racial
Quero ver essa musica você aprender e fazer
A lavagem cerebral

O racismo é burrice mas o mais burro não é o racista
É o que pensa que o racismo não existe
O pior cego é o que não quer ver
E o racismo está dentro de você
Porque o racista na verdade é um tremendo babaca
Que assimila os preconceitos porque tem cabeça fraca
E desde sempre não para pra pensar
Nos conceitos que a sociedade insiste em lhe ensinar
E de pai pra filho o racismo passa
Em forma de piadas que teriam bem mais graça
Se não fossem o retrato da nossa ignorância
Transmitindo a discriminação desde a infância
E o que as crianças aprendem brincando
É nada mais nada menos do que a estupidez se propagando
Qualquer tipo de racismo não se justifica
Ninguém explica
Precisamos da lavagem cerebral pra acabar com esse lixo que é uma herança cultural
Todo mundo é racista mas não sabe a razão
Então eu digo meu irmão
Seja do povão ou da "elite"
Não participe
Pois como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
Como eu já disse racismo é burrice
E se você é mais um burro
Não me leve a mal
É hora de fazer uma lavagem cerebral
Mas isso é compromisso seu
Eu nem vou me meter
Quem vai lavar a sua mente não sou eu
É você

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 163302

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















4:05



Gabriel o Pensador-Retrato de Um Playboy- Juventude Perdida
Video clipe feito em 1993, Gabriel o Pensador, retrato de um playboy ,Juventude Perdida
ma...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador-Retrato de Um Playboy- Juventude Perdida


				
					Video clipe feito em 1993, Gabriel o Pensador, retrato de um playboy ,Juventude Perdida
mais informações

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 630721

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















2:53



Astronauta - Gabriel o Pensador DESENHO
Clipe desenhado da musica Astronauta do Gabriel o Pensador com Lulu Santos...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Astronauta - Gabriel o Pensador DESENHO


				
					Clipe desenhado da musica Astronauta do Gabriel o Pensador com Lulu Santos

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 649296

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















2:11



Gabriel o Pensador Fala Sério!
Depois de um grampo telefonico entre 2 playboy traficante de niteroi foi divulgada a conve...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador Fala Sério!


				
					Depois de um grampo telefonico entre 2 playboy traficante de niteroi foi divulgada a conversa onde um contava pro outro q estava fumando um baseado com o gabriel pensador , como o ronaldo fenomeno e com o julio cesar..

no video inteiro o pensador conta a historia detalhadamente..
mas nesse trecho aparece somente uma musica q ele escreveu

fica ligado q eh muito irado!


tinha sido tirado do orcute mas eu to botando de novo pq esse video eh punk!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 595023

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















3:56



Gabriel, O Pensador - Dança do Desempregado
Clipe Oficial da música Dança do Desempregado do álbum Quebra-Cabeça....


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel, O Pensador - Dança do Desempregado


				
					Clipe Oficial da música Dança do Desempregado do álbum Quebra-Cabeça.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 331945

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:20



Gabriel o Pensador - Tas a Ver
Brazillian rapper...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador - Tas a Ver


				
					Brazillian rapper

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 369131

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:05



Gabriel O Pensador - Tô Vazando
Gabriel O Pensador -  Tô Vazando (Gabriel O Pensador/Harry Wayne Casey/D. Carter) 
Album: ...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador - Tô Vazando


				
					Gabriel O Pensador -  Tô Vazando (Gabriel O Pensador/Harry Wayne Casey/D. Carter) 
Album: Nádegas A Declarar


Tô vazando, mulher, sem choradeira
Pode derramar uma cachoeira
Mas depois de tanta mágoa eu tô vazando feito água
E não adianta fechar a torneira porque
As feridas vão continuar abertas
Ah, querida, se tu fosse mais esperta
Você não estaria implorando o meu amor
Só que quando deveria você nunca deu valor
Agora você tem medo de ficar sozinha
Mas o nosso trem já chegou ao fim da linha, meu bem
Vou descer na estação da Liberdade
Toma o meu retrato e se você sentir saudade
Olhe o meu sorriso e exercite a memória
Relembre todos os lances da nossa estória
Todos os momentos felizes que eu te dei
Todas as cicatrizes que eu guardei
Todas as palavras bonitas que eu te disse
Todo o seu silêncio como se eu não existisse
Todas as rosas que eu te ofereci
Todos os espinhos que eu tive que engolir
Todos os planos que abandonei por você
Todas as vezes que você me fez sofrer
Sua consciência agora pesa muitos quilos
Se afundando nessas lágrimas de crocodilo
Mas eu vou deixar você se afogando
E vou tocar o barco, tô vazando

Tô vazando!
Tô vazando feito a maré
Tô vazando!
Eu não sou palhaço, mulher
Tô vazando!
Eu te dei a mão você quer o meu braço
Vira a bunda que eu te dou um pé
"Adeus também foi feito pra se dizer
Bye bye, so long, farewell"

Adios, arrivederte, sayonara
Good Bye, hasta la vista, au revoir
Eu vou voar, sair da gaiola
E vou botar as asinhas de fora, tá na hora
De zoar, curtir tudo o que eu não pude
Feito um velho mergulhando na fonte da juventude
Tu devia se orgulhar
Pelo bem que tu me fez ao me transformar em "ex"
Porque hoje eu tô feliz
Mas foi você que quis
Que tudo terminasse desse jeito
E eu fico satisfeito desse modo
E eu não me incomodo dessa forma
E você não se conforma de ter feito
Tanta coisa pra tentar me machucar
E agora não poder remediar
A minha dor de cabeça você já conseguiu
Mas eu que vou sumir e você que vai tomar doril...
Chega de compras, chega de jóias
Chega de aturar seus ciúmes e paranóias
Mais uma chance? Uma pinóia!
Nosso barco naufragou e eu não vou jogar a bóia
Eu tô na boa, eu tô na proa e vou te dar um pé na popa pra acabar com a sua sopa
A minha âncora já tá fora do mar
Marujo que é marujo sabe a hora de zarpar

Refrão

Tô evacuando, saindo fora
Se quiser chorar, chora, mas eu vou embora
Sim senhora, já aturei tudo que eu podia
Mas agora tô vazando, até outro dia
Ou quem sabe, até nunca mais
Longe de você eu vou viver em paz
Amor só é bom enquanto dura
Mas já faz muito tempo que o papai aqui te atura
Era tão perfeito mas virou uma tortura
Então eu tô ralando peito, não me segura
Bye bye, tchau, fui
Fica aí chorando buá - buá, ai, ui,
Ei! Eu já falei, baby, you don't understand
A chama depois que vira cinza não se acende
Seu drama já não me convence
C'est fini, o nosso love já chegou ao the end..

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 123504

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















6:04



Gabriel O Pensador - Festa da Música
Gabriel, o Pensador - Festa da Música.

Quando pequeno sempre imaginei um clip para esta m...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador - Festa da Música


				
					Gabriel, o Pensador - Festa da Música.

Quando pequeno sempre imaginei um clip para esta música, então fiz um mais ou menos assim, como eu imaginava que seria! hahahaha

Clipe feito em flash durante as férias da faculdade em Dez/Jan de 2007/2008.

Animação produzida em Flash 8, Camtasia e Media Subtitler.

Produdizo por um fã!

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 103847

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















3:57



Gabriel O Pensador- Lôrabúrra
Um dos vídeo clipes mais polêmicos do Gabriel O Pensador, que é esse , da música "Lôrabúrr...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador- Lôrabúrra


				
					Um dos vídeo clipes mais polêmicos do Gabriel O Pensador, que é esse , da música "Lôrabúrra", antes de dizerem que o gabriel ta falando mal das loiras, preste atenção no final da letra e veja que não esta falando mal das só das loiras "o problema não esta no cabelo, esta na cabeça, não se esqueça, lôrabúrra pode ser morena, ruiva, preta, careca, natural"

Comunidade Gabriel O Gênio Pensador
http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=696957

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 459687

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:04



Gabriel o Pensador - Estudo errado
só atores globais... :P
apresentação do trabalho de estudos
pedagógicos. Curso Enfermagem ...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador - Estudo errado


				
					só atores globais... :P
apresentação do trabalho de estudos
pedagógicos. Curso Enfermagem da UFRN- abril de 2007

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 428573

author:
Danilo Loschiavo










Youtube results:







4:11



Gabriel O Pensador - Pega Ladrão
Clipe feito por Renan Araujo......


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel O Pensador - Pega Ladrão


				
					Clipe feito por Renan Araujo...

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 294045

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















5:57



Gabriel o Pensador - Sei Lá
relax...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o Pensador - Sei Lá


				
					relax

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 218234

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















4:30



Gabriel o  Pensador Rap Do Feio
Eu editei esse video com muito carinho... E é dedicado as todas as pessoas que gosta do Ga...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Gabriel o  Pensador Rap Do Feio


				
					Eu editei esse video com muito carinho... E é dedicado as todas as pessoas que gosta do Gabriel O Pensador no video que postei as imagens é só uma brincadeira em nunhum momento eu quis ofender ninguém

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 844627

author:
Danilo Loschiavo















4:04



Deixa Quieto "Gabriel o Pensador" Leon
Vem gata...
Vem sentir o calor dos lábios meus a procura dos teus
Vem matar essa paixão qu...


published: 23 Feb 2011
author: Danilo Loschiavo


Deixa Quieto "Gabriel o Pensador" Leon


				
					Vem gata...
Vem sentir o calor dos lábios meus a procura dos teus
Vem matar essa paixão que me devora o coração
E só assim então serei feliz
Bem feliz.

published: 23 Feb 2011
views: 35207

author:
Danilo Loschiavo











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































6:10



Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno
Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno


				
					Juan Gabriel - Amor Eterno

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5523350

author:
sobeida1985















10:48



Juan Gabriel - Querida
Juan Gabriel - Querida...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Querida


				
					Juan Gabriel - Querida

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5655615

author:
sobeida1985















4:34



Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente
Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente


				
					Juan Gabriel - Siempre En Mi Mente

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 966952

author:
sobeida1985















3:19



Juan Gabriel - Siempre en Mi Mente
Juan Gabriel - Siempre en mi Mente...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Siempre en Mi Mente


				
					Juan Gabriel - Siempre en mi Mente

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 4573581

author:
sobeida1985















4:00



Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo
Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo


				
					Juan Gabriel - Inocente Pobre Amigo

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 2133213

author:
sobeida1985















5:01



Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas
Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas


				
					Juan Gabriel - Ya Lo Se Que Tu Te Vas

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 3613971

author:
sobeida1985















4:10



Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar
Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar


				
					Juan Gabriel - Te Voy a Olvidar

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 3056319

author:
sobeida1985















3:01



Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO
Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO


				
					Juan Gabriel - Te Sigo Amando En VIVO

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 578678

author:
sobeida1985















7:09



DUETOS CLÁSICOS DE LOS 80s EN ESPAÑOL - PARTE 1 Generación X
videos que incluye:

1.- LAURA FLORES Y SERGIO FACHELLI - Lo Que Me Tiene Aquí.
2.- YURI Y...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


DUETOS CLÁSICOS DE LOS 80s EN ESPAÑOL - PARTE 1 Generación X


				
					videos que incluye:

1.- LAURA FLORES Y SERGIO FACHELLI - Lo Que Me Tiene Aquí.
2.- YURI Y OSCAR ATHIE - Y Ahora Juntos.
3.- ANGELA CARRASCO Y CAMILO SESTO - Callados.
4.- DANIELA ROMO Y MIJARES - Me Alimento De Tí.
5.- SHEENA EASTON Y LUIS MIGUEL - Me Gustas Tal Como Eres.
6.- ANN KELLEY Y JOSÉ FELICIANO - Para Decir Adiós.
7.- MARISELA Y MARCO A. SOLÍS - La Pareja Ideal.
8.- EDNITA NAZARIO Y LAUREANO BRIZUELA - Mi Pequeño Amor.
9.- MARÍA DEL SOL Y JORGE MUÑIZ - No Prometas Lo Que No Será.
10.- ROCÍO DURCAL Y JUAN GABRIEL - Déjame Vivir.
11.- LANI HALL Y CAMILO SESTO - Corazón Encadenado.

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 916098

author:
sobeida1985















5:35



juan gabriel luisa maria princesa hemosa
mi linda y hemosa primitha...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


juan gabriel luisa maria princesa hemosa


				
					mi linda y hemosa primitha

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 274762

author:
sobeida1985















5:24



LUISA MARIA
LUISA MARIA: Una hermosa bebé que ha demostrado una gran  Fortaleza y que siempre irradia ...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


LUISA MARIA


				
					LUISA MARIA: Una hermosa bebé que ha demostrado una gran  Fortaleza y que siempre irradia mucha ternura, amor y alegrias constantes a tus papás y  a  todos  los  que te  rodeamos.   TE AMAMOS

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 119534

author:
sobeida1985















4:12



Camila-Coleccionista de canciones
camila...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Camila-Coleccionista de canciones


				
					camila

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 118073

author:
sobeida1985















4:24



Santana - Maria Maria [TheWraith]
For the Xvid version please go to MusicInjection.net or BlockBurnaz.net...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Santana - Maria Maria [TheWraith]


				
					For the Xvid version please go to MusicInjection.net or BlockBurnaz.net

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 20499868

author:
sobeida1985















6:45



Carlos Santana & Rob Thomas - Smooth
From the Supernatural Tour!  Imagine listening to your favorite iPod tunes in your car!  C...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Carlos Santana & Rob Thomas - Smooth


				
					From the Supernatural Tour!  Imagine listening to your favorite iPod tunes in your car!  Check out my website www.performancemp3.com for iPod integration for your car!

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 4540017

author:
sobeida1985










Youtube results:







4:45



Carlos Santana con Maná  Corazon Espinado
http://fansdemana.es.tl...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Carlos Santana con Maná  Corazon Espinado


				
					http://fansdemana.es.tl

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 405102

author:
sobeida1985















5:59



Carlos Santana & Sarah Mclachlan - Angel (live)
MarinoShop.com.br - Carlos Santana Sarah Mclachlan Angel live...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


Carlos Santana & Sarah Mclachlan - Angel (live)


				
					MarinoShop.com.br - Carlos Santana Sarah Mclachlan Angel live

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 1904790

author:
sobeida1985















4:14



The Game of Love - Carlos Santana Feat Michelle Branch
un video muy bueno con el talento de carlos sanTana y la voz de michelle branch*!
cLiiFiiq...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


The Game of Love - Carlos Santana Feat Michelle Branch


				
					un video muy bueno con el talento de carlos sanTana y la voz de michelle branch*!
cLiiFiiqn ii comenTn xFa!

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 5725

author:
sobeida1985















5:17



I'm feeling you (Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch)
I'm feeling you - Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch...


published: 10 Oct 2009
author: sobeida1985


I'm feeling you (Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch)


				
					I'm feeling you - Carlos Santana ft Michelle Branch

published: 10 Oct 2009
views: 1369589

author:
sobeida1985











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































3:16



UN VIEJO AMOR. ANA GABRIEL.
Por unos ojasos negros, igual que penas de amores 
hace tiempo tuve anhelos, alegras y sin...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


UN VIEJO AMOR. ANA GABRIEL.


				
					Por unos ojasos negros, igual que penas de amores 
hace tiempo tuve anhelos, alegras y sin sabores 
y al dejarlos algn da, me decan as llorando 
no te olvides vida ma, de lo que te estoy cantando 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor 

Ha pasado mucho tiempo, y otra vez vi aquellos ojos 
me miraron con despejo, framente y sin enojos 
y al notar ese desprecio de ojos que por mi lloraron, 
pregunte si con el tiempo, sus recuerdos olvidaron 

Que un viejo amor, 
ni se olvida ni se deja 
que un viejo amor, 
de nuestra alma si se aleja, pero nunca dice adis 
que un viejo amor

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1792544

author:
NONITA66















3:50



a pesar de todo  ana gabriel
amor   desamor  las   cosas  que  pansan  sin  saber  las   concecuensias   despues...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


a pesar de todo  ana gabriel


				
					amor   desamor  las   cosas  que  pansan  sin  saber  las   concecuensias   despues

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 422472

author:
NONITA66















3:31



LA REINA. ANA GABRIEL.
Tú te sientes muy seguro..que conmigo prefieres jugar.,... No te olvides que el valiente v...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


LA REINA. ANA GABRIEL.


				
					Tú te sientes muy seguro..que conmigo prefieres jugar.,... No te olvides que el valiente vive.....hasta que el cobarde quiere....

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 413893

author:
NONITA66















4:06



Cielo Rojo Ana Gabriel ((Completa))
Cielo Rojo, canción interpretada por la reina de México Ana Gabriel... Excelente y bella i...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Cielo Rojo Ana Gabriel ((Completa))


				
					Cielo Rojo, canción interpretada por la reina de México Ana Gabriel... Excelente y bella interpretación de la diva de américa.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 84883

author:
NONITA66















8:16



ANA GABRIEL. RANCHERAS.
...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


ANA GABRIEL. RANCHERAS.




published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 2200826

author:
NONITA66















2:53



LA DESPEDIDA. ANA GABRIEL.
Dicen que no se siente la despedida. Dile a quien te lo dijo, que se despida....


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


LA DESPEDIDA. ANA GABRIEL.


				
					Dicen que no se siente la despedida. Dile a quien te lo dijo, que se despida.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 481856

author:
NONITA66















1:57



Ana Gabriel - Por Tu Maldito Amor
Ana Gabriel 
Por Tu Maldito Amor
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get F...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - Por Tu Maldito Amor


				
					Ana Gabriel 
Por Tu Maldito Amor
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Por-Tu-Maldito-Amor/dp/B000TD6YFS/ref=sr_1_1/187-7234246-1394437?ie=UTF8&qid=1265317579&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 860371

author:
NONITA66















3:58



AY AMOR  ANA GABRIEL  Disco PECADO ORIGINAL (1987)
Los invito a conocer más de esta gran artista en mi blog MIS CANTANTES FAVORITOS
http://ro...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


AY AMOR  ANA GABRIEL  Disco PECADO ORIGINAL (1987)


				
					Los invito a conocer más de esta gran artista en mi blog MIS CANTANTES FAVORITOS
http://romanticacamilista-marifian1.blogspot.mx/2012/07/ana-gabriel.htm

María Guadalupe Araujo Yong, artísticamente Ana Gabriel (nacida el 10 de diciembre del 1955 en Guamúchil, Sinaloa) es una cantautora mexicana.
Ana Gabriel inicia su carrera el 15 de septiembre de 1974 en Tijuana, B.C.N y en el año 1979, Bertha Altamirano, su manager en ese entonces, buscó un nombre con el cual dar a conocer a la cantante, y entre búsquedas y juegos, descubrió "Ana Gabriel", con el cual se le conoce hasta ahora.
A principios de los años 80 empieza a cantar en los bares de Tijuana hasta que en 1984 participó en valores como compositora, nunca como intérprete. El tema "No me lastimes más" quedó en segundo lugar y ese fue el trampolín que la ha llevado hasta el lugar en que se encuentra ahora, todo gracias al apoyo del Sr. Javier Martínez, de la compañía C.B.S., hoy Sony Music.
Pero es hasta 1987 cuando Ana Gabriel logra triunfar tras alcanzar el primer lugar en el festival de la OTI nacional y un tercer lugar en el OTI internacional celebrado en Lisboa con la canción Ay Amor.
Ha alcanzado la popularidad con éxitos como "Quién como tú", "Luna", "Simplemente amigos", "Huelo a soledad", "Evidencias",del cantautor brasileño José Augusto "Obsesión" o "No a pedir perdón" entre otros, que han sido escuchados internacionalmente. Grabo para discos GAS cuando se hacia llamar Lupita Araujo fue a mediados de los 70s canciones como: Criminal, Dejalos, Protesta, Dulce amor, Castigo, No me mires a los ojos, Mitad tu mitad yo, Mi vida vuelve, Pasaran los años, No niegues que me quisiste, Un nuevo ser ha nacido, Cuando ya no me quieras.
Es la cantante mexicana que más ventas de discos ha tenido a nivel internacional. A lo largo de su trayectoria musical ha vendido mas de 100 millones de discos. Además Ana Gabriel representa uno de los más sorprendentes fenómenos de los últimos años pues su voz ha cautivado al mundo entero, no en vano toda América Latina disfruta de sus éxitos al saber que se ha convertido en una cantante muy talentosa hasta llamarse la "Diva de América" y la reina de México. Una artista que a pesar de su juventud cuenta con una carrera muy exitosa. Incluso Ana Gabriel ha sido ganadora de varios premios Grammy latinos y 4 veces ganadora del Grammy Americano por estar en listas de popularidad mas de 5 años consecutivos hasta nombrarse la reina del pop y la mas escuchada en la radio a nivel internacional.
Te encuentro de nuevo,
me inquieto y no puedo,
fingir que da lo mismo tu presencia,
frente a mi, frente a mi.

Miradas casuales,
que aumenta latidos,
que el tiempo se hace corto,
si te tengo junto a mi,
junto a mi.

Mas no se,
cono explicarte de mi amor,
como decirte que hace tiempo,
me robaste el corazón, mi corazón.

coro:
Ay amor,
no se que tiene tu mirar,
que día a día me conquista
mas y mas,
Ay amor,
cuanto daría por romper,
ese misterio que me atrapa
sin querer.

Mis días se alargan,
cuando no te miro,
y busco entre mil cosas
una que me hable de ti,
solo de ti.

Mas no se como explicarte
de mi amor... se repite.

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 107854

author:
NONITA66















2:04



Ana Gabriel - Como Duele
Ana Gabriel
Como Duele
Arpeggios De Amor 2007
AG & EMI music
To get full song please go to...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - Como Duele


				
					Ana Gabriel
Como Duele
Arpeggios De Amor 2007
AG & EMI music
To get full song please go to:
http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Ddigital-music&field-keywords=ANA+GABRIEL+COMO+DUELE

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1791999

author:
NONITA66















1:51



Ana Gabriel - La Distancia
Ana Gabriel
La Distancia
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - La Distancia


				
					Ana Gabriel
La Distancia
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/La-Distancia/dp/B000TDEV7G/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265236744&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1177815

author:
NONITA66















3:12



Clemencia-Ana Gabriel.wmv
este video esta dedicado para todos los sufridores...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Clemencia-Ana Gabriel.wmv


				
					este video esta dedicado para todos los sufridores

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 125020

author:
NONITA66















4:44



Ana Gabriel - Nos Falto Valor
Con Mucho cariño para  ti . Aydeee...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - Nos Falto Valor


				
					Con Mucho cariño para  ti . Aydeee

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 1283715

author:
NONITA66















4:25



ni un roce-ana gabriel
ni un roce...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


ni un roce-ana gabriel


				
					ni un roce

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 693689

author:
NONITA66















1:50



Ana Gabriel - Aprendiste A Volar
Ana Gabriel 
Aprendiste A Volar
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Fu...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - Aprendiste A Volar


				
					Ana Gabriel 
Aprendiste A Volar
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song please go to :
http://www.amazon.com/Aprendiste-A-Volar/dp/B000TDEV8A/ref=sr_1_1/178-8482750-3645202?ie=UTF8&s=dmusic&qid=1265312712&sr=8-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 245985

author:
NONITA66










Youtube results:







3:23



Ay Amor de Ana Gabriel
Es una cancion muy lindaaaa..........


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ay Amor de Ana Gabriel


				
					Es una cancion muy lindaaaa.......

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 595165

author:
NONITA66















1:33



Ana Gabriel - Las Llaves De Mi Alma
Ana Gabriel
Las Llaves De Mi Alma
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get ...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


Ana Gabriel - Las Llaves De Mi Alma


				
					Ana Gabriel
Las Llaves De Mi Alma
Dos Amores Un Amante 2006
AG records & EMI music
To Get Full Song Please Go To:
http://www.amazon.com/Las-Llaves-De-Mi-Alma/dp/B000TD94SC/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1265313999&sr=1-1

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 287334

author:
NONITA66















3:16



ANA GABRIEL Y TU NO ESTAS ,
UNA CANCION MUY LINDA DE NUESTRA REINA ANA GABRIEL ,,Y TU NO ESTAS CD DULCE Y SALDO  (2003...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


ANA GABRIEL Y TU NO ESTAS ,


				
					UNA CANCION MUY LINDA DE NUESTRA REINA ANA GABRIEL ,,Y TU NO ESTAS CD DULCE Y SALDO  (2003)

published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 87150

author:
NONITA66















4:11



ana gabriel   es de masiado tarde
...


published: 28 Aug 2011
author: NONITA66


ana gabriel   es de masiado tarde




published: 28 Aug 2011
views: 2159366

author:
NONITA66











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist





















Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay
















Uploaded:
Today
This Week
This Month
Anytime




Sort by:
Relevance
Date
Popular
Rating






















Sign up and save playlist
Save playlist

I have an account, login










































3:50



Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Music Club
Peter Gabriel talks about his newest project, a joint venture with British loudspeaker com...


published: 04 Jul 2008
author: BWMusicclub


Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Music Club


				
					Peter Gabriel talks about his newest project, a joint venture with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins to promote unheard artists in lossless sound. The Bowers & Wilkins Music Club offers an album per month in lossless quality downloads in collaboration with Gabriel's Real World Records. To get a free 3 month trial, please see www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/musicclub

published: 04 Jul 2008
views: 18958

author:
BWMusicclub















7:13



Peter Gabriel Tv Interview On The Human Rughts Tour
Peter Gabriel Interviews On Human Rights Tour With Sting...


published: 22 Apr 2008
author: ovian29


Peter Gabriel Tv Interview On The Human Rughts Tour


				
					Peter Gabriel Interviews On Human Rights Tour With Sting

published: 22 Apr 2008
views: 7681

author:
ovian29















5:03



Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD
Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD...


published: 16 Oct 2011
author: Tabi S


Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD


				
					Peter Gabriel Interview - Later with Jools Holland Live 2011 720p HD

published: 16 Oct 2011
views: 10429

author:
Tabi S















5:40



Gabriel Iglesias Interview
JC Flores interviews Gabriel Iglesias, Señor Fluffy himself, before the St. Valentine's Da...


published: 16 Feb 2010
author: 210tv


Gabriel Iglesias Interview


				
					JC Flores interviews Gabriel Iglesias, Señor Fluffy himself, before the St. Valentine's Day show at the Majestic Theatre in downtown San Antonio. Gabriel is on a super multi-city, sold out tour. You can get info on "The Fluffly Shop Tour" by visiting his website FluffyGuy.com.

published: 16 Feb 2010
views: 73349

author:
210tv















1:47



Misha Gabriel Interview - Step Up Revolution Premiere
Bit.ly - Click to Subscribe! Facebook.com - Become a Fan! Twitter.com - Follow Us! Joslyn ...


published: 18 Jul 2012
author: clevverTV


Misha Gabriel Interview - Step Up Revolution Premiere


				
					Bit.ly - Click to Subscribe! Facebook.com - Become a Fan! Twitter.com - Follow Us! Joslyn Davis talked with Misha Gabriel at the 'Step Up Revolution' premiere about his character Eddie, the incredible dance scenes and working with the cast.

published: 18 Jul 2012
views: 9851

author:
clevverTV















5:21



News to Go - Mariz Umali interviews John Gabriel Pelias, record-setting UP summa cum laude 4/12/11
John Gabriel Pelias, 19, is graduating summa cum laude with a degree in Bachelor of Scienc...


published: 12 Apr 2011
author: gmanews


News to Go - Mariz Umali interviews John Gabriel Pelias, record-setting UP summa cum laude 4/12/11


				
					John Gabriel Pelias, 19, is graduating summa cum laude with a degree in Bachelor of Science in Math and a general weighted average (GWA) of 1.016 — breaking the previous record at the University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman held by a professor emeritus in political science for the past 63 years. For more information visit: www.gmanews.tv

published: 12 Apr 2011
views: 15987

author:
gmanews















4:50



Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Society of Sound
Peter Gabriel is interviewed about his collaboration with British loudspeaker company Bowe...


published: 04 Jul 2008
author: BWMusicclub


Peter Gabriel Interview for B&W Society of Sound


				
					Peter Gabriel is interviewed about his collaboration with British loudspeaker company Bowers & Wilkins. The Society of Sound features interviews and videos with musicians, producers, sound engineers, composers, and rock stars as they share their love of music. Find out more about the Society of Sound at www.bowers-wilkins.co.uk/sos

published: 04 Jul 2008
views: 5358

author:
BWMusicclub















4:21



Eva Mendes Gabriel Macht interview for The Spirit
Chuck the Movieguy interviews Eva Mendes and Gabriel Macht for the movie The Spirit....


published: 24 Dec 2008
author: chuckthemovieguy


Eva Mendes Gabriel Macht interview for The Spirit


				
					Chuck the Movieguy interviews Eva Mendes and Gabriel Macht for the movie The Spirit.

published: 24 Dec 2008
views: 77853

author:
chuckthemovieguy















4:14



Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) Interview - FCW TV 21 Feb 2010
Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) is interviewed in the FCW Arena by Byron Saxton about last w...


published: 23 Feb 2010
author: 205043569


Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) Interview - FCW TV 21 Feb 2010


				
					Justin Angel (Justin Gabriel) is interviewed in the FCW Arena by Byron Saxton about last week's brutal attack by Wade Barrett, who was allegedly paid by a mysterious caller to unleash the assault on the FCW Florida Heavyweight Champion. From the 21 February 2010 edition of Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) TV. Prior to the interview we see a highlight package of last week's incident, and following the interview is a promo for WWE NXT which Justin Gabriel along with 7 other FCW wrestlers will be part of.

published: 23 Feb 2010
views: 35046

author:
205043569















5:01



Middle Men - Exclusive: Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi Interview
We go for an exclusive interview with actors Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi to talk abo...


published: 25 Sep 2010
author: movieweb


Middle Men - Exclusive: Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi Interview


				
					We go for an exclusive interview with actors Gabriel Macht and Giovanni Ribisi to talk about their roles in Middle Men. For more movie trailers, movie reviews, celebrity interviews, full movies, clips and more, go to: www.movieweb.com Connect with other movie fans on Facebook www.facebook.com Follow us on Twitter: twitter.com

published: 25 Sep 2010
views: 9316

author:
movieweb















4:44



Peter Gabriel Interview 2011
...


published: 03 Dec 2011
author: nicknameSGB


Peter Gabriel Interview 2011




published: 03 Dec 2011
views: 4993

author:
nicknameSGB















28:31



WSTK-ITV- Sid Roth Interviews Bridget Gabriel On "It's Supernatural"
A Word Of Urgency To The President of The United States: Dear Mr President: I am a Christi...


published: 13 Jun 2008
author: WSTKTV WSCIRO


WSTK-ITV- Sid Roth Interviews Bridget Gabriel On "It's Supernatural"


				
					A Word Of Urgency To The President of The United States: Dear Mr President: I am a Christian leader who loves Israel and who hears from the Lord regarding world events. I produced a video in August 2008 when your campaign was struggling and the attacks were high that you would be the 44th President of the United States and then I gave you some directives about why God would grant your prayer request for the highest office of the land. To refresh your mind, I will upload this on Vimeo and send it to you. Having visited Israel my one and only time in October of 1987, I witnessed first hand the beginning emergence of Intifada. The Muslims have a 20 year plan to set up their mosques in the different places throughout the world and in key major cities to gain power, prestige and favor. All to woo people into converting to Islam. In the long run if they don't convert they will kill all they consider to be infidels on the spot who do not wish to convert. This day will be called the day of fanaticism. They look upon America as the great satan and Israel as satan. If a mosque goes up at the place where 911 happened, it will serve as a sign and calling card to the terrorists and the sleeper cells that the coast is clear to do their thing. This will open up a new can of worms for the American people and the world economy. America will be held hostage once again. Many American people do not want the mosque built where ground zero happened. It would be a betrayal of this nations ...

published: 13 Jun 2008
views: 67193

author:
WSTKTV WSCIRO















7:23



Gabriel Mann Interview at ZOOEY Magazine RELAUNCH Party - Exclusive
Zooey Magazine Relaunch Party PLAYLIST www.youtube.com Subscribe bit.ly www.maximotv.com R...


published: 18 Mar 2012
author: maximotv


Gabriel Mann Interview at ZOOEY Magazine RELAUNCH Party - Exclusive


				
					Zooey Magazine Relaunch Party PLAYLIST www.youtube.com Subscribe bit.ly www.maximotv.com REVENGE Gabriel Mann interview at ZOOEY Magazine Relaunch Issue Party Event with actress Kaley Cuoco at Bardot Hollywood in Los Angeles, CaUSA March 17, 2012 - Interview by Gabrielle Loren ZOOEY http ***This footage is available for licensing*** The viewing of this clip by website visitors is only permissible for personal use; copying, commercial use, distribution, broadcast, download, additional use or transfer is expressly prohibited. Contact us for more information at maximotv.com for proper clearance. ©Ricomix Productions - maximotv.com - Maximo TV ***Original video source is HD 720p 60P***

published: 18 Mar 2012
views: 3094

author:
maximotv















9:06



Into the West interview with Gabriel Byrne
interviews with the cast of Into the West (including Gabriel Byrne and Ellen Barkin) and d...


published: 08 Dec 2009
author: BillyBOO2404


Into the West interview with Gabriel Byrne


				
					interviews with the cast of Into the West (including Gabriel Byrne and Ellen Barkin) and director Mike Newell. Extras from the French DVD edition.

published: 08 Dec 2009
views: 14986

author:
BillyBOO2404










Youtube results:







0:42



Gabriel Macht USA Upfronts Interview
For more USA tv news head to theentertainmenthotline.net and http Ourvideo vault is full o...


published: 04 May 2011
author: EHIdolVideo


Gabriel Macht USA Upfronts Interview


				
					For more USA tv news head to theentertainmenthotline.net and http Ourvideo vault is full of tons of video clips and interviews - multipleversesvault.com Video interviews with the stars of USA Network's shows at the 2011 Upfronts in New York city earlier this week. Fairly Legal, Covert Affairs, Burn Notice, White Collar, Psych, Royal Pains, Necessary Roughness

published: 04 May 2011
views: 35019

author:
EHIdolVideo















9:08



Peter Gabriel - Rockaplast interview 1978
rare and beautiful! "i like to expose my scalp so i can feel the raindrops falling on my h...


published: 21 Aug 2007
author: CircusOfHeaven


Peter Gabriel - Rockaplast interview 1978


				
					rare and beautiful! "i like to expose my scalp so i can feel the raindrops falling on my head" haha luff you, Pete!

published: 21 Aug 2007
views: 31554

author:
CircusOfHeaven















4:53



Peter Gabriel - Extended Interview (Later With Jools Holland)
Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is a British singer, musician, and songwriter ...


published: 16 Oct 2011
author: harednuta


Peter Gabriel - Extended Interview (Later With Jools Holland)


				
					Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is a British singer, musician, and songwriter who rose to fame as the lead vocalist and flautist of the progressive rock group Genesis. After leaving Genesis, Gabriel went on to a successful solo career. More recently he has focused on producing and promoting world music and pioneering digital distribution methods for music. He has also been involved in various humanitarian efforts. In 2007 Gabriel was honoured as a BMI Icon at the 57th annual BMI London Awards for his "influence on generations of music makers." Gabriel was also awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2009 and inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Genesis in 2010.

published: 16 Oct 2011
views: 3158

author:
harednuta















5:08



Gabriel Garcia - Black Tide Interview at River Riot 2011 - Backstage Entertainment
Jeremy Lafrentz of Backstage Entertainment interviews Gabriel Garcia from Black Tide after...


published: 04 Oct 2011
author: backstgentertainment


Gabriel Garcia - Black Tide Interview at River Riot 2011 - Backstage Entertainment


				
					Jeremy Lafrentz of Backstage Entertainment interviews Gabriel Garcia from Black Tide after their show at the Rockstar Energy Drink Uproar Festival / 89.7 The River's River Riot in Council Bluffs, IA, on September 23, 2011. Check out Black Tide here: www.blacktidemusic.com and 89.7 The River www.897theriver.com Check out Backstage Entertainment on Facebook at their fanpage www.facebook.com and be sure to click "LIKE" on the fanpage to participate in contests for autographed prizes! Subscribe to our YouTube channel by clicking the button above the video. Also follow Backstage Entertainment on Twitter: twitter.com

published: 04 Oct 2011
views: 16007

author:
backstgentertainment











Show more results
Remove
Add to playlist












        
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    

                        



    



...




                        

























photo: AP / ESPN Images, Eric Lards Bakke



Caleb Moore dies after X-Games snowmobile crash

BBC News31 Jan 2013

read more



A freestyle snowmobile rider hurt in a crash at last week's Winter X Games in Colorado has died at the age of 25. Caleb Moore was attempting a backflip when his snowmobile caught the edge of a landing area, sending him over the handlebars. The 450-lb (204-kg) snowmobile rolled over him ... 'Deeply saddened' ... ....(size: 1.7Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Aleppo Revolution Against Assad Regime



Syria Massacre: Group Says At Least 65 Found Shot In Head, With Hands Bound In Aleppo

Huffington Post29 Jan 2013

read more



By Alexander Dziadosz and Oliver Holmes. BEIRUT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - At least 65 people were found shot dead with their hands bound in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Tuesday in a "new massacre" in the near two-year revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, activists said. Opposition campaigners blamed the government but it was impossible to confirm who was responsible ... The U.N ... State media did not mention the incident ... STALEMATE ... ....(size: 9.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Manu Brabo



US says Iran steps up Syria support

Al Jazeera01 Feb 2013

read more



Hillary Clinton, the outgoing US secretary of state, has warned that Iran is stepping up its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad while Russia is continuing to send money and arms to the regime. Clinton on Thursday accused Tehran of sending into Syria "more personnel" to support and advise military security forces in their fight against the armed opposition ... "The Iranians have been actively involved from the very beginning ... ....(size: 19.0Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Eduardo Verdugo



25 die in Mexico oil company office building blast

Chicago Sun-Times01 Feb 2013

read more



MEXICO CITY — Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 25 people and injured 101 at the headquarters of Mexico’s state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos ... Theories ranged from an electrical fire to an air conditioning problem to a possible attack. “We have no conclusive report on the reason,” Pena Nieto told reporters ... My son.” ... ....(size: 4.5Kb)
	    



photo: AP / Ariel Schalit



Israeli jets targeted military research center: Syria

Zeenews31 Jan 2013

read more



Zeenews Bureau. Damascus. The Syrian Army has confirmed that Israeli Air Force fighter planes carried out strikes in its territory, but denied reports of a convoy carrying weapons to Lebanon was bombed. The Syrian Army statement says that the IAF jet fighters’ target was a military research centre near the border with Lebanon. Two people have been reported to be dead and five others injured in the attack ... First Published ... ....(size: 2.6Kb)
	    



















Source: (All)

*****
01net
24 Ore
3D Gamers
525-ci Qezet
5abi
A3N TV
Aaj Tak
AAK News
Aalmi Akhbar
Aawsat
Abante
ABC Color
ABC Digital
ABC ES
ABC News
ABC7
AD
Adbusters
Adevarul
Advertising Age
Adweek
Africa Intelligence
AfricaNews
Afrique Asie
Aftenposten
Aftonbladet
AFX Press
Agweb
Aikya
Ain al Yaqeen
Aktuelt
Al Arabiya
Al Jazeera
Alarab Online
Albeu
Alhayat
All About Jazz
All Africa
All Things Digital
Allstar
Alqamar News
Alquds
Alternet
aluNET
Amar Desh
Amar Ujala
Amcity
AME Info
Amelias Magazine
American Institute of Physics
American Spectator
Amnesty
Amnesty Espana
Amped DX
Amped News
ANA
Ananova
Angola Press
ANN
Ansa
ANT
Antara News
Antiwar
AOL
AOL Sports
Aol TV
Arab News
Arab View
Arabic News
ARC News
ARI
Armchair Arcade
ARS
Ars Technica
Asahi News
Asbury Park Press
Asia Times
Asian Age
Asian Tribune
Asiaweek
Assam Times
Astronomy
Astronomy/Spaceflight Now
Athens 2004
Athens News
Atlanta Journal
Atlantic City
Atlantic Journal-Constitution
Austin American Statesman
Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Australian Financial Review
Austria Today
Auto Central
Automotive Intelligence
AV Club
Avanti
Avvenire
Awdal News
Axis of Logic
Azcentral
Azzaman
B&S Online
Bahrain Tribune
Bahrein Tribune
Balkan Insight
Balkan Web
Baltimore Examiner
Baltimore Sun
Bangkok Post
Barrons
Bassirat
Battlefield 1942 Files
Battlefield Vietnam Files
Batuminews
BBC News
BBC News Hindi
BBC News Spanish
BBC One
BCS Times
Beauty UK
Beeld
Belfast Telegraph
Bergensavisen
Berita Harian
Berita Jakarta
Berita Sore
Berliner Morgenpost
Berlingske
Berlinkske
Bermuda Sun
Bernama - Malay
BET
Beyond Unreal
BFCentral
BGR
Bhaskar
Bihar Times
BII Online
Billboard
Bisnis Indonesia
Black America Web
Black Sports Network
Blaze
Bleskovky
Bloodhorse
Bloomberg
BN Americas English
BN Americas Spanish
BNews
Boing Boing
Bola
Bollywood Life
Bollywood World
Book News
Boston Herald
Brazzil
Breitbart
Britannica
British Theatre Guide
BTA
BTV News
Budapest Sun
Buffalo News
Building
Bulgarian Radio
Business Africa
Business AM
Business Day
Business Day Online
Business Insider
Business Journal
Business Journal Phoenix
Business Recorder
Business Report
Business Standard
Business Week
Business Wire
Caijing
Caijing Online
Caixin Online
Call of Duty Files
Caltanet
Cameroon Tribune
Canada Dot Com
Canada Dot Com French
Canada Newswire
Canadian Business
Canadian Punjabi
Canberra Times
Canoe
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young
Capital
Caspian News Agency
Caughtoffside
CBC
CBS News
CBS Sports
CBS SportsLine
CCN Matthews
CCTV
Celebrity Café
Center Networks
Central Europe Online
Ceska Tiskova Kancelar
Ceske Noviny
Ceskenoviny
Channel 4
Chart Magazine
Chemical online
Chempoint
Chennai Online
Chessbase
Chicago Business
Chicago Sun Times
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Sunday Times
Chicago Tribune
China
China Daily
China Internet Information Center
China News
China online
Chinese Today
Chosun
Chosunilbo
Cincinnati
Cinema Blend
Cinema Treasures
Cinematical
Cinesouth Tamil
City Press SA
City Press SA Africaans
Citywire
Clarin
Clarion Ledger
Cleveland
CMJ Online
CNBC
CNET
Cnet Asia
CNN
CNN Brazil
CNN Denmark
CNN Germany
CNN Italian
CNN Middle East
CNN Spanish
CNN Turkish
CNTV
Coalspot
Coastweek
Collider
Colorado Springs Gazette
Columbia Journalism Review
Coming Soon
Commercial Appeal
Common Dreams
Common Ground
ComOn
Computer Weekly
Contra Costa Times
Contract Journal
Copenhagen Post
Corporate Financing Week
Correio de Manha
Corriere della Sera
CounterPunch
CountryCool
Courier Journal
Courier Mail
Cox Newspapers
CPJ
Cranes Today
Creators Syndicate
Cricket Country
Crosswalk
Crunch
Cstrike Planet
Ctnow
CTV
Cyber Thesis Journal
cyBerita
Cypria
Dagbladet
Dagen
Dagens Nyheter
Daily Advance
Daily Deshbangla
Daily Finance
Daily Nation
Daily Press
Daily Record
Daily Star Lebanon
Daily Yomiuri
Dailydesh Bangla
DailyDish
Dailynews
Dar Al-Hayat
Darjeeling Times
Dawn
Dayton Daily News
Dbusiness
De Standaard
De Telegraaf
de Volkskrant
Deadspin
Dealbook
Debka
Deccan Chronicle
Deccan Herald
Democracy Now
Democratic Underground
Denik
Denver Post
Der Tagesspiegel
Design Observer
Detroit Free Press
Detroit news
Deutsche Welle
Deutsche Welle Albanian
Deutsche Welle Bosnian
Deutsche Welle Croatian
Deutsche Welle French
Deutsche Welle Hausa
Deutsche Welle Indonesian
Deutsche Welle Polish
Deutsche Welle Romanian
Deutsche Welle Serbian
Deutsche Welle Spanish
Deutsche Welle Swahili
Deutsche Welle Turkish
Diamonds Net
Diario de Ibiza
Diario de Navarra
Diario de Noticias
Diario Hoy
Diario Vasco
Diário de Noticias
Die Burger
Die Presse
Die Telegraaf
Die Welt
Die Zeit
diginews
Digital Spy
Dinamlar
Divya Bhaskar
DNA India
DNJ
Donga
Doom 3 Files
Dotmusic
DR Nyheder
Ducks
Dunya
Dunya Online
dusted
DW English
DW German
DW News
DW Portuguese
E! Online
E4 Engineering
Eagle Forum
Earth Times
East African Standard
EContent
Edicom
Education State
Education Week
eFilmCritic
EKSPOS English
EKSPOS Indonesia
El Comercio
El Comercio Peru
El Correo Gallego
El Diaro de Hoy
El Imparcial
El Mundo
El Nacional
El Pais
El Pais Colombia
El Pais Digital
El Pais Uruguay
El Periodico
El Salvador
El Shark
El Tiempo
Electricity Association
Electronic Accountant
Electronics Weekly
elsalvador
eMarketer
Empire
Energy Bulletin
Energy Business Review
Energy Current
Energy Information Source
Engadget
Engineering Times
Engineering Weekly
ENN
ENS News
Entertainment Magazine
Entertainment News Daily
Entertainment Weekly
Entertainment Wise
Ents24
Environmental Leader
Environmental Online
Epicurious
Esakal
ESPN
ESPN Deportes
Estrella Digital
Etela-Suomen Sanomat
EurasiaNet
Europa
Europe di Awaz
European Space Agency
Europediawaz
Evenimentol Zilet
Evenimentul Zilei
Examiner
Excite
Exopolitics
Express India
Express News
Extreme365
Eye for Chem
F1Fanatic
F1Racing.net
Fairfax Australia
FanHouse
FarCry Files
FAS
Fashion Capital
Fashion UK
Fashionista
Fast Company
Femail
File Front
FileFront
Film Journal
Film Review
Filmcritic Dot Com
Financial Express
Financial Times
Firing Squad
Flavorpill
Florida Times Union
FNN
Football News Blog
Forbes
Foreign Policy
Formula1 Blog
Formula1 FanCast
FourFourTwo
Fox News
Fox Sports
Fox31 Denver
FPS Central
FPSCentral
France24
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung English
Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung German
Frankfurter Rundschau
Free Realtime
Fresno Bee
Frog News
Frontline
Fyens Stiftstidende
Gadling
Gallup
Game Guru
Game Spy
GameDAILY
GamePro
GamersHell
GamersHell Reviews
Gamespot
Gaming Blog
Gaming Headlines
Gareowe Online
Gazeta
Gazeta Russian
Gazzetta
GE Oil & Gas
Ghana Base
Ghana Business News
Gigaom
Giornale
Gizmodo
Global Soul
Global Travel News
GlobalResearch
Globe and Mail
Globe Technology
Globes (Israel)
Go Asia Pacific
Goal
Gol TV
Golf
Golf 365
Golf Blogger
Golf Business News
Golf Channel
Golf Week
Good
Gooya
Goteborgs Posten
Gotfrag
GQ Magazine
Grand Junction Sentinel
Granma Internacional
Graphic
Grist
GroundReport
Guam Pacific Daily News
Guitar.com
Gulf Business
Gulf Daily News
Gulf News
Ha'aretz
Half Life 2 Files
Halonoviny
Ham and High
Hamburger Abendblatt
Hamburger Morgenpost
Handelsblatt Interaktiv
Hankooki
Harian Equator
Harpers Bazaar
Hartford Courant
Harvard Business Review
Headlines India
Health Affairs
Healthfinder
HeavyOilinfo
Helsingin Sanomat
Helsinki Sanomat
Herald Sun
Herald Tribune
Hernando Today
Herts Police
Hina News
Hindustan Times
Hollywood
Hong Kong Standard
Hongkong Cnet
Hoovers
Hospodarsky Dennik
Hot Air
Houston Chronicle
Houston Press
Huffington Post
Human Rights
Human Rights French
Human Rights German
Hurriyet
Hurriyetim
Hurriyetim Turkish
IAEA
IBN Live
IC Newcastle
ICIS
IDG Net
Ifutbal
IGN Insider
IIFL
Il Giornale
Il Giorno
Il Manifesto
Il Resto del Carlino
Il Roma
Il Tempo
IMC
IMDb
Independent Online
Independent online (SA)
India FM
India TV
Indian Express
Indianapolis Star
Indiewire
Individual
Indonesia
Indonesia Infrastructure Initiative
Industry Week
Infopaq
Information Week
Infowars
InfoWorld
Inhabitat
Innovaylk
INQ7
Inquirer
Inside China
Inside Indonesia
Insurance Newsnet
InteliHealth
Interfax
International Herald Tribune
Internet News
Internetwire
Invertia
Investir
IranMania
Ireland Today
IRINnews
IRINnews Africa
IRINnews Asia
Irish Independent
Irish Times
Irna
Islington Tribune
ISN
Isna
Isolezwe
Israel National News
IT Australia
IT Director
Itar Tass
ITN
ITV
IWPR
Jagran
Jakarta Globe
Jakarta Post
Jam Entertainment
Jam Music
Jam TV
Jamaica Observer
Japan Times
Japan Today
Japan Update
Jazzwise Magazine
JCN Network
Jezebel
John Leo
John Pilger
Joint Operations Files
Joseph Sobran
Journal du Net
Journal News
Journal of Commerce
Journal Online
Joy Online
Joystiq
Jurnalul
Jyllands Posten
Kabayan
Kalinga Times
Kansas City Star
KapanLagi
Kashmir Observer
Kataweb
Kathimerini
KDVR
Kenya Broadcasting Corp
Kenya Broadcasting Corp (Swahili)
Khaama Press
Khaleej Times
Khama Press
Kipp Report
Knox News
Korea Shipping News
Korea Times
Kotaku
Kuensel Online
Kyodo Japan
Kypost
L'Eco di Bergamo
L'Opinione
L'Unita
La Capital Net
LA Daily News
LA Dailynews
La Nazione
La Opinion
La Padania
La Prensa
La Razón
La Razon
La Red 21
La Repubblica
La Republica
La Rioja
La Stampa
LA Times Movie Reviews
La Tribune
La Tribune Online
La Vanguardia
La Voz de Galicia
LA Weekly
Las Vegas Sun
Lateline News
Launch
Le Devoir
Le Figaro
Le Jeudi
Le Matin
Le Matin CH
Le Messager Cameroun
Le Monde
Le Monde Informatique
Le Parisien
Le Point
Lehigh Valley
Les Affaires
Les Echos
Lexington Herald-Leader
LexNoir
LExpress
Liberation - France
Limburger
Liputan6
Live Daily
LLoyds List
London Evening Standard
Longview News Journal
Lower Hudson Online
m&c
Magyar Hirlap
Magyar Nemzet
Maharashtra Times
Mail Guardian South Africa
Mainichi
Mainichi Daily News
Major League Blogging
Maktoob
Malaya
Malaysia Kini
Malaysia Today
Malaysian National News Agency
Manager
Manager Online
Manchester Evening News
Manila Bulletin
Manila Standard Today
Manufacturing Talk
Mareeg
Marine Norway
Maritime Press
Market Watch
Marketwire
Mashable
Meat and Poultry
Media Indonesia
Media Permeta
Media Research Center
Media Times Review
mediabistro
Medialens
MEED
MENA FN
Merdeka
Merinews
Metals Place
Metalsite
MF Dnes
mi2n
MIA
Michigan Live
Mid Day
Middle East Online
Milliyet
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Mindanao Times
Mineweb
Mining Weekly
MLB
MLS
MNO
Mobile Electronics
Modern Ghana
Moheet
Moldova
Moldova Azi
Mondialisation
Money News Asia
Money Week
Moscow Times
Movie Chicks
Movie Moron
Movie Trailers
Movie Vault
Movie-List
Mr Show Biz
MSN
MSN Kannada
MSNBC
MTV
MuchMusic
Mumbai Mirror
Munhwa
Music News
Music365
Musicrooms
my SA
myTELUS
N-TV
Nacion
Nacional
Naftemporiki
Narinjara
NASA
Nashville Tennessean
Nation
National Geographic News
National Post
National Public Radio
National Review
Navabharat
Navbharat Times
NBC Washington
NBCBayArea
NDTV
NECA
NEMBC
Nepalaawaz
Nepali Post
NepalJapan
Nepszabadsag
Net Imperative
New America Foundation
New Scientist
New Statesman
New Straits/Business Times
New York Beacon
New York Daily News
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Post Online
New Yorker
News of Nepal
News-Journal Online
News24
News24 SA
Newsarama
Newsbytes
Newsday
Newsfactor
NewsPage
Newstrack India
Newsvine
Newswing
Nezavisne
NHL
Nigerian Guardian
Nishini Nippon
NME
NOAA Magazine
noodls
North Jersey
North Shore News
Noticias Com
Noticias Navarra
Noticias Petroleo
Novosti
Novy CAS
NRC Handelsblad
NRG
NRK
NSTP
NTV MSNBC
NU
NZ Herald
NZoom
NZZ English
NZZ German
O Estado de Sao Paulo
O Globo
O'Reilly
Observa
Offshore Magazine
Offshore Shipping Online
Ohio
Oil & Gas Journal
Oil Marketer
OK! magazine
Omaha World-Herald
On Point
Oncars
One India
Online Ireland
Opinion Journal
Orange News
Oriental Daily
Origo
Orlando Sentinel
Otago Daily Times
Ottowa Business Journal
Ottowa Citizen
Pakalert Press
Paknews
Palestine Think Tank
Palm Beach Daily News
Palm Beach Post
Papua New Guinea Post
Pathivu
Patna Daily
PC Gameworld
Peace FM Online
Penn Live
Penny for your thoughts
People Daily
People's Daily
Perspectif Online
Petroleum World
PGA
PGA Tour
Pharmiweb
Philadelphia Daily News
Philly
Philstar - Tagalog
Phnom Penh Post
Phones dot com
PhysOrg
Pilot Online
Pioneer Press
Pionline
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Political Gateway
Political Wire
Politiken
Polityka
Popsugar
Post Today
Post-Bulletin
Power Report
PR Newswire
Prabhasakshi
Prabhat Khabar
Prachachart
Prachachat
Pratahkal
Pravda
Pravda RU
Pravo
Prensa Libre
Prenter Media
prenter-media
Press Release
Press Telegram
Prima
Primezone
Private Equity Online
Process and Control Today
Processingtalk
Profit
Project Syndicate
Projects Monitor
Prothom Alo
PSFK
Public Citizen Energy
Publico Online
Q Magazine
Q Music
Q4 Music
Qaran News
Qingdao News
Quenonino
Quick CZ
Quotidiano
Radikal
Radio Canada
Radio Netherlands Wereldomroep
Radio News
RAI
Raw Story
Raya
RBC News
RCR Wireless News
Real Clear Politics
Redherring
redOrbit
Reel
ReelViews
Reflector
Remix
Representative Press
Repubblica
Republika
Republikein
Reuters
Reuters Asia
Reuters Germany
Review Journal
Richmond Times Dispatch
Rig Zone
Rizospastis
RoadRunner
Roadrunner Records
Rocky Mount Telegram
Rocky Mountain News
Rollingstone
Romania Libera
Romano
Rotten Tomatoes
RP Online
RPP Peru
RSPCA
RTE
Rzeczpospolita
Sabbah Report
Sacramento Bee
Sage Online Transcripts
Salon
Salt Lake Tribune
Samachaar
Samachar
Sample Sales
San Diego
San Francisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Chronicle
San Fransisco Examiner
Sandesh
Saudi Information Agency
Science Daily
Scientific American
Scoop
Scotsman
Screen Daily
Scripps Howard
Seattle Post
Seattle Post-Intelligence
Seattle Times
Seeking Alpha
Seputar
Seychelles Nation Online
SG News
Shacknews
Shanghai Daily
Sheerluxe
Shtypi Dites
Siasat
Sify
Signon San Diego
Silicon
Silicon Alley Insider
Siliconvalley online
Sina
Skiddle
Sky & Telescope
Sky Sports
Skynews
SL Today
Slant Magazine
Slashdot
Slashfood
Slate
Slovenska Republika
Soccer Lens
Solarbuzz
SonicNet
Sony Classical
Sony Music
Sourze
South China Morning Post
South Nexus
Southern China Daily News
Southern Chinese Daily News
Sowetan Live
Space
SpaceDaily
Spacelink
SPARE
SPARE SOURCE ID THANKS TONY
Spiegel Online
Spike
Spin
Sport 1
Sport Bild
Sportal
Sporting Life
Sporting News
Sports.com
Springfield News-Sun
Sri Lanka News
St Vincent Herald
Standart News
Star Bulletin
Star Telegram
Star Tribune
StarHerald
Starpulse
Stars and Stripes
Steel Works
Steelworks
Stereogum
Stern
STL Today
Stockhouse
Straight no Chaser
StreetHOP
StreetInsider
Studio Briefing
Stuff
Stuttgarter Zeitung
Style
Stylist
Suara Merdeka
Suara Merdeka Malay
Subsea World
Sued Deutsche
Sun Sentinel
Sun Star
Sunday Times Australia
SunSpot
Super Balita
Superior Pics
Supersport
Svenska Dagbladet
Svoboda News
Swissinfo
Swissinfo English
Swissinfo French
Swissinfo German
Swissinfo Italian
Swissinfo Portuguese
Swissinfo Spanish
Sydney Morning Herald
Sympatico
Syndicam Productions
Syracuse
Syrian Arab News Agency
Tageblatt
Taipei Times
Taiwan Headlines
Tamil Canadian
Tamil Eelam
Tamil Guardian
Tamilwin
Tampa Bay Online
Tampabay.com
techcrunch
TechNewsWorld
TechRadar
Techweb
Tehran Times
Telematics Update
Tempo
Tempo Interactive
Tempo Interaktif
Tenfield Digital
Tennis Guru
Tennis Now
Tennishead
Terra
Terranet Lebanon
Textile web
TG5
Thai Post
Thaisnews
Thats Tamil
Thats Telugu
The Adrenaline Vault
The Advertiser
The Age
The Argentina Independent
The Associated Press
The Australian
The Australian Daily Telegraph
The Beat
The Bergen Record
The Birmingham Times
The Boston Globe
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism
The Business Online
The Business Review
The Business Times
The Charlotte Observer
The Christian Science Monitor
The Cincinnati Post
The Columbus Dispatch
The Consumerist
The Cyprus Mail
The Daily Beast
The Daily Deal
The Daily Express
The Daily Green
The Daily Herald
The Daily Mail
The Daily Star
The Daily Telegraph
The Daily Telegraph Australia
The Daily Tribune
The Dallas Morning News
The Deleted Scene
The Economic Times
The Economist
The Enquirer
The Examiner
The Florida Times Union
The Food Section
The Gleaner
The Golf Blog
The Grio
The Guardian
The Guardian Open Platform
The Himalayan
The Hindu
The Hollywood Gossip
The Hollywood Reporter
The Independent
The Independent Bangladesh
The Inquirer
The Inquisitr
The Irish Times
The Jazz Mann
The Jerusalem Post
The Jordan Times
The Korea Herald
The Leaf Chronicle
The Los Angeles Times
The Manila Times
The Mercury
The Mercury News
The Miami Herald
The Mirror
The Montreal Gazette
The Morning Call
The Morning News
The Motley Fool
The New American
The New Republic
The New York Review of Books
The New York Times
The News & Observer
The News Internatinal
The News International
The News Tribune
The Norway Post
The Observer
The Oklahoman
The Other Site
The Palestine Chronicle
The People's Voice
The Petition Site
The Philippine Star
The Post IE
The Press Democrat
The Progressive
The Providence Journal
The Quietus
The Register
The Research Council of Norway
The Roanoke Times
The Russia Journal
The Saigon Times
The Salt Lake Tribune
The Scientist
The Siasat Daily
The Sidney Herald
The Source
The Sports Network
The Standard
The Standard Europe
The Star
The Star Online
The State
The Statesman
The Straits Times
The Street
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Tampa Tribune
The Telegraph India
The Times
The Times of India
The Toronto Star
The Tribune San Luis Obispo
The Vancouver Sun
The Verge
The Vortex Jazz Club
The Wall Street Journal
The Washington Institute
The Washington Post
The Washington Times
The White House
The Wichita Eagle
The Wrap
These New Times
This Day
This is Money
Thoroughbred Times
Time Magazine
Time Out
TimeOut
Times Union
Timor Today
TMZ
Toledo Blade
Tom Thumb
Topky
Toronto Sun
Total Film
Total Video Games
Tout sur la Com
Tradewinds
Traffic World
TravelDailyNews
TravelVideo
Treehugger
Trud
truthout
TSN Canada
TT News
Tulsa World
Turkish Press
TV2 Lorry
TV2 Ost
TV2 Ostjylland
TVNZ
TYC Sports
UCIMC
UN Wire
Undercover
UNHCR
Unison
Unita
United Nations
Universe Today
UPI
Upstream Online
Urdu Times
Urogol
US News
USA Today
Utusan Online
UTV Internet
U~T San Diego
Vancouver Province
Vancouver Sun
Vanity Fair
Variety
Vault
Venture Beat
Verdens Gang
Verticalnet
Vertikal
VH1
ViaComtex
Vibe Magazine
Vietnam News
Village Voice
Virtual New York
Vivanews
Voa News
Voanews
Voanews Creole
VoaNews Hausa
Voanews Hindi
Vogue
Voice Of America
Voice of Russia
Voila News
Volny
VTV
Wall Of Sound
Wall Street Journal
WAM
Warsaw Business Journal
Washington Examiner
Web Host Industry Review
Web Urbanist
Webdunia
Webdunia Talugu
Webdunia Telugu
WikiLeaks
Wilmington News Journal
Wired News
Wireless Week
Wirtschafts Woche
Worcester Telegram
World Health Organisation
World Journal
World Oil
World Security Network
WorldNetDaily
WorldNews.com
Wprost
WPXI
Wtop
Xequted
Xinhua
Xronos
Yahoo Daily News
Yahoo Danmark
Yahoo Energy
Yahoo Music
Yemen Observer
Yemen Times
Yomiuri
Yonhap News
York Press
Your Middle East
Zap2it
Zcom
ZDNet
Zeenews
Zero Vision
Ziarul
Zwire






timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001














Gabriel Landeskog placed on IR, out indefinitely

CBS Sports02 Feb 2013

read more



Gabriel Landeskog, still suffering from a head injury, has been placed on IR by the Colorado Avalanche. 040;USPressWire041; ... Avs head coach Joe Sacco told reporters Friday that forward Gabriel Landeskog has been placed on injured reserved and will not play in Saturday's game against Edmonton ... ....(size: 1.4Kb)
	    



Police: Burglars hit LA Times readers on vacation

STL Today02 Feb 2013

read more



The group included Randall Whitmore, 43, Joshua Box, 43, and Edwin Valentine, 52, authorities said ... More victims are being sought. Homes in the San Gabriel Valley, Hacienda Heights, Diamond Bar, Walnut and Chino Hills were robbed of collectible coins and swords, musical instruments, computers and jewelry ... ___. Information from....(size: 1.5Kb)
	    



UW faculty dissect growing relationship with China (University of Wisconsin-Madison)

noodls02 Feb 2013

read more



(Source. University of Wisconsin-Madison). Feb. 1, 2013. In forging connections with China, UW-Madison has created an international model for the university. The Innovation Office in Shanghai has opened up new opportunities for students, faculty and leaders in business and government ... Chinese students are now by far the university's largest international group ... 6, at 7 p.m. in the H.F ... Topics up for discussion include ... -Mary Ellen Gabriel....(size: 3.1Kb)
	    



France's Hollande to Visit Mali

Wall Street Journal01 Feb 2013

read more



By GABRIELE PARUSSINI ... Enlarge Image. Close. Historic Texts Saved From Burning. Accompanied by France's foreign, defense and development ministers, Mr. Hollande will go to Mali on Saturday, the Élysée presidential palace said in a statement. Mr ... Since engaging troops on Jan ... Write to Gabriele Parussini at gabriele.parussini@dowjones.com ....(size: 1.9Kb)
	    



Ten hikes for Super Bowl XLVII calorie burning! (Photos)

The Examiner01 Feb 2013

read more



This hike between two local parks in Chino Hills features plenty of up and down to burn calories, taking in nice views of the San Gabriel Mountains and the Inland Empire along the way ... Nice views of the Santa Ana and San Gabriel Mountains are among the highlights ... This hike up and down a ridgeline in the Santa Clarita Valley features great views of both the western San Gabriels and the Antelope Valley....(size: 9.3Kb)
	    



Man convicted in murder of pregnant ex-girlfriend

New York Post Online01 Feb 2013

read more



My little sister, Aiden and Gabriel are all gone," said Anderson's heartbroken older brother Rob, 40, outside of Queens Supreme Court ... Anderson, 25, was seven months pregnant with Humphrey's son -- to be named Gabriel -- when their complicated relationship escalated to a crime ......(size: 1.4Kb)
	    



4 new Vikings promos!

IMDb01 Feb 2013

read more



Watch new promos from History's Vikings series, starring Travis Fimmel, Clive Standen, Katheryn Winnick and Gabriel Byrne ... (Gabriel Byrne)....(size: 0.7Kb)
	    



Rob Riggle To Star In Fox’s ‘Gabriels’ Pilot

IMDb01 Feb 2013

read more



Rob Riggle is in final negotiations to topline The Gabriels (formerly House Rules), Fox’s single-camera comedy pilot from 20th TV and Principato Young....(size: 1.0Kb)
	    



History's 'Vikings' best new period drama coming in March, (VIDEOS)

m&c01 Feb 2013

read more



The first clip below will bring you to the edge of your seat, giving you a taste of the intense drama that begins on March 3rd.&nbsp; In the next two clips, were introduced to two enthralling characters  the warrior shield maiden, Lagertha (Katheryn Winnick) and the ruler, Earl (Gabriel Byrne) ... Gabriel Byrne plays a corrupt chieftain and is never ......(size: 3.8Kb)
	    



Rob Riggle to Star in Fox Comedy Pilot 'The Gabriels'

The Hollywood Reporter01 Feb 2013

read more



share ... Rob Riggle ... The funnyman is in final negotiations to star in the network's comedy pilot&nbsp;The Gabriels, The Hollywood Reporter has learned ... In the comedy about an introverted, neurotic Wisconsin family that lives in a community of over-sharers, Riggle will play Ken Gabriel, a child-like man with devilish energy ... ....(size: 3.7Kb)
	    



Police haul away school bus in Alabama standoff

Houston Chronicle01 Feb 2013

read more



MELISSA NELSON-GABRIEL, Associated Press, By MELISSA NELSON-GABRIEL and JAY REEVES, Associated Press . January 31, 2013 . Updated. February 1, 2013 2.11pm. Comments (0) E-mail Print. Tweet. Page 1 of 1. MIDLAND CITY, Ala ... Police say the gunman and the boy have been holed up in an underground bunker at the gunman's property ever since ... Tweet. MELISSA NELSON-GABRIEL, Associated Press, By MELISSA NELSON-GABRIEL and JAY REEVES, Associated Press ... ....(size: 13.7Kb)
	    



'Millennial' generation research update: Success and significance

The Examiner01 Feb 2013

read more



They want significance. To ‘Millennials,’ significance has a generational meaning ... Jason ... Becca ... Gretchen ... David ... If you are a ‘Millennial’ in business, the professions or in the entrepreneurial world and you are interested in participating in a research study on the success patterns of your generation, please contact me, Eroca Gabriel, at treatconsulting@yahoo.com ... Tweet ... Eroca Gabriel, Denver Career Advice Examiner. Eroca Gabriel, M.A ... ....(size: 7.0Kb)
	    



Robert Pattinson Isn't Alone! Hollywood's Hottest Hunks On The Wrong Side Of The Law

Entertainment Wise01 Feb 2013

read more



They're some of Hollywood's hottest hunks - but every so often they turn into testosterone-filled idiots, ending up on the wrong side of the law. Whether it's drunken behaviour, resisting arrest or a good old punch-up, these bad boys have all been given an official dressing down once – or twice in some cases - before ... &nbsp; ... Robert Pattinson ... Gabriel Aubry (L) and Olivier Martinez (R) (Ai-Wire/WENN). Gabriel Aubry/Olivier Martinez....(size: 3.4Kb)
	    







timeline: 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001

















For other uses, see Gabriel (disambiguation).





This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (January 2012)




Gabriel



Annunciation by Anton Raphael Mengs—Gabriel appears to the virgin Mary.


Archangel, Angel of Revelation, Spirit of Truth


Honored in
Islam, Catholic Church, Anglican Communion, Eastern Orthodoxy, Oriental Orthodoxy, Lutheranism


Feast
September 29 with Saints Michael and Raphael
Eastern Orthodox Church: November 8


In Abrahamic religions, Gabriel (Hebrew: גַּבְרִיאֵל, Modern Gavri'el Tiberian Gaḇrîʼēl, God is my strength; Arabic: جبريل, Jibrīl or جبرائيل Jibrāʾīl) is an angel who typically serves as a messenger to humans from God.
He first appears in the Book of Daniel, delivering explanations of Daniel's visions. In the Gospel of Luke Gabriel foretold the births of both John the Baptist and of Jesus. Christians of the Catholic traditions refer to him as Gabriel the Archangel.
Gabriel is referred to as "he" in the Bible, and in Daniel 9:21 he is explicitly called "The man Gabriel". Some moderns, especially New Age exponents, portray Gabriel as female or androgynous.[1][2][3]
In Latter-day Saint theology, Gabriel is believed to have lived a mortal life as the prophet Noah. The two are regarded as the same individual; Noah being his mortal name and Gabriel being his heavenly name.[4]




Contents


1 Judaism
2 Christianity

2.1 New Testament
2.2 Pseudepigrapha


3 Gabriel's Horn

3.1 Feast days


4 Gabriel in Islam
5 Arts and media

5.1 Visual art
5.2 Music
5.3 Literature


6 In Popular Culture
7 Galleries of Gabriel in art

7.1 Roman Catholic Marian art paintings
7.2 Statues or Icons of Gabriel


8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 External links




Judaism[link]
Gabriel is mentioned in the Book of Daniel, in the Hebrew Bible where he is sent as a messenger of YHWH (see God in Judaism) to Daniel during the Jewish captivity in Babylon. He is later mentioned in the Talmud.
Gabriel is interpreted by the Rabbis to be the "man in linen" in the Book of Daniel and the Book of Ezekiel. In the Book of Daniel, he is responsible for interpreting Daniel's visions and acting as a spokesman providing God's responses to his prayers and fasting. In the Book of Ezekiel, Gabriel is understood to be the angel that was sent to destroy Jerusalem for its wickedness and idolatry during the late Kingdom of Judah, separating the few righteous Jews that would not be destroyed and would be exiled from the majority of wicked ones that would perish there for their iniquities and failure to return.
In the Kabbalah, he is identified with the sephirot of gevurah. He also has a prominent role as one of God's archangels in the Kabbalah literature. There, he is portrayed as working in concert with Michael as part of God's court. He is not to be prayed to directly, but only God can answer prayers and send him as his agent.[5]
Christianity[link]
New Testament[link]




12th century depiction, Georgian National Museum


First, concerning John the Baptist, an angel appeared to his father Zacharias, a priest of the course of Abia,[Luke 1:5] whose "barren" wife Elisabeth was of the daughters of Aaron, while he ministered in the temple:

Luke 1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense.
11 And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.
13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John.
14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.
15 For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother’s womb.
16 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.
17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
18 And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.
19 And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.
20 And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.
Luke 1:10-20 KJV (other versions: Luke 1:1-25)

After completing his week[6] of ministry, Zacharias returned to his house (in Hebron)[7] and his wife Elizabeth conceived. After she completed "five months" (Luke 1:21-25) of her pregnancy, Gabriel is mentioned again:

Luke 1:26 ¶ And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,
27 To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s name was Mary.
28 And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.
29 And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be.
30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favour with God.
31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.
32 He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:
33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.
34 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?
35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.
37 For with God nothing shall be impossible.
38 And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
Luke 1:26-38 KJV (other versions: Luke 1:26-38)

Gabriel only appears by name in those two passages in Luke. In the first passage the angel identified himself as Gabriel, but in the second it is Luke who identified him as Gabriel. The only other named angel in the New Testament is "Michael the archangel" in Jude 1:9. Gabriel is not called an archangel in the Bible. Believers are expressly warned not to venerate or worship angels in Colossians 2:18-19 and Revelation 19:10.[8]
Pseudepigrapha[link]



This unreferenced section requires citations to ensure verifiability.


According to the non-canonical 1 Enoch 9:1–2, Gabriel, along with Michael, Raphael, Uriel and Suriel, hears the cries of humanity under the strain of the Nephilim. It was their beseeching of "the Ancient of Days" - (interpreted by some to be Yahweh, but by others to be the first man Adam) - that prompted God to call Enoch to the prophetical office.
After Enoch informed the Watchers (or "Grigori") of their fall from grace, the Ancient of Days sent the archangels to earth to complete various tasks. In Enoch 10:13, Gabriel was to "Go to the biters, to the reprobates, to the children of fornication, the offspring of the Watchers, from among men; bring them forth and excite them against one another. Let them perish under mutual slaughter; for length of days shall not be theirs." And so, Gabriel instigated wars among the Nephilim (the sons of the Watchers).[citation needed]
Enoch 20:7 says that Gabriel presides over "Ikisat" (the fiery serpents) or Seraphim, Cherubim, and paradise, while Enoch 40:9 states that Gabriel presides over "all that is powerful." Gabriel sits on the left hand of God with Metatron
In the Roman Catholic, Anglican, Eastern and Oriental Orthodox Churches, the archangels Michael, Raphael and Gabriel are considered saints.[9]
Gabriel's Horn[link]
In English-speaking culture, a familiar trope is the image of Gabriel blowing a trumpet blast, signifying the end of time and the general resurrection at the Last Judgment, though the Hebrew Bible or the New Testament do not indicate a particular angel for this task.[10] It may be taken from Norse Heimdall who according to legends, will sound the Gjallarhorn, alerting the Æsir to the onset of Ragnarök where the world ends and is reborn. It may also be taken from Mother Shipton's Prophecies "For storms will rage and oceans roar, when Gabriel stands on sea and shore, and as he blows his wondrous horn, old worlds die and new be born." It ranges from its first appearance in English in John Milton's Paradise Lost (1667)[11] to African-American spirituals: in Marc Connelly's play based on spirituals, The Green Pastures (1930), Gabriel has his beloved trumpet constantly with him, and the Lord has to warn him not to blow it too soon.[12] Four years later "Blow, Gabriel, Blow" was introduced by Ethel Merman in Cole Porter's Anything Goes (1934). The mathematical figure given the modern name "Gabriel's Horn", was invented by Evangelista Torricelli (1608–1647); it is a paradoxical solid of revolution that has infinite surface area, but finite volume.
In Islamic tradition, though not specified in the Qur'an, the trumpeter sounding the trump of doom[13] is not Gabriel, but Israfel.
The earliest identification of Gabriel as the trumpeter that S. Vernon McCasland was able to trace was in an Armenian illuminated manuscript dated 1455, at the Walters Art Museum, Baltimore.[14]
Feast days[link]




Icon of Gabriel, Byzantine, ca. 1387–1395 (Tretyakov Gallery)


The feast of Saint Gabriel was included for the first time in the General Roman Calendar in 1921, for celebration on March 24. In 1969 it was transferred to 29 September for celebration together with St. Michael and St. Raphael.[15] The Church of England has also adopted the 29 September date, known as Michaelmas.
The Eastern Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite celebrate his feast day on 8 November (for those churches that follow the traditional Julian Calendar, 8 November currently falls on 21 November of the modern Gregorian Calendar, a difference of 13 days). Eastern Orthodox commemorate him, not only on his November feast, but also on two other days: 26 March is the "Synaxis of the Archangel Gabriel" and celebrates his role in the Annunciation. 13 July is also known as the "Synaxis of the Archangel Gabriel", and celebrates all the appearances and miracles attributed to Gabriel throughout history. The feast was first established on Mount Athos when, in the ninth century, during the reign of Emperor Basil II and the Empress Constantina Porphyrogenitus and while Nicholas Chrysoverges was Patriarch of Constantinople, the Archangel appeared in a cell near Karyes, where he wrote with his finger on a stone tablet the hymn to the Theotokos, "It is truly meet...".[16]
The Ethiopian Church celebrates his feast on 28 December, with a sizeable number of its believers making a pilgrimage to a church dedicated to "Saint Gabriel" in Kulubi on that day.[17]
Additionally Gabriel is the patron saint of messengers, those who work for broadcasting and telecommunications such as radio and television, remote sensing, and postal workers.
Gabriel in Islam[link]
Main article: Gabriel in Islam
Gabriel (Jibra'il) is believed by Muslims to have been the angel who revealed the Qur'an to the prophet Muhammad,[18][19] and sent a message to most prophets, if not all, revealing their obligations. Gabriel is named numerous times in the Qur'an (II: 97, 98; LXVI: 4); and, in II: 97, the Qur'an expressly narrates:

"Who is an enemy to Gabriel! For he it is who hath revealed (this scripture) to thy heart by God's leave, confirming that which was (revealed) before it, and a guidance and glad tidings to believers."

He is called the chief of the four favoured angels and the spirit of truth. He is called the created Holy Spirit (Islam), which is not to be confused with the Holy Spirit of God in Christianity who is revered as God Himself.
Gabriel makes a famous appearance in the Hadith of Gabriel, where he quizzes the Prophet Muhammad on the core tenets of Islam.
In Muslim tradition, Gabriel occupies the role of one of the primary archangels and all historical commentaries build upon Gabriel's role as the transmitter of the Qur'an.[20] Exegesis narrates that Muhammad saw Gabriel in his full angelic splendor only twice, the first being when he received his first revelation.[21] Muslims also revere Gabriel for a number of historical events predating the first revelation. Muslims believe that Gabriel was the angel who informed Zachariah of John's birth as well as Mary of the future birth of Jesus[22] and that Gabriel was one of three angels who had earlier informed Abraham of the birth of Isaac.[23] These events of Zachariah and Mary can be found also in the Quran, mentioned in surah Maryam.
Mary 19:2 [This is] a mention of the mercy of your Lord to His servant Zechariah
19:3 When he called to his Lord a private supplication.
19:4 He said, "My Lord, indeed my bones have weakened, and my head has filled with white, and never have I been in my supplication to You, my Lord, unhappy.
19:5 And indeed, I fear the successors after me, and my wife has been barren, so give me from Yourself an heir
19:6 Who will inherit me and inherit from the family of Jacob. And make him, my Lord, pleasing [to You]."
19:7 [He was told], "O Zechariah, indeed We give you good tidings of a boy whose name will be John. We have not assigned to any before [this] name."
19:8 He said, "My Lord, how will I have a boy when my wife has been barren and I have reached extreme old age?"
19:9 [An angel] said, "Thus [it will be]; your Lord says, 'It is easy for Me, for I created you before, while you were nothing.' "
19:10 [Zechariah] said, "My Lord, make for me a sign." He said, "Your sign is that you will not speak to the people for three nights, [being] sound."
When the angel Gabriel appeared to Mary:

19:16 And mention, [O Muhammad], in the Book [the story of] Mary, when she withdrew from her family to a place toward the east.
19:17 And she took, in seclusion from them, a screen. Then We sent to her Our Angel, and he represented himself to her as a well-proportioned man.
19:18 She said, "Indeed, I seek refuge in the Most Merciful from you, [so leave me], if you should be fearing of Allah ."
19:19 He said, "I am only the messenger of your Lord to give you [news of] a pure boy."
19:20 She said, "How can I have a boy while no man has touched me and I have not been unchaste?"
19:21 He said, "Thus [it will be]; your Lord says, 'It is easy for Me, and We will make him a sign to the people and a mercy from Us. And it is a matter [already] decreed.' "
Arts and media[link]
Visual art[link]




Icon of Archangel Gabriel, "Of the Golden Locks" ("Златые власы") from Novgorod, 12th-century (State Russian Museum, St Petersburg).


In chronological order (to see each item, follow the link in the footnote):[24]

Archangel Gabriel (Triptych), early 10th century, Benaki Museum
The Archangel Gabriel, Pisan, c. 1325/1350, National Gallery of Art
The Archangel Gabriel, Masolino da Panicale, c. 1420/30, National Gallery of Art
Justice between the Archangels Michael and Gabriel, Jacobello del Fiore, 1421
Merode Altarpiece (Triptych), Robert Campin, c. 1425, Metropolitan Museum of Art
The Angel Gabriel, Agostino di Duccio, c. 1450
Annunciation, Leonardo Da Vinci, c. 1475
The Angel Gabriel, Neroccio d'Landi, c. 1490
The Angel Gabriel, late 15th–early 16th century, Flemish, National Gallery of Art
The Angel Gabriel, Ferrari Gaudenzio, 1511, National Gallery, London
Gabriel delivering the Annunciation El Greco, 1575 (pictured above)
Go Down Death, Aaron Douglas, 1934
The Prophecy series, Christopher Walken, 1990s
Constantine, Francis Lawrence, 2005
Gabriel, Andy Whitfield, 2007

Music[link]

The eccentric English hagiographer and antiquarian, Sabine Baring-Gould (1834–1924), wrote the English lyrics to Gabriel's Message, which he translated from the Basque Christmas carol Birjina gaztetto bat zegoen, which was probably related to the 13th or 14th century Latin chant Angelus Ad Virginem which itself is based on the Biblical account of the Annunciation in the New Testament Gospel of Luke.

Literature[link]

In his epic poem Paradise Lost, John Milton made Gabriel chief of the angelic guards placed over Paradise.
The Hebrew poem "Elifelet" (אליפלט) by Nathan Alterman, put to music and often heard on the Israeli Radio, tells of a heroic, self-sacrificing Israeli soldier being killed in battle. Upon the protagonist's death, the angel Gabriel descends to Earth, in order to comfort the spirit of the fallen hero and take him up to Heaven.[25][26]
Salman Rushdie's Satanic Verses has his main character be the modern incarnation of Gabriel.
The Angelfire (novel series) by Courtney Allison Moulton portrays the protagonist Gabriel as being bound in the mortal body of a teenage girl named Ellie and ordered to battle Hell for the salvation of humankind's souls. Gabriel/Ellie faces an internal conflict between her human soul and archangel power.

In Popular Culture[link]

The CW Television Network drama series Supernatural features the Archangel Gabriel, portrayed by Richard Speight, Jr..

Galleries of Gabriel in art[link]
Roman Catholic Marian art paintings[link]







Annunciation by Mariotto Albertinelli, 15th century









Annunciation by Murillo, 1655









Annunciation by Pietro Perugino, 1489









Annunciation by Botticelli, 1490









Gabriel making the Annunciation to the Virgin Mary. Painting by El Greco, 1575 (Museo del Prado, Madrid).




Statues or Icons of Gabriel[link]







Statue of Archangel Gabriel, Bermatingen









Statue of Archangel Gabriel, Waldburg









Gabriel on the facade of the Cathedral of Reims









Statue in Budapest









Russian icon of archangel Gabriel




See also[link]




Saints  portal




Angels in Islam
Angelus
Fleur de lys
Annunciation
List of names referring to El
Seraph

Notes[link]


^ "Archangel Gabriel: Representation of a female or androgynous Gabriel". Angelgabriel.blogspot.com. 2007-09-19. http://angelgabriel.blogspot.com/2004/05/representation-of-female-or.html. Retrieved 2010-08-16. 
^ www.anewbelief.com +44 1777 710999. "Archangel Gabriel". Anewbelief.com. http://www.anewbelief.com/Angels/gabriel.htm. Retrieved 2010-08-16. 
^ "Archangel Gabriel - Folklore and Mythology". Bellaonline.com. http://www.bellaonline.com/articles/art26033.asp. Retrieved 2010-08-16. 
^ "Encyclopedia of Mormonism - NOAH". http://eom.byu.edu/index.php/Noah. 
^ "Gabriel". Gabriel. Jewish Encyclopedia. http://www.jewishencyclopedia.com/articles/6450-gabriel. Retrieved 15 May 2012. 
^ THE Dedication (Jesus' birth) "The priests serve 4 weeks per year: 1 week twice a year in courses, and the two week-long feasts, unleavened bread and tabernacles. Pentecost is a one-day observance, which would have come before Zacharias' (the 8th) course began, or at the latest, the 1st day of his course, which was from 12 thru 18 Sivan, or noon on the 19th, if Josephus is correct that courses changed at noon on the sabbaths." Josephus Antiquities b.7 ch.14 s.7 "eight days, from sabbath to sabbath." Josephus against Apion b.2 sect.8 "mid-day"
^ Joshua 21:9-11 with Luke 1:39-40
^ See also Easton's Bible Dictionary entry on angels
^ Zimmerman, Julie. [archangels Michael, Raphael and Gabriel are also saints. "Test Your Knowledge on Angels"]. AmericanCatholic.org. archangels Michael, Raphael and Gabriel are also saints.. Retrieved 16 February 2012. 
^ The angel is unnamed in Paul's description of the rising of the dead in 1 Thessalonians 4:13, which mentions the shout of an angel and the trumpet of God; nor is the angel named in other passages of the raising of the dead, such as Matthew 24:31 (angels' trumpet blast), John 5:25–29 (the voice of the Son of God); 1 Corinthians (a trumpet will sound); Revelation 8–11 (trumpets of seven angels).
^ Milton, Paradise Lost, XI.72ff was identified by S. Vernon McCasland, ("Gabriel's Trumpet" Journal of Bible and Religion 9.3 [August 1941:159–161] p. 161) as the first identification in English of Gabriel as the trumpeter: "Betwixt these rockie pillars Gabriel sat, Chief of the Angelic guards" (IV.545f)... he Blew his trumpet, heard in Oreb since perhaps When God descended, and perhaps once more To sound at general doom." (IX.73ff).
^ Both spirituals and Green Pastures were noted by McCasland 1941.
^ Trump of doom: "The wakeful trump of doom" is John Milton's phrase in his "Hymn on the morning of Christ's Nativity", drawing upon the King James Version's "We shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump." (1 Corinthians 15:51f).
^ Walters MS 543, fol. 14.
^ Calendarium Romanum (Libreria Editrice Vaticana, 1969), p. 119
^ Velimirovic, Bishop Nikolai (1985). "July 13: The Holy Archangel Gabriel". Prologue from Ochrid. Birmingham, UK: Lazarica Press. ISBN 978-0-948298-05-9. http://www.westsrbdio.org/prolog/my.html?month=July&day=13&Go.x=6&Go.y=12. Retrieved 2007-07-31. 
^ Nega Mezlekia, Notes from the Hyena's Belly: An Ethiopian Childhood (New York: Picador, 2000), p. 266. ISBN 0-312-28914-6.
^ Nader, M. The Holy Spirit in the Quran. Submission.org. Retrieved 11 August 2009.
^ Lil Abdo. "Female Representations of the Holy Spirit in Bahá'í and Christian writings and their implications for gender roles" Bahá'í Studies Review Volume 4.1, 1994. Retrieved 11 August 2009.
^ All ancient sources, including Tabari, Zamakhshari and Baydawi elaborate on Gabriel's role as the transmitter
^ Encyclopedia of Islam, Djabrail
^ Stories of the Prophets, Ibn Kathir, Story of Zachariah; Story of Jesus
^ Stories of the Prophets, Ibn Kathir, Story of Ishmael
^ "Links to images of Gabriel". The Text This Week. http://www.textweek.com/art/gabriel.htm. Retrieved 2007-02-12. 
^ "התרנגולים - אליפלט - שירונט". Shiron.net. http://www.shiron.net/songView.aspx?song_id=307&singer_id=352&song_title=6cd6. Retrieved 2010-08-16. 
^ "אין לו אופי אפילו במיל". Haayal.co.il. http://www.haayal.co.il/story_1720. Retrieved 2010-08-16. 


References[link]

Bamberger, Bernard Jacob, (15 March 2006). Fallen Angels: Soldiers of Satan's Realm. Jewish Publication Society of America. ISBN 0-8276-0797-0
Briggs, Constance Victoria, 1997. The Encyclopedia of Angels: An A-to-Z Guide with Nearly 4,000 Entries. Plume. ISBN 0-452-27921-6.
Bunson, Matthew, (1996). Angels A to Z: A Who's Who of the Heavenly Host. Three Rivers Press. ISBN 0-517-88537-9.
Cruz, Joan C. 1999. Angels and Devils. Tan Books & Publishers. ISBN 0-89555-638-3.
Davidson, Gustav. A Dictionary of Angels: Including the Fallen Angels. Free Press. ISBN 0-02-907052-X
Dennis, Geoffrey. 2007. The Encyclopedia of Jewish Myth, Magic, and Mysticism. Llewellyn LTD.
Graham, Billy, 1994. Angels: God's Secret Agents. W Pub Group; Minibook edition. ISBN 0-8499-5074-0
Guiley, Rosemary, 1996. Encyclopedia of Angels. ISBN 0-8160-2988-1
Kreeft, Peter J. 1995. Angels and Demons: What Do We Really Know About Them? Ignatius Press. ISBN 0-89870-550-9
Lewis, James R. (1995). Angels A to Z. Visible Ink Press. ISBN 0-7876-0652-9
Melville, Francis, 2001. The Book of Angels: Turn to Your Angels for Guidance, Comfort, and Inspiration. Barron's Educational Series; 1st edition. ISBN 0-7641-5403-6
Ronner, John, 1993. Know Your Angels: The Angel Almanac With Biographies of 100 Prominent Angels in Legend & Folklore-And Much More! Mamre Press. ISBN 0-932945-40-6.

External links[link]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Gabriel



Catholic Encyclopedia
Jewish Encyclopedia
Icons of Archangel Gabriel









v
t
e


New Testament people






Jesus Christ



views
Christian
Historical
New Testament








Gospels




Individuals



Alphaeus
Anna
Annas
Barabbas
Bartimaeus
Blind man, Bethsaida
Caiaphas
Cleopas
Clopas
Devil
"Dismas," thief
Elizabeth
Gabriel
"Gestas," thief
Jairus' Daughter
Joachim
Joanna
John the Baptist
Joseph
Joseph of Arimathea
Joses
Jude
Lazarus
Legion
Luke
Lysanias
Malchus
Mark
Martha
Mary Magdalene
Mary mother of James
Mary
Mary of Bethany
Mary of Clopas
Widow's son, Nain
Nathanael
Nicodemus (ben Gurion)
Salome
Samaritan woman
Simeon
Simon, brother of Jesus
Simon of Cyrene
Simon the Leper
Susanna
Theophilus
Zacchaeus
Zebedee
Zechariah








Groups



Angels
Disciples
Evangelists
Godfearers
Herodians
Magi
Myrrhbearers
Pharisees
Proselytes
Sadducees
Samaritans
Sanhedrin
70 Disciples
Scribes
Shepherds
Zealots











The Twelve



Andrew
Bartholomew
James of Alphaeus
James of Zebedee
John (Beloved, Evangelist, Patmos)
Judas Iscariot
Jude Thaddeus
Matthew
Matthias
Peter
Philip
Simon the Zealot, (Judas)
Thomas








Acts
Peter, Paul



Aeneas
Agabus
Ananias (Judaea)
Ananias (Damascus)
Ananias ben Nebedeus
Apollos
Aquila
Aristarchus
Bar-jesus
Barnabas
Blastus
Cornelius
Demetrius
Dionysius
Dorcas
Ethiopian eunuch
Eutychus
Gamaliel
James the Just
Jason
Joseph Barsabbas
Judas Barsabbas
Judas of Galilee
Lucius
Luke
Lydia
Manaen
(John) Mark
Mary mother of John Mark
Matthias
Nicholas
Paul
Philip
Priscilla
Publius
Rhoda
Sapphira
Sceva
Seven Deacons
Silas/Silvanus
Simeon Niger
Simon the Sorcerer
Sopater
Stephen
Theudas
Timothy
Titus
Trophimus
Tychicus








Romans &
Herod's family




Gospels



Herod Antipas
Herod Archelaus
Herod Philip II
Herod the Great
Herodias
"Longinus"
Pontius Pilate
Pilate's Wife
Quirinius
Salome
Tiberius








Acts



Cornelius
Agrippa I
Agrippa II
Drusilla
Felix
Claudius Lysias
Junius A. Gallio
Festus
Sergius Paulus











Epistles



Achaichus
Alexander
Andronicus
Archippus
Aretas IV
Crescens
Diotrephes
Epaphras
Epaphroditus
Erastus
Euodia and Syntyche
Hymenaeus
Jesus Justus
Junia
Mary
Angel Michael
Nymphas
Onesimus
Philemon
Philetus
Phoebe
Tertius








Revelation



Antipas
Four Horsemen
Apollyon
Two witnesses
Woman
Beast
Three Angels
Whore of Babylon











Full List
Jesus

Ministry
Miracles
Parables
Timeline


New Testament
NT Canon
Gospels

Synoptic


Epistles

Pauline
General


Apostolic Age
















v
t
e


Christmas






Core topics



Christmas
Christmas Eve
Boxing Day
Decorations








In Christianity



Adoration of the Magi
Adoration of the Shepherds
Advent
Angel Gabriel
The Annunciation
Annunciation to the Shepherds
Bethlehem
Biblical Magi
Christingle
Christmastide
Epiphany
Herod the Great
Jesus
Joseph
Mary
Massacre of the Innocents
Nativity of Jesus
…in art
…in later culture
Nativity scene
Saint Nicholas
Star of Bethlehem
Twelfth Night








In folklore
and literature



Badalisc
La Befana
Belsnickel
Christkind
Ded Moroz
Elves
Father Christmas
Grýla
Joulupukki
Jack Frost
Knecht Ruprecht
Korvatunturi
Krampus
Mikulás
Mrs. Claus
North Pole
Old Man Winter
Olentzero
Père Fouettard
Père Noël
Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer
Santa Claus
Santa's reindeer
Santa's workshop
Sinterklaas
Vertep
Yule Lads
Zwarte Piet








Traditions



Advent calendar
Advent candle
Advent wreath
Boar's Head Feast
Carols by Candlelight
Cards
Hampers
Crackers
Events and celebrations
Films
Flying Santa
Food
Holiday parades
Las Posadas
Lights
Markets
Meals and feasts
Moravian star
NORAD Tracks Santa
Nutcrackers
Ornaments
Plants
Santa Claus parade
Secret Santa
Stamps
Stockings
Tree
Twelve Days
Wassailing
Yule Goat
Yule log








By area



Germany
Hawaii
Hungary
Ireland
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Serbia
Ukraine








Music



Albums
Carols
Hit singles US
Hit singles UK
Songs








Other media



Fiction
Films
Onstage


Television
episodes
specials
Yule Log








In society



Advent Conspiracy
Bronner's Christmas Wonderland
Christmas club
Controversy
Christmas creep
Christmas Day (Trading) Act 2004
El Gordo
Holiday season
In July
In August
Puritan New England
American Civil War
Post-War United States
Linked holidays
Christmas Mountains
NFL games
NBA games
Nomenclature and language
Christmas truce
Running of the Santas
SantaCon
Super Saturday
White Christmas
Winter festivals
Xmas
"Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus"
Yule








Foods



Pudding
Gingerbread
Cake
Cookies
Eggnog
Mince pie
Dinner
















v
t
e


People in the Quran






Individuals



Aaron
Abel
Abraham
Abu Bakr
Abū Lahab
Adam
Amram
Anne
Asiya
Azar
Azrael
Believer of Ya-Sin
Benjamin
Cain
Caleb
David
Dābba
Devil
Dhul-Kifl
Dhul-Qarnayn

Cyrus the Great
Alexander the Great


Elijah
Elisha
Elizabeth
Eve
Ezra
Gabriel
Gog
Goliath
Haman
Harut
Hud
Idris
Isaac
Ishmael
Israfel
Jacob
Jesus
Jethro
Joachim
Job
Jochebed
John the Baptist
Jonah
Joseph
Joshua
Khidr
King of Abraham's time
Korah
Lot
Luqman
Luqman's son
Maalik
Magog
Mary
Marut
Michael
Miriam
Moses
Muhammad
Noah
Pharaoh of Joseph's time
Pharaoh of the Exodus
Potiphar
Queen of Sheba
Saleh
Samiri
Samuel
Sarah
Saul
Shoaib
Solomon
Solomon's vizier
Umm Jamil
Wicked man, Parable
Wondering man, Parable
Zachariah
Zaid
Zipporah
Zulaikha








General groups



Apostles
Christians
Hypocrites
Jews
Magians
Martyrs
Pagans
Prophets
Sabians








Specific Groups



Disciples of Jesus
Jinns of Solomon
Muhammad's wives
Scribes of the Quran
People of the Cave
Pharaoh's sorcerers
Twelve Tribes of Israel








Communities



ʿĀd
Companions of the Elephant
Companions of the Rass
Egypt
Israelites
Mesopotamia
Midian
Nineveh
Sodom and Gomorrah
Thamud
People of Tubba
People of the Wood
People of Ya-Sin
Quraysh
Romans








Lifeforms



Angels
Humans
Jinn









Note: Italics denote that the name of the figure is not mentioned in the Quran, but is taken from other sources of Islamic literature.














v
t
e


Angels in Abrahamic Religions






Judaism





Individuals




Michael
Gabriel
Raphael
Uriel
Azrael
Ariel
Raziel
Arariel
Camael
Dumah
Cassiel
Eisheth
Hadraniel
Haniel
Jerahmeel
Jophiel
Metatron
Nuriel
Samyaza
Pravuil
Sachiel
Samael
Tzaphqiel
Yahoel
Zadkiel
Zerachiel
Dobiel
Kushiel









Groups




Seraphim
Chayot
Ophanim
Cherubim
Recording angels











Christianity





Individuals




Michael
Gabriel
Raphael
Uriel
Ariel
Sariel
Gagiel
Sandalphon
Raguel
Ramiel
Selaphiel
Barachiel
Jegudiel
Camael
Jerahmeel
Jophiel
Metatron
Samyaza
Pravuil
Sachiel
Zadkiel
Zerachiel
Phanuel
Aker
Gabuthelon
Arphugitonos
Zebuleon
Daniel
Kerubiel
Kokabiel
Kushiel
Leliel
Muriel
Pahaliah
Seraphiel
Shamsiel









Groups




Seraphim
Ophanim
Cherubim
Thrones
Dominions
Virtues
Powers
Principalities
Recording angels











Islam





Individuals




Michael
Gabriel
Israfel
Azrael
Harut
Marut
Maalik
Ridwan
Munkar
Nakir
Holy Spirit









Groups




Hafaza
Kiraman Katibin
Mu'aqqibat
Darda'il
Nineteen Angels of Hell
Praying angels












Note: Italics denote that the angel is not recognized by all denominations. Satan's status as the 'fallen angel' is interpreted in a variety of ways and thus he is not included in the table.








Persondata


Name
Gabriel


Alternative names



Short description



Date of birth



Place of birth



Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Gabriel
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Arcangelo Gabriele
http://cs.wn.com/Archanděl Gabriel
http://id.wn.com/Jibril
http://es.wn.com/Arcángel Gabriel
http://ru.wn.com/Архангел Гавриил
http://nl.wn.com/Gabriël (aartsengel)
http://pl.wn.com/Archanioł Gabriel
http://fr.wn.com/Gabriel (archange)
http://de.wn.com/Gabriel (Erzengel)
http://hi.wn.com/गब्रीएल
http://pt.wn.com/Gabriel (arcanjo)


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabriel
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
















This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2009)




Gabriel Iglesias





Born
(1976-07-15) July 15, 1976 (age 35)
San Diego, California, U.S.


Medium
Stand-up, television


Years active
1997–present


Genres
Comedy


Subject(s)
Mexican American culture, race relations, satire


Website
Official website


Gabriel J. Iglecias (born July 15, 1976), known professionally as Gabriel Iglesias, is an American standup comedian and actor, known for his shows I'm Not Fat… I’m Fluffy and Hot & Fluffy. He employs storytelling, effected voices and sound effects in his act, whose other trademarks include references to his weight and his use of Hawaiian shirts. He has been called a "comedy genius" by Hector Saldaña of the San Antonio Express-News.




Contents


1 Early life
2 Career
3 Awards and honors
4 Personal life
5 Credits
6 Discography
7 Filmography
8 References
9 External links




Early life[link]
Gabriel Iglesias was born Gabriel J. Iglecias in San Diego, California. He is of Mexican-American heritage. His mother placed a letter "c" in his surname in retaliation for his father's absence during his birth, though he does not use this spelling in his every day life, preferring to use the one with the "s". He and his mother lived in Riverside, Corona, Santa Ana, Baldwin Park and Compton before settling in Long Beach, where Iglesias spent most of his life growing up.[1]
Career[link]
Before going into comedy, Iglesias worked for a cell phone company in Los Angeles. Although his family urged him to remain in that job for its financial security, he insisted on trying his hand at comedy. When maintaining both occupations proved too difficult to handle, he decided to take the risk of doing comedy full time, against the advice of his mother, who cautioned him against such a move. Iglesias nonetheless left the phone company, which eventually resulted in his being evicted from his home and losing his car. Despite this, he persisted with comedy.[2]
Iglesias often references his weight in his comedy, often saying, "Oh, I’m not fat, I’m fluffy", a term he says was popular among overweight people in the 1940s, which he decided to use in his act. He also references different "Levels of Fatness" in his act, having once described "Five Levels of Fatness", and eventually adding a sixth, called "Oh, Hell no!" in 2009.[2] He also employs voices, sound effects and storytelling in his act, and his other trademark signatures include his Hawaiian shirts and a "nice-guy veneer".[3]
In 2000, after Iglesias had turned 20, he appeared in season 6 of the Nickelodeon sketch comedy series All That in 2000, co-starring with Amanda Bynes and Nick Cannon.[2]
Iglesias appeared on the Galavision TV show Que Locos!. He subsequently was guest-starred on the ABC sitcom My Wife and Kids.[episode needed] His stand-up has been featured on Jimmy Kimmel Live!,[episode needed] The Tonight Show with Jay Leno,[episode needed] The Late Late Show,[episode needed] Good Morning America,[episode needed] Showtime at the Apollo[episode needed] and BET'S Comic View.[episode needed] On the big screen, he has appeared in the independent films El Matador and The Surfer King, in which he played the role of Aokee, a water park concession manager.
In 2007 Iglesias voiced an entire Mexican family in "Padre de Familia", a sixth season episode of the Fox TV animated comedy Family Guy. That same year, he began voicing a recurring set of identical twin characters on The Emperor's New School, a Disney animated series that he describes as his favorite voice work.[2]
Iglesias was a contestant on the fourth season of reality TV series Last Comic Standing in 2006, surviving elimination to become one of the final eight comics. He was disqualified at that point for having used a smuggled BlackBerry to communicate with family and friends, which violated the rules of the show.[2][4]
In November 2009 Comedy Central released the DVD of the show Gabriel Iglesias: I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy.[5]
In 2011 Comedy Central debuted Gabriel Iglesias Presents Stand Up Revolution, a standup showcase series with Iglesias produces and hosts. Hector Saldaña of the San Antonio Express-News praised Iglesias and the other comedian he assembled for the show, calling it "one of the all-time funniest comedy package tours" and Iglesias a "comedy genius".[3]
Awards and honors[link]
On February 10, 2012, Iglesias was presented with several awards by the city of El Paso, Texas, including the key to the city, a resolution from the El Paso County Commissioners, Congressional Recognition from Congressman Silvestre Reyes, and the Beacon of H.O.P.E Award from the nonprofit organization Operation H.O.P.E, during a luncheon fundraiser that raised an estimated $5,000.[6]
Personal life[link]
Iglesias lives in Whittier, California.[7] He lives with his girlfriend and his stepson.[2]
Credits[link]

2011: Conan
2009: Just for Laughs
2009: The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien
2008: Kickin' It
2007: Gabriel Iglesias
2007: Live at Gotham
2006: The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson
2003: Comedy Central Presents: Gabriel Iglesias
2002: Tonight Show with Jay Leno
2002: My Wife and Kids, Nabu
2000: Premium Blend Season 3, Episode 8
2000: All That
2011: Gabriel Iglesias Presents Stand-Up Revolution

Discography[link]

We Luv Fluffy (2009)

Filmography[link]

El Matador (2003)
The Surfer King (2006)
Hot and Fluffy (2007)
Comedy Central's Stand Up Picks - Part 3 (2008)
I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy (2009)

References[link]


^ "Bio". fluffyguy.com, Retrieved April 16, 2012.
^ a b c d e f Duck, Allison (July 23, 2009). "Gabriel Iglesias: fabulously fluffy". Las Vegas Weekly
^ a b Saldaña, Hector (February 3, 2012). "Review: ‘Gabriel Iglesias Presents Stand Up Revolution’". My San Antonio.
^ "NBC's 'Last Comic Standing 4' eliminates three, reveals Top 5 finalists". Reality TV World. July 12, 2006. http://www.realitytvworld.com/news/nbc-last-comic-standing-4-eliminates-three-reveals-top-5-finalists-4225.php. Retrieved October 7, 2011. 
^ Gabriel Iglesias: I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy. Amazon.com. accessed June 30, 2011.
^ Hinojosa, Alex (February 10, 2012). "Comedian Gabriel "Fluffy" Iglesias gets key to the city ". El Paso Times.
^ Gabriel Iglesias. Last Comic Standing. NBC. accessed October 7, 2011.


External links[link]

Official website
Gabriel Iglesias at the Internet Movie Database



Persondata


Name
Iglesias, Gabriel


Alternative names



Short description



Date of birth
July 15, 1976


Place of birth
San Diego, California, U.S.


Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Gabriel_Iglesias
Related pages:
http://nl.wn.com/Gabriel Iglesias


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabriel_Iglesias
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        











This article is about the musician.  For his four eponymous albums, see Peter Gabriel (disambiguation).  For the Czech footballer, see Petr Gabriel.


Peter Gabriel



Peter Gabriel at the Wikipedia 10th anniversary party in London in January 2011.


Background information


Birth name
Peter Brian Gabriel


Born
(1950-02-13) 13 February 1950 (age 62)
Chobham, Surrey, England, United Kingdom


Genres
Progressive rock, art rock, experimental rock, pop rock, world music


Occupations
Musician
Producer
Humanitarian


Instruments
Vocals, keyboards, flute, drums, piano, guitar, bass, harmonica, oboe


Years active
1967–present


Labels
Geffen (US & Canada), Real World, Virgin, Charisma, Atlantic (US & Canada), EMI (Brazil)


Associated acts
Genesis, Laurie Anderson, Kate Bush


Website
www.petergabriel.com


Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is an English singer, musician, and songwriter who rose to fame as the lead vocalist and flautist of the progressive rock group Genesis.[1] After leaving Genesis, Gabriel went on to a successful solo career. His 1986 album, So, is his most commercially successful, and the album's biggest hit, "Sledgehammer", won a record nine MTV Awards at the 1987 MTV Video Music Awards, and the song is the most played music video in the history of the station.[2]
More recently, Gabriel has focused on producing and promoting world music and pioneering digital distribution methods for music. He has also been involved in various humanitarian efforts. Gabriel has won numerous music awards throughout his career, including three Brit Awards—winning Best British Male in 1987, six Grammy Awards, thirteen MTV Video Music Awards, and in 2007 he was honoured as a BMI Icon at the 57th annual BMI London Awards for his “influence on generations of music makers.”[3][4][5] Gabriel was also awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2009, and was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Genesis in 2010.




Contents


1 Early life
2 Genesis

2.1 Costumes
2.2 Departure


3 Solo career

3.1 Peter Gabriel albums (1977–1985)
3.2 So, Passion and Us (1986–1994)
3.3 OVO, Up, Scratch My Back and New Blood (1995–present)
3.4 Musicians and collaborators


4 WOMAD and other projects
5 Activist for humanitarian causes
6 Politics
7 Personal life
8 Appearances: 2005–present
9 Discography
10 See also
11 References
12 External links




Early life[link]
Peter Gabriel was born in Chobham, Surrey, England.[6] His father, Ralph Parton Gabriel, was an electrical engineer, and his mother, Edith Irene Allen,[7] from a musical family, taught him to play the piano at an early age. He attended Cable House, a private primary (pre-prep) school in Woking, Surrey, St. Andrews Prep School in Horsell, then Charterhouse School (Godalming) from 1963. He played drums in his first rock bands, and Mike Rutherford commented in 1985 that "Pete was - and still is, I think - a frustrated drummer."[8]
Genesis[link]
Main article: Genesis (band)
Gabriel founded Genesis in 1967 with fellow Charterhouse School pupils Tony Banks, Anthony Phillips, Mike Rutherford, and drummer Chris Stewart. The name of the band was suggested by fellow Charterhouse alumnus, the pop music impresario Jonathan King, who produced their first album, From Genesis to Revelation.
Gabriel was influenced by many different sources in his way of singing, such as Family lead singer Roger Chapman. In 1970, he played the flute on Cat Stevens' album, Mona Bone Jakon.
Genesis drew some attention in England and eventually also in Italy, Belgium, Germany and other European countries, largely due to Gabriel's flamboyant stage presence, which involved numerous bizarre costume changes and comical, dreamlike stories told as the introduction to each song (originally Gabriel developed these stories solely to cover the time between songs that the rest of the band would take tuning their instruments and fixing technical glitches). The concerts made extensive use of black light with the normal stage lighting subdued or off. A backdrop of fluorescent white sheets and a comparatively sparse stage made the band into a set of silhouettes, with Gabriel's fluorescent costume and make-up providing the only other sources of light.
Costumes[link]




Gabriel as "Britannia", or "The Moonlit Knight" 1974


Early Genesis concerts were hampered by a bad PA system which made it difficult for audiences to understand what Gabriel was singing. According to Mike Rutherford, this drove Gabriel to find other ways to impress his personality on the audience, leading to his performing in various costumes.[8]
In an episode of the 2007 British documentary series Seven Ages of Rock, Steve Hackett recalled the first appearance of Gabriel 'in costume'. It was the dress-wearing, fox-headed entity immortalised on the cover of Foxtrot. Hackett and the rest of the band had no inkling that Gabriel was going to do this, and at the time Hackett worried that it would ruin the performance. However, it was a success, encouraging Gabriel to continue wearing costumes while singing.
Among Gabriel's many famous costumes, which he developed to visualise the musical ideas of the band as well as to gain press coverage, were "Batwings" for the band's usual opening number, "Watcher of the Skies".
Other costumes included "The Flower" and "Magog", which were both alternately worn for "Supper's Ready" from the album Foxtrot.
"Britannia" was worn for "Dancing with the Moonlit Knight", and "The Reverend" was worn for "The Battle of Epping Forest" from Selling England by the Pound.
"The Old Man" was worn for "The Musical Box" from Nursery Cryme.
"The Slipperman" and "Rael" were worn during "The Colony of Slippermen", in which "Rael" was the protagonist of the album The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway.
Departure[link]
Gabriel's departure from Genesis in 1975—which stunned fans of the group and left many commentators wondering if the band could survive—was the result of a number of factors. His stature as the lead singer of the band, and the added attention garnered by his flamboyant stage persona, led to tensions within the band. Genesis had always operated more or less as a collective, and Gabriel's burgeoning public profile led to fears within the group that he was being unfairly singled out as the creative hub. The band had also begun to feel confined by the reputation (and fans' expectations) attached to their famously elaborate theatrical performances, believing that the visual element of their performances was receiving more attention than their actual music.
Tensions were heightened by the ambitious album and tour of the concept work The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway, a Gabriel-created concept piece which saw him taking on the lion's share of the lyric writing. During the writing and recording of The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway, Gabriel was approached by director William Friedkin, allegedly because Friedkin had found Gabriel's short story in the liner notes to Genesis Live interesting. Gabriel left Genesis to pursue a film project with Friedkin, only to rejoin a week later.[8] The decision to quit the band was made before the tour supporting The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway, with Gabriel explaining his decision to the band while keeping it from the press until the conclusion of that tour. Bassist Mike Rutherford recalled that they all "could see it coming."[8] Although tensions were high, both Gabriel and the remaining members of Genesis have stated publicly that Gabriel left the band on good terms.
The breaking point came with the difficult pregnancy of Gabriel's wife, Jill, and the subsequent birth of their first child, Anna-Marie. When he opted to stay with his sick daughter and wife, rather than record and tour, the resentment from the rest of the band led Gabriel to conclude that he had to leave the group. "Solsbury Hill", Gabriel's debut single as a solo artist, was written specifically about his departure from Genesis. The song also charted on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1978,[9] reaching the Top 70, though it was recorded in 1976, and appeared on the 'Car' album in 1977. In 1982, Gabriel reunited with his former Genesis colleagues for the one-off concert Six of the Best, in order to recoup debts that arose from his involvement in the staging of the first WOMAD concert.
Solo career[link]
Gabriel refused to title any of his first four solo albums, which were all labelled Peter Gabriel using the same typeface, but which featured different cover designs (by Hipgnosis); in all of these designs, Gabriel's face is wholly or partially obscured in some way. The albums are usually differentiated by number in order of release (I, II, III, IV), or by sleeve design, with the first three solo albums often referred to as Car, Scratch and Melt respectively, in reference to their cover artwork. His fourth solo album, also called Peter Gabriel, was titled Security in the U.S. at the behest of Geffen Records.
After acquiescing to distinctive titles, Gabriel used a series of 2-letter words to title his next three albums: So, Us, and Up. His most recent greatest hits compilation is titled Hit; within the two-CD package, disc one is labelled "Hit" and disc two is labelled "Miss".
[edit] Peter Gabriel albums (1977–1985)




Gabriel performing, August 1978


Gabriel recorded his first self-titled solo album in 1976 and 1977 with producer Bob Ezrin. His first solo success came with the single "Solsbury Hill", an autobiographical piece expressing his thoughts on leaving Genesis. Although mainly happy with the music, Gabriel felt that the album, and especially the track "Here Comes the Flood" was over-produced. Sparser versions can be heard on Robert Fripp's Exposure, and on Gabriel's greatest hits compilation Shaking the Tree (1990).
Gabriel worked with guitarist Fripp as producer of his second solo LP, in 1978. This album was leaner, darker and more experimental, and yielded decent reviews, but no major hits.
Gabriel developed a new interest in world music (especially percussion), and for bold production, which made extensive use of recording tricks and sound effects. Gabriel's interest in music technology is considered by many people to be the spark of his success as it inspired his third album. The third album is often credited as the first LP to use the now-famous "gated drum" sound.[10] Phil Collins played drums on several tracks, including the opener, "Intruder", which featured the reverse-gated, cymbal-less drum kit sound which Collins would also use on his single "In the Air Tonight" and through the rest of the 1980s. Gabriel had requested that his drummers use no cymbals in the album's sessions, and when he heard the result he asked Collins to play a simple pattern for several minutes, then built "Intruder" around it. The album achieved some chart success with the songs "Games Without Frontiers" (#4 U.K, #48 U.S.), and "Biko".
Arduous and occasionally damp recording sessions at his rural English estate in 1981 and 1982 resulted in Gabriel's fourth LP release, on which Gabriel took more production responsibility. It was one of the first commercial albums recorded entirely to digital tape (using a Sony mobile truck), and featured the early, extremely expensive, Fairlight CMI sampling computer, which had already made its first brief appearances on the previous album. Gabriel combined a variety of sampled and deconstructed sounds with world-beat percussion and other unusual instrumentation to create a radically new, emotionally charged soundscape. Furthermore, the sleeve art consisted of inscrutable, video-based imagery. Despite the album's peculiar sound, odd appearance, and often disturbing themes, it sold very well. This album featured his first Top 40 hit in the U.S., "Shock the Monkey", as well as the song "I Have the Touch". The music video for "Shock the Monkey", which featured Gabriel in white face paint and a caged macaque, held the #1 spot on "MTV" for 9 weeks. Geffen records forced Peter to give his fourth self-titled album a name in the US - Security - to mark his arrival on the label and to differentiate his fourth album from the other three.
Alternate versions of Gabriel's third and fourth albums were also released with German lyrics. Peter Gabriel 3 consisted of basically the same recording overdubbed with new vocals, while Security was also remixed and several tracks were extended or altered in slight ways.
Gabriel toured extensively for each of his albums. Initially, he pointedly eschewed the theatrics that had defined his tenure with Genesis. For his second solo tour, his entire band shaved their heads. By the time of Security he began involving elaborate stage props and acrobatics which had him suspended from gantries, distorting his face with Fresnel lenses and mirrors, and wearing unusual make-up. His 1982–83 tour included a section opening for David Bowie. Recordings of this tour were released as the double LP Plays Live.
The stage was set for Gabriel's critical and commercial breakout with his next studio release, which was in production for almost three years. During the recording and production of the album he also found time to develop the film soundtrack for Alan Parker's 1984 feature Birdy, which consisted of new material as well as remixed instrumental tracks from his previous studio album.
[edit] So, Passion and Us (1986–1994)









"Don't Give Up"
noicon
A 1986 duet with Kate Bush, "Don't Give Up" tells of the despair of a man who feels defeated by the economic system, and the support and wise counsel sung in the refrain.




Problems listening to this file? See media help.


Gabriel achieved his greatest popularity with songs from the 1986 album So.[11] The album charted at number 1 in the UK Album Chart, and number 2 on the Billboard 200 in the US.[12][13] It is certified triple platinum in the UK, and five times platinum in the US.[14][15] The album produced three UK Top 20 hits, "Sledgehammer", "Big Time", and "Don't Give Up" — a duet with Kate Bush.[12] The album also produced three Top 40 hits in the U.S., "Sledgehammer", "In Your Eyes" (featured in the John Cusack film Say Anything), and "Big Time".[13] "Sledgehammer", peaked at #1 in the U.S., knocking Genesis' "Invisible Touch" off the top spot, and #4 in the UK.[13] The ballad "Don't Give Up" was about the devastation of unemployment. Gabriel co-produced So with Daniel Lanois, also known for his work with U2 and Brian Eno.[16] In 1990, Rolling Stone ranked So number #14 on its list of "Top 100 Albums of the Eighties".[17]
Gabriel's song "Sledgehammer", which dealt specifically with the themes of sex and sexual relations, was accompanied by a much-lauded music video, which was a collaboration with director Stephen R. Johnson, Aardman Animations, and the Brothers Quay.[2] The video set a new standard for art in the music video industry, and won nine MTV Video Music Awards in 1987, a record which still stands as of 2011.[2] "Sledgehammer" is the most played music video in the history of MTV, and in 1998 it was named the station's number one animated video of all time.[2][18] A follow-up video for the song "Big Time" also broke new ground in music video animation and special effects. The song is a story of "what happens to you when you become a little too successful", in Gabriel's words. The success of the album earned Peter Gabriel two awards at the Brit Awards in 1987: Best British Male Solo Artist and Best British Video for "Sledgehammer".[4] Gabriel was also nominated for three Grammy Awards: Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, Song of the Year, and Record of the Year.[19]
In 1989, Gabriel released Passion, the soundtrack for Martin Scorsese's movie The Last Temptation of Christ. For this work he received his first Grammy Award, in the category of Best New Age Performance. He also received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Original Score - Motion Picture.
Following this, Gabriel released Us in 1992 (also co-produced with Daniel Lanois), an album in which he explored the pain of recent personal problems; his failed first marriage, and the growing distance between him and his first daughter.
Gabriel's introspection within the context of the album Us can be seen in the first single release "Digging in the Dirt" directed by John Downer. Accompanied by a disturbing video featuring Gabriel covered in snails and various foliage, this song made reference to the psychotherapy which had taken up much of Gabriel's time since the previous album. Gabriel describes his struggle to get through to his daughter in "Come Talk To Me" directed by Matt Mahurin, which featured backing vocals by Sinéad O'Connor. O'Connor also lent vocals to "Blood of Eden", directed by Nichola Bruce and Michael Coulson, the third single to be released from the album, and once again dealing with relationship struggles, this time going right back to Adam's rib for inspiration. The result was one of Gabriel's most personal albums. It met with less success than So, reaching #2 in the album chart on both sides of the Atlantic, and making modest chart impact with the singles "Digging in the Dirt" and the funkier "Steam", which evoked memories of "Sledgehammer". Gabriel followed the release of the album with a world tour (with Paula Cole or Joy Askew filling O'Connor's vocal role) and accompanying double CD and DVD Secret World Live in 1994.
Gabriel employed an innovative approach in the marketing of the Us album. Not wishing to feature only images of himself, he asked artist filmmakers Nichola Bruce and Michael Coulson to coordinate a marketing campaign using contemporary artists. Artists such as Helen Chadwick, Rebecca Horn, Nils Udo, Andy Goldsworthy, David Mach and Yayoi Kusama collaborated to create original artworks for each of the 11 songs on the multi-million-selling CD. Coulson and Bruce documented the process on Hi-8 video. Bruce left Real World and Coulson continued with the campaign, using the documentary background material as the basis for a promotional EPK, the long-form video All About Us and the interactive CD-ROM Xplora1.
Gabriel won three more Grammy Awards, all in the Music Video category. He won the Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video in 1993 and 1994 for the videos to "Digging in the Dirt" and "Steam" respectively. Gabriel also won the 1996 Grammy Award for Best Long Form Music Video for his Secret World Live video.
[edit] OVO, Up, Scratch My Back and New Blood (1995–present)
After five years of not releasing any new music, Gabriel re-emerged with OVO, a soundtrack for the live Millennium Dome Show in London in 2000, and Long Walk Home, the music from the Australian movie Rabbit-Proof Fence, early in 2002. This soundtrack also received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Original Score – Motion Picture.
In September 2002, Gabriel released Up, his first full-length studio album in a decade. Entirely self-produced, Up returned to some of the themes of his work in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Three singles failed to make an impression on the charts—in part because almost every track exceeded six minutes in length, with multiple sections—but the album sold well globally, as Gabriel continued to draw from a loyal fan base from his almost forty years in the music business. Up was followed by a world tour featuring his daughter Melanie Gabriel on backing vocals, and two concert DVDs, Growing Up Live (2003) and Still Growing Up: Live & Unwrapped (2004).
In 2008, Gabriel contributed to the WALL-E soundtrack several new songs with Thomas Newman, including the film's closing song, "Down to Earth", for which they received the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media. The song was also nominated for the Golden Globe for Best Original Song - Motion Picture and the Academy Award for Best Original Song.
In 2010, Gabriel released Scratch My Back. The album is made up entirely of cover songs including material written by David Bowie, Lou Reed, Arcade Fire, Radiohead, Regina Spektor, Neil Young, and more. The concept for the record is that Gabriel covers songs by various artists and those artists in turn will cover Gabriel songs to be released on a future follow-up album called I'll Scratch Yours. Scratch My Back features only orchestral instrumentation; there are no guitars, drums, or electronic elements that are usual attributes of Gabriel records. A very brief tour followed the album's release where Gabriel performed with a full orchestra and two female backup singers, his daughter Melanie Gabriel and Norwegian singer-songwriter Ane Brun.
On 11 October 2011, Gabriel released New Blood, a collection of his earlier songs recorded with an orchestra. A special edition of the album features solely instrumental versions of some of the songs.
In Fall 2012, Gabriel will embark on the Back to Front Tour in which he will perform the entire So album to celebrate its 25th anniversary.[20]
Musicians and collaborators[link]
Gabriel has worked with a relatively stable crew of musicians and recording engineers throughout his solo career. Bass and Stick player Tony Levin, for example, has appeared on every Gabriel studio album (except Scratch My Back and the soundtracks Passion and Long Walk Home) and has performed on every Gabriel solo tour (except The New Blood Tour). Guitar player David Rhodes has been Gabriel’s guitarist of choice since 1979. Prior to So, Jerry Marotta was Gabriel's preferred drummer, both in the studio and on the road. (For the So and Us albums and tours Marotta was replaced by Manu Katché, who was then replaced by Ged Lynch on parts of the Up album and all of the subsequent tour). Gabriel is known for choosing top-flight collaborators, from co-producers such as Ezrin, Fripp, Lillywhite, and Lanois to musicians such as Natalie Merchant, Elizabeth Fraser, L. Shankar, Trent Reznor, Youssou N'Dour, Larry Fast, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Sinéad O'Connor, Kate Bush, Ane Brun, Paula Cole, John Giblin, Peter Hammill, Papa Wemba, Manu Katché, Bayete, Phil Collins (as drummer), and Stewart Copeland.
Over the years, Gabriel has collaborated with singer Kate Bush several times; Bush provided backing vocals for Gabriel's "Games Without Frontiers" and "No Self Control" in 1980, and female lead vocal for "Don't Give Up" (a Top 10 hit in the UK) in 1986, and Gabriel appeared on her television special. Their duet of Roy Harper's "Another Day" was discussed for release as a single, but never appeared.
He also collaborated with Laurie Anderson on two versions of her composition "Excellent Birds" – one for her 1984 album Mister Heartbreak, and a slightly different version called "This is the Picture (Excellent Birds)", which appeared on cassette and CD versions of So. In 1987, when presenting Gabriel with an award for his music videos, Anderson related an occasion in which a recording session had gone late into the night and Gabriel's voice had begun to sound somewhat strange, almost dreamlike. It was discovered that he had fallen asleep in front of the microphone, but had continued to sing.
Gabriel sang (along with Jim Kerr of Simple Minds) on "Everywhere I Go", from The Call's 1986 release, Reconciled. On Toni Childs' 1994 CD, The Woman's Boat, Gabriel sang on the track, "I Met a Man".
In 1998, Gabriel appeared on the soundtrack of Babe: Pig in the City, not as a composer, but as the singer of the song "That'll Do", written by Randy Newman. The song was nominated for an Academy Award, and Gabriel and Newman performed it at the following year's Oscar telecast. He performed a similar soundtrack appearance for the 2004 film Shall We Dance?, singing a cover version of "The Book of Love" by The Magnetic Fields.
Gabriel has also appeared on Robbie Robertson's self-titled album, singing on "Fallen Angel"; co-written two Tom Robinson singles; and appeared on Joni Mitchell's 1988 album Chalk Mark in a Rainstorm, on the track "My Secret Place".
In 2001, Gabriel contributed lead vocals to the song "When You're Falling" on Afro Celt Sound System's Volume 3: Further in Time.[21] In the summer of 2003, Gabriel performed in Ohio with a guest performance by Uzbek singer Sevara Nazarkhan.
Gabriel collaborated on tracks with electronic musician BT. The tracks were never released, as the computers they were contained on were stolen from BT's home in California. He also sang the lyrics for Deep Forest on their theme song for the movie Strange Days. In addition, Gabriel has appeared on Angelique Kidjo's 2007 album Djin Djin, singing on the song "Salala".
Gabriel has recorded a cover of the Vampire Weekend single "Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa" with Hot Chip, where his name is mentioned several times in the chorus. He substitutes the original line "But this feels so unnatural / Peter Gabriel too / This feels so unnatural/ Peter Gabriel too" with "It feels so unnatural / Peter Gabriel too / and it feels so unnatural / to sing your own name."
WOMAD and other projects[link]
Gabriel has been interested in world music for many years, with the first musical evidence appearing on his third album. This influence has increased over time, and he is the driving force behind the World of Music, Arts and Dance (WOMAD) movement. He created the Real World Studios and record label to facilitate the creation and distribution of such music by various artists, and he has worked to educate Western culture about the work of such musicians as Yungchen Lhamo, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and Youssou N'dour. He has a long-standing interest in human rights, and launched Witness,[22] a nonprofit which trains human rights activists to use video and online technologies to expose human rights abuses. In 2006 his work with WITNESS and his long standing support of peace and human rights causes was recognised by the Nobel Peace Prize Laureates with the Man of Peace award.
In the 1990s, with Steve Nelson of Brilliant Media and director Michael Coulson, he developed advanced multimedia CD-ROM-based entertainment projects, creating the acclaimed Xplora (the world's largest selling music CD-ROM), and subsequently the EVE CD-ROM. EVE was a music and art adventure game directed by Michael Coulson and co-produced by the Starwave Corporation in Seattle; it won the prestigious Milia d'Or award Grand Prize at the Cannes in 1996 and featured themes and interactivity well in advance of its time. Xplora and EVE can no longer be played on modern PCs, due to changes to their operating systems.
In 1994, Gabriel starred in the Breck Eisner short film "Recon" as a detective who enters the minds of murder victims to find their killer's identity.
Gabriel helped pioneer a new realm of musical interaction in 2001, visiting Georgia State University's Language Research Center to participate in keyboard jam sessions with bonobo apes from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. (This experience inspired the song "Animal Nation," which was performed on Gabriel's 2002 "Growing Up" tour and was featured on the Growing Up Live DVD and The Wild Thornberrys Movie soundtrack.) Gabriel's desire to bring attention to the intelligence of primates also took the form of ApeNet, a project that aimed to link great apes through the internet, enabling the first interspecies internet communication.[23]
He was one of the founders of On Demand Distribution (OD2), one of the first online music download services. Its technology is used by MSN Music UK and others, and has become the dominant music download technology platform for stores in Europe. OD2 was bought by US company Loudeye in June 2004 and subsequently by Finnish mobile giant Nokia in October 2006 for $60 million.
Additionally, Gabriel is also co-founder (with Brian Eno) of a musicians union called Mudda, short for "magnificent union of digitally downloading artists."
In 2000, Peter Gabriel collaborated with Zucchero, Anggun and others in charity for kids with AIDS. Erick Benzi have write words and music and Patrick Bruel, Stephan Eicher, Faudel, Lokua Kanza, Laam, Nourith, Axelle Red have accept to sing it.
In 2003, Gabriel's song "Burn You Up, Burn You Down" was featured in Cyan Worlds' video game Uru: Ages Beyond Myst. In 2004, Gabriel contributed another song ("Curtains") and contributed voice work on another game in the Myst franchise, Myst IV: Revelation.
During the latter part of 2004, Gabriel spent time in a village in eastern Nepal with musician Ram Sharan Nepali, learning esoteric vocal techniques. Gabriel subsequently invited Nepali to attend and perform at the Womad festival in Adelaide, Australia.
In June 2005, Gabriel and broadcast industry entrepreneur David Engelke purchased Solid State Logic, a leading manufacturer of mixing consoles and digital audio workstations.[24] SSL is among the top 2 or 3 recording console manufacturers in the world of recording.
In May 2008, Gabriel's Real World Studios, in partnership with Bowers & Wilkins, started the Bowers & Wilkins Music Club - now known as Society of Sound - a subscription-based music retail site. Albums are currently available in either Apple Lossless or Flac format.[25]
Activist for humanitarian causes[link]
In 1986 he started what has become a longstanding association with Amnesty International, becoming a pioneering participant in all 28 of Amnesty's Human Rights Concerts — a series of music events and tours staged by the US Section of Amnesty International between 1986-1998. He performed during the six-concert A Conspiracy of Hope US tour in June 1986; the twenty-concert Human Rights Now! world tour in 1988; the Chile: Embrace Of Hope Concert in 1990 and at The Paris Concert For Amnesty International in 1998. He also performed in Amnesty's Secret Policeman's Ball benefit shows.[26] He spoke of his support for Amnesty on NBC's Today Show in 1986.[27]
Inspired by the social activism he encountered in his work with Amnesty, in 1992 Gabriel co-founded WITNESS, a non-profit group that equips, trains and supports locally-based organizations worldwide to use video and the internet in human rights documentation and advocacy.
In 1995, Gabriel and Cape Verdean human rights activist Vera Duarte were awarded the North-South Prize in its inaugural year.[28][29]




Peter Gabriel at WITNESS Gala 2007


In the late 1990s, Gabriel and entrepreneur Richard Branson discussed with Nelson Mandela their idea of a small, dedicated group of leaders, working objectively and without any vested personal interest to solve difficult global conflicts.
On 18 July 2007, in Johannesburg, South Africa, Nelson Mandela announced the formation of a new group, Global Elders, in a speech he delivered on the occasion of his 89th birthday. The present members of this group are Desmond Tutu, Graça Machel, Kofi Annan, Ela Bhatt, Lakhdar Brahimi, Gro Harlem Brundtland, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Jimmy Carter, Mary Robinson, Muhammad Yunus, and Aung San Suu Kyi (with an empty chair for her).[30]
The Elders will be independently funded by a group of "Founders", including Branson and Gabriel.
Desmond Tutu serves as the chair of the Elders, who will use their collective skills to catalyse peaceful resolutions to long-standing conflicts, articulate new approaches to global issues that are causing or may later cause immense human suffering, and share wisdom by helping to connect voices all over the world. They will work together over the next several months to consider carefully which specific issues they will confront.
In November 2007 Gabriel's non-profit group WITNESS launched The Hub, a participatory media site for human rights.
In September 2008 Gabriel was named as the recipient of Amnesty International’s 2008 Ambassador of Conscience Award. In the same month, he received Quadriga United We Care award of Werkstatt Deutschland along with Boris Tadić, Eckart Höfling and Wikipedia. The award was presented to him by Queen Silvia of Sweden.[31]
Gabriel lent his support to the campaign to release Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani, an Iranian woman sentenced to death by stoning after being convicted of committing adultery.[32]
Politics[link]
At the 1997 general election, Gabriel declared his support for the Labour Party, which won that election by a landslide after 18 years out of power, led by Tony Blair.[33]
In 1998, Gabriel was named in a list of the biggest private financial donors to Labour.[34] In 2003, he revealed he had voted for Labour and admired what they had done for health and education but distanced himself from the Labour government over Tony Blair’s support for George W. Bush and Britain’s involvement in the Iraq War, which he strongly opposed, although he continued to believe Blair was a man of conscience.[35] Quoted in The Mirror newspaper, he said:

This is a fundamental issue of life and death and I very much think the Prime Minister is in the wrong. I'm also sure George W. Bush is an affable bloke but he's highly dangerous and I wish America was in the hands of someone else. To put oil interests ahead of human life is appalling. War is always terrible but unjustified war is obscene and on present evidence that is what we are facing. People want peace and I think it's great that the Mirror is leading this campaign. I think the consequences of this war would be the biggest threat to world peace in my lifetime...There is a slogan which says: 'Peace is what happens when you respect the rights of others'. Iraqis have rights too.[36]

In 2005, Gabriel gave a Green Party of England and Wales general election candidate special permission to record a cover of his song "Don't Give Up" for his campaign.[37]
In 2010, The Guardian described Gabriel as "a staunch advocate of proportional representation".[38]
In 2012, Gabriel condemned the use of his music by American talk radio personality Rush Limbaugh during a controversial segment in which Limbaugh vilified Georgetown University law student Sandra Fluke. A statement on behalf of Gabriel read: "Peter was appalled to learn that his music was linked to Rush Limbaugh's extraordinary attack on Sandra Fluke. It is obvious from anyone that knows Peter's work that he would never approve such a use. He has asked his representatives to make sure his music is withdrawn and especially from these unfair, aggressive and ignorant comments."[39]
Personal life[link]
Gabriel has two daughters with his first wife Jill Moore: Anna-Marie (born 26 July 1974) and Melanie Gabriel (born 23 August 1976). Married on 17 March 1971, they divorced in 1987. Moore's father was Lord Moore of Wolvercote.
Anna-Marie is a filmmaker and Melanie is a musician. Anna-Marie filmed and directed the Growing Up On Tour: A Family Portrait and Still Growing Up: Live & Unwrapped DVDs. Melanie has been a backing vocalist in her father's band since 2002.
In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Gabriel lived with actress Rosanna Arquette but they never married.
Gabriel also has two sons with Meabh Flynn: Isaac Ralph (born 27 September 2001) and Luc (born 5 July 2008). Gabriel and Flynn have been married since 9 June 2002.
Gabriel has resided for many years in the county of Wiltshire in England, where he also runs his Real World Studios. He previously lived in the Woolley Valley near Bath, Somerset. In 2010 he joined a campaign to stop an agricultural development at the valley, which had also inspired his first solo single "Solsbury Hill" in 1977.[40]
Appearances: 2005–present[link]
Gabriel actively coordinated and performed at the Eden Project Live 8 concert in July 2005. In his earliest days, Gabriel played flute on Cat Stevens's first album on the Island records label, Mona Bone Jakon as a "nervous session musician". Stevens, now known as Yusuf Islam, joined him on stage 33 years after that experience, in Johannesburg during Nelson Mandela's 46664 concert. The two performed the Stevens hit "Wild World".
A double DVD set, Still Growing Up: Live & Unwrapped, was released in October 2005.
FIFA asked Gabriel and Brian Eno to organise an opening ceremony for the 2006 FIFA World Cup finals in Germany, planned to take place a couple of days before the start of the tournament; however, the show was cancelled in January 2006 by FIFA.
Rumours of a possible reunion of the original Genesis line-up began circulating in 2004 after Phil Collins stated in an interview that he was open to the idea of sitting back behind the drums and "let Peter be the singer." The classic line-up has only reformed for a live performance once before, in 1982. However, the group did work together to create a new version of the 1974 song "The Carpet Crawlers", ultimately released on the Turn It On Again: The Hits album as "The Carpet Crawlers 1999". Gabriel later met with other Genesis band members, to discuss a possible reunion tour of The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway. He chose to opt out of a reunion tour, and his former bandmates, Collins, Banks, and Rutherford chose to tour as Genesis without him.
At the opening ceremonies of the Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, Gabriel performed John Lennon's "Imagine" during the opening of the festivities on 10 February 2006.
In October 2006, Gabriel was given the first Pioneer Award at the BT Digital Music Awards, an award presented in recognition of his "profound and lasting influence on the development of digital music."
In November 2006, the Seventh World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates in Rome presented Gabriel with the Man of Peace award. The award, presented by former President of the USSR and Nobel Peace Prize winner Mikhail Gorbachev and Walter Veltroni, Mayor of Rome, was an acknowledgement of Gabriel's extensive contribution and work on behalf of human rights and peace. The award was presented in the Giulio Cesare Hall of the Campidoglio in Rome. At the end of the year, he was awarded the Q magazine Lifetime Achievement Award, presented to him by American musician Moby. In an interview published in the magazine to accompany the award, Gabriel's contribution to music was described as "vast and enduring."
Gabriel took on a project with the BBC World Service's competition "The Next Big Thing" to find the world's best young band. Gabriel is judging the final six young artists with William Orbit, Geoff Travis and Angélique Kidjo.
The Times reported on 21 January 2007, that Peter Gabriel had announced that he planned to release his next album in the U.S. without the aid of a record company. Gabriel, an early pioneer of digital music distribution, had raised £2 million towards recording and 'shipping' his next album, Big Blue Ball in a venture with investment boutique Ingenious Media. Gabriel is expected to earn double the money that he would through a conventional record deal. Commercial director Duncan Reid of Ingenious explains the business savvy of the deal, saying, "If you're paying a small distribution fee and covering your own marketing costs, you enjoy the lion's share of the proceeds of the album. Gabriel is expected to outsource CD production for worldwide release through Warner Bros. Records. The new album deal covers the North America territory, where Gabriel is currently out of contract.[41]
The album Big Blue Ball was launched in America thanks to a venture capital trust initiative. Bosses at London-based firm Ingenious raised more than $4 million (GBP 2 million) to help promote the release in the United States. The venture capitalists, Gabriel and his Real World Limited partners, have created a new joint venture company, High Level Recordings Limited, to oversee the release of the album, which took place in 2008. Gabriel appeared on a nationwide tour for the album in 2009.[42]
On 24 May 2007, he was honoured with the Ivor Novello Award for lifetime achievement.[43]
Gabriel was a judge for the 6th and 8th annual Independent Music Awards to support independent artists.[44]
In February 2009, Gabriel announced that he would not be performing on the 2008 Academy Awards telecast because producers of the show were limiting his performance of "Down to Earth" from WALL-E to 65 seconds. John Legend and the Soweto Gospel Choir performed the song in his stead.
Gabriel's 2009 tour of Mexico and South America included visiting Mexico, Argentina, Chile, Peru, and Venezuela. His first ever performance in Peru was held in Lima on 20 March 2009, during his second visit to the country. His concert in Mexico City, on 27 March 2009, attracted more than 38,000 fans.
On 25 July 2009, he played at WOMAD Charlton Park, his only European performance of the year, to promote Witness. The show included two tracks from the then-forthcoming Scratch My Back: Paul Simon's "The Boy in the Bubble" and The Magnetic Fields' "The Book of Love".[45]
On 5 October 2011 at the Royal Festival Hall, London Gabriel appeared at the end of an interview of President Carter by Channel 4 News presenter, Jon Snow, to lead the 2,500-strong audience in a rendition of happy birthday to mark the President turning 87.
On 9 November 2011 he appeared and performed on CBS's Late Show with David Letterman.
Discography[link]
Main article: Peter Gabriel discography

Peter Gabriel 1 (Car) (1977)
Peter Gabriel 2 (Scratch) (1978)
Peter Gabriel 3 (Melt) (1980)
Ein deutsches Album (1980)
Peter Gabriel 4 (Security) (1982)
Deutsches Album (1982)
Birdy (1985)
So (1986)
Passion (1989)
Us (1992)
OVO (2000)
Long Walk Home (2002)
Up (2002)
Scratch My Back (2010)
New Blood (2011)

See also[link]

List of best selling music artists
List of artists who reached number one on the Hot 100 (U.S.)
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Dance chart
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Mainstream Rock chart

References[link]


^ Peter Gabriel Biography PeterGabriel.com
^ a b c d Peter Gabriel, 'Sledgehammer' (1986) - The 30 All-TIME Best Music Videos Time. Retrieved 19 November 2011
^ "Peter Gabriel Receives Top Honor at BMI London Awards". bmi.com. http://www.bmi.com/news/entry/535578. Retrieved 2010-10-13. 
^ a b The BRITs 1987 Brits.co.uk. Retrieved 24 November 2011
^ Past Winners: Peter Gabriel Grammy.com. Retrieved 24 November 2011
^ Peter Gabriel Profile LyricsOnDemand.com
^ Family detective: Peter Gabriel Telegraph.co.uk
^ a b c d Neer, Dan (1985). Mike on Mike [interview LP], Atlantic Recording Corporation.
^ Solsbury Hill by Peter Gabriel Songfacts.com
^ Flans, Robyn (1 May 2005). "Classic Tracks: Phil Collins' "In the Air Tonight"". MixOnline.com. http://mixonline.com/mag/audio_phil_collins_air/index.html. 
^ So - Peter Gabriel (review) Allmusic. Retrieved 21 November 2011
^ a b Roberts, David (2006). British Hit Singles & Albums. London: Guinness World Records Limited
^ a b c Whitburn, Joel (2006). The Billboard Book of Top 40 Hits. Billboard Books
^ "British album certifications – Peter Gabriel – So". British Phonographic Industry. Enter So in the field Search. Select Title in the field Search by. Select album in the field By Format. Click Go
^ "American album certifications – Peter Gabriel – So". Recording Industry Association of America. If necessary, click Advanced, then click Format, then select Album, then click SEARCH
^ So - Peter Gabriel (credits) Allmusic. Retrieved 21 November 2011
^ The 100 Greatest Albums Of The 80s. Rolling Stone. Special Issue 1990. Retrieved 21 November 2011
^ MTV. Top Ten Animated Videos Countdown. June 28, 1998
^ 29th Grammy Awards - 1987 Rock On The Net. Retrieved 19 November 2011
^ [1]
^ Volume 3: Further in Time Real World Records
^ "See it. Film it. Change it. Using video to open the eyes of the world to human rights violations". Witness. http://www.witness.org. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ 'Peter Gabriel goes ape for research project' Top40-Charts.com, 20 July 2001
^ "Peter Gabriel and David Engelke purchase Solid State Logic". 21 June 2005. http://broadcastengineering.com/audio/Ssl-purchase-music-20050621/. Retrieved 19 September 2011. 
^ Breen, Christopher (2008-05-27). "B&W and Real World Launch Music Club". PC World. http://www.pcworld.com/article/146352/bandw_and_real_world_launch_music_club.html. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ "Peter Gabriel talks about his work for Amnesty International". YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0UYgKOv9_g. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ "Peter Gabriel TV Interview On NBC Today Show about Amnesty concerts". YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xcj9CRdSYEI. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ "The North South Prize of Lisbon". North-South Centre. Council of Europe. Archived from the original on 15 February 2008. http://web.archive.org/web/20080215230739/http://www.coe.int/t/e/north-south_centre/programmes/7_north-south_prize/winners_PNS.asp. Retrieved 21 January 2008. 
^ "Ms. Vera Duarte, Minister of Education, Cape Verde". Council of Europe. http://www.coe.int/t/dg4/nscentre/20th_anniversary/Testimonies/Interview_VeraDuarte.pdf. Retrieved 2011-11-03. 
^ "About". The Elders. http://www.theelders.org/elders/. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ "Die Quadriga - Award 2008" (in (German)). Loomarea.com. http://loomarea.com/die_quadriga/e/index.php?title=Award_2008. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ "Iran stoning case woman ordered to name campaigners". The Guardian (London). 22 July 2010. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/jul/22/iran-stoning-woman-campaigners. 
^ "Who's backing whom at the election?". BBC News. 21 April 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/vote_2005/frontpage/4464557.stm. Retrieved 13 April 2011. 
^ "'Luvvies' for Labour". BBC News. 30 August 1998. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/161057.stm. Retrieved 22 May 2010. 
^ The Mirror, 1 March 2003.
^ "Peter Gabriel backs antiwar campaign". http://www.mail-archive.com/antinato@topica.com/msg07910.html. 
^ "Green candidate sings for votes". BBC News. 29 April 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/vote_2005/england/4497761.stm. Retrieved 22 May 2010. 
^ "Peter Gabriel: 'It doesn't have anything to do with witchcraft!'". The Guardian. 2 June 2010. http://www.guardian.co.uk/music/2010/jun/02/peter-gabriel-scratch-my-back. Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
^ "Peter Gabriel Pulls Music From 'Rush Limbaugh Show'". http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/peter-gabriel-pulls-music-from-rush-limbaugh-show-20120305#ixzz1pQftliJu. 
^ "Peter Gabriel attacks Woolley Valley farm plans". BBC News. 19 May 2010. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/somerset/8693430.stm. Retrieved 15 Jan 2011. 
^ Durman, Paul. Gabriel deals a blow to the record business, The Times. 21 January 2007.
^ Gabriel Calls on Venture Capitalists To Help Album Launch, contactmusic.com. 24 January 2007.
^ "Winehouse, Madonna win U.K. songwriting prizes". CBC.ca Arts. 24 May 2007. http://www.cbc.ca/arts/music/story/2007/05/24/novello-awards.html. Retrieved 27 November 2007. 
^ "Past Judges". Independent Music Awards. http://www.independentmusicawards.com/ima_new/pastjudges.asp. Retrieved 2011-07-16. 
^ Dalton, Stephen (27 July 2009). "Womad 2009 at Charlton Park Wiltshire". The Times (London). http://entertainment.timesonline.co.uk/tol/arts_and_entertainment/music/festivals/article6728136.ece. Retrieved 22 May 2010. 


External links[link]





This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (October 2011)





Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Peter Gabriel





Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Peter Gabriel



Official website
Peter Gabriel at the Internet Movie Database
Peter Gabriel discography at MusicBrainz
Peter Gabriel at TED Conferences
Appearances on C-SPAN
Peter Gabriel on Charlie Rose
Works by or about Peter Gabriel in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Peter Gabriel collected news and commentary at The Guardian
Audio interview at BBC Wiltshire
Peter Gabriel takes part in a panel at the Global Philanthropy Forum video









v
t
e


Peter Gabriel






Studio albums



Peter Gabriel ("Car")
Peter Gabriel ("Scratch")
Peter Gabriel ("Melt")
Peter Gabriel ("Security")
So
Us
Up
Scratch My Back
New Blood
I/O








Live albums



Plays Live
Plays Live Highlights
Secret World Live
Live Blood








Soundtracks



Birdy
Passion
OVO
Long Walk Home








Compilations



Shaking the Tree: Sixteen Golden Greats
Revisited
Hit
Peter Gabriel (The Mail on Sunday)








Films



CV
Secret World Live
Growing Up Live
Growing Up: A Family Portrait
Play: The Videos
Still Growing Up: Live & Unwrapped
New Blood: Live in London








German-language albums



Ein deutsches Album
Deutsches Album








Other



Genesis
WOMAD
Passion – Sources
Plus from US
Big Blue Ball
Xplora1: Peter Gabriel's Secret World
EVE: Peter Gabriel
Myst IV: Revelation
I'll Scratch Yours









Peter Gabriel discography














v
t
e


Genesis









Tony Banks
Mike Rutherford
Phil Collins


Peter Gabriel
Anthony Phillips
Chris Stewart
John Silver
John Mayhew
Mick Barnard
Steve Hackett
Ray Wilson


Additional studio musicians
Nir Zidkyahu
Nick D'Virgilio


Additional touring musicians
Bill Bruford
Daryl Stuermer
Chester Thompson
Anthony Drennan








Studio albums



From Genesis to Revelation
Trespass
Nursery Cryme
Foxtrot
Selling England by the Pound
The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway
A Trick of the Tail
Wind & Wuthering
...And Then There Were Three...
Duke
Abacab
Genesis
Invisible Touch
We Can't Dance
Calling All Stations








Live albums



Genesis Live
Seconds Out
Three Sides Live
The Way We Walk, Volume One: The Shorts
The Way We Walk, Volume Two: The Longs
Live over Europe 2007








Compilation albums



Turn It On Again: The Hits
Platinum Collection








Singles and EPs



"The Silent Sun"
"A Winter's Tale"
"Where the Sour Turns to Sweet"
"The Knife (Part 1)"
"Happy the Man"
"Watcher of the Skies"
"I Know What I Like (In Your Wardrobe)"
"Counting Out Time"
"The Carpet Crawlers"
"Entangled"
"A Trick of the Tail"
"Your Own Special Way"
"Spot The Pigeon (EP)"
"Follow You Follow Me"
"Many Too Many"
"Go West Young Man (In The Motherlode)"
"Turn It On Again"
"Duchess"
"Misunderstanding"
"Abacab"
"No Reply at All"
"Keep It Dark"
"Man on the Corner"
"3X3 (EP)"
"Paperlate"
"Mama"
"That's All"
"Home by the Sea"
"Illegal Alien"
"Taking It All Too Hard"
"Invisible Touch"
"Throwing It All Away"
"Land of Confusion"
"In Too Deep"
"Tonight, Tonight, Tonight"
"No Son of Mine"
"I Can't Dance"
"Hold on My Heart"
"Jesus He Knows Me"
"Never a Time"
"Invisible Touch (Live)"
"Tell Me Why"
"Congo"
"Shipwrecked"
"Not About Us"
"The Carpet Crawlers 1999"
"The Silent Sun 2006"








Box sets



Genesis Archive 1967–75
Genesis Archive 2: 1976–1992
Genesis 1976–1982
Genesis 1983–1998
Genesis 1970–1975
Genesis Live 1973–2007
Genesis Movie Box 1981–2007








Live videos



Genesis: In Concert
Three Sides Live
The Mama Tour
Genesis Live at Wembley Stadium
The Way We Walk - Live in Concert
When in Rome 2007








Tours



The Early Gigs
Nursery Cryme Tour
Foxtrot Tour
Selling England by the Pound Tour
The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway Tour
A Trick of the Tail Tour
Wind & Wuthering Tour
And Then There Were Three Tour
Duke Tour
Abacab Tour
Three Sides Live Encore Tour
Mama Tour
Invisible Touch Tour
We Can't Dance Tour
Calling All Stations Tour
Turn It On Again Tour








Related articles



List of Genesis medleys
Brand X
Flaming Youth
Mike + The Mechanics
GTR
Stiltskin
Jonathan King
Tony Smith
The Musical Box
The Farm
Six of the Best











Genesis discography
Genesis awards
Book
Category
















v
t
e


Laureates of the Polar Music Prize






1992–1999



Paul McCartney / the Baltic states (1992)
Dizzy Gillespie / Witold Lutosławski (1993)
Quincy Jones / Nikolaus Harnoncourt (1994)
Elton John / Mstislav Rostropovich (1995)
Joni Mitchell / Pierre Boulez (1996)
Bruce Springsteen / Eric Ericson (1997)
Ray Charles / Ravi Shankar (1998)
Stevie Wonder / Iannis Xenakis (1999)








2000–2009



Bob Dylan / Isaac Stern (2000)
Burt Bacharach / Robert Moog / Karlheinz Stockhausen (2001)
Miriam Makeba / Sofia Gubaidulina (2002)
Keith Jarrett (2003)
B.B. King / György Ligeti (2004)
Gilberto Gil / Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau (2005)
Led Zeppelin / Valery Gergiev (2006)
Sonny Rollins / Steve Reich (2007)
Pink Floyd / Renée Fleming (2008)
Peter Gabriel / José Antonio Abreu / El Sistema (2009)








2010–present



Björk / Ennio Morricone (2010)
Kronos Quartet / Patti Smith (2011)
















v
t
e


AACTA Award for Best Original Music Score (2000–2019)









Bootmen – Cezary Skubiszewski (2000)
The Dish – Edmund Choi (2001)
Rabbit-Proof Fence – Peter Gabriel (2002)
Japanese Story – Elizabeth Drake (2003)
Somersault – Decoder Ring (2004)
The Proposition – Nick Cave and Warren Ellis (2005)
Suburban Mayhem – Mick Harvey (2006)
The Home Song Stories – Antony Patros (2007)
Unfinished Sky – Antony Patros (2008)
Mao's Last Dancer – Christopher Gordon (2009)
Animal Kingdom – Antony Partos and Sam Petty (2010)
The Hunter – Andrew Lancaster, Michael Lira and Matteo Zingales (2011)











Complete list
(1975–1979)
(1980–1999)
(2000–2019)










Persondata


Name
Gabriel, Peter


Alternative names
Gabriel, Peter Brian


Short description
Musician, record producer


Date of birth
13 February 1950


Place of birth
Cobham, Surrey, England


Date of death



Place of death




http://wn.com/Peter_Gabriel
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://cs.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://id.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://es.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://ru.wn.com/Гэбриэл, Питер
http://nl.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://pt.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://pl.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://fr.wn.com/Peter Gabriel
http://de.wn.com/Peter Gabriel


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Gabriel
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        













Kate Bush



Kate Bush about to perform at Comic Relief 1986


Background information


Birth name
Catherine Bush


Born
(1958-07-30) 30 July 1958 (age 53)
Bexleyheath, Southeast London, England


Genres
Art rock,[1] progressive rock,[2] alternative rock[1], baroque pop


Occupations
Musician, vocalist, songwriter, record producer


Instruments
Vocals, piano, keyboards, bass guitar, guitar, violin


Years active
1975–present


Labels
EMI Records (1975–present)
Columbia Records (U.S.) (1989–2009)
Legacy Recordings (2010–present)
Fish People (division of EMI) 2011–


Website
Official website


Notable instruments


Fairlight CMI


Catherine "Kate" Bush (born 30 July 1958)[1] is an English singer-songwriter, musician and record producer. Her eclectic musical style and idiosyncratic vocal style have made her one of the United Kingdom's most successful solo female performers of the past 30 years.
In 1978, at the age of 19, Bush topped the UK Singles Chart for four weeks with her debut single "Wuthering Heights", becoming the first woman to have a UK number one with a self-written song.[3] She has since released ten albums, three of which topped the UK Albums Chart, and has had 25 UK Top 40 hit singles including the Top 10 hits "Wuthering Heights", "Running Up that Hill", "King of the Mountain", "Babooshka", "The Man with the Child in His Eyes", and "Don't Give Up".
In 1987, she won a Brit Award for Best British Female Solo Artist, and in 2002, her songwriting ability was recognised with an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music. During the course of her career, she has also been nominated for three Grammy Awards. After her 1979 tour – the only concert tour of her career – Bush released the 1980 album Never for Ever, which made her the first British solo female artist to top the UK album charts and the first female artist ever to enter the album chart at Number 1.[4] She is also the first (and to date only) female artist to have Top 5 albums in the UK charts in 5 successive decades.
In May 2012, Bush's latest album, 50 Words for Snow, won the South Bank Arts Award [5]. The album was also nominated for an Ivor Novello Award and a Brit Award that same year.




Contents


1 Early life
2 Career

2.1 The Kick Inside and Lionheart
2.2 Never for Ever and The Dreaming
2.3 Hounds of Love and The Whole Story
2.4 The Sensual World and The Red Shoes
2.5 Aerial
2.6 Director's Cut and 50 Words for Snow


3 Musical style
4 Length of time between albums and perception of perfectionism
5 Live performances
6 Video projects
7 Movie projects
8 Collaborations
9 Reluctance to tour
10 Influence
11 Personal life
12 Discography
13 See also
14 References
15 Further reading
16 External links




Early life[link]
Bush was born in Bexleyheath, Southeast London, to English physician Robert Bush and his Irish wife, Hannah Daly.[6] She was raised in their farmhouse in East Wickham with her older brothers, John and Paddy.[7] Bush came from an artistic background: her mother was a former Irish folk dancer, her father was an accomplished pianist, Paddy worked as a musical instrument maker and John was a poet and photographer. Both brothers were involved in the local folk music scene.[8]
John was a karateka at Goldsmiths College karate club and Kate also trained there, becoming known as "Ee-ee" because of her squeaky kiai. One of the instructors, Dave Hazard, later noted in his autobiography that her dance moves seemed to owe something to karate.[9]
Her family's musical influence inspired the young Kate to teach herself to play the piano at the age of 11. She also played the organ in a barn behind her parents' house and studied the violin.[10] She soon began writing her own tunes and eventually added lyrics to them.[11]
Career[link]
Bush attended St Joseph's Convent Grammar School (later the St Joseph's campus of Bexley College) and a Catholic girls' school on Woolwich Road in Abbey Wood, London, in the mid-1970s. During this time her family produced a demo tape with over 50 of her compositions, which was turned down by record labels. David Gilmour of Pink Floyd received the demo from Ricky Hopper, a mutual friend of Gilmour and the Bush family. Impressed with what he heard, Gilmour helped the sixteen-year-old Bush get a more professional-sounding demo tape recorded that would be more saleable to the record companies.[12] Three tracks in total were recorded and paid for by Gilmour. [13]The tape was produced by Gilmour's friend Andrew Powell, who would go on to produce Bush's first two albums,[11] and sound engineer Geoff Emerick.[14] The tape was sent to EMI executive Terry Slater.[15] Slater was impressed by the tape and signed her.[16] The British record industry was reaching a point of stagnation.[15] Progressive rock was very popular and visually oriented rock performers were growing in popularity, thus record labels looking for the next big thing were considering experimental acts.[15]
Bush was put on retainer for two years by Bob Mercer, managing director of EMI group-repertoire division. According to Mercer he felt Bush's material was good enough to be released but felt that if the album failed it would be demoralising and if it was successful Bush was too young to handle it.[17] For the first two years of her contract, Bush spent more time on school work than making an album. She left school after doing her mock A-levels and having gained ten GCE O-Level qualifications.[18] In 2005, Bush stated in an interview with Mark Radcliffe on BBC Radio 2 that she believed EMI signed her before she was ready to make an album so that no other record company could offer her a contract. After the contract signing, EMI forwarded her a sizeable advance which she used to enrol in interpretive dance classes taught by Lindsay Kemp, a former teacher of David Bowie,[19] and mime training with Adam Darius.[20]
Bush also wrote and made demos of close to 200 songs, a few of which today can be found on bootleg recordings and are known as the Phoenix Recordings.[21] From March to August 1977, she fronted the KT Bush Band at public houses around London – specifically at the Rose of Lee public house (now Dirty South) in Lewisham. The other three band members were Del Palmer (bass), Brian Bath (guitar), and Vic King (drums). She began recording her first album in August 1977,[11] although two tracks had been recorded during the summer of 1975.
[edit] The Kick Inside and Lionheart









Kate Bush "Wuthering Heights" (1978)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "Wuthering Heights".




Problems listening to this file? See media help.


As part of her preparation for entering the studio, Bush toured pubs with the KT Bush Band. However, for her debut album The Kick Inside (1978) she was persuaded to use established session musicians, some of whom she would retain even after she had brought her bandmates back on board.[22] Her brother Paddy played the harmonica and mandolin, unlike on later albums where he would play more exotic instruments such as the balalaika and didgeridoo. Stuart Elliott played some of the drums and would become her main percussionist on subsequent albums.[23]
Bush released The Kick Inside when she was 19 years old, but some of the songs had been written when she was as young as 13. EMI originally wanted the more rock-oriented track "James and the Cold Gun" to be her debut single, but Bush insisted that it should be "Wuthering Heights". Even at this early stage of her career, she had gained a reputation for her determination to have a say in decisions affecting her work.[11] "Wuthering Heights" topped the UK and Australian charts and became an international hit.[24] Bush became the first woman to reach number one in the UK charts with a self-penned song.[25] A second single, "The Man with the Child in His Eyes", reached number six in the UK charts.[26] It also made it onto the American Billboard Hot 100 where it reached number 85 in early 1979. Bob Mercer felt that Bush's relative lack of success in the United States compared to the rest of the world was due to her music being a poor fit for American radio formats and that there were no outlets for the visual presentation central to Bush's appeal.[17] "The Man with the Child in His Eyes" went on to win her an Ivor Novello Award in 1979 for Outstanding British Lyric.[27]
EMI capitalised on Bush's appearance by promoting the album with a poster of her in a tight pink top that emphasised her breasts. In an interview with NME magazine in 1982, Bush criticised the marketing technique, stating: "People weren't even generally aware that I wrote my own songs or played the piano. The media just promoted me as a female body. It's like I've had to prove that I'm an artist in a female body."[11] In late 1978, EMI persuaded Bush to quickly record a follow-up album, Lionheart, to take advantage of the success of The Kick Inside. Bush has often expressed dissatisfaction with Lionheart, feeling that she had needed more time to get it right. The album was produced by Andrew Powell, assisted by Bush. While it had spawned several hit singles, most notably "Wow", it did not garner the same reception as her first album, reaching number six in the UK album charts.[28]
Bush was displeased with being rushed into making the second album. She set up her own publishing company, Kate Bush Music, and her own management company, Novercia, to maintain complete control over her work. Bush herself, along with members of her family, comprised the company's board of directors.[11] Following the album's release, she was required by EMI to undertake heavy promotional work and an exhausting tour, the only one of her career.[29] The tour, named The Tour of Life, began in April 1979 and lasted six weeks. This live show was co-devised and performed on stage with magician Simon Drake.[30] Typical of her determination to have control, she was involved in every aspect of the show's production, choreography, set design, and staff recruitment.[11] The shows were noted for her dancing, complex lighting and her 17 costume changes per show. Because of her intention to dance as she sang, her sound engineers used a wire coat hanger and a radio microphone to fashion the first headset mic to be used by a rock performer since the Swedish group Spotnicks used a very primitive version in the early 1960s.[1][31]
[edit] Never for Ever and The Dreaming









Kate Bush "Babooshka" (1980)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "Babooshka".



Kate Bush "There Goes a Tenner" (1982)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "There Goes a Tenner".




Problems listening to these files? See media help.


Released in September 1980, Never for Ever saw Bush's second foray into production, co-producing with Jon Kelly. Her first time as a producer was on her Live On Stage EP, released after her tour the previous year. The first two albums had resulted in a definitive sound evident in every track, with orchestral arrangements supporting the live band sound. The range of styles on Never for Ever is much more diverse, veering from the straightforward rocker "Violin" to the wistful waltz of hit single "Army Dreamers". Never for Ever was the first Kate Bush album to feature synthesisers and drum machines, in particular the Fairlight CMI, to which she was introduced when providing backing vocals on Peter Gabriel's eponymous third album in early 1980.[11] It was her first record to reach the top position in the UK album charts, also making her the first female British artist to achieve that status,[18] and the first female artist ever to enter the album chart at the top.[4] The top-selling single from the album was "Babooshka", which reached number five in the UK singles chart.[32] In November 1980, she released the Christmas single "December Will Be Magic Again", which reached number 29 in the UK charts.
September 1982 saw the release of The Dreaming, the first album Bush produced by herself.[33] It was also a major departure for Bush, being initially composed on the Fairlight CMI rather than piano, with songs extensively revised and rebuilt in the studio, rather than merely arranged there.[citation needed] With her new-found freedom, she experimented with production techniques, creating an album that features a diverse blend of musical styles and is known for its near-exhaustive use of the Fairlight CMI. The Dreaming received a mixed critical reception in the UK at first. Many were baffled by the dense soundscapes Bush had created, and some critics accused the album of being over-produced.[citation needed] In a 1993 interview with Q, Bush stated: "That was my 'She's gone mad' album."[11] However, the album was hailed as a "masterpiece" and a "musical tour-de-force" by critics in America, and the album became her first to enter the US charts, albeit only reaching number 157.[11] The album entered the UK album chart at number three, but is to date her lowest-selling album, garnering only a gold disc.
"Sat in Your Lap" was the first single from the album to be released. It pre-dated the album by over a year and peaked at number 11 in the UK.[34] The album's title track, featuring the talents of Rolf Harris and Percy Edwards, stalled at number 48, while the third single, "There Goes a Tenner", failed to chart, despite promotion from EMI and Bush. The track "Suspended in Gaffa" was released as a single in Europe, but not in the UK.
Continuing in her storytelling tradition, Bush looked far outside her own personal experience for sources of inspiration. She drew on old crime films for "There Goes a Tenner", a documentary about the war in Vietnam for "Pull Out the Pin", and the plight of Indigenous Australians for "The Dreaming". "Houdini" is about the magician's death, and "Get Out Of My House" was inspired by Stephen King's novel The Shining.[35]
[edit] Hounds of Love and The Whole Story









Kate Bush "Running Up that Hill" (1985)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "Running Up that Hill".




Problems listening to this file? See media help.


Hounds of Love was released in 1985. Because of the high cost of hiring studio space for her previous album, she built a private studio near her home, where she could work at her own pace.[36] Hounds of Love ultimately topped the charts in the UK, knocking Madonna's Like a Virgin from the number one position.[37]
The album takes advantage of the vinyl format with two very different sides. The first side, Hounds of Love, contains five "accessible" pop songs, including the four singles "Running Up that Hill", "Cloudbusting", "Hounds of Love", and "The Big Sky". In August 1985, NME featured Bush in a "Where Are They Now" article. "Running Up that Hill" reached number 3 in the UK charts and also re-introduced Bush to American listeners, climbing to number 30 on the Billboard Hot 100 in November 1985. The second side of the album, The Ninth Wave, takes its name from Tennyson's poem, "Idylls of the King", about the legendary King Arthur's reign, and is one continuous piece of music.[38] The album earned Bush nominations for Best Female Solo Artist, Best Album, Best Single, and Best Producer at the 1986 BRIT Awards. In the same year, Bush and Peter Gabriel had a UK top ten hit with "Don't Give Up" (Dolly Parton, Gabriel's original choice, turned his offer down),[39] and EMI released her "greatest hits" album, The Whole Story. Bush provided a new lead vocal and refreshed backing track on "Wuthering Heights," and recorded a new single, "Experiment IV," for inclusion on the compilation. At the 1987 BRIT Awards, Bush won the award for Best Female Solo Artist.
[edit] The Sensual World and The Red Shoes
The increasingly personal tone of her writing continued on 1989's The Sensual World, with songs about unexpressed and unrequited love ("Love and Anger" and "Never Be Mine", respectively), and the pressures on modern relationships ("Between a Man and a Woman").[citation needed] One of the quirkiest tracks on the album, touched by Bush's black humour, is "Heads We're Dancing", about a woman who dances all night with a charming stranger only to discover in the morning that he is Adolf Hitler.[40] The title track drew its inspiration from James Joyce's novel Ulysses.[40]









Kate Bush "The Sensual World" (1989)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "The Sensual World".




Problems listening to this file? See media help.


The Sensual World went on to become her biggest-selling album in the US, receiving an RIAA Gold certification four years after its release for 500,000 copies sold. In the United Kingdom album charts, it reached the number two position.[41]
In 1990, the boxed-set This Woman's Work was released and included all of her albums with their original cover art, as well as two discs of all single B sides recorded from 1978–1990. In 1991, Bush released a cover of Elton John's "Rocket Man", which reached number 12 in the UK singles chart[42], and went as high as number two in Australia, and in 2007, was voted the greatest cover ever by readers of The Observer newspaper.[43] She recorded "Candle in the Wind", as the single's b-side.[44]
The Red Shoes was released in November 1993. The Red Shoes features more high-profile cameo appearances than Bush's previous efforts, including contributions from composer and conductor Michael Kamen. Comedian Lenny Henry, Prince, Eric Clapton, Gary Brooker of Procol Harum, Trevor Whittaker, and Jeff Beck also contributed to the album. Both "The Sensual World" and "The Red Shoes" featured contributions from Trio Bulgarka, a trio of women who sang on several tracks, including "You're The One" and "Rocket's Tail." The album gave Bush her highest chart position in the US, reaching number 28, although the only song from the album to make the US singles chart was "Rubberband Girl", which peaked at number 88 in January 1994. In the UK, the album reached number two, and the singles "Rubberband Girl", "The Red Shoes", "Moments of Pleasure", and "And So Is Love" all reached the top 30.[34][45] That same year, the short film The Line, the Cross & the Curve, written and directed by Bush, and starring Bush and English actress Miranda Richardson,[46] used six of the songs on the album.
The initial plan had been to take the songs out on the road (though a new tour did not transpire), so Bush deliberately aimed for a live-band feel, with less of the studio trickery that had typified her last three albums and that would be difficult to recreate on stage.[47] The result alienated some of her fan base, who enjoyed the intricacy of her earlier compositions,[48] but others found a new complexity in the lyrics and the emotions they expressed.[49]
This was a troubled time for Bush. She had suffered a series of bereavements, including the loss of guitarist Alan Murphy, who had started working with her on The Tour Of Life in 1979, and her mother Hannah, to whom she was exceptionally close.[18] Many of the people she lost are honoured in the ballad "Moments of Pleasure". However, Bush's mother was still alive when "Moments of Pleasure" was written and recorded. Bush describes playing the song to her mother, who thought the line where she is quoted by Bush as saying "Every old sock meets an old shoe", was hilarious and "couldn't stop laughing".[50]
[edit] Aerial
After the release of The Red Shoes, Bush dropped out of the public eye for many years, although her name occasionally cropped up in the media with rumours of a new album release. Bush had originally intended to take one year off but despite working on material 12 years would pass before her next album release.[51] The press often viewed her as an eccentric recluse, sometimes drawing a comparison with Miss Havisham from Charles Dickens's Great Expectations.[52] In reality, she was trying to give her young son a normal childhood, and needed a quiet place for her creative process to function.[51] In 1998, Bush had given birth to Albert, known as "Bertie", fathered by her guitarist and now-husband Danny McIntosh.[18][53] After living for many years on Court Road, Eltham, southeast London, the couple and their son moved away from the city and currently have two homes: a £2.5 million house in East Portlemouth on the Devon coast[53] and a mansion on an islet on the Kennet and Avon canal at Sulhamstead in West Berkshire.[54]
Bush's eighth studio album, Aerial, was released on double CD and vinyl in November 2005.[18] The first single from the album was "King of the Mountain", which was played for the first time on BBC Radio 2 on 21 September 2005.[55]
As on Hounds of Love (1985), the album is divided into two sections, each with its own theme and mood.[56] The first disc, subtitled A Sea of Honey, features a set of unrelated themed songs, including "King of the Mountain"; "Bertie", a Renaissance-style ode to her son; and "Joanni", based on the story of Joan of Arc. In the song "π", Bush sings the number Pi to 115 decimal places.[56][57] The second disc, subtitled A Sky of Honey, features one continuous piece of music describing the experience of being outdoors after waking at dawn, moving through afternoon, dusk, to night, then back to the following dawn of single summer's day. All the pieces in this suite refer or allude to sky and sea in their lyrical content. Bush mixed her voice with cooing wood pigeons to repeat the phrases "A sea of honey, a sky of honey," and "You're full of beauty" throughout the piece, and uses recordings of actual birdsong throughout. A Sky of Honey features Rolf Harris playing the didgeridoo on one track, and providing vocals on "The Painter's Link".[56] Other artists making guest appearances on the album include Peter Erskine, Eberhard Weber, Lol Creme, and Gary Brooker. Two tracks feature string arrangements by Michael Kamen, performed by the London Metropolitan Orchestra. A CD release of the single "King of the Mountain" included a cover of "Sexual Healing" by Marvin Gaye.[58]









Kate Bush "King of the Mountain" (2005)
noicon
Sample from Kate Bush's "King of the Mountain".




Problems listening to this file? See media help.


"King of the Mountain" entered the UK Downloads Chart at number six on 17 October 2005,[59] and by 30 October it had become Bush's third-highest-charting single ever in the UK, peaking at number four on the full chart. Aerial entered the UK albums chart at number 3,[60] and the US chart at number 48.[61] Bush herself carried out relatively little publicity for the album, only conducting a handful of magazine and radio interviews. Aerial earned Bush two nominations at the 2006 BRIT Awards, for Best British Female Solo Artist and Best British Album.[62]
In late 2007, Bush composed and recorded a new song, "Lyra", for the soundtrack to the fantasy film The Golden Compass.[63]
[edit] Director's Cut and 50 Words for Snow
On 16 May 2011, Bush released the album Director's Cut. The album, which Bush has described as an entirely new project rather than a collection of mere remixes, contains 11 tracks of substantially reworked material from her earlier albums The Sensual World and The Red Shoes, all of which have been recorded using analogue, rather than digital, equipment to create "a warmer sound". All the tracks have new lead vocals, new drums, and radically reworked instrumentation. Some of them have been transposed to a lower key to accommodate her lowering voice. Three of the songs, including "This Woman's Work", have been completely re-recorded, with lyrics often changed in places.[64] The album has been met with a wide range of reviews with most reviewers a bit confused about the concept of the album itself, while responding with varying degrees of enthusiasm about its revamped tracks. Of particular note is the warmer, more intimate tone of the songs and the richer, more mature sound of her voice.[65][66] This is the first album on her new label, Fish People, a division of EMI Records, with whom she's had a relationship since she started recording. In addition to the album Director's Cut in both its single CD form and in a box-set with The Sensual World and the analogue re-mastered The Red Shoes, Fish People will be releasing re-mastered editions of The Hounds of Love and The Dreaming.[67] The album debuted at number 2 on the United Kingdom chart.[68]
The song "The Sensual World" has been renamed "Flower of the Mountain" and contains a passage of Molly Bloom's famous soliloquy from James Joyce's novel Ulysses. Bush said, "Originally when I wrote the song "The Sensual World", I had used text from the end of Ulysses. When I asked for permission to use the text I was refused, which was disappointing. I then wrote my own lyrics for the song, although I felt that the original idea had been more interesting. Well, I'm not James Joyce am I? When I came to work on this project I thought I would ask for permission again and this time they said yes."[69]
The first single released from the album was "Deeper Understanding" and contains a new chorus featuring computerised vocals from Bush's son, Albert. A video for the song, directed by Bush, has been released through her channel on YouTube. It features Robbie Coltrane as a man consumed by his relationship with his computer (voiced by Bush's son). Frances Barber plays the man's wife, and Noel Fielding also appears.
Bush's next studio album, 50 Words for Snow, was released on 21 November 2011. The album contains seven new songs "set against a backdrop of falling snow," with a total running time of 65 minutes.[70][71] A radio edit of the first single, "Wild Man," was played on BBC Radio 2's 'Ken Bruce' show on 10 October.[72] and was released as a digital download on 11 October.[73] The album will be distributed in the United States by Anti-Records.
On 14 November 2011, NPR played 50 Words for Snow in its entirety for the first time.[74] Australia's ABC Radio National declared 50 Words for Snow album of the week of 12 November 2011.[75]
The album's songs are built around Bush's quietly jazzy piano and Steve Gadd's drums, and utilise both sung and spoken word vocals in what Classic Rock's Stephen Dalton calls "a...supple and experimental affair, with a comtemporary chamber pop sound grounded in crisp piano, minimal percussion and light-touch electronics...billowing jazz-rock soundscapes, interwoven with fragmentary narratives delivered in a range of voices from shrill to Laurie Anderson-style cooing."[76] Bassist Danny Thompson appears on the album, which also features performances by Elton John and actor Stephen Fry.
On the first track, "Snowflake," in a song written specifically to use his still high choir-boy voice,[77] Bush's son Albert (Bertie) sings the role of a falling snowflake in a song expressing the hope of a noisy world soon being hushed by snowfall. "Snowflake" drifts into "Lake Tahoe", where choral singer Stefan Roberts and Bush sing about a rarely seen ghost: a woman who appears in a Victorian gown to call to her dog, Snowflake. Bush explained to fellow musician Jamie Cullum in an interview on Dutch Radio[78] that she wished to explore using high male voices in contrast to her own, deeper, voice. "Misty" is about a snowman lover who melts away after a night of passion, while "Wild Man" tells the story of a group of climbers in the Himalayas who, upon finding evidence of a nearby Yeti, erase all traces of it to protect it from discovery. Elton John and Bush as eternally divided lovers trade vocals on "Snowed In at Wheeler Street", while Stephen Fry recites the "50 Words for Snow". The quiet "Among Angels" finishes the album.[79]
50 Words For Snow received general acclaim from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 88, based on 26 reviews, which indicates "universal acclaim".[80] She was nominated for a Brit Award in the "Best Female Artist" category[81], and the album was nominated in 2012 in the Best Album category of both the South Bank Arts and Ivor Novello Awards.[82]
On 1 May 2012, Bush won the South Bank Arts Award.[5]
Musical style[link]
Bush's music is eclectic, using various styles of music even within the same album. Her songs have spanned genres as diverse as rock, pop, alternative and art rock.[1] Even in her earliest works where the piano was a primary instrument, she wove together many diverse influences, melding classical music, rock, and a wide range of ethnic and folk sources, and this has continued throughout her career.
In an interview with Melody Maker magazine in 1977, she revealed that male artists had more influence on her work than females, stating: "Every female you see at a piano is either Lynsey De Paul, or Carole King. And most male music—not all of it but the good stuff—really lays it on you. It really puts you against the wall and that's what I like to do. I'd like my music to intrude. Not many females succeed with that."[11]
The experimental nature of her music has led it to be described as a later, more technological, and more accessible manifestation of the British progressive rock movement.[2][15] Southern England was the home to the most influential and successful acts of the progressive rock movement and,[2] like other artists in this genre, Bush rejects the classic American style of making pop music, which was adopted by most UK pop artists. Bush's vocals contain elements of British, Anglo-Irish and most prominently (southern) English accents and, in its utilisation of musical instruments from many periods and cultures, her music has differed from American pop norms.[2] Elements of Bush's lyrics tend to be more unusual and less clichéd than American-style pop lyrics, often employing historical or literary references and avoiding autobiographical lyrics. She considers herself a storyteller who embodies the character singing the song and strenuously rejects efforts by others to insist that her songs are autobiographical.[2][83][84]
Reviewers have used the term "surreal" to describe her music.[85] Many of her songs have a melodramatic emotional and musical surrealism that defies easy categorisation.[86] It has been observed that even the more joyous pieces are often tinged with traces of melancholy, and even the most sorrowful pieces have elements of vitality struggling against all that would oppress them.[87]
Bush is not afraid to tackle sensitive and taboo subjects.[88] "The Kick Inside" is based on a traditional English folk song (The Ballad of Lucy Wan) about an incestuous pregnancy and a resulting suicide.[89] "Kashka from Baghdad" is a song about a homosexual male couple;[90] Out magazine listed two of her albums in their Top 100 Greatest Gayest albums list.[91][92] "The Infant Kiss" is a song about a haunted, unstable woman's almost paedophile infatuation with a young boy in her care (inspired by Jack Clayton's film The Innocents (1961), which had been based on Henry James's famous novella The Turn of the Screw);[93] and "Breathing" explores the results of nuclear fallout from the perspective of an unborn child in the womb.[94] Her lyrics have referenced a wide array of subject matter, often relatively obscure, as in "Cloudbusting", which was inspired by Peter Reich's autobiography, "Book of Dreams", about his relationship with his father, Wilhelm Reich, and G. I. Gurdjieff in "Them Heavy People", while "Deeper Understanding", from The Sensual World, portrays a person who stays indoors, obsessively talking to a computer and shunning human contact.
Comedy is also a big influence on her and is a significant component of her work. She has cited Woody Allen,[95] Monty Python, Fawlty Towers, and The Young Ones[96] as particular favourites. Horror movies are another interest of Bush's and have influenced the gothic nature of several of her songs, such as "Hounds of Love", inspired by the 1957 horror movie Night of the Demon.[97] Her songs have occasionally combined comedy and horror to form dark humour, such as murder by poisoning in "Coffee Homeground", an alcoholic mother in "Ran Tan Waltz" and the upbeat "The Wedding List", a song inspired by François Truffaut's 1967 film of Cornell Woolrich's The Bride Wore Black about the death of a groom and the bride's subsequent revenge against the killer.[98]
Length of time between albums and perception of perfectionism[link]
The length of time in between album releases has led to rumours in the media concerning her health or appearance.[96] In the past, stories of weight gain or mental instability have been disproved by Bush's periodic reappearance.[99] In 2011 Bush told BBC Radio 4 that the amount of time between album releases is extremely stressful noting: "It's very frustrating the albums take as long as they do...I wish there weren't such big gaps between them." In the same interview Bush denied she was a perfectionist in the studio, saying: "I think it's important that things are flawed...That's what makes a piece of art interesting sometimes – the bit that's wrong or the mistake you've made that's led onto an idea you wouldn't have had otherwise," and reiterated her prioritisation of her family life.[83]
Live performances[link]
Further information: The Tour of Life
Bush's only tour took place 2 April – 13 May 1979, after which she gave only the occasional live performance. Several reasons have been suggested as to why she abandoned touring, among them her reputed need to be in total control of the final product, which is incompatible with live stage performance, a rumour of a crippling fear of flying,[100] and the suggestion that the death of 21-year-old Bill Duffield severely affected her. Duffield, her lighting director, was killed in an accident during her 2 April 1979 concert at Poole Arts Centre. Bush held a benefit concert on 12 May 1979, with Peter Gabriel and Steve Harley at London's Hammersmith Odeon for his family. Duffield would be honoured in two later songs: "Blow Away" on Never for Ever and "Moments of Pleasure" on The Red Shoes. Bush explained in a BBC Radio 2 interview with Mark Radcliffe that she actually enjoyed the tour but was consumed with producing her subsequent records. A BBC film crew followed the preparation for the tour which was shown on the BBC Nationwide program as a 30 minute special.
During the same period as her tour, she made numerous television appearances around the world, including Top of the Pops in the United Kingdom, Bios Bahnhof in Germany, and Saturday Night Live in the United States (with Paul Shaffer on piano).[101] On 28 December 1979, BBC TV aired the Kate Bush Christmas Special. It was recorded in October 1979 at the BBC Studios in Birmingham, England; choreography by Anthony Van Laast.[102] As well as playing songs from her first two albums, she played "December Will Be Magic Again", and "Violin" from her forthcoming album, Never for Ever. Peter Gabriel made a guest appearance to play "Here Comes the Flood", and a duet of Roy Harper's "Another Day" with Bush.[103]
After the Tour of Life Bush desired to make two more albums before touring again. At that point she got involved with production techniques and sound experimentation that took up a lot of time and prevented her from touring. Later on there were a couple of instances where she came close to touring again.[104]
In 1982, Bush participated in the first benefit concert in aid of The Prince's Trust alongside artists such as Madness, Midge Ure, Phil Collins, Mick Karn and Pete Townshend. On 25 April 1986 Bush performed live for British charity event Comic Relief, singing "Do Bears... ?", a humorous duet with Rowan Atkinson, and a rendition of "Breathing". Later in the year on 28 June 1986, she made a guest appearance to duet with Peter Gabriel on "Don't Give Up" at Earl's Court, London as part of his "So" tour. In March 1987, Bush sang "Running Up that Hill" at The Secret Policeman's Third Ball.
On 17 January 2002, Bush appeared with her long-time champion, David Gilmour, singing the part of the doctor in "Comfortably Numb" at the Royal Festival Hall in London.
In 2011 Bush told Classic Rock Magazine "I do hope that some time I get a chance to do some shows. Maybe not a tour, but something"[104]
Video projects[link]
In 1979 Bush's one live show, The Tour of Life, was recorded for the BBC and for release on VHS as Kate Bush Live at Hammersmith Odeon.[105]
Bush has appeared in innovative music videos designed to accompany her singles releases. Among the best known are those for "Running Up that Hill", "Babooshka", "Breathing", "Wuthering Heights", and "The Man with the Child in His Eyes", and "Cloudbusting", featuring actor Donald Sutherland, who made time during the filming of another project to take part in the video.[106] EMI has released collections of her videos, including The Single File, Hair of the Hound, The Whole Story, a career video overview released in conjunction with the 1986 compilation album of the same title,[105] and The Sensual World.
In 1993, she directed and starred in the short film, The Line, the Cross & the Curve, a musical co-starring Miranda Richardson, featuring music from Bush's album The Red Shoes, which was inspired by the classic movie of the same name. It was released on VHS in the UK in 1994 and also received a small number of cinema screenings around the world. In recent interviews, Bush has said that she considers it a failure, and stated in 2001: "I'm very pleased with four minutes of it, but I'm very disappointed with the rest."[107] In a 2005 interview, she described the film as "A load of bollocks."[108]
In 1994, Bush provided the music used in a series of psychedelic-themed television commercials for the soft drink Fruitopia that appeared in the United States. The same company aired the ads in the United Kingdom, but the British version featured Elizabeth Fraser of Cocteau Twins instead of Bush.[109]
In late 2006, a DVD documentary titled Kate Bush Under Review was released by Sexy Intellectual, which included archival interviews with Bush, along with interviews with a selection of music historians and journalists (including Phil Sutcliffe, Nigel Williamson, and Morris Pert). The DVD also includes clips from several of Bush's music videos.[110]
On 2 December 2008, the DVD collection of the fourth season of Saturday Night Live, including her performances, was released.[111] A three DVD set of The Secret Policeman's Balls benefit concerts that includes Bush's performance was released on 27 January 2009.[112].
Bush has released four short videos for the album 50 Words for Snow. One is an advertisement for the album. Two stop-motion "Animation Segments" were posted on the Kate Bush Official website and YouTube, one to accompany a 2 minute 25 second section of "Misty", called "Mistraldespair", the other to accompany a 2 minute 33 second section of "Wild Man". "Mistraldespair" was directed by Bush and animated by Gary Pureton,[113] while the "Wild Man" segment was created by Finn and Patrick at Brandt Animation.[114] On 24 January 2012, a third piece called "Eider Falls at Lake Tahoe", was premiered on her website and on YouTube. Running at 5:01, the piece is a sepia tone shadow puppet animation. Directed by Bush and photographed by award-winning British cinematographer Roger Pratt, the shadow puppets were designed by Robert Allsopp.[115] Bush stated that "Eider Falls at Lake Tahoe" is intended to be a "self contained piece" separate from the song "Lake Tahoe".[116]
Movie projects[link]
In 1990, Bush starred in the black comedy film Les Dogs, produced by The Comic Strip for BBC television. Aired on 8 March 1990, Bush plays the bride Angela at a wedding set in a post-apocalyptic version of Britain. While Bush's is a silent presence in a wedding dress throughout most of the film, she does have several lines of dialogue with Peter Richardson in two dream sequences. In another Comic Strip Presents film, GLC, she produced the theme song "Ken", which includes a vocal performance by Bush. The song was written about Ken Livingstone, the leader of the Greater London Council, who would later be elected as mayor of London and at the time was working with musicians to help the Labour Party garner the youth vote.[117]
She also produced all the incidental music, which is synthesiser based. Bush wrote and performed the song "The Magician", in a fairground-like arrangement, for Menahem Golan's 1979 film The Magician of Lublin.[118] In 1985, Bush contributed a darkly melancholic version of the Ary Barroso song "Brazil" to the soundtrack of the Terry Gilliam film Brazil. The track was scored and arranged by Michael Kamen. In 1986, she wrote and recorded "Be Kind To My Mistakes" for the Nicolas Roeg film Castaway. An edited version of this track was used as the B side to her 1989 single "This Woman's Work". In 1988, the song "This Woman's Work" was featured in the John Hughes film She's Having a Baby, and a slightly remixed version appeared on Bush's album The Sensual World.[119] The song has since appeared on numerous television shows, and in 2005 reached number eight on the UK download chart after featuring in a British television advertisement for the charity NSPCC.[120]
In 1999, Bush wrote and recorded a song for the Disney film Dinosaur, but the track was ultimately not included on the soundtrack. According to the winter 1999 issue of HomeGround, a Bush fanzine, it was scrapped when Disney asked her to rewrite the song and she refused. Also in 1999, Bush's song "The Sensual World" was featured prominently in Canadian filmmaker Atom Egoyan's film "Felicia's Journey".[121] "The Man with the Child in His Eyes" is on the soundtrack for the 2007 British romantic comedy film Starter for 10.[122]
In 2007, Bush was asked to write a song for The Golden Compass soundtrack which made reference to the lead character, Lyra Belacqua. The song, "Lyra", was used in the closing credits of the film, reached number 187 in the UK Singles Chart[123] and was nominated for the International Press Academy's Satellite Award for original song in a motion picture.[124][125]
According to Del Palmer, Bush was asked to compose the song on very short notice and the whole project was completed in 10 days.[126] The song was produced and recorded by Bush in her own studio, and features the Magdalen College, Oxford choir.
Collaborations[link]
Bush provided vocals on two of Peter Gabriel's albums, including the hits "Games Without Frontiers" and "Don't Give Up", as well as "No Self-Control". Gabriel appeared on Bush's 1979 television special, where they sang a duet of Roy Harper's "Another Day". She has sung on two Roy Harper tracks, "You", on his 1979 album, "The Unknown Soldier", and "Once", the title track of his 1990 album. She has also sung on the title song of the 1986 Big Country album The Seer, the Midge Ure song "Sister and Brother" from his 1988 album Answers to Nothing, Go West's 1987 single "The King Is Dead" and two songs with Prince – "Why Should I Love You?", from her 1993 album The Red Shoes, and in 1996, the song "My Computer" from Prince's album Emancipation. In 1987, she sang a verse on the charity single "Let It Be" by Ferry Aid. She sang a line on the charity single "Spirit of the Forest" by Spirit of the Forest in 1989. 1990 saw Kate producing, for the only time in her career, one song for another artist, Alan Stivell's "Kimiad", on his album Again. Stivell had appeared on The Sensual World. In 1995, Bush covered George Gershwin's "The Man I Love" for the tribute album The Glory of Gershwin. In 1996, Bush contributed a version of "Mná na hÉireann" (Irish for Women of Ireland) for the Anglo-Irish folk-rock compilation project Common Ground: The Voices of Modern Irish Music. Bush had to sing the song in Irish, which she learned to do phonetically.[127] Artists who have contributed to Bush's own albums include Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, David Gilmour, Nigel Kennedy, Gary Brooker, and Prince. Bush provided backing vocals for a song that was recorded during the 1990s titled Wouldn't Change a Thing by Lionel Azulay, the drummer with the original band that was later to become the KT Bush Band. The song, which was engineered and produced by Del Palmer, is available for download and will be on Azulay’s upcoming CD.[128][129]
Bush declined a request by Erasure to produce one of their albums because "she didn’t feel that that was her area".[130]
In 2010, Bush provided vocals for Rolf Harris's cover of the traditional Irish song "She Moves Through the Fair". Harris, who described the collaboration the "best thing I’ve done," is unsure of how to release the track.[131]
Bush's most recent collaborations, including duets with Elton John and Stephen Fry, took place on her 2012 album, 50 Words for Snow.
Reluctance to tour[link]
Kate has always been reluctant to tour and has always cited the reason is she finds it exhausting. She has said by the time she's completed the album, videos and promotional work "there's nothing left of me". [13] She said it would be impossible for her to tour the way she works.
She did do some shows in 1979 and the one at the Hammersmith Odeon was released on video. She said she "really enjoyed it" and that it was a "tremendous, fabulous experience". However, she also found it "incredibly exhausting and a total commitment. I don't think people understand the level of involvement I get into when I do a project."[13]
The Hammersmith video shows an elaborate set complete with mime, magicians and theatrics.
Upon the release of The Director's Cut, she said she wouldn't rule out the possibility of shows in the future: "Maybe I will do some shows some day. I'd like to think so, before I get too ancient - turn up with my Zimmer frame."[132]
Influence[link]
From the 1980s onward, it has become almost standard for individualistic female singer-songwriters to be compared to Bush by the media. She has been noted as an influence on female artists such as Tori Amos, Björk,[133] Alison Goldfrapp,[134][135] Nerina Pallot,[136] KT Tunstall,[137] Happy Rhodes,[138] Lily Allen,[139] PJ Harvey,[36][140] Little Boots,[141][142][143] and Florence Welch,[144][145] in addition to acts as diverse as Muse,[137] OutKast,[140] and Bloc Party.[146] Paula Cole named Bush as an influence while accepting the Best New Artist Grammy in 1996. Ariel Pink wrote a tribute song for her titled "For Kate I Wait" on the album The Doldrums. The trip-hop artist Tricky has said about Bush, "I don't believe in God, but if I did, her music would be my bible".[18] Punk rocker John Lydon, better known as Johnny Rotten of the Sex Pistols, declared her work to be "beauty beyond belief",[147] "fucking brilliant" and labelled her "a true original". Rotten once wrote a song for her, titled "Bird in Hand" (about exploitation of parrots) that Bush rejected. Rotten theorised that Bush thought the song contained insulting references aimed at her.[148][149] Marc Almond chose "Moments of Pleasure" as one of his 10 favourite songs on Radio 2 in June 2007, saying that the song had a profound influence on him when he was combating drug addiction in New York in the 1990s. In November 2006, the singer Rufus Wainwright named Bush as one of his top ten gay icons.[150] Outside music, Bush has been an inspiration to several fashion designers, most notably Hussein Chalayan.[151]
Many artists around the world have recorded cover versions of Bush songs, including Charlotte Church, The Futureheads (who had a UK top ten hit with a cover of "Hounds of Love"), Placebo (whose cover of "Running Up that Hill" has featured in many TV series and films), Pat Benatar, Faith and the Muse, Hayley Westenra, Jane Birkin, Natalie Cole, Ra Ra Riot,[152][153] Maxwell,[154] The Church[155] and Nada Surf.[156] The British dance act Utah Saints sampled a line from "Cloudbusting" for their single, "Something Good". Artists such as Tori Amos, Nolwenn Leroy, Patrick Wolf and Happy Rhodes (whose upper vocal range has been compared with the one of Kate Bush)[157] have covered her songs in live performances. Coldplay said their track "Speed of Sound" was originally an attempt to re-create "Running Up that Hill". Suede front-man Brett Anderson has stated that "Wuthering Heights" was the first single he ever bought and mentioned "And Dream of Sheep" in Suede's song "These are the Sad Songs".[158] British folk singer Jim Moray also references "And Dream of Sheep" in his self-penned track "Longing for Lucy".[159] Progressive death metal act Novembre also covered "Cloudbusting" on their album Novembrine Waltz. In 2009, John Forté released a hip hop version of "Running Up that Hill".[160]
In 2010, composer and vocalist Theo Bleckmann released an album of Kate Bush covers, titled Hello Earth! – The Music of Kate Bush which includes his interpretation of fourteen Bush classics,[161] which he also performs live around the world. In an interview with Hungarian online music magazine Kortár's Blog, Bleckmann explained his choice to explore Bush's work: "The music of Kate Bush has been a saviour throughout my teenage years when I lived in a small town in Germany...To come back to her music fresh...and to discover more depths and beauty in it, became an overwhelming confirmation of the endurance of great music regardless of genre and time."[162][163]
Personal life[link]
Kate Bush is married to guitarist Dan McIntosh and the couple have a son, Albert.[164] She resides in Devon and until late-2011 had another residence near Theale, West Berkshire.
Discography[link]
Main article: Kate Bush discography

The Kick Inside (1978)
Lionheart (1978)
Never for Ever (1980)
The Dreaming (1982)
Hounds of Love (1985)
The Sensual World (1989)
The Red Shoes (1993)
Aerial (2005)
Director's Cut (2011)
50 Words for Snow (2011)

See also[link]

List of Kate Bush awards

References[link]


^ a b c d e Eder, Bruce. "allmusic ((( Kate Bush > Biography )))". Allmusic. http://www.allmusic.com/artist/p3805. Retrieved 20 May 2009. 
^ a b c d e Moy, Ron (2006). "Kate Bush and mythologies of Englishness". Popular Musicology Online. http://www.popular-musicology-online.com/issues/02/moy-01.html. Retrieved 6 April 2007. 
^ Graeme Thomson (13 May 2010). "Kate Bush's only tour: pop concert or disappearing act? The Guardian 13 May 2010". The Guardian (London). http://www.guardian.co.uk/music/2010/may/13/kate-bush-only-tour-live. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ a b "Kate Bush – Never For Ever". Chart Stats. http://www.chartstats.com/albuminfo.php?id=5079. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ a b Kate Bush scoops South Bank award - News - Music - The Independent
^ Sweeting, Adam (2 October 2005). "Kate Bush: Return of the recluse". The Independent (London). http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/kate-bush-return-of-the-recluse-509224.html. Retrieved 15 May 2008. 
^ "Kate Bush". Salon.com. http://archive.salon.com/people/bc/2001/03/20/kate_bush/index.html. Retrieved 22 April 2007. 
^ Young, David (2 December 1978). "Haunting Kate Bush". NZ Listener. 
^ Hazard, Dave (2007). Born Fighter. London: John Blake Publishing. p. 114. ISBN 978-1-84454-480-6. 
^ "Allmusic Kate Bush Biography". http://www.allmusic.com/artist/p3805. 
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Gaar, Gillian (1993). She's a Rebel. 
^ Cowley, Jason (7 February 2005). "The Wow Factor". New Statesman. 
^ a b c Rolling Stone magazine, 8 February 1990, pp 21-2: "The Sensual Woman" by Sheila Rogers.
^ "The Rightful Heir?". Q (48). September 1990. 
^ a b c d Kruse, Holly (November 2000). "Kate Bush: Enigmatic chanteuse as pop pioneer". Soundscapes.info, Online Journal on Media Culture 3. ISSN 1567-7745. http://www.icce.rug.nl/~soundscapes/DATABASES/TRA/Kate_Bush.shtml. Retrieved 7 May 2009. , Originally published in Tracking: Popular Music Studies. 1. 1988. 
^ "Kate Bush". EMI. http://www.emi-premier.co.uk/loader.html. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ a b Kate Bush: hot new act fuses music, theater Rolling Stone reprinted by Wilmingtom Morning Star 21 September 1979. News.google.com (21 September 1979). Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ a b c d e f Williamson, Nigel (2 October 2005). "The Mighty Bush". Scotland on Sunday. 
^ "Today's Style And Looks". Face & Figure. 1979. 
^ Darius, A. (1984) The Adam Darius Method, page 236-240. Latonia. ISBN 0-9502707-2-5 Mime Centre
^ "Demos: The Phoenix recordings". Last.fm. http://www.last.fm/music/Kate+Bush/Demos%253A+The+Phoenix+recordings+%252F+Studio+Sessions. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ "Kate Bush Biography". Lyricsystem.com. http://www.lyricsystem.com/kate-bush/. Retrieved 22 April 2007. 
^ Lyrics booklets from Kate Bush's albums. EMI. 
^ "Kate Bush in the UK singles charts". The Official Charts. http://www.theofficialcharts.com/artist/_/kate%20bush/#singles. Retrieved 21 1 2012. 
^ Barkham, Patrick (30 September 2005). "Guardian profile: Kate Bush". The Guardian (London). http://arts.guardian.co.uk/features/story/0,,1581815,00.html. Retrieved 10 September 2007. 
^ "The Man with the Child in His Eyes". Songfacts.com. http://www.songfacts.com/detail.php?id=4831. Retrieved 22 April 2007. 
^ "Awards Database". The Envelope. http://theenvelope.latimes.com. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ The Whole Story album lyrics booklet. EMI. 1986. 
^ "Stand By Your Mantra". Classic Rock. 2004. 
^ "Simon Drake – The Illusionist". magicweek.co.uk. 2000. http://www.magicweek.co.uk/magic_profiles/magicprofile_0001_simon_drake.htm. Retrieved 15 March 2011. 
^ Badhorn, Philippe (February 2006). "Interview in Rolling Stone (France)". Rolling Stone. 
^ "Kate Bush". UnderGroundOnline. http://www.ugo.com/channels/music/features/bandsondemand/artist.aspx?artist=katebush&cat=Alternative&full=Kate%20Bush. Retrieved 27 July 2007. 
^ "Something from Kate, at last". The Age. Australia. 8 October 2005. http://www.theage.com.au/news/music/something-from-kate/2005/10/06/1128562936076.html?page=3. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ a b "Kate Bush". TheOfficialCharts.com. http://www.theofficialcharts.com/artist/_/kate%20bush/. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ Simper, Paul (16 October 1982). "Dreamtime Is Over". Melody Maker. 
^ a b Ellen, Barbara (2 October 2005). "Comeback Kate". The Observer (London). http://arts.guardian.co.uk/features/story/0,,1582789,00.html. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ Fitzgerald Morris, Peter (1997). Hounds of Love lyrics booklet. EMI. 
^ "Kate Bush radio interview". Rock Over London with Paul Cooke. 1985. 
^ "Peter Gabriel: 'Kate Bush replaced Dolly Parton on 'Don't Give Up'' NME 19 September 2011". NME. 19 September 2011. http://www.nme.com/news/peter-gabriel/59311. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ a b "Kate Bush's dream world". The Telegraph. 26 November 1989. http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=2fYlAAAAIBAJ&sjid=TfwFAAAAIBAJ&pg=7016,7079481&dq=hitler+heads-we-re-dancing+kate-bush&hl=en. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ "Kate Bush Biography". Starpulse.com. http://www.starpulse.com/Music/Bush,_Kate/Biography/. Retrieved 22 April 2007. 
^ "UK Top 40 Hit Database". EveryHit.com. http://www.everyhit.com/. Retrieved 15 May 2008. 
^ "The top 50 greatest covers as voted by you". The Observer (London). http://observer.guardian.co.uk/omm/ttremastered/story/0,,2166706,00.html. Retrieved 26 October 2007. 
^ Strong, Martin (1994). The Great Rock Discography. Cannongate. p. 218. ISBN 1-84195-615-5. 
^ "Back On Stage After 12 Years". Softpedia.com. http://news.softpedia.com/news/Kate-Bush-Back-On-Stage-After-12-Years-7653.shtml. Retrieved 23 April 2007. 
^ "The Line, The Cross & The Curve". Amazon.co.uk. http://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B00003JA23. Retrieved 23 April 2007. 
^ "Well red". Future Music. November 1993. 
^ Gettelman, Parry (1993). "The Red Shoes review". The Orlando Sentinel. 
^ "The Red Shoes review". Request. November 1993. 
^ "Interview with Ken Bruce on Radio 2 09 May 2011". Radio 2. http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00gtnyf. Retrieved 9 May 2011. 
^ a b "The day I said sorry to Kylie, and other pop star encounters from the diary of DJ Mark Radcliffe Daily Mail 28 March 2009". London. 28 March 2009. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-1165471/The-day-I-said-sorry-Kylie-pop-star-encounters-diary-DJ-Mark-Radcliffe.html. 
^ Barkham, Patrick (28 September 2005). "Guardian profile: Kate Bush". The Guardian. 
^ a b "Kate Bush and the war of Wuthering Heights". The Evening Standard. 5 May 2007. Archived from the original on 9 May 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070509043901/http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/news/article-23395189-details/Kate+Bush+and+the+war+of+Wuthering+Heights/article.do. Retrieved 8 May 2007. 
^ "£100K BILL FOR KATE". The Sunday Mirror. http://www.sundaymirror.co.uk/news/sunday/tm_method=full%26objectid=18238674%26siteid=98487-name_page.html. Retrieved 19 January 2007. [dead link]
^ McKenna, Stephen (2 September 2005). "Kate Bush back on form with first single in 12 years". icScotland.com. http://icscotland.icnetwork.co.uk/whatson/whatson2/tm_objectid=16160326&method=full&siteid=50141&headline=kate-bush-back-on-form-with-first-single-in-12-years-name_page.html. 
^ a b c Thrills, Adrian (4 November 2006). "Is this great Kate—or just Pi in the sky?". Daily Mail. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-138325566.html. 
^ Thompson, Ben (5 November 2006). "Ben Thompson reviews an album of two halves". Sunday Telegraph. 
^ "allmusic ((( King of the Mountain > Overview )))". Allmusic. http://www.allmusic.com/album/r807026. Retrieved 1 June 2010. 
^ "Official UK Download Chart Book (File corrupt 081209)" (PDF). DigitalStar.org.uk. Archived from the original on 6 January 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070106072642/http://www.distantstar.org.uk/DigitalDownloadChartBook.pdf. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ "Operatic act beat Bush to the top". BBC News. 13 November 2005. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/music/4433752.stm. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ "50 Cent Gets A Billboard Beating From Zellweger's Ex". MTV. 16 November 2005. http://www.mtv.com/news/articles/1513846/20051116/50_cent.jhtml?headlines=true. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ "Search results for Kate Bush". The BRIT Awards. http://brits.co.uk/search/?q=kate+bush. Retrieved 15 February 2007. [dead link]
^ Allmusic.com, soundtrack ''Golden Compass'', credits. (4 December 2007). Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ BBC iPlayer – Front Row: Kate Bush in a rare interview; and John Cleese reviewed. Bbc.co.uk (4 May 2011). Retrieved 23 May 2011.
^ Link to several reviews of ''Director's Cut''. Katebushnews.com. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Various links to reviews of Director's Cut. Katebushnews.com. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ News of re-mastered albums from Fish People On 15 May 2011, Bush entered the world of the Internet with her first complete website (also called Fish People) where all her videos can be viewed and news and information is available. [http://katebush.com/home Fish People – The Official Site of Kate Bush. Katebushnews.com. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Pitbull Tops U.K. Singles Chart; Kate Bush Album Debuts At No. 2. Billboard. 23 May 2011. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Kate Bush reveals guest lyricist on new album – James Joyce. The Guardian. 5 April 2011. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Perpetua, Matthew (12 September 2011). "Kate Bush: First New Album in Six Years". Rolling Stone. http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/kate-bush-first-new-album-in-six-years-20110912. Retrieved 12 September 2011. 
^ Kate Bush announces new album release. KateBush Official Website. 12 Sep 2011. Retrieved 12 Sep 2011
^ "Review of "Wild Man" by NME; 10 Oct 2011". NME. 10 October 2011. http://www.nme.com/reviews/kate-bush/12361. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "Fish People". Katebush.com. http://www.katebush.com/news/wildman-single-released-11-october. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ Powers, Ann. "NPR music critic Ann Powers reviews "50 Words for Snow"". Npr.org. http://www.npr.org/2011/11/13/142133269/first-listen-kate-bush-50-words-for-snow. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "ABC Radio National Album of the Week". Australia: ABC. 14 November 2011. http://www.abc.net.au/rn/breakfast/stories/2011/3359910.htm. Retrieved 16 January 2012. [dead link]
^ "Stephen Dalton describes ''50 Words for Snow''". Katebushnews.com. http://www.katebushnews.com/index.php/author/peter/. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "Bush tells Jamie Cullum "Snowflake" was written for her son". Avro.nl. http://avro.nl/audioplayer/?p=podcast_schiffersxtra&pc=schiffersxtra_17391&stream=undefined. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "Bush explains decisions regarding ''50 Words for Snow''". Avro.nl. http://avro.nl/audioplayer/?p=podcast_schiffersxtra&pc=schiffersxtra_17391&stream=undefined. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ Greg Kot Music critic 11:35 am CST, 18 November 2011 (18 November 2011). "Chicago Tribune review of ''50 Words for Snow''". Chicago Tribune. http://www.chicagotribune.com/entertainment/music/turnitup/chi-kate-bush-album-review-50-words-for-snow-reviewed-20111118,0,6147350.column. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "50 Words for Snow Reviews, Ratings, Credits, and More at Metacritic". Metacritic.com. http://www.metacritic.com/music/50-words-for-snow. Retrieved 19 November 2011. 
^ Brit Awards nominations: Kate Bush vs Adele for best female The Telegraph 12 January 2012
^ [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-17739529 BBC News - All-female shortlist is a first for Ivor Novello awards
^ a b Kate Bush admits frustration over time between albums. BBC. 4 May 2011. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Bush rejects autobiographical implications of songs in BBC Interview with Mark Radcliffe. BBC. 17 May 2011. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ Hudson, Sue (December 1985). "The Unique Poetry Of Kate Bush". Hi-Fi & Record Review. 
^ Hudson, Sue. "The Back Page". Hi-Fi and Record Review. 
^ Davis, Erik (1993). "Red Shoes review". Spin. 
^ Solanas, Jane (1983). "The Barmy Dreamer". New Musical Express. 
^ Colin Irwin (November 1989). "Iron Maiden". Q magazine. 
^ Phil Sutcliffe (30 August 1980). "Labushka". Sounds. 
^ "100 Greatest Gayest Albums 51–60". Out Magazine. http://www.out.com/detail.asp?id=24096. 
^ "Top 100 Greatest Gayest albums 81–90". Out Magazine. http://www.out.com/detail.asp?id=24099. 
^ "Kate Bush interview". Q Magazine. 1990. 
^ "Kate Bush interview". Smash Hits. 1980. 
^ Brown, Len (7 October 1989). "In the Realm of the Senses". New Musical Express. 
^ a b "Little Miss Can't Be Wrong". Q magazine. December 1993. 
^ Sutcliffe, Phil (June 1991). "Hounds of Love Sleeve Notes". Q magazine. 
^ Irwin, Colin (10 October 1980). "Paranoia and Passion of the Kate Inside". Melody Maker. 
^ Ziegler, Mollie (8 November 2005). "The Return of a Sultry Songstress". The New York Sun. 
^ Littlejohn, Maureen (March 1990). "The Sensual Woman". Network. 
^ Gambaccini, Paul (24 November 1993). "Kate Bush Smiles in Her New Red Shoes". New York Press. 
^ "Kate Bush Christmas Special" Cast and Crew at IMDb
^ "Kate Bush – BBC Christmas Special 1979". http://gaffa.org/passing/v79_dec.html. Retrieved 6 June 2008. 
^ a b Kate Bush The reclusive first lady of art rock: when she's not admiring John Lydon, she's pestering the Queen Classic Rock Magazine Issue 160
^ a b "Kate Bush DVDs & Videos". allmusic.com. http://www.allmusic.com/artist/kate-bush-p3805/discography/dvds-videos. Retrieved 10 May 2011. 
^ "Kate Bush radio interview". CBAK 4011 (Australia). 1985. 
^ Aizlewood, John (December 2001). "The Big Sleep". Q magazine. 
^ Mojo Magazine, page 81, October 2005 edition
^ "Cocteau Twins Discography". CocteauTwins.org. http://www.cocteautwins.org/~leesa/cocteautwins/cHTML/html/soundtracks.html. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ "Kate Bush – Under Review". Amazon.com. http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000EXZHPQ/. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ "Saturday Night Live: Universal announces The complete 4th season TVonDVD.com 5 September 2008". http://www.tvshowsondvd.com/news/Saturday-Night-Live-Season-4/10468. 
^ "Unveiling Britain's 'Secret' Home Media Magazine 5 December 2008". http://homemediamagazine.com/tv-dvd/unveiling-britains-secret-14017. 
^ http://www.katebush.com/news/mistraldespair-animation "Mistraldespair Animation Segment"
^ http://www.katebush.com/news/wild-man-animation "Wild Man" Animation Segment.
^ http://www.katebush.com/news/eider-falls-lake-tahoe-animation Credits for "Eider Falls at Lake Tahoe"
^ Kate Bush's Shadow Play NPR 24 January 2012
^ Ken Livingstone Interviewed: Boris, The Other Boris, Music, Politics & London. The Quietus. 23 September 2010. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ "FAQ: rec.music.gaffa – Love-Hounds – Kate Bush". Faqs.org. http://www.faqs.org/faqs/music/kate-bush-faq/. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Holmes, Linda (6 August 2009). "Five Great John Hughes Moments National Public Radio (United States) 6 August 2009". Npr.org. http://www.npr.org/blogs/monkeysee/2009/08/five_great_john_hughes_moments.html. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Eighties Kate Bush track goes Top 10 on download chart". Music Week. 24 November 2005. http://www.musicweek.com/story.asp?storyCode=16666&sectioncode=1. Retrieved 21 November 2010. 
^ "Soundtracks for Felicia's Journey" at IMDb
^ "Starter For Ten Soundtrack CD". CD Universe. 13 February 2007. http://www.cduniverse.com/search/xx/music/pid/7318125/a/Starter+For+Ten.htm. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Chart Log UK: B Zobbel.de
^ Silberman, Stacey (30 November 2007). "Tis the Awards Season: Lots of Green & “Golden” Loving Stars". Hollywood Today. http://www.hollywoodtoday.net/?p=3036. Retrieved 2008-05-15. 
^ Awards for The Golden Compass, Satellite Awards
^ Palmer, Del. "Lyra". DelPalmer.com. http://www.delpalmer.com/page14.htm. Retrieved 2008-05-15. 
^ "Mna Na h-Éireann". Hot Press. 29 May 1996. 
^ "Lionel Azulay MySpace Page". Myspace.com. http://www.myspace.com/lionelazulayLionel. Retrieved 29 May 2010. [dead link]
^ "Kate Bush News and Information 26 August 2008". Katebushnews.com. http://www.katebushnews.com/katenews.htm. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Erasure & Kate Bush: The Lost Collaboration The Quietus 4 March 2009". Thequietus.com. http://thequietus.com/articles/01240-erasure-wanted-to-work-with-kate-bush. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Rolf Harris: Glastonbury was highlight of my entertainment career. Metro. 30 June 2010. Retrieved 1 August 2011.
^ http://www.clashmusic.com/news/could-kate-bush-tour-again - retrieved 1 June 2012
^ "Interview with Bjork". Time Out. 15 October 1997. 
^ Price, Simon (21 May 2001). "Goldfrapp, Union Chapel, LondonNelly Furtado, Shepherd's Bush Empire, London The Independent 21 May 2001". The Independent (London). http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/music/reviews/preformgoldfrapp-span-classsmallerunion-chapel-londonspanbrnelly-furtado-span-classsmallershepherds-bush-empire-londonspanpreform-685546.html. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Hopkins, Daniel (6 March 2008). "Goldfrapp Seventh Tree Review Dallas Observer 5 March 2008". Dallasobserver.com. http://www.dallasobserver.com/2008-03-06/music/goldfrapp/. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Nerina Pallot on life, love and Kylie Minogue". http://www.metro.co.uk/metrolife/820427-nerina-pallot-on-life-love-and-kylie-minogue. 
^ a b Boyd, Brian (28 October 2005). "What Kate didn't do next". The Irish Times. 
^ "Happy Rhodes – And Dream Of Sheep (Kate Bush cover)". NME. http://www.nme.com/nme-video/youtube/id/WoNGpa9tJkg/search/Happy%20Rhodes. Retrieved 25 January 2012. 
^ "Queens of British pop (including an interview with Lily Allen about Kate Bush)", BBC Television, 1 April 2009 (first broadcast) 
^ a b "Kate Bush is Back". Triple J Music News. http://www.abc.net.au/triplej/musicnews/s1470979.htm. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ "Meet Little Boots". Highland News. 26 February 2009. http://www.highland-news.co.uk/Home/Entertainment/Meet-Little-Boots-5231.htm. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Youngs, Ian (9 January 2009). "Little Boots tops music tips list BBC 9 January 2009". BBC News. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/7814304.stm. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Little Boots on her 'tour' of 33 festivals The Times 17 May 2009[dead link]
^ Youngs, Ian (7 January 2009). "BBC Sound of 2009: Florence and The Machine BBC 7 January 2009". BBC News. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/7813609.stm. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Dingwall, John. Exclusive: Florence and The Machine star vows to turn heads at Brits Glasgow Daily Record, 30 January 2009
^ "Archive". BlocParty.com. Archived from the original on 23 March 2007. http://web.archive.org/web/20070323002520/http://blocparty.com/history.php. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ "Queens of British pop – John Lydon talks about being a Kate Bush fan". BBC. 1 April 2009 (first broadcast). http://www.bbc.co.uk/musictv/queensofbritishpop/artists/katebush/4/?4. Retrieved 25 1 2012. 
^ "We Are Worthy". Q magazine. November 2001. 
^ "John Lydon – Bush Rejected Rotten's Song 12 May 2007". Contactmusic.com. http://www.contactmusic.com/news.nsf/article/bush%20rejected%20rottens%20song_1052447. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Wainwright, Rufus (12 November 2006). "Gay icons". The Observer (London). http://observer.guardian.co.uk/omm/story/0,,1942438,00.html. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ Chalayan, Hussein (12 February 2005). "Hussein Chalayan on Kate Bush". The Independent. http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/heroes--villains-hussein-chalayan-on-kate-bush-1530348.html. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ by WNYC Soundcheck (29 August 2008). "Ra Ra Riot Navigates The Hype National Public Radio (United States) 29 August 2008". Npr.org. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=94106363. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ Sullivan, Matt (11 December 2008). "Are fresh-faced indie rockers Ra Ra Riot suspended in art-rock? Nashville Scene 10 December 2008". Nashvillescene.com. http://www.nashvillescene.com/2008-12-11/music/are-fresh-faced-indie-rockers-ra-ra-riot-suspended-in-art-rock/. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ By JANE STEVENSON – Sun Media (13 October 2008). "Live Review: Maxwell". Toronto Sun. http://www.torontosun.com/entertainment/music/2008/10/13/7066031-sun.html. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "The Church maps summer tour with new album in tow LiveDaily 15 April 2009". Livedaily.com. 15 April 2009. http://www.livedaily.com/news/18774.html. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Nada Surf Cover Moody Blues, Depeche Mode Spin 5 January 2010". Spin.com. 5 January 2010. http://www.spin.com/articles/nada-surf-cover-moody-blues-depeche-mode. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Happy Rhodes". Furia.com. http://www.furia.com/page.cgi?type=misc&id=HappyRhodes. Retrieved 8 June 2010. 
^ "RISE TV programme". Channel 4. 17 September 2002. http://www.katebushnews.com/2002.htm. Retrieved 3 April 2007. 
^ Moayeri, Lily (9 June 2005). "X&Y review". Miami New Times. http://www.miaminewtimes.com/2005-06-09/music/coldplay/. Retrieved 4 April 2007. 
^ "How I Fell in Love in Prison by John Forte for The Daily Beast 13 March 2009". Thedailybeast.com. 13 March 2009. http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2009-03-13/how-i-fell-in-love-in-prison/full/. Retrieved 29 May 2010. 
^ "Theo Bleckmann release of "Hello Earth!- The Music of Kate Bush". Theobleckmann.com. http://www.theobleckmann.com/MUSIC/MUSIC_DISCO_13_details.html. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ "Interview with Bleckmann about Kate Bush's music". Kortars.freeblog.hu. 14 October 2011. http://kortars.freeblog.hu/archives/2011/10/14/131_Question_Interview_with_Theo_Bleckmann__131_kerdes_Theo_Bleckmannhez/. Retrieved 16 January 2012. 
^ http://www.npr.org/blogs/ablogsupreme/2012/03/13/148531597/kate-bush-as-heard-by-this-dude-who-sings-jazz-a-conversation?ps=mh_frhdl1 NPR Review of Hello Earth! The Music of Kate Bush
^ "Kate Bush and the war of Wuthering Heights". London Evening Standard. 5 May 2007. http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/news/article-23395189-kate-bush-and-the-war-of-wuthering-heights.do. Retrieved 25 1 2012. 


Further reading[link]

Vermorel, Fred and Judy, Kate Bush: Princess of Suburbia (1980) Target Books
Vermorel, Fred, The Secret History of Kate Bush and the Strange Art of Pop (1983) Omnibus Press ISBN 0.7119.0152.X
Cann, Kevin and Mayes, Sean, Kate Bush: A Visual Documentary (1988) Omnibus Press ISBN 0-7119-1039-1
Muskens, Helena; Racké, Quirine, Come Back Kate. Snow White Films. Involved TV Channel: NPS. 2007
'I'm not some weirdo recluse' (The Guardian, 28 October 2005)
This Bush's mission finally gets accomplished (National Post, 22 December 2005)
Two Musicians who have worked with Bush describe her working style and non work personality
The Illustrated Collector's Guide to Kate Bush, 2nd Edition, published by Collector's Guide Publishing. A complete guide to everything Kate Bush. Includes albums, CDs, DVDs, books and other collectibles. It's complete up to Aerial.
Withers, Debroah Adventures in Kate Bush and Theory . Hammeron Press, 1 March 2010. ISBN 0-9564507-0-9.
Thompson, Graeme Kate Bush: Under the Ivy. Omnibus Press, 1 May 2010 ISBN 1-84772-930-4
Gracey, James 'It's Coming For Me Through The Trees' – The Influence of Horror Cinema on the Music of Kate Bush Behind the Couch, 18 August 2010

External links[link]



Book: Kate Bush


Wikipedia books are collections of articles that can be downloaded or ordered in print.


 Media related to Kate Bush at Wikimedia Commons



Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Kate Bush



Official website




Authority control: LCCN: n91108828 | WorldCat












v
t
e


Kate Bush






Studio albums



The Kick Inside (1978)
Lionheart (1978)
Never for Ever (1980)
The Dreaming (1982)
Hounds of Love (1985)
The Sensual World (1989)
The Red Shoes (1993)
Aerial (2005)
Director's Cut (2011)
50 Words for Snow (2011)








Extended plays



On Stage
Kate Bush








Live albums
and compilations



Live at the Hammersmith Odeon
The Single File
The Whole Story
This Woman's Work: Anthology 1978–1990








Videos



Live at the Hammersmith Odeon
The Single File
The Hair of the Hound
The Whole Story
The Sensual World: The Videos
The Line, the Cross & the Curve








Singles



"Wuthering Heights"
"The Man with the Child in His Eyes"
"Them Heavy People"
"Moving"
"Hammer Horror"
"Wow"
"Symphony in Blue"
"Strange Phenomena"
"Breathing"
"Babooshka"
"Army Dreamers"
"December Will Be Magic Again"
"Sat in Your Lap"
"The Dreaming"
"There Goes a Tenner"
"Suspended in Gaffa"
"Ne t'enfuis pas"
"Night of the Swallow"
"Running Up that Hill"
"Cloudbusting"
"Hounds of Love"
"The Big Sky"
"Don't Give Up"
"Experiment IV"
"The Sensual World"
"This Woman's Work"
"Love and Anger"
"Rocket Man"
"Rubberband Girl"
"Eat the Music"
"Moments of Pleasure"
"The Red Shoes"
"The Man I Love"
"And So Is Love"
"King of the Mountain"
"Lyra"
"Deeper Understanding"
"Wild Man"








Related articles



Discography
Awards and nominations
The Tour of Life










Persondata


Name
Bush, Kate


Alternative names



Short description
English singer, songwriter, musician and record producer


Date of birth
30 July 1958


Place of birth
Bexleyheath, Kent, England


Date of death



Place of death





http://wn.com/Kate_Bush
Related pages:
http://it.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://cs.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://id.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://es.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://ru.wn.com/Буш, Кейт
http://nl.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://pt.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://pl.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://fr.wn.com/Kate Bush
http://de.wn.com/Kate Bush


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kate_Bush
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        













Ana Gabriel





Background information


Birth name
María Guadalupe Araujo Yong


Born
(1955-12-10) December 10, 1955 (age 56)


Origin
Mexico


Genres
Latin pop, Mexican pop


Occupations
Singer, songwriter, record producer


Years active
1977–present (singer)


Labels
Sony International


Ana Gabriel (born on December 10, 1955) is a Mexican singer and composer.
Ana Gabriel was born as María Guadalupe Araujo Yong, in Santiago de Comanito, Sinaloa, Mexico. She first sang on the stage at age six, singing "Regalo A Dios" by José Alfredo Jiménez. She moved to Tijuana, Baja California and studied accounting. At age 21, in 1977, she recorded her first song, titled "Compréndeme". During her long career, she has hits in three different genres of music: rock en español, Latin Pop, and rancheras. In 2006 she received the Lo Nuestro award's "Premio a la Excelencia" (Excellence Award).




Contents


1 Personal Life
2 Albums
3 Compilation
4 References
5 Bibliography
6 External links




Personal Life[link]
In 1988 Gabriel released her first album, Tierra de Nadie, followed by Pecado Original in 1989, which met with some chart success. Her 1990 album Quien Como Tu made her a force within the Mexican music industry. Eight months later, her live album En Vivo showcased her powerful stage act and scored several hits: "Hice Bien Quererte", "Propuesta", and "Solamente una Vez".
Throughout the 1990s Gabriel released an album almost every year. A versatile singer, she showcased her talent as an interpreter of many different musical styles, from lambada to mariachi and romantic ballads to pop music. She also honed her skills as a songwriter and a producer, releasing Mi Mexico, a ranchera-influenced, mariachi-backed pop album, in 1991. This unique blend of styles was also reflected in the songs, all written by Gabriel. Her lyrics described strong, active women involved in their love lives, counter to their passive, traditional depiction in older songs. The album also included a tribute to Mexico's most popular singer-songwriter, Juan Gabriel (no relation).
Gabriel scored a number-one hit with the duet "Cosas del Amor" in 1991, which she sang with Vicki Carr, a Mexican-American pop singer famous in the 1960s. The single earned Gabriel a Lo Nuestro Award for Song of the Year in 1992. At the same awards ceremony Gabriel was also named Female Artist of the Year in the Regional Mexican category and Pop Female Artist of the Year; Mi México was named Regional Mexican Album of the Year.
In 1996 she released the pop-oriented Viven-cias. She followed this with the traditional ranchera album Con un Mismo Corazon in 1997, an album she wrote and produced herself. Of particular interest is her title-track duet with Vicente Fernandez, one of the most prolific and popular ranchera singers in Mexican history. Burr wrote of the duet, "The beauty here lies in the melding of two great voices—Gabriel's husky sensuality and Fernandez's powerful, understated expressions—set against a 25-piece symphony."
Gabriel released another live album in 1998, En la Plaza de Toros Mexico, a 30-track boxed set. That same year she traveled to Miami to work with the renowned producer Emilio Estefan, Jr., on her 1999 album Soy Como Soy. The result was a pop-influenced ranchera album that went gold in the Latin music market and helped Gabriel win the Ritmo Latino Music Award for Female Pop Artist of the Year in 2000.
With the release of Eternamente in 2000 Gabriel returned to mariachi love ballads, using only guitar as accompaniment. That same year she also appeared with other Mexican music icons in an independence day television special called Viva Mexico, a celebration of Mexican music and history. In 2001 Gabriel released Huelo a Soledad, once again balancing the traditional sounds of Eternamente with sophisticated pop songs, a cappella numbers, and dance tracks.
In 2002 Gabriel's platinum-selling album Sagitario was released. In that same year she won the Billboard Latin Music Estrella Award in recognition of her contribution to the Latin music industry, performed at a tribute concert for Vicente Fernandez sponsored by the Latin Music Awards, and participated in the ninth annual Las Cruces International Mariachi Concert and Festival in New Mexico. In December of that year she was scheduled to perform at the eleventh annual Christmas Mariachi Festival in Phoenix, Arizona, but was denied a work visa and refused entry into the United States.
Gabriel is a devout Catholic, telling Luther Orrick-Guzman of QV Magazine, "I believe and have a lot of faith in God." She places a red rose and a white carnation onstage at each of her performances, telling Orrick-Guzman the flowers symbolize "communication between myself and God." Her performances are also noted for their power and the respect she has for all of her fans.
Albums[link]

1985: Un estilo
1986: Sagitario
1987: Pecado Original
1988: Tierra de nadie
1989: Quién como tú
1990: En Vivo
1991: Mi México
1992: Silueta
1993: Luna
1994: Ayer y hoy
1995: Joyas de dos siglos
1996: Vivencias
1997: Con un mismo corazón
1998: ...En la Plaza de Toros México
1999: Soy como soy
2000: Eternamente
2002: Huelo a soledad
2003: Dulce y salado
2004: Tradicional
2006: Dos amores, un amante
2007: Arpegios de amor
2009: Renacer...Homenaje A Lucha Villa ARDC music division .
2010: Renacer...Special Edition

Compilation[link]

1992 The Best
1995 Ayer Y Hoy Sony
1998 The Best: The Latin Stars Series Sony International
1999 20th Anniversary Sony International
1999 3 CD Box Sony International
2001 Una Voz Para tu Corazón - 30 Grandes Éxitos
2002 Coleccion de Oro
2002 Personalidad: 20 Éxitos
2005 Historia de Una Reina
2006 Canciones de Amor
2006 La Reina Canta a México
2006 Best of Ana Gabriel
2006 Con Sentimiento
2007 Los Gabriel… Simplemente Amigos
2008 Los Gabriel: Cantan a México

References[link]
http://www.enotes.com/contemporary-musicians/gabriel-ana-biography

Bibliography[link]

Lipsitz, George, Footsteps in the Dark: The Hidden Histories of Popular Music, U of Minnesota Press, 2007, ISBN 0-8166-5020-9

External links[link]

Ana Gabriel at the Internet Movie Database









v
t
e


La Academia






Seasons

1 ·  2 ·  3 ·  4 · 5 · 6 ·  7 ·  8 ·  9  ·  10






Hosts

Current: Ingrid Coronado (2009 - present)
Former: Alan Tacher (2002–2005) · Mónica Garza (2006)  · Biby Gaytan (2011)  · Rafael Araneda (2008 - 2011)






Judges

Current: Arturo Lopez Gavito · Chacho Gaytán  ·  Lola Cortés
Former: Óscar Sarquiz · Olga Tañón · Enrique Guzmán ·  Lizette ·  Raúl Quintanilla ·  Regina Orosco ·  Ilse ·  Mimi ·  Oscar Lopez ·  Amparo Rubín
Guest: María Conchita Alonso ·  Dulce · Marta Sánchez · Tatiana ·  Elvis Crespo · Ana Gabriel · Mónica Naranjo ·  Horóscopos de Durango · Eduardo Capetillo · Bibi Gaytán ·  Paty Chapoy · Gaby Spanic ·  Anette Fradera  · Edith Gonzalez






Winners

Myriam Montemayor · Érika Alcocer · Carlos Rivera · Erasmo González · Samuel Castelli · María Fernanda Alvo ·  Giovanna Paz ·  Esmeralda Ugalde  ·  Erick Sandoval






Runners-up

Víctor García · Marco Moré · Dulce López · Yuridia · Colette · Fabiola Rodas ·  Napoleón ·  Sebastián Martingaste ·  Carolina Soto  · Pablo






Other alumni

Nadia · Yahir · Raúl Sandoval · María Inés · Laura Caro · Rosalía León · Andrea · Jolette · Cynthia · Adrián Varela · Edgar · Menny






Spin-offs

Desafio de Estrellas · Segunda Oportunidad · Homenaje a...






Related

La Academia USA








Persondata


Name
Gabriel, Ana


Alternative names



Short description



Date of birth
December 10, 1955


Place of birth
Fedinio


Date of death



Place of death






35px
This article about a Mexican singer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e






http://wn.com/Ana_Gabriel
Related pages:
http://pt.wn.com/Ana Gabriel
http://es.wn.com/Ana Gabriel


        This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_Gabriel
        This article is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, which means that you can copy and modify it as long as the entire work (including additions) remains under this license.
        
































Menu
Playlist
Film Summary
More Videos

close all
open all














In Abrahamic religions, Gabriel (Hebrew: גַּבְרִיאֵל, Modern Gavri'el Tiberian Gaḇrîʼēl, God is my strength; Arabic: جبريل, Jibrīl or جبرائيل Jibrāʾīl) is an angel who typically serves as a messenger to humans from God.
He first appears in the Book of Daniel, delivering explanations of Daniel's visions. In the Gospel of Luke Gabriel foretold the births of both John the Baptist and of Jesus. Christians of the Catholic traditions refer to him as Gabriel the Archangel.
Gabriel is referred to as "he" in the Bible, and in Daniel 9:21 he is explicitly called "The man Gabriel". Some moderns, especially New Age exponents, portray Gabriel as female or androgynous.
In Latter-day Saint theology, Gabriel is believed to have lived a mortal life as the prophet Noah. The two are regarded as the same individual; Noah being his mortal name and Gabriel being his heavenly name.
Gabriel is mentioned in the Book of Daniel, in the Hebrew Bible where he is sent as a messenger of YHWH (see God in Judaism) to Daniel during the Jewish captivity in Babylon. He is later mentioned in the Talmud.










go top
About WN
Privacy Policy
Contact
Feedback
© 2013 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved


























