CTV News | World News - Latest International News Headlines












Skip to Main Content








CTVNews.ca


Mobile


CTV.ca










Hot Topics Marijuana ban
Senate reform
PlayStation






Search CTV News




 









                                  NEWS
                                






                                  VIDEO
                                






                                  LOCAL NEWS
                                






                                  NEWS PROGRAMS
                                






                                  MYNEWS
                                






                                  CONNECT
                                






                                  ABOUT
                                










Sections 


CTV News


Canada


World


Politics









Entertainment


Sci-Tech


Health


Autos









Business


Sports


Weather







Blogs 


Healthblog


Finance: Pattie's Blog


Politics: Don Martin







Browse 


Photo Galleries






 








Sections 


Latest News


Lifestyle


Entertainment


Health









Captured on Camera


MyNews


AM Contributors


Technology







Shows 


CTV National News


W5


CTV QP


Power Play









Pattie Lovett-Reid


Dr. Marla & Friends







Subscribe 


News Channel Livestream






 








CTV 


Atlantic


British Columbia


Calgary


Edmonton









Kitchener


Montreal


Northern Ontario


Ottawa









Regina


Saskatoon


Toronto


Winnipeg







CTV Two 


Alberta


Atlantic


Barrie


London









Ottawa


Vancouver Island


Windsor






 








News Programs 


Canada AM


CTV National News


CTV's Question Period


W5







CTV News Channel 


CTV News Channel


Dr. Marla & Friends


Power Play


Pattie Lovett-Reid Show









Morning Express


Afternoon Express


Direct


Evening Direct









Schedule






 








Sections 


Home


Most Popular


Highest Rated


Archive







Local Stations 


Atlantic


British Columbia


Calgary


Edmonton









Kitchener


Montreal


Northern Ontario


Ottawa









Saskatchewan


Toronto


Winnipeg






 








Follow CTV News 


Facebook


Twitter


Google +


Pinterest







Contact 


Contact CTV News







Subscribe 


RSS Feeds


Breaking news alerts


Newsletters


Watch CTV News Live






 








SECTIONS 


About Bell Media


CTV News Mobile


Contest


CTV News Stox









CTV Schedule







BIOS 


CTV National News Team


CTVNews.ca Team


CTV News Channel


Canada AM Bios











 


















Share:









 


 

Text:

 
 
 
 


(11)





                         CTVNews.ca Staff
            
            

              Published Monday, Jan. 28, 2013 8:33AM EST
            


                Last Updated Monday, Jan. 28, 2013 10:33PM EST
              



	Four people have been arrested in connection with a Brazilian nightclub fire that killed 231 people over the weekend.

	At a news conference Monday, police Insp. Ranolfo Vieira Jr. said the arrests are for investigative purposes and come with a five-day limit.

	The club’s owner and two band members who were performing at the club are among the detained.

	The blaze, which engulfed the crowded Kiss nightclub in Santa Maria early Saturday morning, may have been caused by a pyrotechnics display igniting exposed overhead sound insulation.

	The club violated many state safety codes: fire extinguishers were not placed at every 1,500 square feet throughout the club and there was only one exit. Also, there was no fire alarm, no sprinklers and no fire escapes.

	Also on Monday, a military brigade official said the death toll from the blaze now stands at 231, many of them younger than 20 years of age including several minors. Police Maj. Cleberson Braida Bastianello subsequently told The Associated Press by telephone that the toll had risen to 233.

	Brazilian President Dilma Roussef has declared a three-day national period of mourning for the victims, while Santa Maria Mayor Cezar Schirmer has declared a month-long period of mourning in the southern Brazilian city.

	Accounts of the fire paint a picture of panic and confusion, as a fire extinguisher failed to work, and smoke prevented those attempting to flee from finding the club's single working exit.

	Many of the dead were found trapped in the venue's two bathrooms, where it is believed the victims -- most of whom died from smoke inhalation rather than burns -- wound up in a mistaken hunt for a way out.

	Further compounding the tragedy, there are reports that security guards were at first unaware of the fire and focused on preventing patrons from leaving without paying their bills.

	"It was chaotic and it doesn't seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died," police inspector Marcelo Arigony told The Associated Press.

	Rodrigo Martins, a guitarist with the band playing onstage when the blaze erupted, told Radio Gaucha that their set began at approximately 2:15 a.m. local time Saturday.

	They had played about five songs, he said, when he noticed the ceiling in flames.

	"It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it,” Martins said. "When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working.”

	Other members of the band escaped except for 28-year-old accordion player Danilo Jacques, who investigators say had initially left the club. Jacques died after returning inside to retrieve his accordion.

	"It was terrible inside -- it was like one of those films of the Holocaust, bodies piled atop one another," Meinerz said. "We had to use trucks to remove them. It took about six hours to take the bodies away."

	Time magazine correspondent Andrew Downie told CTV's Canada AM that when emergency responders arrived they found bodies piled up inside the exits, some apparently trampled in the rush to flee the building.

	Questions are emerging, Downie said, about whether the club had sufficient emergency exits, whether they were properly illuminated and if security guards were trained to help people exit in the event of an emergency.

	Fire official Guido Pedroso de Melo told a local newspaper that firefighters had difficulty getting inside the club because "there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance."

	After leaving a summit of Latin American countries in Chile to fly to Santa Maria on Sunday, President Roussef said, "It’s a tragedy for all of us."

	Santa Maria is a major university town with a population of approximately 260,000.

	The fire is the deadliest in Brazil since a 1961, when 501 people after flames swept through a circus in Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro. It’s also one of the deadliest nightclub fires anywhere in the world, in more than a decade.

	In 2000, a nightclub fire in Luoyang, China claimed the lives of 309 patrons. And in 2004, at least 194 people died after a fire broke out at an overcrowded nightclub in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

	In alarmingly similar circumstances, tragedy also struck at a Perm, Russia nightclub in 2009, when an indoor fireworks display ignited a plastic ceiling decorated with branches. And 100 people died at a Rhode Island nightclub in 2003, after pyrotechnics set the walls and ceiling covered in soundproofing foam alight.

With files from The Associated Press




Related Stories



Hundreds killed in packed Brazil nightclub fire





Photos




 


People march near the Kiss nightclub honouring the victims of early Sunday's fatal fire inside the club in Santa Maria, Brazil, Monday, Jan. 28, 2013. (AP Photo / Felipe Dana)




 


Police enter the Kiss nightclub the day after a fatal fire in Santa Maria, Brazil, Monday, Jan. 28, 2013. (AP Photo / Felipe Dana)




 


Relatives and friends mourn on the coffin containing the remains of a fire victim at a gymnasium where bodies were brought for identification in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. (AP / Felipe Dana)




 


Gladimir Callegaro, second from right, father of fire victim Marina Callegaro and other relatives mourn during her funeral at a cemetery in Santa Maria city, Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, Monday, Jan. 28, 2013. (AP / Nabor Goulart)





Share this story:









 


















Write your comment here :



Enter your name : 
          


Enter your email : 
          

*Will not be shown on the website

Word verification 
Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.





 




        We welcome your comments. Bell Media reviews every comment submitted, and reserves the right to approve comments and edit for brevity and clarity. Please be advised:
        
        Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.
        
        Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.
    
Guidelines

Preference is given to commenters who use real names.
Stay on topic and be concise.
Stimulate debate.
Offer new information.

What not to do:

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks. 
We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading. 
We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed. 
If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.
We will not publish comments that link to outside websites. 


    Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
    


























Amnesty International: halt evictions for people living in Haiti camps





      Amnesty International is calling on Haiti to stop the eviction of people still living in the impromptu settlements that surfaced after the 2010 earthquake.
          




















1 killed in mayhem outside Egypt palace 




            Protesters denouncing Egypt's Islamist president hurled stones and firebombs through the gates of his palace gates on Friday, clashing with security forces who fired tear gas and water cannons, as more than a week of political violence came to Mohammed Morsi's symbolic doorstep for the first time.
 

1
  
















Syrian opposition leader says he's ready for talks with Assad regime




            Syria's top opposition leader said Friday that he was willing to sit down for talks with President Bashar Assad's government to "ease the pain of the Syrian people," but emphasized that his goal is to "overthrow the regime by peaceful means."
     














Mali jihadists say they've been tortured by military in custody




            Three suspected jihadists arrested in the days since the liberation of Timbuktu said Friday that Malian soldiers were torturing them with a method similar to waterboarding.
 

2
  
















Suicide bombing kills Turkish guard at U.S. Embassy




            In the second deadly assault on a U.S. diplomatic post in five months, a suicide bomber struck the American Embassy in Ankara on Friday, killing a Turkish security guard in what the White House described as a terrorist attack. 

3
  
















Dozens of Harvard students disciplined in cheating inquiry 




            Harvard University has doled out academic sanctions to dozens of students after a cheating probe connected to an open-book, take-home final exam.     














Armenian presidential candidate shot




            The shooting of a presidential candidate threw Armenia's election into disarray Friday, with the wounded victim saying he will call for a delay of the vote.
     














India's Cabinet recommends president adopt tough laws for rape




            India's Cabinet accepted most of the recommendations of a commission for toughening laws for crimes against women, including increasing the penalty for rape.
     














Russian judge fired after falling asleep in court 




             A Russian judge has been fired after he caught 40 winks in court and then sentenced an outraged defendant to five years in prison.     














German customs finds $70M check in Iranian man's hand luggage




            An Iranian man faces a hefty fine after trying to enter Germany with a check worth about $70 million in his hand luggage. 

4
  
















Clinton's last day includes resignation letter and farewell to her staff




            Hillary Rodham Clinton formally resigned Friday as the 67th U.S. secretary of state, capping a four-year tenure in the office that saw her shatter previous records for the number of countries visited. 

5
  
















Fireworks cause deadly highway collapse in China




            A truckload of fireworks intended for Lunar New Year celebrations went off Friday in a massive, deadly explosion that destroyed part of an elevated highway in central China, sending vehicles plummeting 30 metres to the ground. 

1
  
















Death toll rises in aftermath of Mexico oil company headquarters blast




            Rescuers searched for survivors Friday and authorities promised a thorough investigation after an office building blast killed 32 people and injured 121 at the headquarters of Mexico's state-owned oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos. 

3
  





























 


  
100 Photos: Events that shook the world in 2012





      CTVNews.ca looks at some of the most remarkable, controversial, tragic and iconic images from around the world in 2012.
          









FEATURED 





 




  
Highway Horror




IN PICTURES
            Mass Detroit freeway crash involving dozens of vehicles leaves 3 dead.
     








 




  
WATCH:Jordan-Syria border




            Martin Seemungal reports about the Syrian refugees fleeing to Jordan     








 




  
Celebrating Obama




IN PICTURES
            Thousands celebrate Obama's swearing-in     








 




  
WATCH:Acid attack




            Bolshoi ballet director suffers a vicious acid attack     








 




  
Detroit Auto Show




IN PICTURES
            Hot new rides wow at the Detroit Auto Show.     








 




  
Winter Ritual




IN PICTURES
            Japanese fitness buffs take an icy plunge in a chilly winter tradition     














 TODAY'S QUESTION 
What best describes your shopping habits?






Browse in store, buy online




Bricks and mortar for me




Online as much as possible




Other







View result
View the latest polls







Related Article

Best Buy closing 15 stores, slashing staff in Canada












 CANADA



Pot stays illegal in Canada after Appeal Court upholds medical marijuana laws


Vancouver police probe seemingly random stabbing rampage


Rob Ford exceeded campaign spending by $40,000: audit 







 WORLD



Amnesty International: halt evictions for people living in Haiti camps


1 killed in mayhem outside Egypt palace 


Syrian opposition leader says he's ready for talks with Assad regime







 ENTERTAINMENT



Bollywood star faces homicide charge over 2002 road accident 


Woman who received stolen Paris Hilton jacket sentenced to probation


Alan Cumming's one-man 'Macbeth' poised for Broadway









 HEALTH



Several cold remedies recalled over faulty child-proof caps


Pot stays illegal in Canada after Appeal Court upholds medical marijuana laws


Short bursts vs. gym sweat sessions: Which works best?







 POLITICS



Marois 'very satisfied' after meeting with Harper


Feds seek Supreme Court ruling on Senate reform


Clinton's last day includes resignation letter and farewell to her staff







 SCI-TECH



Mystery revealed of how owls can spin their heads 


Still-unreleased BlackBerry Z10 selling for $1,000+ on eBay


Sony likely to announce next PlayStation on Feb. 20 









 BUSINESS



BCE's The Source to open 20 new outlets as rival Best Buy shuts stores


Best Buy, Sears failing to compete with online market, incoming U.S. chains: Analyst 


Dow closes above 14,000 for first time since Oct. 2007, TSX up too







 SPORTS



NFL Commissioner wants to end use of head in tackling


Gay vows to work hard as new Raptor


David Beckham greeted with enthusiasm in France







 AUTOS



Chrysler posts 38th consecutive month of auto sales growth in January


GM chooses Volkswagen exec to take over troubled European business


Scotiabank predicts near-record year for auto sales in Canada












About CTV


Careers


Bell Media Announcements


Advertise on CTV


Bell Media PR


Privacy Policy


Terms and Conditions


Contact Us


Producer Guidelines






Local News

CTV Atlantic News


CTV British Columbia News


CTV Calgary News


CTV Edmonton News


CTV Kitchener News


CTV Montreal News


CTV Northern Ontario News


CTV Ottawa News


CTV Regina News


CTV Saskatoon News


CTV Toronto News


CTV Winnipeg News





CTV Two

Atlantic


Alberta


Barrie


London


Ottawa


Windsor


Vancouver Island





CTV News Programs

CTV National News


Canada AM


W5


Power Play


CTV Question Period


The Pattie Lovett-Reid Show



Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy© 2013  All rights reserved.Bell Media Television
Back to top
 




   

  





