Massive loss of life in Brazil nightclub fire - CBS News  

           CBSNews.com / CBS Evening News / CBS This Morning / 48 Hours / 60 Minutes / Sunday Morning / Face the Nation                     Video US World Politics Entertainment Health MoneyWatch SciTech Crime Sports »  More   Blogs Political Eye The Feed   Webshows 60 Overtime Face to Face The Startup What's Cooking   Resources Mobile Radio Local       Log In    Log In Join CBSNews.com Sign in with         Profile     Manage my newsletter subscriptions Update my e-mail address Change my password Log Out                                  CBS/AP/   January 27, 2013, 3:35 PM   Massive loss of life in Brazil nightclub fire        Play CBS News Video    Last Updated 10:16 p.m. ET BRASILIA, Brazil Flames raced through a crowded nightclub in southern Brazil early Sunday, killing more than 230 people as panicked partygoers gasped for breath in the smoke-filled air, stampeding toward a single exit partially blocked by those already dead. It appeared to be the world's deadliest nightclub fire in more than a decade.

Firefighters responding to the blaze at first had trouble getting inside the Kiss nightclub because bodies partially blocked the club's entryway.  Witnesses said a flare or firework lit by band members started the blaze in Santa Maria, a university city of about 260,000 people. Officials at a news conference said the cause was still under investigation — though police inspector Sandro Meinerz told the Agencia Estado news agency the band was to blame for a pyrotechnics show and that manslaughter charges could be filed.  





34 Photos
More than 200 die in Brazil nightclub fire

 Television images showed smoke pouring out of the Kiss nightclub as shirtless young men who had attended a university party joined firefighters using axes and sledgehammers to pound at windows and walls to free those trapped inside.

There was only one way out of the nightclub, and no emergency doors, reports CBS News correspondent Margaret Brennan. Some panicked patrons mistook the bathrooms for an escape and died there.  The chaos led to confusion -- security guards briefly blocked the exit fearing that customers were fleeing their bar tabs. Brazilian bars routinely make patrons pay their entire tab at the end of the night before they are allowed to leave.  Bodies of the dead and injured were strewn in the street and panicked screams filled the air as medics tried to help. There was little to be done; officials said most of those who died were suffocated by smoke within minutes.  Within hours a community gym was a horror scene, with body after body lined up on the floor, partially covered with black plastic as family members identified kin.  Outside the gym police held up personal objects — a black purse, a blue high-heeled shoe — as people seeking information on loved ones looked crowded around, hoping not to recognize anything being shown them.  
Guido Pedroso Melo, commander of the city's fire department, told the O Globo newspaper that firefighters had a hard time getting inside the club because "there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance."

Teenagers sprinted from the scene desperately seeking help. Others carried injured and burned friends away in their arms.

"There was so much smoke and fire, it was complete panic, and it took a long time for people to get out, there were so many dead," survivor Luana Santos Silva told the Globo TV network.

The fire spread so fast inside the packed club that firefighters and ambulances could do little to stop it, Silva said.



A man carries an injured man, victim of a fire at the Kiss club in Santa Maria, Brazil, early Sunday, Jan. 27, 2013. 
/

AP Photo/Agencia RBS

 Another survivor, Michele Pereira, told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper that she was near the stage when members of the band lit flares that started the conflagration.

"The band that was onstage began to use flares and, suddenly, they stopped the show and pointed them upward," she said. "At that point, the ceiling caught fire. It was really weak, but in a matter of seconds it spread."
 
A look at past deadly nightclub fires
R.I. nightclub fire survivors recall 2003 blaze Guitarist Rodrigo Martins told Radio Gaucha that the band, Gurizada Fandangueira, started playing at 2:15 a.m. "and we had played around five songs when I looked up and noticed the roof was burning"

"It might have happened because of the Sputnik, the machine we use to create a luminous effect with sparks. It's harmless, we never had any trouble with it.

"When the fire started, a guard passed us a fire extinguisher, the singer tried to use it but it wasn't working"

He confirmed that accordion player Danilo Jacques, 28, died, while the five other members made it out safely.

Police Maj. Cleberson Braida Bastianello said by telephone that the toll had risen to 233 with the death of a hospitalized victim. Officials counted 232 bodies that had been brought for identification to a gymnasium in Santa Maria, a major university city with about 250,000 residents at the southern tip of Brazil, near the borders with Argentina and Uruguay.

An earlier count put the number of dead at 245.

Federal Health Minister Alexandre Padhilha told a news conference that most of the 117 people treated in hospitals had been poisoned by gases they breathed during the fire. Only a few suffered serious burns, he said.  Brazil President Dilma Roussef arrived to visit the injured after cutting short her trip to a Latin American-European summit in Chile.  "It is a tragedy for all of us," Roussef said.  Most of the dead apparently suffocated, according to Dr. Paulo Afonso Beltrame, a professor at the medical school of the Federal University of Santa Maria who went to the city's Caridade Hospital to help victims.       no previous page     next    1/2   © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.    
Popular on CBSNews.com






Syrian family lives under constant attack
Only 20 percent of citizens remain in one of the first neighborhoods to rise up against Syria's President Assad. Elizabeth Palmer reports on one family that lives there under the constant threat of attack from the Syrian army. 





Everything to Lose
A mother torments the man she says killed her daughter, but can she get him to confess? Richard Schlesinger reports. 



 








Deadly blast at U.S. Embassy in Turkey
139 Comments 






Thousands in Egypt defy curfews, protest Morsi
 




Russian band member hospitalized at prison camp
 




Death toll in Mexico oil co. HQ blast now 33
 




Turks reportedly to quiz man linked to NYC mom
 




Fireworks explosion kills at least 8 in China
 




Israeli jets spotted near Lebanon-Syria border
 






Experts baffled over mound of human skulls found in Mexico
 



     

 

      68 Comments Add a Comment       linkicon reporticon emailicon  Ulgnud says: I am sorry for those who lost their lives. May they rest in peace, and the families somehow find comfort.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  Oh-Pin-Yun says: Saints of God, come to their aid! Come to meet them, angels of the Lord! May Christ, Who called them, take them to Himself; may angels lead them to Abraham's side. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and may Your light shine upon them forever. We commend our brothers and sisters to you, Lord. Now that they have passed from this life, may they live on in Your presence. In Your mercy and love, forgive whatever sins they may have committed through human weakness. Receive their souls and present them to God the Most High. We ask this through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.     reply        ugleyme replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  Thank-you for this prayer.               linkicon reporticon emailicon  Oh-Pin-Yun says: Saints of God, come to their aid! Come to meet them, angels of the Lord! May Christ, Who called them, take them to Himself; may angels lead them to Abraham's side. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and may Your light shine upon them forever. We commend our brothers and sisters to you, Lord. Now that they have passed from this life, may they live on in Your presence. In Your mercy and love, forgive whatever sins they may have committed through human weakness. Receive their souls and present them to God the Most High. We ask this through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  Bendech says: We all know that everytime there is a major airline disaster the authorities do a careful analysis of the causes and make major changes to equipment, training or airline rules...to prevent the accident from happening again.That's why flying is one of the safest forms of transportation and have relatively few accidents per miles flown.Nightclub fires caused by faulty pyrotechnics happen on average once a year.Nothing is ever done. The causes are always the same...too many people, locked exits, no sprinklers, no fire extinguishing equipment. No changes are ever implemented.And next year we will have a similar tragedy....     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  lloydbest1 says: This is such a tragic affair.But my main reason for posting is my dismay at how some people can make light of such a horror. I realise different people process grief differently and I can, perhaps, understand some of the comments I found so far that I would not ordinarily make.But such trash as was posted recently posted by KRYSTAL1P and DONNIE_G is unconscionable. Such <offal> should be conspiciously condemmned. And TONYKEYWEST'S inexpert diagnosis of a wrathful god wreaking vengeance upon a largely apolitical demographic because someone in the Brazilian government finally had the brains to bow to common sense and common decency has sunk to a new and almost unreachable low in crassness and lack of compassion.We should hold thse trolls with the contempt they deserve and pay no more attention to the wind coming out of their mouths than that coming out of their a--es.     reply        WashingTime replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  I bet you voted for the President. Enough said.            AnaHellaHeaven replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  There are trolls all over the internet and they write in all languages.It's astonishing that you care so much about them and they are making such a impression on you.People use to say that the elite that is ruling the world is insane, crazy and aren't even human.Human all too human just like these people who do these remarks that are not supposed to be taken seriously by anybody.               linkicon reporticon emailicon  Plumbline9 says: We never know the day or the hour, so be prepared. Make peace with God Today, by asking Jesus Christ to be your Saviour and Lord. Call upon Him while He is near...................Luke 12:20...............But God said to him................. This night your soul will be required of you........................     reply        rheola-2009 replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  What a wonderfull God, majestically rules over all the suffering and injustice he/she/it inflicted on this world.That is if you are gullible enough to believe in an entity, for which thwere is absolutely no evidence for his/her/it's existance.            Bendech replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  So this is a Conservative's alternative to imposing fire and safety standards on nightclubs.?               linkicon reporticon emailicon  PMac13 says: Prayers for all affected. What a terrible and unfortunate tragedy.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  dork97531chris says: beans & ladies beans & ladies, first aid on the trail . sang the little girl . oh no, said her father, sing the good song . are you telling me that if i pass out millions piles of bazookas to all the millions and billions of friendlies to compulsory my daughter and her lunch and bus and toy world that you will shut me down and spread millions piles of bazookas to all the millions and billions of friendlies to compulsory my daughter and her lunch and bus and toy world     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  tonykeywest says: GOD answerd Brazil today for passing same sex marriage laws. More mayhem carnage and destruction is coming.     reply        varigdc10 replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  You are a very sick individual.            needingrelease replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  You are a very sick and twisted person. Go read a bible and learn about what compassion is about.         See all 7 Replies         linkicon reporticon emailicon  cbs3lover says: I have family and friends in Brazil. My wife is Brazilian. They are such friendly people. I love going down there to visit. This is a tragic day for so many...those who lost their lives, the loved ones they left behind who must go through this grief and all of Brazil.My prayers go out to all these people. They are the nicest and friendliest people I have ever met in this world. If you got to know them as well as I, we Americans can learn a lot from them. They are so close and family-oriented. This is hurting them more than we can possibly imagine.May GOD give these people hope and strength to overcome this terrible tragedy.     reply        JJDils replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  The same GOD that killed the 250 people will give hope and strength to the ones that made it out, right? I want nothing to do with that kind of evil GOD.            WashingTime replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  JJdils...you are a donkey. I bet you voted for the US President. You're probably a Muslim or some other extremist religious cult.I would prefer if you vacated the US.           See all 68 Comments     Add a Comment      Submit Comment          Click here to add another comment.   The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.         Reply to Comment          Submit Comment Cancel    The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.     Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense:  Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language  Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts  Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users  Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content  Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional):       Report Cancel     E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to:  Your e-mail address:   Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.      Send e-mail Cancel          


         Most Popular
	


01

Deadly blast at U.S. Embassy in Turkey
35958 views



02

Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference
25525 views



03

New Obamacare birth control rules seek middle ground
22043 views



04

"It broke up! The shuttle broke up!": Remembering Columbia
14047 views



05

Alaska Air jet lands safely after pilot passes out
13004 views






Scroll Left
Scroll Right






play
Video
Jedi kitten manipulates the force






play
Video
Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference






play
Video
Watch: DUI suspect inhales balloon before arrest







Most Shared




EXCLUSIVE: "The Rock" in "Got Milk?" Super Bowl ad
943 shares





Police: Teen shot by fellow student at Ga. school
923 shares





Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference
668 shares





Bride's special dance will probably make you cry
424 shares





Beyonce asked about Destiny's Child reunion
357 shares






Scroll Left
Scroll Right






43
Photos
Detroit series reveals past life of city's ruins






46
Photos
Space Shuttle Columbia disaster






20
Photos
Most popular dog breeds in the U.S.






20
Photos
Garrett McNamara surfs possible 100-foot wave






15
Photos
S.C. teacher accused of sex with 2 students







Most Discussed


463

New Obamacare birth control rules seek middle ground



375

Obama: "No doubt" Congress will pass immigration, gun bills in coming months



182

Negotiators talking to Ala. captor through pipe



156

U.N. panel provides legal basis for sanctions against Israel over settlement expansion in Palestinian territory



139

U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey hit by suicide blast; 1 dead, U.S. officials say



                         CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs   CBS Interactive Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement About CBS Advertise Closed Captioning   Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile CBS Radio News CBS Local   CBS News  Copyright © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.                   
          

    