BBC News - The Stone Roses to reunite for tour


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Entertainment & Arts







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















18 October 2011
Last updated at 10:58 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





The Stone Roses to reunite for tour
 


The Stone Roses are expecting to embark on a world tour


Continue reading the main story Related Stories

Stone Roses: Can the reunion work?
Steps v Stone Roses: Whose reunion is more significant?


Influential Manchester rock band The Stone Roses have announced the end of a 15-year split for a series of gigs.
The band will play two shows at Heaton Park, Manchester, on 29 and 30 June before an "extensive" world tour.
At a London press conference, singer Ian Brown said his friendship with John Squire had been repaired and the group hoped to release a new record soon.
The Manchester band, which was formed in 1983, recorded just two albums before they dissolved in 1996.
Their 1989 self-titled debut is regarded as a seminal work, combining psychedelic pop and funky basslines.
'Bit like Everest'
The classic line-up of the band were all present for Tuesday's announcement: Brown, Squire, Mani (Gary Mounfield) and Reni (Alan Wren).
The band said the death of Mani's mother earlier this year was the catalyst that brought them back together, even though the bassist had poured scorn on reunion rumours that surfaced shortly after the funeral.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























The Stone Roses on getting back together and their plans to tour in 2012



 Asked at the press conference how long the reunion would last, Mani said it was a "suck it and see thing", while Reni said he "would be happy with 12 months". 
"We will ride it as long as we can," Brown added. However, the band were unable to confirm any festival rumours.
The band confirmed that they have been working together again, and Mani said: "Something magical happens when us four are in the room together, you can't put your finger on it.
"It's just beautiful to capture it again. I've missed it."
The musician added that he had been allowed to leave his current band, Primal Scream, "to follow his dream", while Brown said that his solo career would be put on ice.
Reni - who said he had been busy with fatherhood since the band split up - said it was "a bit like Everest" for men of their age to attempt a comeback.

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Andrew Collins
BBC 6 Music



What the Stone Roses did in the late 80s and early 90s was to re-set the musical compass so that it permanently pointed North. 
I was working at the NME at the time, and our expenses forms were dominated by train fares to Manchester, as that's where the action was. This was healthy for Britain's all too London-centric cultural life. 
A locally-kept secret who went international within six months, the Roses blended Byrdsian indie guitar with psychedelic noodling and a Sly Stone groove, ushering in a new age of dance-influenced rock. Arrogant and effortlessly cool, they captured a moment when ecstasy and/or the rave spirit loosened trouser width and freed minds from Tory-dominated stasis. 
Drummer Reni's effortlessly funky rhythms, married to Mani's rumbling bass and the quiet genius of John Squire's inventive guitar, powered the Roses sound, which went epic with Fools Gold. Ian Brown, mouthy and spaced out, was intoxicating to watch, even if his vocals weren't technically brilliant. 
It was all about the communal atmosphere they created, demanded to be adored from within a fog of dry ice and smoke.
And of course they blew it: taking five years to record their second album and falling into acrimony, their ignominious split in a newly Britpop-dominated 1996 only serving to make their first album and first flush of success all the more precious in the minds of an entire generation, many of whom still own their Reni hats.

 The band admitted they each had personal reasons for the reunion, while Brown criticised the current music scene, saying it was "boring, bland and corporate with nobody saying anything" and that people "needed uplifting in times like this".
Supposedly named after a novel by Sarah Gainham, the band were at the forefront of the "Madchester" indie scene in the late 1980s and early 1990s, which also spawned the likes of Happy Mondays and The Charlatans.
They scored hits with tracks including Fools Gold, I Wanna Be Adored, She Bangs The Drums and Love Spreads - their biggest single, reaching number two in 1994.
In the year their debut album came out, they topped NME magazine's readers' poll in four categories - best new band, band of the year, album of the year and single of the year, for Fools Gold.
Legal wranglings as they tried to part company with their original record label kept the band occupied until 1991, after which they took another three years to produce the follow-up, Second Coming.
Drummer Reni quit in 1995, followed months later by guitarist Squire. 
The band struggled on for another six months with former Simply Red session guitarist Aziz Ibrahim before finally splitting up against a backdrop of internal arguments and legal cases.
Frontman Brown went on to pursue a solo career (and made a brief cameo in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban) while bassist Mani joined Primal Scream. 
Squire formed his own band The Seahorses and has also forged a career as an artist.
'Golden period'
Drummer Reni was the most enigmatic of the quartet and largely disappeared from the public eye after their dissolution. 
In recent years, rumours of a Stone Roses reunion have regularly made the press, only to be quickly scotched by individual members of the band.
Earlier this year, guitarist Squire told NME: "When it's just a get-together for a big payday and everyone gets their old clothes out, that seems tragic to me."
He added that he had not been approached with any concrete financial plans for a Stone Roses reunion.
Tuesday's announcement, supposed to be a surprise, had been heavily trailed by tabloid newspapers.


Fools Gold is one of the band's most enduring songs

One person who knew in advance was New Order's Peter Hook, who told BBC 6 Music he had been "tipped off last week".
"Because the band had such a short life, there was always this wish that they would reform - because they burned quite brightly and disappeared," he said.
"I think that they'll make their own magic.
"We're all ready to celebrate the Stone Roses coming back because we all want to celebrate that wonderful, golden period in Manchester history."
Hinting at how the band members had made peace with one another, Hook said: "When you talk face-to-face and you look into someone's eyes, it's definitely a much easier and much stronger way of communicating than doing it through your lawyers. 
"You find the thing you loved about each other at the start."

 



More on This Story

Related Stories


Stone Roses: Can the reunion work?
18 OCTOBER 2011, 
                        ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS


Steps v Stone Roses: Whose reunion is more significant?
18 OCTOBER 2011, 
                        ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS











Related Internet links


The Stone Roses




Around the BBC


BBC - Music - The Stone Roses



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 88       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 88.  adrian  19th October 2011 - 0:13   Smalltownupstart #83 i totally agree- you hit the nail on the head mate!! A lot of the young kids who have never seen the stone roses live will end up dissapointed after watching them and they will realise what original fans have been saying for years. This reunion could backfire on the band big time. I cant see them staying together for s long tour but i suppose a job is a job in these hard times    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 87.  adrian  19th October 2011 - 0:01   Why are so many southern softies on here posting comments about mancs saying we all walk about with mop top haircuts? Get with the times those haircuts dissappeared years ago. Once again manchester leads the way with its culture and music and southerners are still behind without a clue of what modern northerners even look like!!! ive heard george formby has just released a new album down south lol    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 86.  Steve556  18th October 2011 - 23:59   Shame on the mainstream news media for comparing them to the likes of Take That and Steps on every damn news programme I've seen today. I will happily shout expletives at those who suggest that this is about money. The Roses have reunited because the time is right. The Tories are up to their old tricks again, the little man is being s**t on, and Britain needs its voice back. Bring it on!    Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 85.  stevo  18th October 2011 - 23:50   So much for Squire saying hed neer get together with the others again. Must be short of money...Not sold enough paintings?    Report this comment (Comment number 85) Link to this (Comment number 85)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 84.  adrian  18th October 2011 - 23:48   Dont think ian and the lads made much back in the days anyway due to silvertone. Maybe theyre cashing in now while they still can. Bsnds only play huge venues like heaton park for one reason- the cash!!!    Report this comment (Comment number 84) Link to this (Comment number 84)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 83.  smalltownupstart  18th October 2011 - 23:32   I'm glad i was there first time round,those were the days,madchester,the illegal raves,mop tops,paisley shirts,but reunion for the roses,no way,they were rubbish live when they were young and will probably be worse now they're not,their debut and garage flower will remain seminal to my generation but it was music of the times,those times are gone,dont ruin the memory,please,you WERE the greatest.    Report this comment (Comment number 83) Link to this (Comment number 83)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 82.  adrian  18th October 2011 - 23:12   I hope the roses pull it off if they release new material despite it looking like an obvious cash in. it would be interesting to hear them in the studio again after leading separate lives the past few years. Hope it isnt just safe watered down rubbish that kids from the itunes generation  love to lap up these days.Would rather see the smiths again to be honest but will still go to heaton park!!    Report this comment (Comment number 82) Link to this (Comment number 82)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 81.  TheWalrus999  18th October 2011 - 22:52   Seems a bit desperate and a sell-out.Not very interested in old stuff.And they still haven't had a bath.    Report this comment (Comment number 81) Link to this (Comment number 81)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 80.  meredith_hunter  18th October 2011 - 22:33   Dylan still tours to this day, to undimmed reverence. I saw the Roses twice in Glasgow, in 1989 and 90. Both were brilliant gigs. The second more so as I knew their songs by then. Were they crap live performers, like many poster are suggesting? Probably. But you don't go to a rock or pop gig for a perfect rendition of a studio sound. That first album can never be bettered live. Stop moaning    Report this comment (Comment number 80) Link to this (Comment number 80)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 79.  Gabbygall  18th October 2011 - 22:20   @#6 "Logboy""i was at spike island. very memorable"If you can remember it, then you wasn't there I`m afraid.    Report this comment (Comment number 79) Link to this (Comment number 79)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 78.  Themacclesfieldflyer  18th October 2011 - 22:19   Ian Brown and John Squire were spotted walking in Macclesfield forest about 6weeks ago by someone I know. After what had gone on with them having fallen out, this only meant one thing. A reunion. This is moohosive if you know anything about proper music, this is what it is all about. Not that dross that is peddled every Saturday night on TV. Nice one our kid, nice one!    Report this comment (Comment number 78) Link to this (Comment number 78)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 77.  adrian  18th October 2011 - 22:03   Its actually 3 nights at heaton park not 2 as you will find out on friday. This whole reunion smells of greed. Theyre clearly doing it for the paycheck. Such a shame. Expect a surge in reissues from silvertone and expect the band to play as many gigs and festivals as they can to make as much as possible. They were such a great band in the studio but one of the worst live bands i have ever seen.    Report this comment (Comment number 77) Link to this (Comment number 77)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 76.  EarlsfieldOwl  18th October 2011 - 21:44   Good grief - it will probably end up being a disaster as they all fall out with eachother again at some stage.  Still, it will be entertaining.Square and Brown can't stand eachother!  Still, money talks..Very much a product of thier times and not sure if thery will be as relevant today as they were back in the late eighties, early nineties.    Report this comment (Comment number 76) Link to this (Comment number 76)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 75.  over-rising  18th October 2011 - 21:25   In 1989 when the Roses broke through, the musical landscape was filled with horrible manufactured pop. Guitar music didn't matter and these four single handedly turned a generation on and changed British music. Could there be a better time for them to re-form when the charts are again dominated by horrific drivel and kids today just buy what Cowell and co produce. They can do it again.    Report this comment (Comment number 75) Link to this (Comment number 75)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 74.  TheReturnofFrankFrenz  Comment number 74 is an Editors' Pick 18th October 2011 - 21:18   They may look like the sort of chaps who turn up on your doorstep with a surprising drive-tarmacing offer now, but I'm really chuffed about this. I couldn't explain what was special about The Roses back in '89 and I still can't find the words to express it now.It just feels right. Like a great lost opportunity has been given an impossible 2nd chance.    Report this comment (Comment number 74) Link to this (Comment number 74)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 73.  JT  18th October 2011 - 20:31   Saw them on the Second Coming tour and they were great, although overall I feel they are overrated. Reunion? Well if that's what they want then why not whilst they still can?. Ian Brown has written some great songs since they split and he still seems to have something. I think John Squire has been missed from the music scene and if this is a way to get his guitar jangling again, then bring it on.    Report this comment (Comment number 73) Link to this (Comment number 73)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 72.  Harry Lime  18th October 2011 - 20:31   How terribly exciting.    Report this comment (Comment number 72) Link to this (Comment number 72)     Comment number 71.  made buang  18th October 2011 - 20:24    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 71) Link to this (Comment number 71)     Comment number 70.  englishvote  18th October 2011 - 20:23    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 70) Link to this (Comment number 70)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 69.  jumbotrousers  18th October 2011 - 20:22   Why can Steps and Stone Roses not be mentioned in the same post? Steps have recently reformed with staggering success. Just because you don't like them or think them credible doesn't mean the two groups have to be segregated. No one is comparing them to the Stone Roses, just using them as another example.    Report this comment (Comment number 69) Link to this (Comment number 69)         Page 1 of 5    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Entertainment & Arts stories
RSS




Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show

Beyonce wows audiences and critics with her live half-time performance at the Super Bowl in New Orleans.



Bolshoi director leaves hospital




'New material' on Fleetwood Mac tour












Top stories



Sniper accused zapped by stun gun


Car park skeleton is Richard III


US 'will sue' Standard & Poor's


Match played in England 'fixed'


French jets target Mali rebel bases









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: What happens at an atheist church?



5: The bloody last moments of a king



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Sniper accused zapped by stun gun



3: US 'will sue' Standard & Poor's



4: The twisted bones of Richard III



5: The bloody last moments of a king



6: What happens at an atheist church?



7: Can testosterone make you live longer?



8: Canada stops distributing pennies



9: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



10: Where did Richard III go wrong?



Video/Audio




1: Earth's close brush with asteroid Watch



2: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



3: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



4: Geithner on 'terrible judgement' of S&P Watch



5: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



6: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



7: Apology over police beating footage Watch



8: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch



9: India's appetite for meat grows Watch



10: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





