BBC News - Smoking: Can the nation kick the habit?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Health







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















1 January 2013
Last updated at 21:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Nick Triggle

Health correspondent

More from Nick



Smoking: Can the nation kick the habit?
 


Smoking rates are hovering just above 20%




More from Nick


Are the poor kids really the fat ones?


Why bed sores matter more than reforms


The NHS's troubled relationship with technology


Social care: The £75,000 question



 Ever since the link between smoking and lung cancer was established beyond doubt in the 1950s, there has been a push to persuade people to quit.
Within a decade, smoking adverts had been banned on TV, while doctors were advising their patients to stop smoking for the good of their health.
Health clinics to encourage people to give up soon started being opened and smoking rates started dropping dramatically.
Sixty years ago 60% of men and nearly half of women smoked. By the end of the 1980s the figures had dropped to below a third in the UK.
The downward trend continued right into the 21st Century - but in the past five years it has slowed, stubbornly hovering just above one in five.
Undeterred, the government is launching a hard-hitting media campaign to get people to make the most of those new year resolutions to quit smoking.

“Start Quote
It does get harder when you are down to a smaller number of smokers, but the research shows that about 70% of smokers still want to give up”
End Quote
Prof Robert West
University College London
 But the struggle to reduce smoking below the magical 20% barrier raises an interesting question: is there now a hardcore group of smokers who just won't or can't quit?
Momentum
There are mixed views about this among experts. 
On the one hand, the number of young people taking up smoking is falling, which means the overall numbers are largely being sustained by longer term smokers who are not giving up.
But, of course, with smoking being the leading cause of preventable and early death - half of smokers will have their lives curtailed by the habit - there are many who believe the recent struggles mean there just needs to be redoubling of the effort.
Martin Dockrell, director of policy and research at the campaign group Action on Smoking and Health, says one of the biggest influences on quitting smoking is having role models and peer groups that are also giving up.



"It has been shown that if your partner quits, you are twice as likely to quit yourself. The same thing happens with a community. If others are quitting, momentum develops and you get a tipping point.
"It happened with doctors in the 1960s, they all started to quit together.
"And while the figures haven't dropped as much as we would like in recent years, one of the regions that has done the best is the north east [of England]. Again we saw that community effect."
The government seems to have accepted this too, as the idea of quitting together was part of the thinking behind creating Stoptober, the social quitting event held in October.
So will the numbers drop even more?
The Department of Health hopes so. It has set a "national ambition" in England to get smoking rates down to 18.5% by 2015 with ministers talking about the need to "denormalise" it.
To achieve this the government is putting the squeeze on smokers through ever tougher regulation such as the ban on tobacco displays (which is being rolled out) and the introduction of plain packaging (which is being considered).
Prof Robert West, the director of tobacco studies at University College London, is cautiously optimistic such measures will have an impact.
"It does get harder when you are down to a smaller number of smokers, but the research shows that about 70% of smokers still want to give up.
"We just have to keep going. People are still giving up and steps such as the display ban and plain packaging - if it happens  - stop the industry making smoking attractive."

 





Article written by Nick Triggle
Nick Triggle

Health correspondent

More from Nick



Stafford Hospital: the scandal that shames the NHS 
5 hours ago
The findings of the public inquiry into the failings at Stafford Hospital will be published on Wednesday. But its roots run deeper than what happened at one trust - it is a scandal which casts a shadow over the whole health service.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Nick
	      






Are the poor kids really the fat ones?




Why bed sores matter more than reforms




The NHS's troubled relationship with technology




Social care: The £75,000 question




Elderly care: The other options




Can the NHS cope with winter?




Why do the NHS savings matter?









Related Stories



Graphic anti-smoking ad launched

28 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                HEALTH



Tobacco displays facing shop ban

09 MARCH 2011,    
                                                HEALTH



Passive smoking 'kills 600,000'

24 NOVEMBER 2011,    
                                                HEALTH










       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 531       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 111.  Anomos  2nd January 2013 - 10:34   Having smoked for twenty years, I have had more success with the E-Cig than with anything else (tried everthing...), comparatively inexpensive to real ciggies. Though I may have to stock pile the equipment & materials, as I expect the Govemt will hike the price way up to cover the short fall in revenue from the overtaxed populace.    Report this comment (Comment number 111) Link to this (Comment number 111)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 110.  Plruk1  2nd January 2013 - 10:27   Back in 1974, I worked as a student in a cigarette factory in Hyde, Cheshire. I found out a lot from that experience. We worked 4.5 days per week and on the last half day hoovered up any fallen tobacco which resembled horse poo. I subsequently worked in the place it was dealt with. 50% was made into "French Sheet", which went into cheap cigarettes like Players No6! and made in Eire not the UK!.    Report this comment (Comment number 110) Link to this (Comment number 110)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 109.  Manipulated Nation  2nd January 2013 - 10:33   Smoking is bad for you. So are a lot of things. Leave people alone. This was discussed to death here last week BBC. What percentage of your role is stealthy opinion forming and how much impartially reporting the news?    Report this comment (Comment number 109) Link to this (Comment number 109)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 108.  Alan T  2nd January 2013 - 10:32   re: 98. Shaunie Babes>>>... implies a fifth of the population are refusing to do as they are told.I'm sorry, you'll have to point out how that implication is made - I don't see it.  I can see nothing wrong with the state offering addicts support with kicking their habit - especially as there is no compulsion attached to accepting such support.    Report this comment (Comment number 108) Link to this (Comment number 108)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 107.  Shaunie Babes  2nd January 2013 - 10:31   An activity that increases your risk of early death by single figures after at least twenty years of continuous use can hardly be considered dangerous.    Report this comment (Comment number 107) Link to this (Comment number 107)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 106.  Barrie  2nd January 2013 - 10:29   Lung Disease: 25% due to smoking.24% due to internal combustion engines.51% other, or unknown (includes medication side effects!)Time to ban cars? :-) Not likely, it's another source of government income!    Report this comment (Comment number 106) Link to this (Comment number 106)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 105.  Brooksie  2nd January 2013 - 10:20   The simple fact of this is that if smoking is so bad for us and cost's so much for the NHS then it should be banned. The government is quick to ban other items that are addictive but consider smoking to be a good taxable drug that brings billions into the economy each year and as a result they won't ban it due to be amount of money they will lose!    Report this comment (Comment number 105) Link to this (Comment number 105)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 104.  Michael Waugh  2nd January 2013 - 10:25   I used to smoke. The horrors of smoking producing so many causes of death frightened me. I hope I gave up early enough. I did not waste money on patches etc, I preferred willpower. Now the smell of cigarette smoke and that of smokers I find distateful.    Report this comment (Comment number 104) Link to this (Comment number 104)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 103.  Alan T  2nd January 2013 - 10:21   re: 19. David Smith>>>I have smoked for forty years had about two weeks off work in that time and am perfectly fit and healthy??So, if I understand correctly, your proposition is that setting fire to tobacco and breathing in as much of the resulting smoke as possible - deep down into your lungs - does you absolutely no harm whatsoever? At an intuitive level, does that seem even remotely likely?    Report this comment (Comment number 103) Link to this (Comment number 103)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 102.  Le Powerful  2nd January 2013 - 10:20   Smokers are addicts so they wont be impacted by the advertising.  As a smoker I'll just avoid it - I already know.  Where it could have an impact is on people that haven't started / young people.  It should be shown in schools as I think it's a good thing but non-smokers - think about the impact on your pockets - about £300 a year increase in income tax for all payers if nobody smokes.    Report this comment (Comment number 102) Link to this (Comment number 102)                 rate this     +19      rate this     +19   Comment number 101.  Tom  2nd January 2013 - 10:18   I have quit from today. It is a difficult thing to do and its made even more difficult every time I see a stop smoking advert. When they come on TV all I want to do is have a cig. These adverts make a smoker want a cig not quit. People know the health implications, they don’t need to be nagged in to quitting. Let people make their own choices.    Report this comment (Comment number 101) Link to this (Comment number 101)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 100.  presario  2nd January 2013 - 10:17   I quit smoking, after any failed attempts, at age 26 after smoking for 10 years. That was 43 years ago but I still have the urge to smoke. Make no mistake, nicotine is a very addictive drug for some people. I have little doubt that time, effort and money spent helping smokers to quit would be justified. A little sympathy with the plight of addicts would not go amiss!    Report this comment (Comment number 100) Link to this (Comment number 100)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 99.  Barrie  2nd January 2013 - 10:16   The graph given is interesting for it's distortion! The height is cut off at the bottom to give the impression that the trend is to zero, not twenty. The change in slope after the break looks 'interesting', what has changed in the collection of the figures? The government considers that smokers have given up after one month. They are still in withdrawal mode!    Report this comment (Comment number 99) Link to this (Comment number 99)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 98.  Shaunie Babes  2nd January 2013 - 10:15   A very patronising article than implies a fifth of the population are refusing to do as they are told.Good luck to them.    Report this comment (Comment number 98) Link to this (Comment number 98)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 97.  Birchy  2nd January 2013 - 10:15   All the ex smokers that I know, will say how hard it was to start smoking in the first place, they hated it at first, the smell, the taste, everything about it. It's a self induced addiction for the sake of social conformity, at least at first.Making it completely "uncool" is the ONLY way to stop it and prevent its uptake in future generations.    Report this comment (Comment number 97) Link to this (Comment number 97)                 rate this     +18      rate this     +18   Comment number 96.  Dogmeat  2nd January 2013 - 10:13   Society benefits from smoking. It culls the population saving a fortune on pensions, healthcare etc and helps to keep the population from spiralling. Far more tax is accrued through smoking than is spent on treating smokers on the NHS. The government knows all this which is why they will never ban smoking outright, but they have to appear to care which is why they allocate funds to these campaigns    Report this comment (Comment number 96) Link to this (Comment number 96)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 95.  bungle99  2nd January 2013 - 10:14   Its obesity and alcohol that people want to worry about. At least smokers pay into the NHS. The obese and the drunk just take. And has anyone ever seen an old obese person that isn't rich enough to have the best care? No because the all die  prematureley. Get real lay off the smokers and find some other group to round on.    Report this comment (Comment number 95) Link to this (Comment number 95)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 94.  gOLLUM  2nd January 2013 - 10:13   I'm an ex-smoker but let's not forget the huge amount of tax cigarettes generate for the Govt. The ever-increasing number of seriously overweight 'fatties' pay absolutely nothing. Let's play fair shall we? And in addition start taxing those who choose to abuse their bodies in other ways too.    Report this comment (Comment number 94) Link to this (Comment number 94)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 93.  Bill Bored  2nd January 2013 - 10:11   Of course the British nation will never kick the smoking habit completely. After all, there are still too many people who are too thick to acknowledge the damage they're doing to themselves and to their families.    Report this comment (Comment number 93) Link to this (Comment number 93)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 92.  HonestOpinion  2nd January 2013 - 10:11   Errr........was this article sponsored by Alan Carr and his book Easy???Very strange top 2 comments on the Highest Rated.....    Report this comment (Comment number 92) Link to this (Comment number 92)         Page 22 of 27    Newer 1 ... 20 21 22 23 24 ... 27 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Cameron hosts Afghanistan talks


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Richard III dig skull image shown


Sellafield clean-up costs £67.5bn









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Wrong place, wrong time

Musicians who play for Mexico's drug gangs -  voluntarily or not 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: Charges over US sniper's murder



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



6: Fear of music safety limit override



7: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



8: Huhne changes plea in speeding case



9: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



10: South Korea-US naval drills begin



Video/Audio




1: 'Richard III' DNA results revealed Watch



2: Building winning muscles aged 93 Watch



3: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch



4: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



7: Man charged with killing American Sniper writer Watch



8: Assad: Israel 'destabilising' Syria Watch



9: Castro appearance at Cuba vote Watch



10: Richard III dig: 'It does look like him' Watch













BBC Future





The week's best pictures 
Some of this week's best pictures Read more...












Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





