Massive loss of life in Brazil nightclub fire - CBS News  

           CBSNews.com / CBS Evening News / CBS This Morning / 48 Hours / 60 Minutes / Sunday Morning / Face the Nation                     Video US World Politics Entertainment Health MoneyWatch SciTech Crime Sports »  More   Blogs Political Eye The Feed   Webshows 60 Overtime Face to Face The Startup What's Cooking   Resources Mobile Radio Local       Log In    Log In Join CBSNews.com Sign in with         Profile     Manage my newsletter subscriptions Update my e-mail address Change my password Log Out                                  CBS/AP/   January 27, 2013, 3:35 PM   Massive loss of life in Brazil nightclub fire    Beltrame said he was told the club had been filled far beyond its capacity during a party for students at the university's agronomy department.  Survivors, police and firefighters gave the same account of a band member setting the ceiling's soundproofing ablaze, he said.  "Large amounts of toxic smoke quickly filled the room, and I would say that at least 90 percent of the victims died of asphyxiation," Beltrame told The Associated Press by telephone.  "The toxic smoke made people lose their sense of direction so they were unable to find their way to the exit. At least 50 bodies were found inside a bathroom. Apparently they confused the bathroom door with the exit door."  In the hospital, the doctor "saw desperate friends and relatives walking and running down the corridors looking for information," he said, calling it "one of the saddest scenes I have ever witnessed."  Rodrigo Moura, identified by the newspaper Diario de Santa Maria as a security guard at the club, said it was at its maximum capacity of between 1,000 and 2,000, and partygoers were pushing and shoving to escape.  Santa Maria Mayor Cezar Schirmer declared a 30-day mourning period, and Tarso Genro, the governor of the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul, said officials were investigating the cause of the disaster.  The blaze was the deadliest in Brazil since at least 1961, when a fire that swept through a circus killed 503 people in Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro.  Sunday's fire also appeared to be the worst at a nightclub since December 2000, when a welding accident reportedly set off a fire at a club in Luoyang, China, killing 309.  In 2004, at least 194 people died in a fire at an overcrowded nightclub in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Seven members of a band were sentenced to prison for starting the flames.  Several years later, in December 2009, a blaze at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, Russia, killed 152 people after an indoor fireworks display ignited a plastic ceiling decorated with branches.  Similar circumstances led to a 2003 nightclub fire that killed 100 people in the United States. Pyrotechnics used as a stage prop by the 1980s rock band Great White set ablaze cheap soundproofing foam on the walls and ceiling of a Rhode Island music venue.  The band performing in Santa Maria, Gurizada Fandangueira, plays a driving mixture of local Brazilian country music styles. Guitarist Martin told Radio Gaucha the musicians are already seeing hostile messages.  "People on the social networks are saying we have to pay for what happened," he said. "I'm afraid there could be retaliation".        prev    no next page   2/2   © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.    
Popular on CBSNews.com






Syrian family lives under constant attack
Only 20 percent of citizens remain in one of the first neighborhoods to rise up against Syria's President Assad. Elizabeth Palmer reports on one family that lives there under the constant threat of attack from the Syrian army. 





Everything to Lose
A mother torments the man she says killed her daughter, but can she get him to confess? Richard Schlesinger reports. 



 








Deadly blast at U.S. Embassy in Turkey
139 Comments 






Thousands in Egypt defy curfews, protest Morsi
 




Russian band member hospitalized at prison camp
 




Death toll in Mexico oil co. HQ blast now 33
 




Turks reportedly to quiz man linked to NYC mom
 




Fireworks explosion kills at least 8 in China
 




Israeli jets spotted near Lebanon-Syria border
 






Experts baffled over mound of human skulls found in Mexico
 



     

 

      68 Comments Add a Comment       linkicon reporticon emailicon  Ulgnud says: I am sorry for those who lost their lives. May they rest in peace, and the families somehow find comfort.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  Oh-Pin-Yun says: Saints of God, come to their aid! Come to meet them, angels of the Lord! May Christ, Who called them, take them to Himself; may angels lead them to Abraham's side. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and may Your light shine upon them forever. We commend our brothers and sisters to you, Lord. Now that they have passed from this life, may they live on in Your presence. In Your mercy and love, forgive whatever sins they may have committed through human weakness. Receive their souls and present them to God the Most High. We ask this through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.     reply        ugleyme replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  Thank-you for this prayer.               linkicon reporticon emailicon  Oh-Pin-Yun says: Saints of God, come to their aid! Come to meet them, angels of the Lord! May Christ, Who called them, take them to Himself; may angels lead them to Abraham's side. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and may Your light shine upon them forever. We commend our brothers and sisters to you, Lord. Now that they have passed from this life, may they live on in Your presence. In Your mercy and love, forgive whatever sins they may have committed through human weakness. Receive their souls and present them to God the Most High. We ask this through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  Bendech says: We all know that everytime there is a major airline disaster the authorities do a careful analysis of the causes and make major changes to equipment, training or airline rules...to prevent the accident from happening again.That's why flying is one of the safest forms of transportation and have relatively few accidents per miles flown.Nightclub fires caused by faulty pyrotechnics happen on average once a year.Nothing is ever done. The causes are always the same...too many people, locked exits, no sprinklers, no fire extinguishing equipment. No changes are ever implemented.And next year we will have a similar tragedy....     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  lloydbest1 says: This is such a tragic affair.But my main reason for posting is my dismay at how some people can make light of such a horror. I realise different people process grief differently and I can, perhaps, understand some of the comments I found so far that I would not ordinarily make.But such trash as was posted recently posted by KRYSTAL1P and DONNIE_G is unconscionable. Such <offal> should be conspiciously condemmned. And TONYKEYWEST'S inexpert diagnosis of a wrathful god wreaking vengeance upon a largely apolitical demographic because someone in the Brazilian government finally had the brains to bow to common sense and common decency has sunk to a new and almost unreachable low in crassness and lack of compassion.We should hold thse trolls with the contempt they deserve and pay no more attention to the wind coming out of their mouths than that coming out of their a--es.     reply        WashingTime replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  I bet you voted for the President. Enough said.            AnaHellaHeaven replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  There are trolls all over the internet and they write in all languages.It's astonishing that you care so much about them and they are making such a impression on you.People use to say that the elite that is ruling the world is insane, crazy and aren't even human.Human all too human just like these people who do these remarks that are not supposed to be taken seriously by anybody.               linkicon reporticon emailicon  Plumbline9 says: We never know the day or the hour, so be prepared. Make peace with God Today, by asking Jesus Christ to be your Saviour and Lord. Call upon Him while He is near...................Luke 12:20...............But God said to him................. This night your soul will be required of you........................     reply        rheola-2009 replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  What a wonderfull God, majestically rules over all the suffering and injustice he/she/it inflicted on this world.That is if you are gullible enough to believe in an entity, for which thwere is absolutely no evidence for his/her/it's existance.            Bendech replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  So this is a Conservative's alternative to imposing fire and safety standards on nightclubs.?               linkicon reporticon emailicon  PMac13 says: Prayers for all affected. What a terrible and unfortunate tragedy.     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  dork97531chris says: beans & ladies beans & ladies, first aid on the trail . sang the little girl . oh no, said her father, sing the good song . are you telling me that if i pass out millions piles of bazookas to all the millions and billions of friendlies to compulsory my daughter and her lunch and bus and toy world that you will shut me down and spread millions piles of bazookas to all the millions and billions of friendlies to compulsory my daughter and her lunch and bus and toy world     reply         linkicon reporticon emailicon  tonykeywest says: GOD answerd Brazil today for passing same sex marriage laws. More mayhem carnage and destruction is coming.     reply        varigdc10 replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  You are a very sick individual.            needingrelease replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  You are a very sick and twisted person. Go read a bible and learn about what compassion is about.         See all 7 Replies         linkicon reporticon emailicon  cbs3lover says: I have family and friends in Brazil. My wife is Brazilian. They are such friendly people. I love going down there to visit. This is a tragic day for so many...those who lost their lives, the loved ones they left behind who must go through this grief and all of Brazil.My prayers go out to all these people. They are the nicest and friendliest people I have ever met in this world. If you got to know them as well as I, we Americans can learn a lot from them. They are so close and family-oriented. This is hurting them more than we can possibly imagine.May GOD give these people hope and strength to overcome this terrible tragedy.     reply        JJDils replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  The same GOD that killed the 250 people will give hope and strength to the ones that made it out, right? I want nothing to do with that kind of evil GOD.            WashingTime replies:   linkicon reporticon emailicon  JJdils...you are a donkey. I bet you voted for the US President. You're probably a Muslim or some other extremist religious cult.I would prefer if you vacated the US.           See all 68 Comments     Add a Comment      Submit Comment          Click here to add another comment.   The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.         Reply to Comment          Submit Comment Cancel    The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.     Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense:  Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language  Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts  Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users  Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content  Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional):       Report Cancel     E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to:  Your e-mail address:   Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.      Send e-mail Cancel          


         Most Popular
	


01

Deadly blast at U.S. Embassy in Turkey
36149 views



02

Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference
25445 views



03

New Obamacare birth control rules seek middle ground
21984 views



04

"It broke up! The shuttle broke up!": Remembering Columbia
14045 views



05

Alaska Air jet lands safely after pilot passes out
13003 views






Scroll Left
Scroll Right






play
Video
Jedi kitten manipulates the force






play
Video
Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference






play
Video
Watch: DUI suspect inhales balloon before arrest







Most Shared




EXCLUSIVE: "The Rock" in "Got Milk?" Super Bowl ad
943 shares





Police: Teen shot by fellow student at Ga. school
923 shares





Beyonce sings national anthem at Super Bowl press conference
668 shares





Bride's special dance will probably make you cry
424 shares





Beyonce asked about Destiny's Child reunion
357 shares






Scroll Left
Scroll Right






43
Photos
Detroit series reveals past life of city's ruins






46
Photos
Space Shuttle Columbia disaster






20
Photos
Most popular dog breeds in the U.S.






20
Photos
Garrett McNamara surfs possible 100-foot wave






15
Photos
S.C. teacher accused of sex with 2 students







Most Discussed


450

New Obamacare birth control rules seek middle ground



375

Obama: "No doubt" Congress will pass immigration, gun bills in coming months



182

Negotiators talking to Ala. captor through pipe



139

U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey hit by suicide blast; 1 dead, U.S. officials say



106

WH: Hagel less than perfect but confirmation on track



                         CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs   CBS Interactive Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement About CBS Advertise Closed Captioning   Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile CBS Radio News CBS Local   CBS News  Copyright © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.                   
          

    