Herman Cain’s Sexual Harassment Accuser Says He’s Lying - ABC News






ABC News Blogs
							 > Politics
			> The Note

The Note


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







PreviousAnita Perry Says Obama Has Taxed Ambition Out of American People
NextThe Note’s Must-Reads for Wednesday, November 2, 2011

 

By ABC News  
Nov 2, 2011 12:32am

Herman Cain’s Sexual Harassment Accuser Says He’s Lying





 
			
Email

139
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print




Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
ABC News’ Kevin Dolak and Huma Khan report:
One of the women whom Herman Cain allegedly sexually harassed believes that the GOP front-runner is not telling the truth about what happened between them 12 years ago, according to the woman’s attorney.
Speaking on CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360″ Tuesday night, attorney Joel P. Bennet said that his client is still mulling a decision on how to handle the resurfacing of the harassment allegations  but will be bringing him the signed confidentiality agreement between her and the National Restaurant Association, where she and Cain worked at the time.
Bennet also said that his client’s case was ended with a sexual harassment settlement, not a termination agreement with severance, and said that his client believes Cain’s recent statement that he has never been accused of sexual harassment is untrue.
“Because there were two women that filed complaints at this time — and it’s unclear which one he is speaking about all the time — but to the extent he’s made statements that he never sexually harassed anyone, and there was no validity to these complaints, that’s certainly not true with respect to my client’s complaints,” Bennet said.
Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza, was accused of inappropriate conduct by two female employees when he was head of the National Restaurant Association from 1996 to 1999, as first reported by Politico. The association made a settlement with the women that included a financial payout and a confidentiality agreement.
Bennet and his client have yet to contact the National Restaurant Association to see if it will waive the confidentiality agreement from 12 years ago when the case was settled. Although she would like to address the situation, until they waive the agreement she will be keeping quiet.
“Naturally, she’s been very upset about this since the story broke last Sunday, because Mr. Cain has been giving the impression she came out and made false allegations,” Bennet said on “AC360.” “That’s certainly not true, and she’s still deciding once we hear from the Restaurant Association what she’ll do, if they’ll waive the confidentiality. Until they do that, she’s not going to speak out.”
Cain defended his seemingly contradictory statements on Tuesday, saying he had difficulty recalling details connected to the more than decade-old allegations against him, and that the story is a “smear campaign” created by his opponents.
“When I was initially hit with this … I didn’t recall it right away,” Cain told conservative radio host Laura Ingraham this morning, adding that he was “not changing the story  but trying to fill as many details as I could possibly recall.”
Cain went on the defensive when Bennet told the Washington Post that his client would be comfortable talking about the case if it weren’t for the confidentiality clause she’d agreed to as part of her settlement.
When asked by Fox News’ Bret Baier Tuesday evening if the accuser should be relieved of her confidentiality clause, Cain would only say that doing so could have legal implications and the decision was up to the National Restaurant Association.
Cain said Tuesday that the settlement equated to about three to six months of severance pay, but the accusation didn’t come up until the woman had left the National Restaurant Association.
Bennet said on Tuesday, “If there hadn’t been [sexual harassment] claims, there wouldn’t have been a settlement,” and  on “AC360″ said that when he represented his client 12 years ago there were no performance-related issues that arose that led to his client leaving her job at the National Restaurant Association.
“She was ready to move on to another position in light of the way she had been treated by Mr. Cain — with the confidentiality settlement agreement,” Bennet said.
Cain has vehemently denied the allegations since they surfaced over the weekend, saying he was falsely accused, but on Tuesday said that he recalled only one such incident, not two. The woman, according to Cain, took offense when he told her that she was as tall as his wife, and put his hand on his chin to indicate the difference.
“I was not touching her when I did that,” the former businessman said. “This was the only time, being around a lady, felt that was sexual harassment, and it was shown that it had no basis. It was resolved.”
But even as he attempts to defend himself, Cain’s apparently contradictory statements have made the situation even murkier.
Monday he said couldn’t recall whether he met one of the women in a hotel room while at a conference, but he never directly said no  when asked the question.
“That I absolutely do not recall. You know, I have no recollection of that,” Cain said in an interview with Judy Woodruff on PBS’s NewsHour.
Today, he added that he never extended such an invitation.
Cain denied Monday that he was aware of a settlement between the two accusers and the National Restaurant Association, but his story changed as the day evolved.
“If the Restaurant Association did a settlement, I wasn’t aware of it, and I hope it wasn’t much because nothing happened,” Cain said in a Fox News interview, and repeated the same line at the National Press Club later that afternoon.
But in the interview later in the evening with PBS, the Tea Party star said he was, in fact, aware of a deal.
“I was aware that an agreement was reached. The word ‘settlement’ versus the word ‘agreement,’ you know, I’m not sure what they called it. I know that there was some sort of agreement, but because it ended up being minimal, they didn’t have to bring it to me,” Cain told PBS’ Woodruff.
Cain blamed the discrepancy on the wording and the difference between a “settlement” and “agreement.”
“When I first heard the term settlement I thought [about] the legal term,” Cain said on Fox News today. “My recollection was it was an agreement… I didn’t think there was a legal settlement but an agreement.”
The former businessman has described the story, first reported by Politico, as a distraction and a “witch hunt” created by his competitors. He also accused the left of attacking him because of his race.
“I didn’t change my story. I simply got the wording right,” he told HLN’s Robin Meade today.
ABC News’ Michael Falcone contributed to this report.
 

SHOWS: Good Morning America Nightline





 
			
Email

139
Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print














Related Videos


														Geraldo Rivera Considers Senate Run in NJ						



														Chuck Hagel Defends His Record Before Former Senate Colleagues						


 
 
 
 


PreviousAnita Perry Says Obama Has Taxed Ambition Out of American People
NextThe Note’s Must-Reads for Wednesday, November 2, 2011






 

User Comments



Republicans… ha ha ha




			Posted by: tom | November 2, 2011, 1:58 am 1:58 am		



I can’t believe any woman who was really sexually harassed would agree to be muzzled over it, unless the only thing it was ever about was the money.




			Posted by: mbf | November 2, 2011, 2:04 am 2:04 am		



As part of every “settlement”, both parties agree (under penalty of perjury) to NOT discuss the case with anyone. I would be interested in finding out what (WHO and HOW MUCH) prompted this person to violate this agreement.




			Posted by: Michael Hankins | November 2, 2011, 2:25 am 2:25 am		



Cain is right. There is a wide chasm between settlement and agreement. An agreement could be an informal understanding, even verbal. Settlement a legal adjudication of the case.




			Posted by: John Lewis | November 2, 2011, 2:38 am 2:38 am		



Herman Caine for president? I don’t think so! his only digging hismelf deeper in the hole he created,  Shame on you Hermain Caine!




			Posted by: Warhead84 | November 2, 2011, 2:42 am 2:42 am		



I am a Conservative.  I like Herman but REALLY, REALLY be HONEST….IF you had been accused of SEXUAL Harassment COULD YOU POSSIBLY…..NOT REMEMBER IT???
Especially if a payout was made.  WOW!
This does not look good Mr. Cain!




			Posted by: Ron | November 2, 2011, 3:05 am 3:05 am		



“Settlement” . . . “Agreement” . . . now we’re down to what “is” is.  I’m a Republican, but this guy isn’t as smart as I thought.  On top of all of this, he had a 10-day window in advance, knowing this story was coming out to prepare.  You could clearly see he was lying in some of these interviews with statements like “I don’t recall that.”  Hell, is somebody accused me of something like this, my answer would be vehemently, “THIS NEVER HAPPENED.”  More in common with politicians than he’d like to admit, as he sat on the board of the Federal Reserve in Kansas City.  Yeah, a real “outsider”.




			Posted by: Sarah | November 2, 2011, 3:33 am 3:33 am		



He can’t remember? It happened so often he can’t remember? Most men would never forget such an allegation




			Posted by: Pachydermsmentis | November 2, 2011, 3:35 am 3:35 am		



What an innocent man would say is: “Yes, I remember it only too well. There was nothing to it, but it was one of the most traumatic experiences of my life.”




			Posted by: Popius10 | November 2, 2011, 3:37 am 3:37 am		



I guess what does it really matter. He can’t be any worse than Clinton.




			Posted by: RAS | November 2, 2011, 3:38 am 3:38 am		



This guy is a political novice. He didn’t expect to be a front runner. He was only trying to increase his speaking fees. Good luck now.
He knew 10 days ahead. His team didn’t advise him? Probably not much of a team.
How can you not recall if someone filed a sexual harassment suit when there was a payout!
He is done.




			Posted by: bob | November 2, 2011, 3:53 am 3:53 am		



Clinton left office with us in surplus. 
Bush left office with us deeply in the toilet, which we still haven’t been able to climb out of. 
Yeah, Cain can be worse than Clinton.




			Posted by: A Count Ant | November 2, 2011, 4:18 am 4:18 am		



“When I was initially hit with this … I didn’t recall it right away..??  That’s a bold face lie if I ever heard one. That’s not something you “don’t recall right away”. He just needed time to figure out he was going to get out of this one so he could stay in the race.




			Posted by: Karen Lee | November 2, 2011, 4:26 am 4:26 am		



Isn’t it interesting that this should come out shortly before a caucus in Iowa and that the accuser is muzzled? Who leaked this in the first place? I bet it was Perry. If it can be tied to him, he is done as a candidate.




			Posted by: sickofitinca | November 2, 2011, 4:43 am 4:43 am		



I truely believe that Cain is as inocent as Clarence Thomas…Not!




			Posted by: CWM | November 2, 2011, 4:46 am 4:46 am		



All over for him.




			Posted by: titicut | November 2, 2011, 4:56 am 4:56 am		



This is what happens to any conservative, black male who dares to express a political idealogy different from the democratic slave masters (ABC, CNN, MSNBC and the democratic party). I’m sick and tired of the plantation owners constantly preaching to the American people that our economic, social and political problems can be solved by more taxes and more government. And if you decide not to drink this kool-aid, the slave masters will do everything in their power to destroy your reputation and character. Answer this question, do you recall the slave masters asking Barack Obama tough questions about Jeremiah Wright or his drug use?




			Posted by: david | November 2, 2011, 5:41 am 5:41 am		



Cain is HISTORY. I saw him last night on “The O’Reilly Factor” and came to the conclusion that the man is a somewhat confused liar. Unable to get his facts right, unable to convince me and millions more of his “innocence,” he’s become a footnote to American history. Furthermore the display shown by Rick Perry, who appeared as drunk as a skunk plus the stiff unappealing Mitt Romney who hasn’t a chance in the world of beating Obama, it now all comes down to Speaker Gingrich who will be the GOP nominee.




			Posted by: Jack Rudlov | November 2, 2011, 5:55 am 5:55 am		



The Obama payroll has far reaching tentacles, doesn’t it? Why didn’t this “story” come out when Cain was a virtual nobody? As soon as he soars to the top of the Republican party, geez, here’s the story. Everyone knows that frivilous law suits are filed but knuckeheads and losers daily in hopes for financial gain by having the other party settle out of court to avoid larger costs. It’s another example of our broken country — liberal judges that would allow any case to come to court rather than throwing them out. Look for more stories like this to surface as the election gets closer. Obama and the dems have nothing else to stand on. The country is tired of lies and the “leadership” and “change” it has gotten from Obama. He is simply the worst president we have ever had, save perhaps Jimmy Carter and that’s questionable. We need to take America back, and we will. YES WE CAIN! CAIN 2012




			Posted by: Brent | November 2, 2011, 6:17 am 6:17 am		



In this article; Can’t even get Cains statements correct.  Unless you have been hiding in a cave wo electricity, Cain has repeatedly said, I will say it again, repeatedly said, that he WAS accused of sexual harassment, but denies he ever was guilty of it.  Maybe if the media of today had covered John Edwards sexual escapades, they would have a little experience on how to cover this one.




			Posted by: Dave | November 2, 2011, 6:18 am 6:18 am		



I am really loving this field of GOP candidates. This is reality tv at its best. From Gingrich’s multi-hundred thousand Tiffany’s bill, to Rick Perry’s loopy speech this past Friday, to Cain’s electrified fence, to Romney’s taking of both side of issues, on a daily basis. I’m loving this.




			Posted by: Shag | November 2, 2011, 6:33 am 6:33 am		



In this article; Can’t even get Cains statements correct.  Unless you have been hiding in a cave wo electricity, Cain has repeatedly said, I will say it again, repeatedly said, that he WAS accused of sexual harassment, but denies he ever was guilty of it.  Maybe if the media of today had covered John Edwards sexual escapades, they would have a little experience on how to cover this one.Also, he went from The economics meeting  and the media meeting after singing amazing grace around 11:30 am or so to fox news to Greta which her show interview was recorded around 1:30. – 2:00 in the afternoon NOT at 10pm when the show was on. So in reality we knew everything we know now by Monday afternoon. It was out…..done early not all day. Greta interview was being leaked out that afternoon not at 10pm in the evening.




			Posted by: Dave | November 2, 2011, 6:38 am 6:38 am		



Wait a second…she’s coming forward because she feels that Cain is publicly slandering her even though no one knows her name and he hasn’t said anything about her….mmmmkaayyy.  I smell ‘gold digger’ in the air.




			Posted by: Wolf | November 2, 2011, 6:46 am 6:46 am		



I believe if I were someone who had been harrassed I would have taken him to court-in the open-proved my case-won the award and would have been able to talk about it- in the open. That someone agrees to hush hush about it, go away and take the money sounds as if they claimed it just to get money.




			Posted by: david | November 2, 2011, 6:51 am 6:51 am		



Have we not learned anything from Supreme Court Justice Thomas. He was guilty and yet this political machine-Rebs placed this man in a permanent high position of the nation for life!  Don’t just want Cain because of his COLOR to run against Obama.  STOP IT AMERICA!  This man Cain was guilty and it was only his money and position that got him out of his mess.  He is lying already and you want this man as a candidate.




			Posted by: Mary Mendez | November 2, 2011, 6:54 am 6:54 am		



The “accuser” needs to come forward and make her case in public; otherwise, this is a non story.  Besides, from what I’ve read so far, the accuser said Cain made a gesture that was not sexual but made her feel uncomfortable – whatever that means.  Anyway, she was paid go away money because lawyers saw an easy buck.  Now, why is it that the press hushed up John Edwards knocking up his staff assistant but when a black man who happens to be conservative is accused of inappropriate behavior with little foundation of truth it’s tear his reputation to pieces time?




			Posted by: The Real 99 Percent | November 2, 2011, 7:02 am 7:02 am		



Can’t we all get back to focusing on Obama’s birth certificate??????




			Posted by: ce | November 2, 2011, 7:10 am 7:10 am		



“When I was initially hit with this … I didn’t recall it right away,” ………..Politico who broke the story gave the Cain campaign 10 DAYS notice before it ran the story.  This was plenty of time to get the story straight before going public.  Cain has blown the chance to be forthright (read a liar) and should excuse him self from the race.  If he was innocent, there would have been a court trial to defend him against the charges, instead they did a settlement.  Herman you made this bed, now you have to lie in it (pun intended).




			Posted by: Indymind | November 2, 2011, 7:24 am 7:24 am		



Did Mr. Cain believe that he could just say that no incident ever occurred and that no one would look any further? It sure makes that smile on his smoking commercial look sort of creepy.




			Posted by: Kidrick Kouri | November 2, 2011, 7:24 am 7:24 am		



Wolf — Exactly!




			Posted by: ang | November 2, 2011, 7:48 am 7:48 am		



Wow.  The left is really running scared.  Two anonymous accusers speaking thru attorneys, lobbing the sexual harrassment charges now.  Yeah, it’s time to step up the attacks against Cain…   And they MUST be true!!   (But even if not,  a  lot of folks believe anything they hear in the msm – and they vote too!  What’ve we got to lose??)  – - – - Will a liberal canidate ever see such scrutiny?  Doubt it…  This Thomas-lkie circus only applies to conservative men.  And dare I say black conservative men…




			Posted by: Logicsgood5 | November 2, 2011, 7:49 am 7:49 am		



The mainstream media and democrats will do everything possible to maintain the hateful, malicious myth that blacks must never be conservative. True to form and right on cue, they’re now planning a second, post Clarence Thomas lynching, this time directed against Herman Cain- who dares challenge their racist democrat black stereotype. For democrats, the eternal slavemasters, know full well they derive political power from their race-hustling.




			Posted by: Mark | November 2, 2011, 7:52 am 7:52 am		



The real takeaway on all this is the disgusting hypocrisy on public display by the lamestream media in going after what is really a non-story when compared to John Edwards or worse yet, ignoring claims by Juanita Broaddrick and other woman about Slick Willey!  Even more disgusting is the uber-left’s attacks on Cain equating him to big-lipped, watermelon-eating Uncle Tom who would glady sit in the back of the bus to appease his Masters.  Really!!!  I find that to be a bigger story than this BS, yet why isn’t the lamestream media covering some of that!  And talk about racists!  There seems to be a lot more of that residing on the far left than the right!




			Posted by: Gunner_1959 | November 2, 2011, 8:05 am 8:05 am		



On GMA this morning they said that Herman Cain’s accuser wants to come forward and tell her story, but can’t because of a confidentiality agreement prevents her from doing that. Doesn’t talking to a reporter already mean she broke that agreement?




			Posted by: Slightly Amused Again | November 2, 2011, 8:08 am 8:08 am		



Cain is going down.  He’s just another in a long line of Republicans who burn out early in this election campaign. Not a good idea to run when you have skeletons in your closet like this.




			Posted by: Bob | November 2, 2011, 8:10 am 8:10 am		



I made a dumb mistake when I was 21 and I remember every single detail to this day. To not remember the settlement, to me. means he did not take the matter seriously and does not accept any responsibilities for his actions




			Posted by: zaraki | November 2, 2011, 8:19 am 8:19 am		



He’s a prototypical CEO personality in that when the boss owns the room, he can make authoritative statements that need not carry the full weight of logical integrity since they do carry the full weight of the boss’s opinion. As such, statements are accepted by subordinates, who include everyone in the room. This showed up here and it also showed up in his glib disrespect to  the “-stan” countries when he was really just covering up for his own ignorance on the issue. He’s not happy with focused follow-up and the rigors of being held to standards other than his own. It’s the same for talk radio hosts, which he was one, who own the microphone, if not the room. He should get out of politics asap. He does not have the skills or the intellect for it. But rest assured he’s for sale to all donors; individuals, corporations, unions, business associates, whatever. Owned by the highest bidder, and never the lowly voter.




			Posted by: sameagain | November 2, 2011, 8:23 am 8:23 am		



There must be another payout going to this “accuser” by way of some dem “fixers” out to dig up dirt on Cain.  So Cain probably said something inappropriate, the women complained, it was settled.  Done.  12 years ago done!!  Some old-school guys have had a hard time figuring out where the line begins and ends ‘tween joking and harassing.  In the grand scheme of what presidents have gotten away with and placed on the eggregiousness scale, this shouldn’t be a player.  Just dirty politics, plain and simple.




			Posted by: wildblue | November 2, 2011, 8:24 am 8:24 am		



Yeah, Bob, everyone’s got skeleton’s in their closet.  If we couldn’t elect folks based on that, we’d be without any politicians/leaders.  This is a skeleton that should be ignored.




			Posted by: wildblue | November 2, 2011, 8:28 am 8:28 am		



Bennet also said that his client’s case was ended with a sexual harassment settlement, not a termination agreement with severance…..
I saw somewhere else where one woman was given a year’s salary in exchange for her silence. So long Herman. You were fun while you lasted!




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 8:35 am 8:35 am		



Of Course she is saying that, there is more money to be made, follow the money, she is being paid, she is being paid, she is being paid, if it was SO traumatizing as she states then it would have went to trial and a conviction BUT NO she was about theMONEY, PERIOD, End of discussion, you can argue whatever but not this. The reason for the Gag order IS so a frivilous accusation doesnt destroy someones reputation, SO NOW THAT she has violated the gag order she should return the settlement WITH INTEREST, see she wasnt harrassed, it was about the money!!!! This is such crap.




			Posted by: Crazy N8 | November 2, 2011, 8:36 am 8:36 am		



The intelectual level of the this GOP candidates field is so sad and amusing at the same time.
 But of course; any of them is better than Obama right? He he he he he he!




			Posted by: garcia | November 2, 2011, 8:37 am 8:37 am		



I don’t know about anyone else but I don’t want a President that has such a poor memory.




			Posted by: 40acres | November 2, 2011, 8:40 am 8:40 am		



Standard stuff from  Democratic National Committee (DNC).




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 8:40 am 8:40 am		



Oh hell….let’s get over this and see how Michelle so hates us so she goes to Hawaii on our dime.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 8:45 am 8:45 am		



I’d be willing to bet that the Republican party itself leaked this story in hopes of taking Cain out.  This is not the man the PARTY wants running for president.  And if they don’t want you in, they will do everything in their power to take you out.




			Posted by: WorkingClass | November 2, 2011, 8:46 am 8:46 am		



The real takeaway on all this is the disgusting hypocrisy on public display by the lamestream media in going after what is really a non-story when compared to John Edwards or worse yet, ignoring claims by Juanita Broaddrick and other woman about Slick Willey!  Posted by: Gunner_1959 | November 2, 2011, 8:05 am.
LOL! Once again the very selective memory of the Right kicks in. According to them, no one on the Left who was involved in any kind of sex scandal ever got investigated, it was all just ignored. But every single person on the Right who even made an off-color joke has been hounded to death by them. Why can’t y’all just take your lumps here? The Left was forced to ‘grin and bear it’ during the Edwards fiasco, the Weiner’s weiner scandal, and the rest of the ones where our guy did something stupid. Sex scandals aren’t new, and they are just about the single most bipartisan thing that happens in politics today. So sorry, Righties, y’all just need to sit back and plaster a strained smile on your lips and shut the hell up while Mr. Cain implodes. You KNOW that this is the result whoever it was on the Right who leaked this stuff actually wants. There are TWO GUYS who directly benefit from Cain being ousted from the GOP presidential nomination race. Their initials are MR and RP. Figure it out………………..




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 8:46 am 8:46 am		



Uh hello…!  They accused him of sexual harrassment…why WOULDN’T they say he’s lying now?  It would totally contradict their story if they said he telling the truth, or that he wasn’t lying.  MAJOR NEWS STORY.  Wow…………




			Posted by: paisleychic | November 2, 2011, 8:48 am 8:48 am		



Must have touched her on her shoulder. Either that or there was a hair on that coke can.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 8:50 am 8:50 am		



Gee, what bad luck for Herman that one of his false accusers is a liberal democrat.




			Posted by: Noz | November 2, 2011, 8:56 am 8:56 am		



And remember, folks, this is just one of the TWO scandals Cain is dealing with today. The other being the improper campaign funding allegations, which could actually lead to criminal charges if proven true. Mr. Cain certainly ACTS like a Republican politician, fending off both a sex AND a money scandal at the same time. I’ve started a pool to predict when Mr. Cain will officially withdraw from the race, citing all the ‘distractions’ he’s facing because of these scandals. When will he pull a Palin? My money is on November 11th……….




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 8:56 am 8:56 am		



If this came out due to politics you guys can look to the right because this is the season where they perp on each other over there.  I can tell you right now the left would choose this guy to run against Obama.  The only one they’re concerned about is Mitt.  This story was broken on a blog.  A blog known to get harsh on both parties I might add.  I find it amazing Cain thought he could run and this wouldn’t get out.  Obviously he made an enemy somewhere back in the day and obviously some big money is trying to dig up some dirt.  Meanwhile some of you should look at this and consider how dumb he’s been in how he handled it from the get go.  He’s displayed complete dishonesty for starters.  Then there’s the fact it must not be pretty or he would not be inclined to be lying about it to begin with.  This guy is toast.  Another flavor of the week is out.




			Posted by: Secondlook | November 2, 2011, 8:59 am 8:59 am		



“Clinton left office with us in surplus.
Bush left office with us deeply in the toilet, which we still haven’t been able to climb out of.” – A Count Ant
Clinton left office with a Repub Congress.
Bush left office with a Demo Congress.
Congress controls the money.
You should be able to understand money A Count Ant.




			Posted by: Noz | November 2, 2011, 9:02 am 9:02 am		



As part of every “settlement”, both parties agree (under penalty of perjury) to NOT discuss the case with anyone. I would be interested in finding out what (WHO and HOW MUCH) prompted this person to violate this agreement. Posted by: Michael Hankins | November 2, 2011, 2:25 am.
Hmmmm. All we’ve heard from the women involved is a couple of sentences from one of their attorneys. We STILL don’t even know who they are. Cain himself has ‘violated the agreement’ WAY more than these women have. Wonder if anyone will bring HIM up on charges for discussing the case publicly. I mean, if you are correct in your legal assessment of the situation, then Mr. Cain’s ONLY response to all of this should have legally been “no comment” or “I cannot discuss anything regarding this situation because of a non-disclosure agreement”. Right?




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 9:03 am 9:03 am		



I don’t understand why Cain didn’t bring this up himself earlier and get it over with. It’s ridiculous to think it would never come up. Doesn’t he have an Eli Gold type person on his staff to handle such situations? For those who don’t watch the Good Wife,  Eli Gold is a character who vets candidates before they run and then handles spin control. Why doesn’t Cain and Restaurant Association consent to disclosure and get this gone.




			Posted by: cregis2 | November 2, 2011, 9:05 am 9:05 am		



Oh hell….let’s get over this and see how Michelle so hates us so she goes to Hawaii on our dime. Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 8:45 am.
LOL! Yes, by all means, let’s turn our focus away from this any way we can, even by bringing up something that has absolutely nothing to do with Mr. Cain and his sexcapades. 
So, how ’bout them Lions? (Will that work for ya?)




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 9:06 am 9:06 am		



You want pepperoni on that pie? Yeah baby. Amazing grace how sweet the sound…




			Posted by: Atheist 1 | November 2, 2011, 9:10 am 9:10 am		



“He knew 10 days ahead. His team didn’t advise him? Probably not much of a team.”
The team can only help you once told the complete unfettered truth.  I suspect he just brushed off the warning as nonsense.  Herman…  Herman… Herman…




			Posted by: MyTakeOnThis61 | November 2, 2011, 9:12 am 9:12 am		



Confidentiality agreement.  That says it all.  The only reason to have such an agreement is because, “Now that we’ve paid you off, we don’t want you telling anyone else.  It would hurt our client to have the truth come out”.  And right back at you people saying the women were only after money, why else would they agree to a CA.  Well, how about why would you pay anyone off a large sum of money if you were innocent and could prove it?  Works both ways.




			Posted by: Bryan | November 2, 2011, 9:13 am 9:13 am		



He’s definitely leading in the polls. I’m waiting for the DNC moles to come out with his cancer deal.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 9:14 am 9:14 am		



This is funny because Republicans have made this country into a “take all the money you can and screw everybody else” type of country.  Now Herman Cain is falling victim to that! HA HA!




			Posted by: america2929 | November 2, 2011, 9:14 am 9:14 am		



Cain told conservative radio host Laura Ingraham reports the liberal CNN.  Hmmmmm.. who to believe.




			Posted by: Anny | November 2, 2011, 9:16 am 9:16 am		



“Clinton left office with a Repub Congress.” “Congress controls the money.”
So the mess we find ourselves in is the fault of the republican congress we have right now, right?




			Posted by: Sandy | November 2, 2011, 9:17 am 9:17 am		



Sea; I don’t focus away at all. It must worry you? The Lions? Yeah they beat the skins big time. No sweat. We were 23-0 in the Navy. Have you did that? Didn’t think so.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 9:19 am 9:19 am		



Clinton left office with a Repub Congress.
Bush left office with a Demo Congress.
Congress controls the money.
You should be able to understand money A Count Ant.
Posted by: Noz | November 2, 2011, 9:02 am.
Not that this has ANYTHING to do with Mr. Cain’s alleged sexcapades, but how would you characterize the first six years of the GW administration, when the Republicans controlled both Houses in Congress AND the White House? That six year period where our federal government grew to RECORD size and spent RECORD amounts of money to prosecute TWO wars ‘off the books’ (and pass the completely unfunded Pill Bill) while simultaneously cutting federal revenue via the temporary Bush tax cuts? How would you characterize an administration that spent money we didn’t have by borrowing from foreign sources while, at the same time, deliberately decreasing our own revenue stream? The rich got a LOT richer under GW Bush while the country doubled its National Debt and wiped out the Budget Surplus that he was handed in 2001. What say you to THAT?




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 9:21 am 9:21 am		



Searambler | November 2, 2011, 8:46 am — LOL!  Talk about selective memory son!  When allegations of Edwards came out, the left-wing media failed to follow it and people like you called it a right-wing conspiracy.  I’m just calling the witchhunt on Cain by ABC and other left-leaning outlets hypocritical, as well as the racist remarks about him coming from the people you follow blindly and admire.  Yes, makes you a hater and a bigot too.




			Posted by: Gunner_1959 | November 2, 2011, 9:22 am 9:22 am		



Accusations and proof are not quite the same thing. Anita Hill did the same to Clarence Thomas…another attempt to bring down a conservative who scares the h*** out of Obama.




			Posted by: angus | November 2, 2011, 9:23 am 9:23 am		



What is the pizza man afraiod of? Let it all hang out! Let your accusers tell us their own side of the story. That is the American way.
Dr. Sam




			Posted by: Dr. Sam | November 2, 2011, 9:26 am 9:26 am		



Sea; I also fly an airplane. 145 knots (do the math). I built it in my garage! I guess you haven’t done that either. Right? I talk to you people as a pass time.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 9:27 am 9:27 am		



newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 9:19 am post: 
LOL! NO pro team has ever won 23 straight games. The Lions HAD won 9 straight regular season games (going back to last season) before their two losses. But they bounced back and absolutely DEVOURED Tim Tebow and the Broncos. We have a bye this weekend. We’re looking to get into the playoffs for the first time in a long time, and we’re finally good enough to do it now. 
So, when do YOU think Cain will throw in the towel? Want to get in on my pool? My predicted date is November 11th………..




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 9:30 am 9:30 am		



He’s a disgrace!  There was a payoff?  You know none of these clowns are fit to be president…I look at BOTH sides and there are liars, cheats, etc. on both.  Tell me ONE politician who is honest and if they are when they get in office they become dishonest.  The problem is you need money to run and if you get contributions you owe big time!  Again I have said over and over just put them on tv for a few times having people call in at random with questions.  Let them give their views and that’s it.  Enough witih the traveling all over the country, spending tons of money on mudslinging ads.  It’s unreal!  Stop the fraud and corruption.  It just keeps happening because we the people allow it.  We get caught up in campaign lies and scare tactics and instead of concentrating on REAL issues we vote for someone on his or her views on gay marriage, abortion, religion.  WAKE UP PEOPLE!




			Posted by: Barb | November 2, 2011, 9:37 am 9:37 am		



Cain’s obvious lie is when he states he was just hit with this over the weekend and didn’t recollect much of anything. The truth is his campaign was approached 10 days before the story broke for comment. They knew this was coming and had 10 days to go through Cain’s files for “facts” that they knew would be asked of Cain. Perry’s camp is really out to get him.




			Posted by: Jamey Carothers | November 2, 2011, 9:43 am 9:43 am		



Pastime is the correct word.




			Posted by: Secondlook | November 2, 2011, 9:44 am 9:44 am		



Gunner_1959 | November 2, 2011, 9:22 am post:
Bwahahahahahahaha! You dullards on the Right CONTINUE to prove my point daily. You REFUSE to remember events as they actually occurred, and instead INSIST on trying to rewrite history to fit your delusional and faulty memory. Too, too funny. I NEVER said anything about the Edwards scandal being a “Right Wing witch hunt”. You are mis-remembering that as well. The Edwards scandal was covered by ALL the media outlets, including your precious FOX. Call it a witch hunt if you want, hell call it a pumpkin patch for all I care, that doesn’t change anything here. Cain was accused of sexual harassment by at least two women, and he paid them off to shut up about it. Those facts are not in doubt. Calling ME a racist because you think someone on the Left made racist remarks about Cain shows the typical Right Wing ‘guilty by association’  mentality. Using YOUR ‘logic’, then everyone who listens to Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck or Ann Coulter is ALSO a racist, because those are three of the worst racists on the Right today. Everyone who watches FOX is ALSO a racist, because that propaganda outlet masquerading as a news outlet is racist for employing people like Beck and Coulter. ‘Guilty by association’. And FYI, that racist FOX network is ALSO covering the Cain implosion. Does that make them part of the ‘Left-leaning Liberal Media’? Y’all on the Right need to get your story straight and your OWN house in order before throwing around ridiculous allegations at someone like me………




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 9:45 am 9:45 am		



Go ahead and butter him cause he’s TOAST.   You can’t just keep changing your story every day and have people believe in you enough to be president.




			Posted by: pt | November 2, 2011, 9:50 am 9:50 am		



I don’t recall any of the democrats calling the Edwards thing a right-wing conspiracy.  Since the National Enquirer broke the story I’m sure some of us said we needed to give it a minute to make sure there was a grain of truth to it as that is a tabloid known to completely invent things.  Once we knew it was true we told Edwards to go take a hike.  We already know there is some basis of truth to this one as Cain finally admitted to it.  To sit here knowing this and try to suggest anybody talking about it is racist is beyond crazy.  It’s real.  We have these every few months.




			Posted by: Secondlook | November 2, 2011, 9:52 am 9:52 am		



Sea; We did….. in 1974. 23-0. Of course we weren’t pro’s.  Cain? Who knows. I can’t wait for the “any one but Obama” vote. Tebow? It wouldn’t be the first time. I remember Nebraska’s Jerry Tagge (sp). You guys are pretty cocky with your Obama.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 9:55 am 9:55 am		



Speaking of tabloids – the last couple of days ABC’s main page reads like one.  Talk about nothing but celebrity trash as the lead.  If I wanted that I’d be over on People or something.




			Posted by: Secondlook | November 2, 2011, 9:56 am 9:56 am		



Talk is cheap.
Come out in the open, make your accusations in the light, and be able to substantiate them, or shut up.
You made this claim for money, or you wouldn’t be unwilling to give the money back, to tell your story.




			Posted by: Rick McDaniel | November 2, 2011, 10:07 am 10:07 am		



Well, somebody dropped a dime on Hermie…  For those who feel it was a Democratic move I would be highly doubtful.  Herman Cain provides no threat–especially at this juncture.  It could be the Romney or Perry Camps but even that isn’t an issue.  Something that could have been so easily handled has been so horrifically handled by Cain that it really speaks to his leadership capabilities.  I won’t even blame his staff.  If you’re not told the complete truth how can you help?  This is solely Cain shooting himself in the foot.  I hope he sells a lot of books!




			Posted by: MyTakeOnThis61 | November 2, 2011, 10:17 am 10:17 am		



Some confidentiality agreement.  This gal has already broken it big time.




			Posted by: attomind | November 2, 2011, 10:19 am 10:19 am		



“Some confidentiality agreement. This gal has already broken it big time”
This reminds of that line in the film “American Gigolo” : “No matter what you will pay Julie… the other side will pay more.”




			Posted by: MyTakeOnThis61 | November 2, 2011, 10:34 am 10:34 am		



As I remember Jenniifer Flowers didn’t matter.




			Posted by: newcountryman | November 2, 2011, 10:36 am 10:36 am		



Cain is a liar.




			Posted by: shelby | November 2, 2011, 10:50 am 10:50 am		



It is HILARIOUS that the Right thinks Obama/the Left are “running scared” from Cain. Watching them trying to shift blame from Cain to “the media”? Puhleeze. Trust me: Obama would LOVE to run against Cain. The only ones who are “running scared” are those on the Right, as they have possibly the worst field of candidates in the history of the Republican party.
As for the title of “worst President ever,” George W. Bush will likely maintain that dubious honor in perpetuity. His foreign-policy fiascoes in the Middle East, coupled with fiscal and political policies at home, are largely responsible for the sorry state of our nation. It cracks me up to read the Right complaining about “deficit spending.” Where were all of you when Bush was running up the deficit? Obama looks downright fiscally conservative compared to Bush. Nothing funnier than the Teabaggers with the Medicare-provided scooters jawing on about “government programs.” It’s corporate welfare, tax breaks for the rich, and the TRILLIONS spent on ridiculous, never-ending foreign occupations that got us where we are today. Deal with it.




			Posted by: ghostwriter | November 2, 2011, 10:52 am 10:52 am		



Step out and face the public woman if you are going to make these charges.  Sorry, but a public figure should not be dammed by someone hiding and making accusations.




			Posted by: Ken | November 2, 2011, 10:52 am 10:52 am		



Oh, man … now he is playing the “race card”.  I can’t believe how many candidates for public office are unable to keep their hands to themselves or their peckers in their pants.  Amazing.




			Posted by: Carol S | November 2, 2011, 11:00 am 11:00 am		



Cain did not break the confidentiality agreement. He had to answer the liberal media accusations.
The accuser’s agreement is for her benefit to find employment and not be labeled as a trouble maker, not Cain’s.
I wonder allegedly how much the liberal party and media will be paying her for her story?
Again obama was off limits by the liberal press!




			Posted by: yl | November 2, 2011, 11:08 am 11:08 am		



Yawnnnnnnn. Nobody cares




			Posted by: John | November 2, 2011, 11:12 am 11:12 am		



NEWCOUNTRYMAN:  “As I remember Jenniifer Flowers didn’t matter.” – - – And your point is what?  That there is no difference between someone who has an affair and someone who engages in sexual harassment?  That there is no difference between a mutually consensual affair and sexual harassment?  Really?  There is a huge difference between the two and if you can’t understand that then you don’t understand sexual harassment.




			Posted by: B-K KnightRider | November 2, 2011, 11:21 am 11:21 am		



1) Pro-Cain: Old school guys are not always sure where the line is and mean no offense.  (no excuse, just a reason); if not complaints have surfaced since, the inference is that he learned his lesson; some women (especially Caucasian) are more uncomfortable around African American men than the situation warrants and read things into innocent actions that are not there
2) Pro-Accuser:  Court cases can be traumatic, so accepting a settlement is often the quickest way to put an unpleasant event behind you; signing a confidentiality clause does not indicate a lack of a case; the size of the settlement (if a year’s salary) certainly indicates a bigger problem than Cain implies; if a confidentiality agreement is is place, Cain has probably broken it, which does not mean that the accuser can (or should) do the same, she seems to want to obey the law
Another note:  This is just the kind of dirty trick Rick Perry is known for in Texas.  Just sayin’




			Posted by: Gus K | November 2, 2011, 11:29 am 11:29 am		



Wow, all of you know more about this then anyone. Please tell us who those anonymous people are?




			Posted by: Lizzie | November 2, 2011, 11:30 am 11:30 am		



ATTOMIND:  “Some confidentiality agreement. This gal has already broken it big time.” – - – How has SHE broken it?  Have you read it to know its provisions?  How do you know for a fact she has spoken PUBLICLY about this to anyone?  How do you or anyone else know for a fact that she had anything to do with this story getting out?  ANYONE who knew about what happened back then could have told ANYONE in the other Republican camps about this issue so THEY could break the story.  I have seeen several of the FOX News talent state they have heard “rumors” about how it was one of the Republican candidate camps that leaked this story.  As far as I know only her Lawyer has spoken about it publicly, but NOT her.  You and many others are presuming WAY WAY too much about who leaked this story.  You and many others just blindly and irrationally trust Republicans and are blindly and reactively prejudiced against anyone with different beliefs.




			Posted by: B-K KnightRider | November 2, 2011, 11:32 am 11:32 am		



People on the right keep posting that liberals or Obama don’t get the kind of scrutiny that has now damaged Mr. Cain. The fact is that Barack Obama’s entire life was heavily scrutinized by the right. What did they find? Nothing. That’s why they resorted to guilt-by-association and began talking about Rev. Wright and Bill Ayers’ words and actions. Obama was vetted thoroughly. Cain was not. We’re now seeing the results.




			Posted by: Mikeyboy | November 2, 2011, 11:37 am 11:37 am		



YL:  “Cain did not break the confidentiality agreement. He had to answer the liberal media accusations.” – - – And you know for a fact that the confidentiality agreement does not apply to Cain how exactly?  If it did/does apply to him then he did in fact break it and he is then subject to legal consequences.  IF the confidentiality agreement did not apply to him then he did not break it.  And NO he did NOT “had to answer the liberal media accusations” OR the FOX News questions IF the confidentiality agreement applied to him.  Even if it did not, he did NOT have to answer questions.  He had a CHOICE, and ten days to prepare.  Heck, for all we know HE and/or HIS people are responsible for leaking the story.  IF he/they thought generating sympathy for him would help more than the story would hurt then HE could have leaked it.  Who benefits the MOST from leaking the story?  It is possible that Cain could end up benefiting the most, so that makes it possible he is responsible.  Never underestimate how creative political strategists might get.  Until someone takes responsibility for leaking the story all of the Republican competition is suspect, and maybe even Cain.




			Posted by: B-K KnightRider | November 2, 2011, 11:44 am 11:44 am		



I’m so tired of the far right always talking about the “lame-stream media”.  I believe they are referring to all media except Fox News.  If an article shows any republican in a negative light – it has to be the “lame-stream” media.  I guess the only real media is the batsh*t crazy people at Fox News.  They do have some decent reporters there but come on.  Look at their polls they have on their Politics page.  The questions are always completely slanted.  They never give an option that would actually apply.




			Posted by: Dawn | November 2, 2011, 11:45 am 11:45 am		



Step out and face the public woman if you are going to make these charges. Sorry, but a public figure should not be dammed by someone hiding and making accusations. Posted by: Ken | November 2, 2011, 10:52 am.
She made the accusations years ago, got paid off, and signed a document saying she wouldn’t talk about it. Until all the parties who signed the document agree to lift the gag order, she cannot legally “face the public”. I’m amazed that Cain himself is disclosing details, albeit sketchy, about what happened. The more he talks, the more he changes his story, the guiltier he appears. And in politics, appearance of impropriety is pretty much the same thing as actually acting improperly. Especially today. The seed has been sown, and it cannot be unplanted now in the minds of the people who were on the fence about this guy anyway…………….




			Posted by: Searambler | November 2, 2011, 11:47 am 11:47 am		



“Oh, man … now he is playing the “race card”. 
Yes.  I found that rather disappointing especially given his past statements.  I don’t see race being an issue with him thus far.  However I’m willing to give him the benefit of doubt and that of HIS perception.  I would like to hear how he feels that this situation is racially motivated.




			Posted by: MyTakeOnThis61 | November 2, 2011, 11:48 am 11:48 am		



The minute this accusers name is revealed they have broken their agreement to settle and can be sued and brought to court for violation of said settlement. A settlement is not an admission of guilt either. Usually its a way to extort money from someone out of court and it could be considered extortion if the accuser cant prove damages.




			Posted by: Gues What | November 2, 2011, 11:53 am 11:53 am		



but this guy isn’t as smart as I thought—–you thought he was smart??????????/     LOL!    If nothing else, how BADLY he handled this tells you VOLUMES about how BADLY he handles things.




			Posted by: jojnny boy | November 2, 2011, 11:53 am 11:53 am		



a public figure should not be dammed by someone hiding and making accusations—HE has HER under a gag order!  These women complained about him LONG before he ran for president, when nobody would ever expect he’d be running for president.    He’s so dumb he talks out his butt without knowing any of the facts, or is lying, he’s pullng the race card. For God’s sake right wingers had Obama’s face on pancake mix and NEVER have Obama pulled the race card.    He’s done.    For GOd’s sake you’re got Romney, WHY are you wasting your time on this.  Just makes all republicans look bad.




			Posted by: johnny Boy | November 2, 2011, 11:57 am 11:57 am		



It appears to me that Mr. Cain violated the terms of the agreement by calling the other party a liar.  She should be able to come forward with her side of the story.




			Posted by: Kitty Wilberforce | November 2, 2011, 12:04 pm 12:04 pm		



There are plenty of people who would be more than willing to compensate the allegedly sexually harassed individual for violating the “gag” order!  The small amount of money involved does not justify her not publicly explaining what she knows!  It is suspicious if she doesn’t come forward!!!!




			Posted by: Common _ Sense | November 2, 2011, 12:08 pm 12:08 pm		



EVIL ALWAYS BRINGS UP A PERSONS PAST MISTAKES. DEMS. STAND FOR DEMONIC




			Posted by: RAY C | November 2, 2011, 12:47 pm 12:47 pm		



So he’s no better than Clinton? Is that the standard the GOP is settling for? Nice to know.




			Posted by: rippedpockets | November 2, 2011, 1:12 pm 1:12 pm		



“I can’t remember” says Cain. What I can’t remember is a less qualified candidate trying to be president! “Agreement” versus “settlement”…well, let’s all AGREE that this whole thing is SETTLED. Cain can go back to his overpaid “motivational speaker” role. His time as a candidate, though short, is over.




			Posted by: J S O'Brien | November 2, 2011, 1:41 pm 1:41 pm		



My goodness, how quickly this woman has come out of the woodwork and hired a lawyer. Why hire a lawyer? Why would someone take the case when she cant sue? Obviously she is in it for something and Ill lay 10:1 the democrats have gotten to her and offered her something




			Posted by: alan | November 2, 2011, 1:59 pm 1:59 pm		



#OWS
#911truth
panem et circenses
Bread And Circuses
starring The Hermanator
& remnants of Cain Train
Ladies just do not understand your sense of humor !
ladies just don’t understand the context of your words
Nader Paul Kucinich Gravel McKinney Baldwin Ventura Sheehan
Catch the mist, Catch the myth, Catch the mystery, Catch the drift




			Posted by: NadePaulKuciGravMcKi | November 2, 2011, 2:04 pm 2:04 pm		



Alright, Cain says there was no inappropriate behavior. The unknown females lawyer says there was. Easy fix here folks, the Association waives the confidentiality agreement, both parties state their case, all of us decide, case closed.




			Posted by: BikernAz12 | November 2, 2011, 2:04 pm 2:04 pm		



So, according to mlany responders here, Cain was given 10 days by the bog known as Politico (oops, blog…something you should read at least once for an education) who refused to reveal theeir sources for this nonsense, but did verify the facts????????????I guess the lady in question broke her agreement,,,,,,,,,,and since this occurred in 1999, any self respecting female ub a work environment knew all she had to do was file a EEO charge with her state equal employment agency which lo looked at it from the nation’s EEO agency’s perspective….most emmplyed females knew that in 1999……but I guess, if you need a buck, you want a buck and to hell with the job. ;Politico ought to be on trial…….




			Posted by: justj joey | November 2, 2011, 2:23 pm 2:23 pm		



If Cain was a liberal black man, Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, Rev. Wright would be out there calling for the head of the accusor.




			Posted by: Lizzie | November 2, 2011, 2:29 pm 2:29 pm		



If Cain’s accuser KNOWS that he was not only guilty of harrasment, but as a candidate to lead the greatest and strongest nation on the planet, boldface LIED to the American public, she should give up the $$ settlement.  She should do so as a Patriot of this great land. She would be applauded by millions of Americans, by valuing her own reputation, and the love of her country over the almighty dollar.




			Posted by: R. Forthetruth | November 2, 2011, 4:29 pm 4:29 pm		



Three women have now come forward?  I don’t necessarily think something is so just when one person comes forward, but three?  That spells the end for Cain.  I feel badly about it, I had actually decided to vote for him.  Now I cannot.




			Posted by: DJ | November 2, 2011, 4:54 pm 4:54 pm		



Didn’t hurt Clinton folks. This stuff was small potatoes.




			Posted by: Dan | November 2, 2011, 5:35 pm 5:35 pm		



Cain has extended the scrutiny  beyond the mere veracity of his accusers. The more telling aspect is  how he’s handling it. If he’s all rosy and guilty-free, there would be no reason for his to deny, “forget” and provide the weasel responses.
He’s was particularly reckless telling the press one of the women was fired for an unsatisfactory job performance. Here’s he’s flaunting all common-sense personnel confidentiality safeguards –particularly  in light of a dispute–and opening himself and his association to legal liability.  Veracity of his accusers aside, this is a very stupid, irresponsible action.




			Posted by: Sue | November 2, 2011, 5:38 pm 5:38 pm		



back about 50 years I was accused of some bad stuff, which I did not do nor was even aware of. I never forgot any of the details of that situation. I don;t have any confidence in a man that say’s he doesn;t remember accusations from 12 years ago, please give me a break.




			Posted by: frank d. | November 2, 2011, 6:22 pm 6:22 pm		



I was sexually harrassed over 40 years.  I was beyond surprised when, about 15 years ago, the person who sexually harrassed me relayed to me HIS version of what had happened.  Interestingly enough, while there was some truth there, it was WAY off the mark.  If you’ve been sexually harrassed, you don’t forget even the most minute details … and you don’t change your story.  In my experience, those who harrass, DO change their stories.  m.




			Posted by: Mary C. | November 2, 2011, 6:41 pm 6:41 pm		



Cain has a lot of people fooled with his speeches (like Obama) but there were at least three women that he can’t fool. Where there’s smoke there must be a little fire!




			Posted by: Billy B. | November 2, 2011, 7:24 pm 7:24 pm		



Ludicrous.  It was never even a court issue.  It’s ridiculous corporate BS, and it’s coming out of Perry’s camp.  Has anyone who is condemning Cain seen a smoking blue dress?  No, of course not.  They’re forming lynch mobs based on edited sound bytes from poor journalism.  Cain is in the lead because smart people know he can fix what’s wrong with America.  Those who want America to fail will naturally support Obama, and the ridiculous rheteric the liberal media is forcing down our throats.  Enough said.  This is just more crap for the networks to get ratings, and the printed press to sell papers.  Why should anyone even care about this nonsense that supposedly happened nearly 20 years ago.  Give it a rest!!!




			Posted by: Bet W. | November 2, 2011, 8:27 pm 8:27 pm		



I’m perplexed by the comments implying these women settled for money because that’s all they wanted. Actually, they wanted to go to work and do their jobs.
I’m also amused at the guys in here who apparently haven’t heard the latest – two GOP figures have witnessed some of the alleged incidents and were highly offended.
Sometimes the truth is right there in front of your face.




			Posted by: Tera Powers | November 2, 2011, 8:52 pm 8:52 pm		



“The woman, according to Cain, took offense when he told her that she was as tall as his wife, and put his hand on his chin to indicate the difference.”  And she got year’s pay.  Right.




			Posted by: David Scott | November 2, 2011, 8:52 pm 8:52 pm		



Bill Clinton did not get in trouble over sexual harassment, he got in trouble over lying about it in a deposition which since liberals love sexual harassment they should have shouted for the death penalty.  After all, how does a woman get her day in court against a powerful man if he lies under oath..
By the way, how is this woman talking about the case if she is under a confidentiality agreement, unless, someone offered her more money.  What a scum bag liar.




			Posted by: Jeff Ruzicka | November 2, 2011, 8:54 pm 8:54 pm		



The person who thinks Cain is guilty because she got a full years severance is a fool.  She didn’t get it for his guilt, she got it for the company not paying legal bills which always happens.  Also, how can these women even talk, they under the agreement not to talk.  He only talked first because they talked behind the cameras which is illegal.  And now they are going to say that he talked when he was responding to them violating the law.  Where is this fair.  These women are scum bags.




			Posted by: Jeff Ruzicka | November 2, 2011, 9:12 pm 9:12 pm		



Mr. Cain, you are a liar!  Ron Paul is the only honest upstanding candidate running. Let’s vote for honesty and integrity and a candidate with the only real economic recovery plan that actually will work! Ron Paul 2012




			Posted by: Steve | November 2, 2011, 11:34 pm 11:34 pm		



This has nothing to do with the actual accusations or agreement or settlement or whatever you want to call it. It doesn’t even matter that someone is trying to smear Mr. Cain.  Herman Cain should have been upfront and honest from the beginning. Now he is just another liar, just like he lied about auditing the federal reserve.  Once a liar, always a liar!  He should have just told the truth! The truth shall set you free! Do we honestly need another lying politician running this country?




			Posted by: Steve | November 2, 2011, 11:41 pm 11:41 pm		



The third woman, from what I have heard said “she was uncomfortable”, because Herman told her she “looked good” and he invited her to his place. That is not sexual harassment. If she said “no” and he kept on, then that would be harassment. But no one is saying that. It is very irresponsible and typical of left-wing hack reporters to keep perpetuating this without facts. Its a hack-job  plain and simple. Hang in there Herman!!




			Posted by: theguru | November 3, 2011, 3:42 am 3:42 am		



“how would you characterize the first six years of the GW administration, when the Republicans controlled both Houses in Congress AND the White House?” – Searambler
Those were the years when he kept his RINO tendencies in check and spent less.




			Posted by: Noz | November 3, 2011, 8:52 am 8:52 am		



Onething Clinton had consenual sex with adult women… he didnt sexually harass them.. big difference…




			Posted by: bkisses | November 3, 2011, 10:52 am 10:52 am		



Blah, blah, blah. What person is without sin? So, who cares about his imperfections … the people arn’t crying out for a saint. We’re crying out for quality of life! And, as long as his integrity is to deliver that to us … that’s all that should matter!




			Posted by: Cee | November 3, 2011, 11:00 am 11:00 am		



In Clinton’s case the sex was consensual, whereas here, Cain allegedly harassed women. I admit to being biased because I’m a liberal, but seriously. You don’t forget someone making those kinds of allegations against you, and you don’t just forget giving someone a whole years’ severance.




			Posted by: Cecilia | November 3, 2011, 12:35 pm 12:35 pm		



“Onething Clinton had consenual sex with adult women… he didnt sexually harass them.. big difference…” – bkisses
Yeah, BIG Difference!
In Clinton’s case he led on an impressionable young woman, letting her believe they had a meaningful intimate relationship that could go somewhere as opposed to Cain who made some comments about a woman’s attractive beauty.
You guess which one was more damaging.




			Posted by: Noz | November 3, 2011, 4:48 pm 4:48 pm		



apparently the left still believes in crucifying black men. That is if they dont have the same political views. Still maybe most are as racist as they were before segregation ended. Herman Cain forgot details of some unproven aligations 12 years ago and is to be disqualified. yet who was it the didnt know what the word “is” means? aparently not knowing the meanings of simple everyday words is not a disqualifyer . Cain may be ultimatly guilty of something, Arnt we all. But you guys elected Clinton 2 times with strong evidence of guilt in rape and sexual harassment. And were so willing to exclaim “its only sex” and yet here we are. we dont even have a woman who claims to have been raped or assaulted sexually, we dont even have one willing to tell her story on camera. how convienient the confidentuality is for those who want Cain to go away




			Posted by: drew | November 3, 2011, 5:46 pm 5:46 pm		



Several of you libs have made statements similar to CEE: “You don’t forget someone making those kinds of allegations against you, and you don’t just forget giving someone a whole years’ severance.”
I realize that Liberals wouldn’t know the truth if it bit them on the lewinski and their moral compass spins like it’s in the Bermuda Triangle, so I shouldn’t expect any better.  Still, if you don’t know what you are talking about, you should keep your mouth shut.  About 15 years ago I was accused of rape by a girl who I refused to go out with because he was obviously a bit unhinged.  I was jumped in public by a group of women who were going to take me down.  Oddly, what saved me was one of my friend pointing out that I had no problem getting women and that I certainly didn’t need to rape that idiot.  I came very close to prosecution for rape when I had never even been on a date with this girl, much less alone with her in her apartment.  At this point, I don’t remember her name, nor cold I pick her out in a line-up.  All I remember is that I was scared because there was nothing I could do to defend myself and she was a short blonde pain in my behind. Anything I said would have been taken out of context and taken as rambling of a guilty rapist……because that is how liberals handle things. The women who came after me were the worst kind of liberals….men hating feminists.  This isn’t the only reason I despise liberals.  More than 15 years ago I taught middle school.  A union rep asked me to join the teacher’s union; I refused.  This guy kept hounding me for days, finally telling me that if I didn’t join the union, they couldn’t protect me WHEN one of the little girls accused me of touching her.  It made me so mad that I explained to him that IF I was accused, his behind would be the first one I whipped when I got out on bail.  You liberals think that any low-down, amoral technique to get your way is OK because it is “war”.  If it was war, there would be a risk for you liberals getting the hell beat out of you.  In that case, I am positive that you would hide like the cowards you are.  Good luck Mr. Cain




			Posted by: jkm | November 3, 2011, 10:19 pm 10:19 pm		



Well I now know what gave him the 9-9-9 plan idea but obviously those ladies didnt want the 9z either




			Posted by: JustMe | November 4, 2011, 6:38 am 6:38 am		



Herm’s blatant lies about ‘he forgot’ about two sexual harassment settlements with pretty hefty payouts (it would be the $45,000 times two now for inflation, so nearly $100,000 payout!) reminds me of the old Steve Martin skit of ‘how to make a million dollars and never pay taxes’. In Martin’s skit, when the IRS agents show up at your door to collect the taxes, just say “I forgot”! But we all know Koch-Cain is just the court jester here anyway. I mean really, can we get any more red flags for the second coming of the liar-in chief???




			Posted by: bja | November 4, 2011, 5:55 pm 5:55 pm		



my vote is for mr.cian, but now am not so sure, what we need is the truth from mr.cian, the truth will not stop me from voiting for him, buut its what i need to hear, we all makes mistakes in life and this  was over 10 years ago, am not to sure that this new lady was  the hole truth either, something just seems wrong, but still needd to hear from mr.cian no matter, no lie’s, just the truth, i like what he;s saying about the 9,9,9, and other things, thank you for hearring me.
    please to do use my name     sheri




			Posted by: sheri | November 7, 2011, 2:45 pm 2:45 pm		



This is amazing…no real people just figurative victims not named or brought forward with no actual cases to show any valid harassment and this is a story? Bill Clinton has to be laughing…he actually did pull his pants down in the flowers case and walked with no charges or consequence. Of course he is white….




			Posted by: Clinton | November 7, 2011, 2:52 pm 2:52 pm		



All Cane has to do Is take a polygraft Test from 3 different companies, and if he passes end of story




			Posted by: Tom Gilliam | November 9, 2011, 9:29 am 9:29 am		



I believeI feel sureThere’s undoubtedly that the the years have occur for both Anderson personalize thecustomize thealter the particular co-host or simply quitquitstopcease. I did not have fun with the display whatsoeverwhatsoeverby any meansin any kind of wayat allwhatsoever. Many of the performed was chat more than one anothereach otheryour partneranother1 anotherone which often used to do notunsuccessful towouldn’twouldn’tcouldn’t recognize factorsomethinganother thinganother factorthe primary a person factorthe initial ingredient that was stated. How desperate is it obtaining on this Eco-friendly Enormous stunt. Which had been the stupidest factor ina section of the entire world. And the woman’s getting naked was your secondthe followinganotheryour nextanother stupidest factor. Apologies for yourfor thetowards theusing thefor practically any observation but enough is sufficientis very likely to dois sufficient.




			Posted by: Brendan Shearon | January 4, 2012, 5:38 pm 5:38 pm		










Top



Leave a Reply
Do you have more information about this topic? If so, please click here to contact the editors of ABC News.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website








 

 
 

About The NoteThroughout the day, ABC News' political team contributes to The Note with the very latest news and analysis from the nation's capital and the 2012 campaign trail.  
  More from ABC News Politics 
Sen. Harry Reid: Any Budget Deal Must Include Revenue
Biden: US Remains Open to Direct Talks With Iran
White House Photo Shows Obama Firing Shotgun
Hillary Clinton Says Goodbye … Until 2016?
John Kerry Sworn in as Secretary of State

  RSS
More from ABC News 

Politics - Today 7:05am
Sen. Harry Reid: Any Budget Deal Must Include Revenue


Lifestyle - Today 6:01am
Delta to Debut First-Ever Outdoor Airport Terraces 


Extras - 2/2/13 10:09pm
Instant Index: Phil Does Not See His Shadow and Two NFL Coaches Making History


Business - Today 7:51pm
Bakery Denies Same-Sex Couple Wedding Cake


Politics - 2/2/13 6:12pm
Biden: US Remains Open to Direct Talks With Iran


Politics - 2/2/13 12:37pm
White House Photo Shows Obama Firing Shotgun


Headlines - 2/2/13 11:53am
Florida Boy's 911 Call Helps Police Nab Burglars


Lifestyle - 2/2/13 10:00am
13 Last-Minute Super Bowl Recipes


Health - 2/2/13 7:00am
Super Bowl Indulgence? Start Walking


Technology - 2/2/13 7:00am
App of the Week: Instructables


Health - 2/2/13 7:00am
Video Game Lets Players Be Heart Surgeons for a Day 


Business - 2/2/13 6:00am
3 Super Bowl Commercials to Watch Out For


Technology - 2/1/13 10:56pm
250,000 Twitter Accounts Hacked: Don't Panic, Here's What to Do


Politics - 2/1/13 6:48pm
Hillary Clinton Says Goodbye ... Until 2016?


Politics - 2/1/13 6:29pm
John Kerry Sworn in as Secretary of State


Headlines - 2/1/13 5:04pm
JetBlue Flight Makes Landing in Denver Because of 'Unruly Customer'


Business - 2/1/13 4:59pm
Dow Closes Above 14,000 for 1st Time in More Than 5 Years


Extras - 2/1/13 4:30pm
Instant Index: No. 1 Super Bowl Food; Bush Dog Barney Dies


Business - 2/1/13 4:24pm
No Horse Meat in Whoppers, Says Burger King


Headlines - 2/1/13 4:17pm
Today in Pictures: Marion Cotillard, Tear Gas Cloud, The Shard


Headlines - 2/1/13 4:00pm
Disabled Piglet Chris P. Bacon Uses K'nex Wheelchair


Entertainment - 2/1/13 3:19pm
Beyonce Opens Up About Miscarriage in Documentary


Entertainment - 2/1/13 2:18pm
Ben & Jerry's Unveils Liz Lemon Greek Yogurt Flavor


Lifestyle - 2/1/13 2:12pm
Couple's 2 Sets of Twins Born Exactly 2 Years Apart


Business - 2/1/13 1:40pm
U.S. Blocks Deal Between Top Beer Distributors


Headlines - 2/1/13 1:24pm
Woman Who Rescued Fawn 'Can't Have the Deer,' Official Says


Technology - 2/1/13 12:52pm
Ravens Fans Clumsier Than 49ers Fans, Survey Finds


Entertainment - 2/1/13 12:28pm
Dakota Fanning Defends Going Nude in New Film


Entertainment - 2/1/13 9:44am
'30 Rock' Series Finale: The Best Lines


Entertainment - 2/1/13 9:11am
Beyonce Drops Hints About Super Bowl Halftime Show


Technology - 2/1/13 7:00am
In GoDaddy Super Bowl Ad, Hollywood's Favorite Extra Makes Out With Supermodel


Technology - 1/31/13 9:45pm
Is Sony Announcing the PlayStation 4 on February 20?


Lifestyle - 1/31/13 5:35pm
'Penguin Highway' Video Captured by 21-Year-Old Traveler


Extras - 1/31/13 4:57pm
Instant Index: Oprah's Back Injury; Tina Fey and the Muppets


Health - 1/31/13 10:49am
World's Oldest Marathoner to Retire at 101


Lifestyle - 1/31/13 7:46am
How to Crack the Code to Online Dating


Extras - 1/30/13 4:40pm
Instant Index: Watson Goes to College; Barbra Streisand at the Oscars


Health - 1/30/13 4:10pm
Are Deer Antlers the New Steroids?


Health - 1/29/13 5:24pm
Strep Throat May Cause OCD, and 5 Other Surprising Facts


Extras - 1/29/13 4:24pm
Instant Index: New Breeds to Compete in Westminster Dog Show


Million Moms Challenge - 5/12/12 9:00am
A Mother's Day to Remember: Winner Gets Portrait By Anne Geddes


Million Moms Challenge - 1/27/12 4:06pm
Webby Awards: Million Moms Challenge, For Consideration


Million Moms Challenge - 1/12/12 7:34pm
Letters to ABC News on our Global Health Coverage 


Million Moms Challenge - 1/4/12 2:19pm
YOUR Challenge: For the Health and Well-Being of Mothers Everywhere


Million Moms Challenge - 12/21/11 10:49pm
Swelling Beauty: Anne Geddes' Lens on Pregnancy




  


 




 






















