BBC News - Fracking 'should continue with checks'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Science & Environment







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















17 April 2012
Last updated at 05:18 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Fracking 'should continue with checks'
 


By Richard Black
Environment correspondent, BBC News



Fracking has proved controversial in the US too, though the government supports it


Continue reading the main story Related Stories

Concerns over fracking regulations
End of 'greenest government ever'?
Fracking contamination downplayed


A controversial gas extraction method which triggered two earth tremors near Blackpool last year should continue, but under strict conditions, a government-named panel of experts says.
The process - fracking - involves pumping water and chemicals into shale rock at high pressure to extract gas.   
Shale gas is seen as a way of ensuring relatively cheap energy supplies. 
But critics have warned of possible side effects - including the contamination of ground water.  
Test fracking (short for "fracturing") by the Cuadrilla company near Blackpool stopped in 2011 when two earthquakes were felt at the surface.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
We don't need earth tremor-causing fracking to meet our power needs - we need a seismic shift in energy policy”
End Quote
Andy Atkins
Friends of the Earth
 The government-appointed panel believes there will probably be more quakes but that they will be too small to do structural damage above ground. It recommends more monitoring.
The panel's report now goes out for a six-week consultation period, with the Department of Energy and Climate Change (Decc) issuing a firm set of regulations at some point after that.
The panel agrees with a Cuadrilla report from late last year that test fracks at the company's Preese Hall site did cause two earthquakes of Magnitudes 2.3 and 1.5 in April and May.
"[Cuadrilla's experts] said there was a very low probability of other earthquakes during future treatments of other wells," said one of the report's authors, Prof Peter Styles from Keele University.
"We agree that [last year's] events are attributable to the existence of an adjacent geological fault that had not been identified.
"There might be other comparable faults, (and) we believe it's not possible to categorically reject the possibility of further quakes."







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Report author Prof Peter Styles says any earthquakes are "not likely to cause significant damage"



 Such events might well be felt at the surface but are extremely unlikely to be significant, he said.
Shale gas is found in layers of relatively weak sedimentary rock, typically several kilometres underground. 
Coal mining has generated thousands of earthquakes down the years; and on the basis of all the data gathered from this, the panel says, fracking is unlikely to produce anything larger than a Magnitude 3.
"There's no record of a quake at this size doing any structural damage," said Prof Styles. "But they would be strongly felt, and there is a possibility of superficial damage."
When asked on the BBC's Today programme whether he was any more concerned about fracking than coal-mining, Dr Brian Baptie, head of seismology at the British Geological Survey (BGS) said: "No; given appropriate guidelines and appropriate monitoring, I see no reason why it shouldn't go ahead." 
The panel recommends four precautions regarding Cuadrilla's Preese Hall operation and other projects in the Bowland Shale area of Lancashire:

 all injections of fracking fluid must include a preliminary injection, followed by monitoring
 the growth of fractures in the shale should be monitored 
 operations should monitor seismic events in real time
 operators should observe a "traffic light" regime, with quakes of magnitude 0.5 or above triggering a "red light" and an immediate halt, followed by (unspecified) remedial action.
 Magnitude 0.5 is a considerably lower threshold than the 1.7 proposed by Cuadrilla's experts, though the panel emphasised that other countries such as Switzerland use the still higher threshold of 2.3.
"We've opted for a much lower, more conservative option," said Dr Baptie.
"Even with real-time monitoring, there will be a time lag between what we've put into the ground and what we get back out in the form of earthquakes."
Operators should also minimise quakes by allowing the fracking liquid to flow back up the well soon after injection, the panel says, rather than keeping the rock under prolonged pressure.



It also recommends that seismic hazards should be properly assessed before new exploration is permitted.
This would involve seismic monitoring to establish what levels of activity are normal in that location, analysis of geological faults, and the use of computer models to assess the potential impact of any induced earthquakes.
The three members of the panel - Prof Styles, Dr Baptie and Dr Chris Green, an independent fracking expert based in Lancashire - said this information should be publicly available.
Mark Miller, Cuadrilla's chief executive, welcomed the report.
"We are pleased that the experts have come to a clear conclusion that it is safe to allow us to resume hydraulic fracturing, following the procedures outlined in the review," he said.
He said the company had already begun to amend procedures in light of expert advice.
Richard Moorman, CEO of Tamboran Resources, a company with permits to frack in Northern Ireland, said the risk of tremors or water contamination was low.
"The reality of any kind of incident would be extremely local; it's also extremely uncommon."



The government sees shale gas as a valuable energy resource for the future.
Cuadrilla claims that the site it has explored in the Bowland Shale contains 200 trillion cubic feet of gas, more than the UK's known offshore reserve - though only a portion of this would be economically recoverable.
"If shale gas is to be part of the UK's energy mix we need to have a good understanding of its potential environmental impacts and what can be done to mitigate those impacts," said David MacKay, Decc's chief scientific adviser.
"This comprehensive independent expert review of Cuadrilla's evidence suggests a set of robust measures to make sure future seismic risks are minimised - not just at this location but at any other potential sites across the UK."
Other companies want to explore for shale gas in Fermanagh, the Vale of Glamorgan, Somerset, Kent and Sussex. 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.























 But local groups are concerned about groundwater contamination as well as earthquakes, while environment groups point out that basing the UK's energy strategy on gas will make it much harder to achieve climate change targets. 
Speaking on the Today programme, Tony Jupiter, former head of Friends of the Earth UK, said that the recommendations needed to go further:
"I remain to be convinced... that this is a credible part of meeting the 80% reduction targets in greenhouse gas emissions that are enshrined in law in this country."
"We don't need earth tremor-causing fracking to meet our power needs - we need a seismic shift in energy policy," said Andy Atkins, director of Friends of the Earth UK.
"We should be developing the huge potential of clean British energy from the sun, wind and waves, not more dirty and dangerous fossil fuels."
But Simon Moore, environment and energy research fellow at thinktank Policy Exchange, thinks that shale gas could also be an "environmental opportunity". 
"It's something that can potentially help with meeting our climate change gas goals". 
Follow Richard on Twitter

 



More on This Story

Related Stories


Concerns over fracking regulations
20 MARCH 2012,    
                                                UK


End of 'greenest government ever'?
19 MARCH 2012,    
                                                SCIENCE & ENVIRONMENT


Fracking contamination downplayed
17 FEBRUARY 2012,    
                                                SCIENCE & ENVIRONMENT


New groups protest at shale gas
28 SEPTEMBER 2011,    
                                                SCIENCE & ENVIRONMENT






Related Internet links


Cuadrilla Resources


Shale gas - Decc



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 512                  rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 463.  WanderingWill  17th April 2012 - 16:50   Of course fracking will continue and expand, for the world needs oil and gas. Until there is a sizeable 'quake with lots of deaths there will be no stopping 'progress'. The rights and wrongs of it will always be ignored sadly.    Report this comment (Comment number 463) Link to this (Comment number 463)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 379.  Lulzaroonie  17th April 2012 - 14:36   Not wanting to sound like a namby pamby earth hugger, but I don't think I'm the only one who thinks the world is somewhat unstable at the moment. If it's been scientifically proved that fracking causes earthquakes, why on earth would we want to harness something that could be so destructive for the sake of something that won't last forever anyway? Put the funding into renewable energy!    Report this comment (Comment number 379) Link to this (Comment number 379)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 360.  A Realist  17th April 2012 - 14:20   I invested in drilling oil wells in Louisiana during the 80's. Out of 11 wells drilled - we hit 8, one of which struck over 10 billion cubic feet of gas - which we promptly sold to the local gas distributor, along with some reasonable oil reserves. It was the gas that made us the money - not the oil. Fracking will ultimately release huge reserves and drive the Retail price of gas right down! Good!    Report this comment (Comment number 360) Link to this (Comment number 360)                 rate this     +10      rate this     +10   Comment number 307.  sir_marcus_browning_mp  17th April 2012 - 13:22   Fracking, deepwater drilling, tar sands, oil conflict....It's becoming more difficult and more expensive to get energy from fossil fuels. How hard does it need to become before people, and their leaders, consider and embrace a meaningful change in the way we gather and use energy?    Report this comment (Comment number 307) Link to this (Comment number 307)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 265.  James  17th April 2012 - 12:59   I get involved with geological surveys regularly.Fracking involves destroying the bedrock and flooding the fissures with toxic fluids. Where does this (radioactive) fluid go? It's obvious - into the aquafers and eventually the watercourses.The people of Blackpool will be the poor guinea pigs whilst the shareholders watch and count their money from afar.    Report this comment (Comment number 265) Link to this (Comment number 265)         Comments 5 of 15    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Science & Environment stories
RSS




Mars rover hammers down into rock

The US space agency's Curiosity Mars rover uses its drill for the first time, hammering down briefly into a flat slab of rock on the floor of Gale Crater.



Prize to honour scientist Higgs




Dolphins 'saved' by distress call












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Richard III DNA test results due



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Naked beaten Egyptian blames police



3: Mars rover hammers down into rock



4: French jets bomb northern Mali 



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



7: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: Malala recovering after operation



10: Why Mali's nomads are lying low



Video/Audio




1: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



5: Bolshoi director: 'I know attacker'  Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



10: Last day for Hillary Clinton Watch













BBC Future





Nasa’s ‘crazy’ robot lab
Where rovers bounce and flex Read more...












Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





