BBC News - 9/11 conspiracy theories: How they've evolved


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports



















28 August 2011
Last updated at 22:25 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





9/11 conspiracy theories




The theories


Analysis





 
It may be 10 years since the attacks in the US on 11 September, but conspiracy theories have not faded over time, says Mike Rudin. 
Numerous official reports have been published since the Twin Towers fell, but just when a piece of evidence casts doubt on one theory, the focus then shifts to the next "unanswered question". 
Here are five of the most prominent 9/11 conspiracy theories circulating in online communities.
1. Failure to intercept the hijacked planes
The question: Why did the world's most powerful air force fail to intercept any of the four hijacked planes?
Conspiracy theorists say: The then US Vice President Dick Cheney ordered the military to stand down and not to intercept the planes.


Fighter jets failed to intercept the hijacked planes

Official reports say: This was a highly unusual multiple hijacking with violence on board, and where the transponder, which identifies the plane, was turned off or changed. 
What is more, a routine military training exercise happened to be taking place that day at US air defence command. 
Air traffic controller Colin Scoggins was in constant contact with the military and did not see any lack of response. There was confusion and a lack of communication between the civilian air traffic control (FAA) and the military. 
The military's equipment was also outdated and designed to look out over the ocean to deal with a Cold War threat.
2. Collapse of the Twin Towers
The question: Why did the Twin Towers collapse so quickly, within their own footprint, after fires on a few floors that lasted only for an hour or two?
Conspiracy theorists say: The Twin Towers were destroyed by controlled demolitions. Theories relate to the rapid collapse (about 10 seconds), the relatively short-lived fires (56 minutes in World Trade Center 2 or 102 minutes in World Trade Center 1), reports of the sounds of explosions shortly before the collapse, and the violent ejections that could be seen at some windows many floors below the collapse.


Five new skyscrapers are being built on the World Trade Center site

Official reports say: An extensive inquiry by the National Institute of Standards and Technology concluded that the planes severed and damaged support columns and dislodged fire-proofing. 
Around 10,000 gallons of jet fuel were spewed over many floors starting widespread fires. Temperatures of up to 1,000C caused the floors to sag and the perimeter columns to bend, causing the sounds of "explosions". 
The massive weight of the floors dropped, creating a dynamic load far in excess of what the columns were designed for. Debris was forced out of the windows as the floors above collapsed. 
Controlled demolition is nearly always carried out from the bottom floors up, yet this collapse started at the top. 
No evidence has ever been found of explosive charges despite the extensive hand searches and there is no evidence of any pre-cutting of columns or walls, which is routinely carried out in a controlled demolition.
3. Attack on the Pentagon
The question: How could an amateur pilot fly a commercial plane in a complicated manoeuvre and crash it into the headquarters of the world's most powerful military, 78 minutes after the first report of a possible hijack and leave no trace?


A memorial in the grounds of the Pentagon marks the deaths of those who died when Flight 77 crashed

Conspiracy theorists say: A commercial Boeing 757 did not hit the building but instead a missile, a small aircraft or an unmanned drone was used. But since evidence has increasingly shown that the American Airlines Flight 77 did hit the building, the emphasis has shifted to questioning the difficult approach manoeuvre. It is argued it was not under the control of al-Qaeda but the Pentagon itself.
Official reports say: Airplane wreckage, including the black boxes, were recovered from the scene and they were catalogued by the FBI. 
Although some early video did not show much wreckage, there is a good deal of video and still photography which shows plane wreckage and evidence of the flight path, such as broken lamp posts. 
The remains of crew and passengers on the plane were found and positively identified by DNA. Witnesses also saw the plane strike the Pentagon. 
4. The fourth plane - United Airlines flight 93
The question: Why was the crash site at Shanksville, Pennsylvania, so small and why was the aircraft debris not visible?
Conspiracy theorists argue: United Airlines flight 93 was shot down by a missile and disintegrated in mid air, scattering the wreckage over a large area.


Forty-four people died when Flight 93 crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania

Official reports say: There are clear photographs showing aircraft wreckage and the cockpit voice recorder, which showed there had been a passenger revolt and the hijackers had deliberately crashed the plane.  
Initial theories that heavy debris was scattered many miles from the main crash site turned out to be false. In fact the wind had blown light debris such as paper and insulation just over a mile.
Another theory was based on a misquote from the local coroner, Wally Miller, who said he stopped being a coroner after about 20 minutes because there were no bodies. What he also said was that he quickly realised it was a plane crash and there would have to be a large funeral service for the many victims.
In addition, the military never gave orders to the air force to shoot the commercial airliner down. 
5. Collapse of World Trade Center Building 7
The question: How could a skyscraper, which was not hit by a plane, collapse so quickly and symmetrically, when no other steel-framed skyscraper has collapsed because of fire?


Offices for civil emergencies, the CIA and the Secret Service were based in World Trade Center Building 7

Conspiracy theorists say: The World Trade Center Building 7 was destroyed by a controlled demolition using both explosives and incendiaries. 
Initially the focus was on the phrase "pull it" used by the owner, Larry Silverstein, in a TV interview. But in fact he was talking about pulling firefighters back. (Demolition experts do not use the term "pull it" as slang for setting off explosives.) 
Now the focus has shifted to the speed of the collapse which reached near free fall for 2.25 seconds. It is argued only explosives could make it collapse so quickly and symmetrically. 
Some scientists, who are sceptical of the official account, have examined four dust samples from Ground Zero and claim to have found thermitic material which reacts violently when heated up. They claim tonnes of thermite and conventional explosives were rigged inside, not just WTC7, but also the Twin Towers. 

Continue reading the main story Find out more



 The Conspiracy Files: 9/11 - Ten Years On will be broadcast on Monday 29 August 2011 at 21:00 BST on BBC Two



Or catch up later via iPlayer

 Official reports say: A three-year investigation by the National Institute of Standards and Technology concluded that the building collapsed because of uncontrolled fires, started by the collapse of the nearby North Tower, and which burnt for seven hours. 
The mains water feeding the emergency sprinkler system was severed. No evidence has ever been found of explosive charges and there are no recordings of a series of very loud explosions that would have been expected with controlled demolition. 
Furthermore, there is an alternative explanation for the "thermitic material" the sceptical scientists found in the dust - it is just a type of primer paint. It's calculated 1,200,000 tonnes of building materials were pulverised at the World Trade Center and most minerals are present in the dust (not necessarily in a large quantity). More extensive sampling of the dust has not found any evidence of thermite or explosives, says a report from the US Geological Survey and another from RJ Lee. 

 



More on This Story


Related Internet links


9-11 Commission Report


National Institute of Standards and Technology: World Trade Center Disaster Study


Report of the Joint Inquiry by House and Senate Committees on Intelligence 



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 755                  rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 696.  Jericoa  29th August 2011 - 13:43   I suppose all those deniers who think the US gov knew nothing of 9/11 and believe all the reports are correct unbiased versions of events also believe the same of the 'dodgy dossier' where we were told Iraq could launch chemical weapons in 15 min.How many WOMD were found again someone remind me?I would like to see a good answer to that one from the many deniers on here, I wont get one...    Report this comment (Comment number 696) Link to this (Comment number 696)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 678.  Shawn  29th August 2011 - 13:36   Conspiracy theories in general and these specifically are insanely stupid. People really need to get a grip. There is no conspiracy. The United States was attacked by a terrorist group and innocent people died. Americans were the victims, not the perpetrators, and obsessing over obviously moronic conspiracy theories is insulting and ignorant. Grow up.    Report this comment (Comment number 678) Link to this (Comment number 678)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 661.  david morgan  29th August 2011 - 13:27   aske ten witnesses of an event for a version of the event and you can get ten different answers .The fact is that a large number of people lost their lives and it seems to me to be wrong to glorify this by self serving fake stories . The steel structure does not need to melt it only needs to be soften to lose it's strength steel can fail at relatively low temperatures .    Report this comment (Comment number 661) Link to this (Comment number 661)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 656.  Mark  29th August 2011 - 13:23   There are those who take incomplete facts and create narratives. These are called conspiracy theorists and lazy 'official report' writers. Both deserve our contempt.If you say there is no conspiracy without being able to explain the holes in the official versions, you're just as bad as the conspiracy theorists.You earn the right to dismiss the conspiracy theorists only when you know all facts.    Report this comment (Comment number 656) Link to this (Comment number 656)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 358.  Mantis747  29th August 2011 - 10:52   All of the conspiracy theories surrounding 9/11 have been debunked countless times, yet people still continue to believe them. It's almost as if some people want the conspiracies to be true. You only need to go as far as conventional logic for the conspiracies to fall apart. How would the US government be able to cover such a huge thing up when they can't even cover up relatively little things?    Report this comment (Comment number 358) Link to this (Comment number 358)         Comments 5 of 17    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



French jets target Mali rebel bases


Match played in England 'fixed'


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Charges over US sniper's murder


Spain's Rajoy pledges to battle on









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: Richard III dig skull image shown



5: 'The individual is Richard III'



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The bloody last moments of a king



3: Charges over US sniper's murder



4: The twisted bones of Richard III



5: Can testosterone make you live longer?



6: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



7: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



8: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



9: French target Mali rebel bases



10: Tuberculosis vaccine hopes dashed



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



2: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



3: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



4: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



5: Castro appearance at Cuba vote Watch



6: Unemployment in Spain reaches 26% Watch



7: Mali future: Who are the Tuareg? Watch



8: Apology over police beating footage Watch



9: 'Biggest aircraft order in history' Watch



10: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





