BBC News - 9/11 anniversary: As it happened


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             








Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





9/11 anniversary: As it happened


Key points

The US has marked 10 years since the attacks of 11 September 2001
Ceremonies were held in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania
The National Memorial was unveiled at the World Trade Center site
All times EDT (GMT-4, BST -5)











To get live updates & watch our video coverage you must enable Javascript.








9/11: A day to pause and reflect
 Watch











Join the discussion





Videos: Send your pictures and videos
Twitter: @BBC_HaveYourSay
Facebook: Send us your comments






Comment here






(Required) 
 Name




(Required) 
 Your E-mail address




(Required) 
 Town & Country




 Your telephone number





(Required) 
Comments





Send
Clear
The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide.
Terms and conditions









Report
Reporters:
	    Stephen Robb, Peter Jackson, Adam Blenford, Pia Gadkari, Jude Sheerin and Taylor Brown
      









 

0756:


Hello and welcome to live coverage of the commemorations of the 10th anniversary of 9/11. 


 

0800:


We'll be covering a day of special services of remembrance to mark the anniversary of the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11 2001. 


 

0805:


The US embassy in the Afghan capital Kabul has started the ceremonies, with the US flag lowered to half-mast. 


 

0806:


US President Barack Obama has written for the UK's Sunday Mirror newspaper, saying 9/11 "was not only an attack on the United States, it was an attack on the world and on the humanity and hopes that we share". But he says that, in the aftermath, "the world came together as one". He continues: "We are touched that the UK will honour the victims again today - including by breaking with protocol and flying the Union Flag at half-mast at its \u00adembassy and consulates in the United States." Read the article here. 


 

0806:

Mike Solomons



comments on the story: My thoughts today are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives in this and all other terrorist acts wherever they took place and by whom. 


 

0813:


A congregation has gathered at the Grosvenor Chapel in London - sometimes known as the American Church - and considered the centre of American worship in London. Families who have lost loved ones will attend a service of remembrance and reconcilitation shortly in which a candle will be symbollically lit in the middle of the church. 


 

0815:


A sculpture recalled New York's twin towers at the ceremony at the US embassy in Kabul. The work had been created out of debris from the World Trade Center.     


 


Top tweets



RIP 9 is currently trending on Twitter. @daviesefc tweets: RIP 9/11 victims, can't believe it's been 10 years since it happened. @play_nate tweets: 10 years already! was too young to understand the severity and the grief of the incident then, but I understand it now. RIP 9/11 victims. 


 

0825:

Stars and stripes: Patriotic images from across the US



From his office in Stamford, Connecticut, Robert Carley saw "billowing smoke" coming across Long Island Sound on 9/11. Shaken by the events, he embarked on a 10 year project to "hunt down" patriotic tributes that use the stars and stripes to celebrate America. Here is some of his 9/11 inspired photography, along with his story.    


 

0830:


Some 2,000 people are expected to attend a "Remembering With Hope" service at St Paul's Cathedral in London at 1100 BST. It will also mark the 20th anniversary of the Firefighter's Memorial Trust. 


 

0832:


New York firefighters who died in the attacks numbered 343. Sir Ken Knight, who is the British government's Chief Fire and Rescue Officer, says today is "particularly poignant for firefighters". "The fire service around the world is a very large family and we face the same hazards and the same risks and the same challenges," he says. 


 

0833:


A ceremony later at Bagram airbase will go ahead despite rocket attacks on the base on Saturday night. Two rockets were fired at the base, the largest US military site in Afghanistan, between 1900 and 2100 local time (1530-1730 BST) on Saturday. 


 

0833:

Mandi Roberts, Morgantown, West Virginia, US,



emails: I was in the eighth grade and school pictures were being taken that morning. I was wearing a shirt with the US flag on it for my photo. When I got back to band class, the TV was on and video feed of the towers going down was shown. I didn't really understand what had happened; I'm not sure I do now, either.  


 

0843:


A US flag that was draped over firefighters' remains, and toe rings that miraculously saved a woman's life, are among the 9/11 mementos described by six people in one of our anniversary features. Hear the stories here. 


 

0847:


More from Sir Ken Knight, who led a delegation to New York in the immediate aftermath of the attacks 10 years ago: "It was a staggering and very sad loss for the fire sevice in New York but actually worldwide, it's a great family the fire service."  


 

0851:


Sixty-seven Britons died in the 9/11 attacks. Among them was Kevin Dennis, who was working on the 101st floor of the north tower. His mother, Patricia Bingley, tells BBC News: "When the second tower went down I knew I'd lost him, I just knew. I just want to keep his memory alive, and with Grosvenor Square, with the anniversary, I lay a rose for him and then I call his name and that's his day." 


 

0854:


US officers bow their heads during a moment of silence as they remember the victims of 9/11 at the US Embassy in Kabul.    


 

0855:

Luis Romero



sent the BBC some photos of memorial ribbons placed at Ground Zero.    


 

0856:


About 30 families of British victims attend a remembrance ceremony in the September 11 memorial garden next to the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square, London. Leading the service, Canon Jim Rosenthal says: "Remembering such horrific scenes is not easy." But doing so, he adds, "gives us the opportunity to take hold of the past and transform it to reach out with grace, understanding and healing".  


 

0904:


More powerful words from Canon Rosenthal: "We must always remember and pray for the dead and remember those who have to watch these scenes day after day and hour after hour on the news. People who have lost relatives friends, family. But we also want to try to help people understand that there must be reconciliation ... any terrorism, any sense of bringing God into killing is an abomination."    


 

0912:


For a reminder of how events unfolded on the fateful day 10 years ago, we have put together a detailed timeline of events. 


 

0917:


US ambassador Ryan Crocker tells those gathered at the US Embassy in Kabul that the victims of extremism would never be forgotten. He says: "With our military colleagues we remember our soldiers - American, Afghan and coalition -  who along with their police brothers and partners have made the ultimate sacrifice in this fight. They did not die in vain; their sacrifices made America, Afghanistan and the world a safer place." 


 

0919:


Also in Kabul, General John Allen, the commander of the international force in Afghanistan, adds: "Nearly 3,000 innocent people were dead. The attacks were an act of inhuman brutality and terrorism on a scale not seen before. On that day we lost mothers and fathers, sons and daughters. We lost people of many nations and of many religions. Today we remember and we honour them all." 


 

0921:

Ashima Kadyan



   sent photos of the Twin Towers tribute in lights that took place last night in downtown Manhattan. 


 

0922:

Victoria Ro, Sterling, Virginia USA,



blogs: I decided to write down my memories of the day, ten years on, and my emotions regarding this Sunday. I was working opposite Trinity Church, just south of the twin towers, as an intern during my Gap year on the day of the attacks. 


 

0933:

Aleem Maqbool
BBC News, Abbottobad



reports from the Pakistani garrison town where Osama Bin Laden was killed by US special forces in May. He says Pakistanis fiercely criticised after his death have been quick to point out the sacrifices the country has made since 9/11 as they fought militants and suffered suicide bomb attacks. "Rightly or wrongly most Pakistanis blame the US and its policies since 9/11 for the levels of violence and the huge changes in their society. Anti-American feeling now is higher than ever," he says.  


 

0934:


Deputy US ambassador Barbara Stephenson lights a candle at Grosvenor Chapel in central London.    


 

0934:

Cathy, Atlanta, USA,



emails: I was living in Wootton Bassett, Wiltshire, UK, at the time of the 9/11 attacks. I heard the news from a shopkeeper. I rushed home to watch the news. The next day I went to London. I stood at the American embassy with hundreds of others. I wandered over to Buckingham Palace and watched the crowds. The American flag was flying and the Queen returned while I stood at the fence. I was alone in a foreign country needing other Americans to connect with during those first few days. 


 

0936:


The US president unveils the National September 11 Memorial at the site of the World Trade Center later. But the common term for the site - "Ground Zero" - should be dropped, according to New York mayor Michael Bloomberg. The BBC News website Magazine section examines the issue here. 


 

0941:


Former US President George W Bush, meanwhile, has already paid his respects to the fallen. Yesterday, as a national memorial was inaugurated in Pennsylvania to the 40 passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93, he said: "One of the lessons of 9/11 is that evil is real - and so is courage." 


 

0942:


Members of the American Eagles rugby team, who opened their World Cup campaign in New Zealand on Sunday, earlier attended a memorial service in the town of New Plymouth.    


 

0949:

Kathleen Carroll, in New York,



emails: I believe my view of life changed irrevocably that awful day and week as news of old friends came through, watching each day and night the black smoke coming out of the WTC. The losses are still incalculable and sadly for too many rescue workers ill-health plagues them. 


 

0949:


In Tokyo, Japan, families gather to honour the 23 Fuji Bank employees who died in the World Trade Center attacks. Flowers are laid in front of an enclosed glass case containing a small section of steel retrieved from the twin towers. 


 

0954:


The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, was two blocks from the World Trade Center when the south tower collapsed. He tells BBC Radio 2's Sunday Programme: "The first thing we wanted to do of course was to sit and pray and that's what we did... we did that as we heard the unforgettable noise of the first tower coming down". 


 

0955:


Ceremonies are taking place around the world to mark the 10th anniversary of events that changed the world. At a wreath-laying ceremony at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra, Australian Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd said 9/11 "could easily have happened in Paris, it could easily have happened in Sydney and it could still happen - which is why the price of freedom is eternal vigilance". 


 

0958:


Louis Susman, the US ambassador to the UK, says: "The big thing that we've seen is the incredible resiliency of the American people and people around the world. Because besides these acts of terrorism, both 9/11 and other acts of terrorism, it hasn't caused our life to change. We don't live in fear, our societies move forward, our businesses work." 


 

1001:


Under the headline "The Lost Decade", the Independent on Sunday dedicates its front page to the anniversary with an image of New York's permanently altered sky-line. Read our newspaper review here. 


 

1001:

Danny Ayalon, Israel's Deputy Foreign Minister,



has posted a youtube link that shows Jerusalem's 9/11 Living Memorial on his Twitter feed. 


 

1002:


Sir Christopher Meyer was British ambassador to the US on 9/11. He tells BBC News that when he heard a plane had hit the World Trade Center, "my instinctive reaction was that this was a small private plane that had lost its way". It was when the second plane hit that the awful realisation dawned on him. 


 

1003:


Sir Christopher adds: "I get it now, even when I'm talking to you. A most terrible sense of butterflies and pain because you knew this wasn't an amateur pilot who had lost his way, that something truly horrible was happening." 


 

1004:

Thousands of people remember 9/11 on Twitter



@wandoskie tweets: Sad day in American history today. Heart goes out to the families who lost loved ones. Gone but never forgotten. RIP......... #9/11 @_rhiannonleigh tweets: 10 years and still healing, still growing, but never forgetting. RIP 9/11. 


 

1011:


There's less than an hour now until some 2,000 people gather at St Paul's Cathedral for its "Remembering With Hope" service, attended by members of the UK Families Support Group, and the Firefighters Memorial Trust, who will lay a wreath at a memorial outside. 


 

1011:


Pope Benedict XVI marked the anniversary of the 11 September attacks during a Mass in Ancona, Italy.    


 

1012:

Kenyans in Nairobi share their memories



Ten years on, three young Kenyans in Nairobi tell the BBC how those momentous events affected their lives.  


 

1014:


Ten years after the attacks on the World Trade Center, six people have told the stories of mementos kept from that day - some of which were retrieved from the rubble the twin towers left behind. Listen to their moving accounts here. 


 

1021:


People begin arriving at St Paul's Cathedral for the "Remembering With Hope" service.    


 

1024:

Mark Mardell
BBC North America editor



blogs on the US beginning to turn its attention, after a hard decade of overseas wars in response to 9/11, back to nation-building at home. 


 

1027:


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad claims the West used 9/11 to justify attacking Muslim countries. He says: "It was a plotted, complicated game to affect the emotions of the human community and to find a pretext for invading the Islamic region and occupying Afghanistan and Iraq." 


 

1028:

Gregg Lanez, in Jersey City,



emails: I was a sophomore in high school when the World Trade Center collapsed. My school being situated in downtown Jersey City, I had a clear view of the event and it was a traumatic sight. It dramatically changed the demographics of downtown Jersey City, from an underdeveloped adjacent city to Manhattan, to a now gentrified hub for New York's financial industry.  


 

1032:


US Ambassador to Australia Jeffrey Bleich at the remembrance service in Canberra.    


 


People share their memories on Twitter



@icarlosarteaga tweets: 10 years ago who would have thought what was coming. My heart goes out to all. #RIP 9/11. @chloemursxo tweets: RIP 9/11 victims. forever in our hearts \u2665 


 

1039:


More from US Ambassador to Britain, Louis Susman, who tells BBC's Andrew Marr programme: "I particularly was moved when I heard that when many Americans gathered at Buckingham Palace to console themselves in some way the Queen ordered, for the first time in history, that in the changing of the guard they played the Star Spangled Banner instead of God Save the Queen." 


 

1044:


The 9/11 attacks led to sweeping changes in US foreign and security policy. President George W Bush characterised this new approach as the "war on terror". There's more here on the aftershocks felt around the world in the years since. 


 


BBC News website reader



texts: Even though I am a British citizen and I was only three when it happened, I still feel a mass of pain in my heart and I respect all those who died in the attacks and greatly thank the people who went out of their way to try and save other people's lives. 


 

1051:


There is a round-up of UK events here marking the anniversary. 


 

1059:

Andy Moore
BBC News correspondent



was at Grosvenor Chapel for the "intimate and low-key service" that was the first of the UK anniversary events. He says the chapel, known as the American Church, is a "fitting venue" because it is "the centre of worship for Americans in Britain". 


 

1100:


US rugby fan Dwight Long says Americans visiting New Zealand have been touched by the solidarity and support they have encountered. "It was an important day for all of us and I'm really glad, being this many miles away, that we get the respect and the love from other countries that believe in freedom [and] liberty too." 


 


Memories from around the world



Sandy Kent, Nova Scotia, Canada, says: We sat there spellbound, Americans and Canadians, and myself with a few other Britons living in Canada, and were stunned as we followed the newscast. Christian Ghisays, Ocho Rios, Jamaica, was moving house: I unloaded the TV just in time to see the second plane crash like a fireball into the second tower. To describe the feelings and shock at what was happening is just too painful. Miche Norman, Hod Hasharon, Israel, was working with the Israeli army: I was doing reserve duty in the West bank, when my mother called on my mobile asking if I had heard from my brother in law who worked in the World Trade Center.  


 

1103:

The LA Times



interviews Tiffany Ramsaroop for a feature on Growing up without a father after 9/11. The 18-year-old, whose father Vishnoo died in the attacks, says: "At every single event I went to I wished my dad was there, holding up the camcorder, waving as soon as I saw him."  


 

1111:


The New York Times has a fascinating slideshow charting the life and violent death of the World Trade Center, as part of a series of special reports. 


 

1112:


In Manila, Philippines, visitors look at a 9/11 display as part of a ceremony for the anniversary.    


 

1118:


As America begins waking up to a day of remembrance for one of the most traumatic events in its history, find our round-up of all the news from the US here. 


 

1118:

The BBC's Philippa Thomas



tweets: The Stars and Stripes fly at half mast today over the American embassy in Grosvenor Square, London    


 

1123:


Metal barriers are in place on roads near the World Trade Center, while police in New York and Washington are stopping and searching large vehicles entering bridges and tunnels on Sunday. This follows a "credible but unconfirmed" warning received by the CIA last week about a possible al-Qaeda bombing attempt. 


 

1128:


See how the BBC News website covered the story on the day itself here. 


 

1138:


The Dean of St Paul's Cathedral, the Rt Rev Graeme Paul Knowles, told those gathered there: "We come as people from many backgrounds to pray for the future security of our world, for a spirit of tolerance and mutual respect, for peace and freedom, for justice and the rule of law, that together we might go forward with confidence and hope." 


 

1139:

The Guardian's Paul Lewis



tweets a link to this Guardian video: This artfully woven video of 9/11 images shows the power of photography. 


 

1140:

Hiro from New York



was living inside what is now Ground Zero when the attacks took place. He took a photo diary, now on Flickr, that documents his day from when the planes hit the towers to his evacuation out of Manhattan. Ten years on, he has revisited the area with another photo diary.  


 

1144:


Former US presidential candidate and current Republican senator John McCain has been assessing the military response after 9/11. He tells Sky News: "I think to go to Afghanistan was the right decision since clearly the attackers had been trained there in Afghanistan and Osama Bin Laden was operating from that area. The mismanagement of both that conflict and in Iraq will be a subject for historians to talk about for years to come." 


 

1144:


Senator McCain adds: "But, overall, the fact that there's not been another major attack on the United States of America since 9/11 is some testimony to a little bit of luck, but also the fact we did take some very significant measures that has resulted in the United States not being attacked again." 


 

1147:

gavin lee



says: "The sun has just risen here in New York, bathing the new One World Trade Center in light."  


 

1149:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



reports: "A section of the World Trade Center site is already humming with people making final arrangements for the ceremony, which starts at 13.30 BST. The two memorials, on the footprints of the twin towers, are lit and flowing with water. Very heavy security." 


 

1150:


US President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama are pictured leaving the White House in Washington to fly to New York for the memorial service later.       


 

1151:


"Grief is the price we pay for love." Those poignant words, written by the Queen for a service just days after 9/11, have been inscribed on the memorial to the 67 British victims. They also feature in a newly-commissioned anthem, arranged to music by American composer Nico Muhly, performed at today's anniversary service in St Paul's Cathedral in London. 


 

1152:

Jan_Poland



comments on the story: I was nine then and it was a nightmare - a kid's nightmare - I did not understand it at all. I am 19 now and I still do not understand it. A new era began at September 11, 2001. 


 

1156:


Today will surely be toughest for those who lost loved ones, or were caught up in the attacks and face reliving those harrowing events. But there will be countless examples of strength and courage, like Sydney resident Rae Tompsett whose son - 39-year-old Stephen - was killed. She says she has never felt anger, only "sorrow that the people who did this believed they were doing something good".  


 

1158:


The BBC's Ian Sherwood reports: "Sunrise here in Manhattan, helicopters are buzzing overhead and there is a buzz from the police talk-back units as you make your way around a locked down lower Manhattan. The weather looks like it is going to be similar to that day 10 years ago. Clear skies and low humidity as described by those here on the day." 


 

1201:


American singer-songwriter Tori Amos, who was in Manhattan when the planes struck the towers, says: "You were just trying to understand that this was really happening. I wasn't alone. We were all walking down Fifth Avenue. New Yorkers have this resilience and loyalty, this incredible loyalty to the city itself. People needed to understand it not just through the media but by smelling it. The burning pulled you towards it. It was just trying to process." 


 

1202:


The UK suffered more losses in the 9/11 attacks than any country apart from the US. The names of the 67 dead Britons will be read out at a private remembrance ceremony in Grosvenor Square memorial garden, central London, this afternoon. A white rose will be laid for each of the victims.  


 

1203:

Justin, a sailor in the US Navy,



told the BBC he was on duty on 9/11. "When the attacks took place I was on a warship south east of the US," he says. "At first, when security was stepped up, we thought it was just a drill. Then we realised what was going on - I spent the next eight hours on a peer with a machine gun and the next four days at sea covering a no-fly zone for international flights. Today I'm on duty again - I'm glad to be, it seems most fitting." 


 

1205:

Aleem Maqbool
BBC News, Abbottobad



reports from the Pakistani town where Osama Bin Laden was killed by US special forces in May. He says: "There's barely any mention of the 9/11 anniversary in the Urdu newspapers in Pakistan. People here have told us they are reminded of it every time there is a bombing here, and of how resentful they are of a war they still see as America's, not theirs." 


 

1206:

UK Labour Leader Ed Miliband



blogs: For years after 9/11, the West's view of the Arab world was essentially a pessimistic one. We thought the best we could hope for was to have regimes which opposed al Qaeda and not much else.  The Arab Spring changed that.  


 

1207:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



writes: Thousands of white ribbons have been tied to the railings of St Paul's Chapel, which provided 24-hour care to 9/11 rescue workers. In the last few days, anyone passing was invited to take a ribbon and write the name of someone they lost, with a personal message. One says: 'Joe, your shipmates are always thinking of you'. 


 

1210:

Gavin Lee
BBC News



writes: "The largest free flying flag in the US, which usually flies from the George Washington bridge, is now coiled up at the lower part of the One World Trade Center ready to be raised to the top of the tower as part of the memorial ceremony." 


 

1211:

9/11 Ten years on: Your global stories



BBC News website readers from around the world share their personal memories and experiences of the September 11 attacks.     


 

1215:

Adam Blenford
BBC News, Washington



writes: "The capital's major streets and landmarks are all protected by police as dawn breaks. A roadblock is in place along Pennsylvania Avenue, splitting the route from Congress to the White House, and police of all sorts, including city, Capitol police and FBI, are in place in the downtown area." 


 

1220:

Rick Leventhal at Fox News



tweets, "And so it begins..." and uploads a photo of the media operations overlooking Ground Zero.  


 

1223:

Photojournalist at FOX Connecticut News Ryan Bernat



tweets a link to a photo: NYPD escorting 9/11 families from Marriott to Ground Zero 


 

1224:


The National September 11 Memorial, being unveiled later, features two square pools sided by waterfalls "set within the footprints of the original twin towers". The official 9/11 Memorial website explains the design. Meanwhile, we offer 	 	an idea here of how the whole World Trade Center site will look when finished.


 


 

1225:


Bells ring out at St Paul's Cathedral in London to signify the end of the Remembering With Hope service. 


 

1225:

Shirley Turner from Birmingham



writes: I'd had a brain tumour removed and was watching television when the attacks happened. I was thinking about all the people, they must have been so scared. In those minutes, I realised how lucky I was. 


 

1226:

CNN's Laurie Segall



tweets: Very strange leaving NYC for airport on this day. Streets are quiet but memories of 9/11 are all around. Signs, FDNY tshirts, people's faces 


 

1231:


The BBC's Ian Sherwood writes: "The sun is starting to poke through the skyscrapers of lower Manhattan, it is a beautiful morning here in New York as the sun reflects from the glass panels of the windows of every building overlooking Ground Zero. The city is silent when you are raised above it apart from the sound of the police helicopters that are ever present this morning."  


 

1232:


The Manhattan skyline early on Sunday, 10 years after its shape was altered forever.    


 

1233:

William Holt from Augusta, Georgia, US



writes: My flag will fly today and I will watch those awful scenes on television as I do each year on this occasion. I remember that day when, at work in the conference room, I looked in disbelief at the television screen. It was a heart wrenching experience. Then the anger took over. This range of emotions, I am sure, will remain forever. 


 

1233:

ABC News correspondent Jake Tapper



tweets a photo of the WTC Memorial 


 

0743:


Our live coverage now switches to the US, where a bright day has dawned in New York and a cloudy morning has broken in Washington DC. We will bring you news from all the commemoration events in both cities over the coming hours. 


 

0749:


From now on, as the day progresses, the times listed next to our entries will reflect the time on the East Coast of the US. Many of today's ceremonies are scheduled to take place at exactly the same moment, 10 years on, as the events they are honouring, and we will reflect that in our coverage. 


 

0756:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



says: "Members of the 800th Military Police have congregated at the corner of Broadway and Chambers Street, before making their way to the ceremony. Lt Moshe Grusscott says: 'Ten years later, it didn't destroy us, it made us more patriotic.'" 


 


BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones



tweets a link to a BBC video: Steve Evans, saved on 9/11 by deciding to have a coffee before heading up to Windows on the World, recalls that day. 


 

0802:


As the clock ticks to 08:00 in New York and Washington, we are about to enter the busiest time of the day. President Barack Obama, who left Washington at first light at about 06:30, is now reported to have arrived in New York. 


 

0807:


The ceremonies in New York will focus on the opening of the 9/11 memorial at Ground Zero, the former World Trade Center site. Two moments of silence will be observed there, at 08:46 and 09:03 - exactly 10 years on from when the two hijacked planes hit the twin towers. 


 

0810:


President Obama and former President George W Bush are both attending the memorial ceremony at Ground Zero. This will be the first time the two men stand together at the site, as the New York Times notes. 


 

0819:


The World Trade Center Memorial being opened today will open at first to family members of those killed in the attacks. They twin voids, set in the footprints of the two towers, each hold a pool of water filled by waterfalls.  


 


David Botti
BBC News



tweets: In midtown Manhattan the city is still waking up....none of the sense of ceremony happening downtown. 


 

0823:


Away from New York, the ceremony at the Pentagon takes place at the memorial there, which was opened three years ago, on the seventh anniversary of the attacks. Vice-President Joe Biden will be there in the morning, with President Obama due later in the day. 


 

0824:

Mari Ikeda



writes on the BBC News Facebook wall: "I never forget the news show I watched on TV at that night in Tokyo, that was just live video but no audio. I couldn't understand what was going on and I could hardly believe my eyes. Now I can't believe that 10 years has already passed since then. The sadness never goes away." 


 

0831:


   The crowds at Ground Zero are now in place, with just moments to go before the memorial ceremony begins. Here, a girls and her brother are waiting for events to begin. 


 

0835:


In the US the usual Sunday morning TV programming has been replaced across the board by coverage of the anniversary. Each of the networks and the cable news channels are running special coverage of the ceremonies - which are getting under way now with marching bagpipers at the New York site. 


 

0837:


The bagpipers, accompanied by drummers, are carrying the flag from the World Trade Center up to the stage in the middle of the memorial. 


 


NBCWashington



tweets a video of the American flag unfurled this morning at another memorial site, at the Pentagon. 


 

0840:


With the flag now unfurled, the Brooklyn Youth Chorus sings the US national anthem. 


 

0843:

The New York Times



has an unrivalled position as the newspaper of record within the city, if not the US as a whole. Today it begins its account of today's events with a simple, stark observation: "Just as Sept. 11 was unthinkable, Sunday was inevitable: the 10th anniversary of a day that stands alone. In history. In memory." 


 

0846:


A moment of silence, the first of two in New York, as the city remembers the impact of the first plane into the World Trade Center. 


 

0848:


By now, 10 years ago, American Airlines flight 11 had collided with the North Tower of the World Trade Center between floors 93 and 99. 


 

0850:


Looking back now, it is hard to comprehend that many thought the first strike was a terrible accident. Few had seen the plane hit, and many reports suggested that a small aircraft had hit the tower. 


 

0852:


Family members of those who died are now reading of the names of the dead - something that has become a tradition over the 10 years since the 2001 attack. 


 

0853:


At the memorial ceremony there are no speeches, only readings. Introducing the reading of the names, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg says: "Since then we've lived in sunshine and in shadow". 


 

0856:


Before the memorial ceremony began President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama walked with former President George W Bush and Mrs Bush at the Ground Zero memorial. Mr Obama later spoke from behind bullet-proof glass.    


 

0859:


The pace of events 10 years ago is becoming clear as we follow them in retrospect. We're already just moments away from another moment of silence, marking the time the second plane hit the World Trade Center. 


 

0900:


As the names of those who died 10 years ago are read aloud at the memorial service, the New York Times has created a collage of memories created by thousands of New Yorkers, and others around the world, recalling where they were when the planes hit. 


 

0903:

Jay Jonas
Fire Department of New York



tells the BBC's Katty Kay there will be up to 6,000 firefighters at a ceremony to mark those who died while trying to rescue people from the towers. Mr Jonas was one of just 20 people who survived as the towers fell. 


 

0903:


A second moment of silence to mark the moment the second plane hit. 


 

0905:


The second moment of silence marks when United Airlines Flight 175 collided with the South Tower of the World Trade Center. The plane, which had taken off from Boston's Logan Airport bound for Los Angeles, hit the tower at the 78th floor. 


 

0908:


After a reading by former President George W Bush, it's the turn of Peter Negron, the son of Pete Negron, who worked on the 88th floor: "I wish my Dad had been there to teach me how to drive, to ask a girl out on a date and see me graduate from high school. I miss you so much." 


 


Journalism Professor Jeff Jarvis



is remembering each moment of 9/11 on his Twitter feed: Black smoke and orange flames came now from both towers. I recall the gashes in each. #911 


 

0916:


The guards ceremonially open the Memorial Plaza and the families of those killed are now able to enter. Some are leaning on the memorial, which is inscribed with the names of all those who died. One woman leans over and gently touches the metal. And again. And again. 


 

0919:


By this time in 2001, it was clear that the events unfolding in New York were no accident. Many, many people had seen the impact of flight 175. Millions were watching the burning North Tower when the second plane flew in low and smashed into its twin. 


 

0922:


At the moment the second plane hit, President George W Bush was sitting in a classroom in Florida on a routine school visit. He knew that a plane had hit the North Tower, but did not know it was a commercial jet before sitting down in class. The job of telling him about the second impact fell to his chief of staff, Andy Card. He whispered in the president's ear the now-famous words: "A second plane hit the second tower. America is under attack." 


 


Fiona in New York



writes: Just being in NY today is hugely emotional - even sat in my hotel room watching the coverage online, you feel the enormity of it, more so when you step out into the street to find a place normally full of noise and activity, so quiet and still.   


 

0929:


Events in 2001 were moving apace. By 0929 it was clear that another flight United Airlines 93, was under the control of hijackers - and officials were convinced it was heading to the White House. 


 


CNN correspondent John King



tweets his 9/11 recollections: He was ordered out of the White House as United 93 headed towards Washington #911whereiwas walking down WH driveway when Secret Service ordered evacuation, worried another plane coming. "RUN" order was stunning. #cnn 


 

0933:


Here is an extraordinary archive of TV broadcasts from September 11th, 2001, put together by The Internet Archive. 


 

0934:


Behind the scenes of the memorial service, as families move into the Memorial Plaza to find the names of their loved ones engraved in bronze on the panels of the memorial. Security remains extremely tight.    


 

0936:


In the US capital, a flag has been unfurled down the side of the Pentagon, as the focus switches to the site of the third impact. 


 

0937:


As the next memorial service begins at the Pentagon, here is the story of one US soldier who was in the Pentagon when the third plane crashed into the building. 


 

0938:


American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon at 09:37, almost one hour after the first plane hit the World Trade Center. 


 


Toby Harnden
Daily Telegraph



tweets from the Pentagon: Six personnel in combats w binos silhouetted on Pentagon roof above #911 point of impact 


 


Anthony De Rosa
Social Media Editor, Reuters



has tweeted a photo by NBC News of the sun rising behind the 9/11 memorial. Families are still reading the names of their lost loved ones at Ground Zero. 


 


Major Bedhead from Easthampton, Massachusetts,



tweets: Oh god, James Taylor. Close Your Eyes. I'm going to go do the ugly cry thing now. I'd held it together til this.... 


 

0947:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



A couple of hundred people, mostly tourists, observed the first moment of silence in Times Square, taking their cue from one of the big screens beaming pictures from the ceremony. But the traffic on Seventh Avenue meant it was anything but quiet. 


 

0948:

Gavin Lee
BBC News New York



"Watching on as two families etch the names of their loved ones onto paper from the bronze personal tributes at the World Trade Centre's 'Remembering Absence' memorial." 


 

0952:


The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm Mike Mullen, speaking at the Pentagon, notes that two million men and women have deployed into combat since 9/11, and describes the site as "hallowed ground". 


 

0954:


Now Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta is addressing those gathered at the Pentagon: "Although 10 years have passed... the emotions are still raw." 


 

0955:


Panetta: 9/11 was "a defining moment for all Americans". 


 

0955:


Panetta: "Al-Qaeda tried to weaken us, but instead it made us stronger." 


 

0958:


Panetta: "We will never forget the human cost of this generation." More than 6,000 servicemen and women have lost their lives, and thousands of veterans carry "seen and unseen" wounds. "We grieve for those losses." 


 

1002:


Another moment to reflect upon: 10 years ago, at 0959, the South Tower collapsed. It was hit second, but it fell first. If New York and the world were already in shock, the toppling of the tower stunned and scared those looking on. 


 

1003:


And another - the crashing of the fourth plane, United 93. 


 

1003:


The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, at 10.03 with 40 passengers and crew aboard. It is believed the hijackers were headed for the Capitol, Washington DC, and the plane crashed during a struggle to wrest the plane away from the hijackers. 


 

1006:


At the Pentagon, Vice-President Joe Biden is addressing those gathered. He describes the attack as "an unconscionable tragedy", but praises the first responders who sprang into action from all around the Washington area. 


 

1010:


Mr Biden is praising those died and those who serve today, speaking with passion and determination to a mainly military audience.  


 

1011:


Biden: "Those in this building that day knew that this was a declaration of war by stateless actors bent on changing our way of life, who believed these horrible acts of terror could buckle our knees, could bend our will, could break us. But instead, that same American instinct that sent you all into the breach between the 4th and 5th corridors, galvanised a new generation of patriots - the 9/11 generation." 


 

1015:


Joe Biden: "Never before in our history has America asked so much, over such a sustained period, of an all-volunteer fighting force. So I say without doubt or exaggeration that the 9/11 generation ranks among the greatest our nation has ever produced." 


 

1016:


Jabbing his finger in the air, and departing from his pre-prepared text, Mr Biden tells the Pentagon crowds that the 9/11 generation "was born here on 9/11". 


 

1018:


Here is a striking shot of the memorial service as the Brooklyn Youth Choir sings the US national anthem to families who lost loved ones in the World Trade Center.    


 


Tom Wayne in New Jersey



emails: 9/11 is my birthday, and it will forever be remembered for this act of violence. Never forget, I know I never will. 


 

1023:


At each site the memorial is different. With the Pentagon memorial open since 2008, families of those who died there were able to visit the site before the ceremony began this morning.     


 

1028:


From New York, where it all began, we have swivelled south to Washington, and west to Shanksville. By 1028 on 11 September 2001, with the streets of lower Manhattan already cloaked in dust, the North Tower was ready to fall. 


 

1028:


A bell is rung in New York to mark the moment the North Tower collapsed, 102 minutes after being struck. 


 

1034:


The ceremony in the UK under way at the US embassy on Grosvenor Square, London, is a reminder that the 9/11 attacks touched many nations of the world. A total of 67 Britons died that day. 


 

1036:


The US ambassador to the UK, Louis Susman, echoes the words of all of those who have marked today's anniversary. "We will never, never forget," he tells an audience including the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, Prime Minister David Cameron and the current Mayor of London Boris Johnson. 


 


Hayden Creque in Minnesota



tweets: I was in a class. I remember being numb, not knowing what to do. I was filled with foreboding because America would change. #OnSept11 


 


Laura Trevelyan
BBC News, New York



tweets from New York: #9/11 The ritual of reading the names of America's dead is a powerful form of remembrance - relatives weep here at Ground Zero.  


 

1045:


The flurry of memories is slowing down now. To recap: four hijacked planes, three targets hit, two towers down, one attack foiled. 


 

1049:


Although the key moments have now passed, it's worth remembering that for those involved on the day - especially in New York - the nightmare that unfolded that morning continued long into the day. Much of lower Manhattan, for example, was immediately cloaked in the fine dust of the collapsed towers, as this photograph shows.    


 


ABC News



A poignant statistic tweeted by ABC News on the people who died on 9/11: of the 2,977 who died, 76% were male and 24% were female. 48% had children under the age of 18.  


 

1103:


You might remember the name Cantor Fitzgerald from 2001. The brokerage firm occupied floor 105 of One World Trade Center and lost 658 people when the tower fell. CEO Howard Lutnick was late for work that day, taking his young child to school. His story, chronicled by the New York Times is a fascinating look into how he rebuilt the firm and how he came to terms with such a huge loss. 


 


US flag flying in London



Many are showing solidarity with the US on this anniversary. Petuna and Hannah Heyes put this flag up in their garden in Kensal Rise, London. Hannah's mother, Petuna, was working in America at the time of 9/11.    


 

1113:


The path towards final design for the new tower and a memorial on the World Trade Center site was slow and at times difficult. The Huffington Post has created this interesting timeline showing the slow path to rehabilitation as Ground Zero was gradually transformed into the current Memorial Plaza and One World Trade Center. 


 

1115:

Adam Brookes
BBC News, Washington



has been at the Pentagon memorial service: "Washington is a city that lives the consequences of 9/11 every day. This is where the military operations are conceived, where the orders are given. This is where the wounded come: you see them at the metro stops, young men missing hands or eyes, perhaps with a young wife and a toddler. Neighbours regularly disappear to Iraq and Afghanistan. Parents on the school run work in counter-terrorism. Today, Washington paused to remember, but only momentarily. Tomorrow, the city will return to the hurly burly of political life." 


 

1123:


For those not watching the live feed from New York in the video panel, it's worth noting that reading out of names is still going on. Family members began reading the names some two-and-a-half hours ago. 


 

1125:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



"On the subway at 42nd Street, retired firefighter Mike Giertuga, 66, is emotional as he describes the special journey that brought him from Chicago to New York. He left his home city on Tuesday on a Harley Davidson with 2,000 other bikers. They stopped at Shanksville, Pennsylvania, then the Pentagon in Virginia and finally at Ground Zero on Saturday. 'Today I woke up crying,' he says." 


 

1130:


US President Obama has now arrived in Pittsburgh, the White House has said, and is heading to Shanksville, where he will lay a wreath at the newly openend memorial to flight United 93. 


 

1133:


Mr Obama was "impressed" by the World Trade Center memorial, the White House said, and found the reading of the names "particularly moving". 


 



How do you arrange 2,983 names on a memorial? John Matson of the Scientific American has the answer: My new story about how a custom algorithm helped arrange the names on the 9/11 memorial http://bit.ly/p01D5G 


 

1142:


Rudolph Giuliani, the mayor of New York at the time of the 9/11 attacks, says the sight of a man he saw jumping out of the 101st floor "is always in my thoughts" 


 

1151:

David Botti
BBC News



sends an image from Bryant Park, Manhattan, of empty chairs to signify those killed in the city.    


 

1157:


The BBC, like other news organisations, has published a series of pieces aiming to explain and remember the events of 11 September 2001. Among them are the stories of seven survivors, who recall how that day changed their lives forever. 


 

1200:

Ian Sherwood
BBC News



"A young student, Hugh Stirling, just commented that the atmosphere feels less tense here at Ground Zero since President Obama left. I agree. Clouds now shroud New York City and the early morning sunshine that we experienced early has gone. The weather is a reflection of the mood here as the names of those who died 10 years ago continue to be read out by their relatives, their voices cracking with emotion." 


 

1200:


In Shanksville, Pennsylvania, President Barack Obama is now on the ground, moving along the line of onlookers, shaking hands and greeting the crowds. 


 


Walt Mossberg
Wall Street Journal



is one of many recalling their close encounters and narrow escapes on 9/11: On 9/11/2001, I left the WTC just 30 minutes before the 1st plane hit. I thank God for my luck, and mourn for those who had none. 


 

1216:


Earlier we highlighted an interview with Andy Card, President Bush's chief of staff 10 years ago. Two Reuters reporters who were travelling with Mr Bush that day and were with him at school when the second plane hit the World Trade Center remember their experience of those moments. 


 

1219:


An update from Shanksville: President Obama is still mingling with the crowds. He seems relaxed, and there are smiles. 


 

1227:


Earlier, though, during the official ceremony, some in Shanksville were unable contain their emotions.    


 

1229:


The president and first lady have laid the wreath at Shanksville in front of the new marble memorial to those who died on Flight 93. 


 

1230:


The Wall of Names, phase one of a memorial to those who died on United Airlnies Flight 93, was dedicated yesterday. Former presidents George W Bush and Bill Clinton attended the ceremony, but its official opening was delayed until President Obama's visit today. 


 

1235:


USA Today has reported that the memorial at Shanksville will cost $72m in total with $24m in federal funds, $18m in Pennsylvania state funds and the remaining amount from private donations. 


 


Kerry in Wareham, UK



emails: This never gets any easier does it? Those poor people will forever be in our hearts - we must see that all faiths were affected. 


 

1242:


From Shanksville: President Obama and Michelle Obama look on as military personnel lay a wreath in remembrance of the passengers of United Flight 93, which crashed at Shanksville, Pennsylvania.    


 

1247:


In a statement, former President Bill Clinton said: "We should offer special thanks to those who lost their loved ones, and responded by helping others in need. In so doing, they are winning the ultimate battle against terrorism - the triumph of love over hate." 


 

1253:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



writes: "In front of Brooklyn Borough Hall, Monica Garcia Calbio, 57, recalls what it was like here 10 years ago, when the sky darkened and filled with paper. 'It was surreal and it was scary,' she says. 'Everyone was walking across the bridge [to Brooklyn from Manhattan] and lots of people were crying in the street because of what they'd seen.'" 


 

1256:


Reuters has gathered some of the most poignant quotes of the day. 


 


David Holden in Hull, UK



emails: I remember this morning 10 years ago. I had just woken up and got online to talk to my now wife here in England. I was at home in North Dakota. She asked if I'd seen the news and to put the TV on. I did just in time to see the second plane crash into the tower. I remember checking the channel as I was not sure if I was watching a movie or the news. I think this event 10 years ago prompted me to waste no time in my life because in October 2001 I came to England and married this woman. I guess it made me realise how precious and short our lives can be. 


 

1307:


At Ground Zero, the reading of the victims' names is unfinished - four hours after it began. Here, a boy stencils his father's name from the 9/11 memorial:    


 


TelegramSam



wrote a comment on the BBC story: "I was barely a month into my last year of high school and this [9/11] overshadowed the rest of the year. Many of my classmates joined the military immediately after graduation."  


 

1335:


Former Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is on CNN. He recollects how he was in the Pentagon when it was hit by a plane, says he spoke to a lieutenant-colonel outside who saw the plane hit the Department of Defense. 


 



#OnSept11 has been trending on Twitter. VijayViola tweets: #onSept11 2001, I was in 7th grade in California. My strongest memory is of my normally bubbly English teacher openly weeping. 


 

1348:


Rumsfeld is asked on CNN whether invading Iraq was worth it, or a "massive distraction". He insists that the "world is better off" without Saddam Hussein and that the "situation today is better than it was then".  


 

1353:


Talking of his regrets, Rumsfeld tells CNN: "For whatever reason, Americans are reluctant to talk about radical Islam." He says the Bush administration "didn't do a good job" because it was "too sensitive" and "tongue-tied" in defining the enemy, but that "the Obama administration is much worse". 


 

1357:


Tearful friends and family of 9/11 victims walk away after laying wreaths at a memorial near the US Embassy in London:    


 

1404:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



writes: "Michael Vitiello, 20, is hanging a US flag outside his father's Italian restaurant on Court Street, Brooklyn. 'It helps people remember and it shows how much Queen Restaurant loves America,' he says. Many customers died that day and 10 years on, he says, the pain is felt as keenly as ever."  


 

1415:


CNN reports on the photographer who took a strikingly incongruous 9/11 photo of young people in Brooklyn appearing to relax while New York burns in the background. It was only published five years after 9/11 and sparked much debate. Here's the report and here's the image. Judge for yourself. 


 

1427:


In a reminder that the US remains very much on guard against attack, AP reports that a man was stopped after a suspicious device was found in his carry-on bag at Kansas City airport, Missouri. A Southwest Airlines spokesman said security had asked to examine the man's bag and he refused. A bomb squad has been called. No flights affected. 


 

1436:


Wall Street Journal has just published a cool graphic illustrating how Lower Manhattan has shifted from a financial district into more of a residential area since 9/11. 


 

1444:


Firefighters attend a memorial service at the Firemen's Monument, New York City:    


 

1454:


"I have your smile, your eyes, and your laugh, but I just don't have you." AP has collated some of the tributes from relatives of the dead at Ground Zero. 


 

1508:


An update on that suspicious package in a man's carry-on luggage at Missouri's Kansas City airport. One of three terminals was shut. An FBI spokeswoman tells AP no explosives were found, but does not say what the package contained. She adds it was "disrupted [by the bomb squad] in such a way to preserve" evidence - whatever that means. 


 

1509:


Air Force One has landed at Andrews Air Force Base, from where President Obama will continue on to the Pentagon memorial for a wreath-laying ceremony. 


 

1512:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



writes: "About 500 volunteers have gathered at Nathan Straus School in the Lower East Side, determined that something positive come out of the tragedy. Victoria Chery, who was born a few months after 9/11, is making cards for US military personnel overseas..."     


 

1517:


NYPD - concerned about unconfirmed threats of an al-Qaeda car bomb attack - say they've found one of two vans stolen this month from a World Trade Center contractor. The van was recovered late on Saturday in the borough of Queens. The other vehicle remains missing.  


 


Chris Austin in Bournemouth



emails: As an ex-soldier, I saw action both in Ireland and the Falklands. I have seen many bad things. However, I'm not ashamed to admit that while watching people reading out names of relatives, I had trouble holding back tears. 


 

1524:


President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama have just arrived at the Pentagon 9/11 memorial. The BBC has some aerial shots of the Pentagon before and after the 9/11 attack. 


 

1527:


Obama is also joined by Defence Secretary Leon Panetta on this, one of the last major official ceremonies of the anniversary. They walk past a guard of honour and are cheered by onlookers. 


 

1528:


President Obama lays a wreath of white flowers and bows his head in sombre silence, as the band strikes up Amazing Grace. 


 


Caroline Scott in London



emails: I work as cabin crew. In a position such as my own, I feel so much hurt and empathy for the friends and family who lost their loved ones in this tragedy. I've been to Ground Zero twice, without doubt one of the most humbling and precious places in our world. 


 

1533:


The Pentagon's is an outdoor memorial to the 184 people killed in the Department of Defense and on American Airlines Flight 77 as it crashed into the building. It consists of benches arranged according to each victim's age, and engraved with his or her name. 


 

1535:


The president and first lady are greeting onlookers at the Pentagon. There are plenty of smiles in the crowd and cameras clicking. Mr Obama is posing for photos with some of the people. 


 


Alex Thornhill in York



emails: I was only eight years old when this tragedy happened. I finished school and instead of watching children's television, I sat, transfixed as the towers were burning right in front of me on TV. I was lucky enough to visit the WTC site in April 2011, and what a positive and amazing place it is! 


 

1550:

Tom Geoghegan
BBC News, New York



writes: "A very personal response to 9/11 is on display at the New Museum near SoHo. Artist Elena Del Rivero returned to her flat five months after the attacks to find it filled with office papers that had blown in from the World Trade Center. She spent years cleaning every piece and turning it all into an exhibit (see photo)."     


 

1556:


President and First Lady Obama are still shaking hands and posing for pictures with onlookers - including servicemen, older people and children - at the Pentagon.  


 

1601:


President and First Lady Obama leave the Pentagon and are whisked away in a sleek motorcade. The military band are playing Abide With Me. 


 

1607:


Pic of President Obama after laying a wreath next to the Pentagon Memorial:    


 

1628:

The BBC's Regan Morris in Los Angeles



writes: "In Anaheim, California, the anniversary was marked at a baseball match between the New York Yankees and Anaheim Angels. In a pre-game ceremony, victims' names were shown on the scoreboard, as a giant US flag was unfurled in the outfield. Some fans cried." 


 

1634:


The crowds have dispersed from around New York's 9/11 memorial. As the tumult of the city resumes, following its cathartic moment of reflection, the odd passerby stops occasionally to contemplate the rushing waters of Ground Zero's remarkable monument to the slain. That brings our live coverage of the day America marked 9/11 to an end. Thanks for joining us. 
























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





