Buzz60 | Buzz60











Buzzing

Claiming Size Matters, NYC Mayor Bloomberg Bans Big Sodas 


	Forget about super-sizing sugary drinks in New York City starting in Spring of 2013. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, frustrated he couldn't get a "soda tax" passed, is ordering restaurants and delis to stop selling sodas, sugared teas and other sweet high-calory beverages in containers bigger than 16 ounces.  "We're simply forcing you to understand" the risk of obesity, said the mayor.



Owner Sends "Gay" Dog to be Euthanized

    A man from Tennessee brought his dog into a high-kill shelter because he believed his pet to be gay and didn't want a gay animal. The pet owner came to this conclusion after his male pit bull-bull dog mix mounted another male dog. A Facebook campaign to save the animal resulted in him being rescued and adopted. Femi Redwood has the story.  
  


Ravens Cheerleader Petitions NFL to Go to Super Bowl

    Courtney Lenz is a five-year veteran of the Baltimore Ravens Cheerleading squad. She's been left out of the girls being sent to cheer at the Super Bowl because she says she's being punished for announcing her retirement after the season, and she's asking for the internet's help. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Naked Public Intoxication Suspect Serenades Cops

    Police say a naked New Orleans man being arrested for lewdness broke out into song while touching himself. Officers say they didn't recognize the tune Osmar Hernandez, 33, was singing but they were eventually able to get him to dress himself. He now faces public intoxication and obscenity charges. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Twitter's Vine App Flooded with Porn 

    Twitter's new video app Vine is being flooded with porn. But, given the social network's emphasis on free speech, it doesn't plan on removing the videos. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Theater Experiments with Tweet Seats

    Theaters across the country are experimenting with designated "tweet seats," where theatergoers are able to live-tweet the performance. The most recent example is at the Providence Performing Arts Center in Rhode Island, where certain audience members are encouraged to embrace their technology obsession. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Car Hidden in Sea Foam Almost Crushes Cop

    A car hidden in sea foam on the Sunshine Coast in Queensland, Australia emerges and almost crushes a police officer in video that was captured at the scene. The cop dodges out of the way just in time.  Patrick Jones has the video and an explanation of how the whole area ended up looking like it was covered in dish soap. 
  


Weirdest Super Bowl Prop Bets

    Every year, the Super Bowl gets weirder and weirder prop bets. With the Harbaugh family and Ray Lewis at the center of this year's game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Baltimore Ravens, it's nothing different. Patrick Jones searched the Internet for some of the weirder ones, including the ever popular national anthem length which will be sung by Alicia Keys. 
  


Online Resumes Appear on eBay, Amazon

    It's time to get creative with your resumes! Gillian Pensavalle shows you two people who thought outside the box: One posted on eBay and one that is an exact replica of Amazon.com.
  


Django Unchained Action Figures Kicked off eBay

    The controversial Django Unchained action figures are not just unchained, they're also unwanted. The auction website, eBay, removed the listings from it's website because it violates eBay's policy. Femi Redwood has more.
  


Body's Natural Odor May Be the Secret to Finding A Mate

    The way we really smell may play a big role in dating…even more than our looks! And if that's true, then why not bottle it. Femi Redwood has more.
  


Baby Flung From Car During Crash

    A one-year-old girl is seen being flung from a car and almost run over by a truck in dash-cam video captured in Russia. According to published reports, the child was not wearing a seat belt and, instead, was placed by her father on a shelf in the back window. After suffering a concussion and bruises, the little girl is expected to recover. Femi Redwood has the story. 
  


Boy Fakes Kidnapping So Parents Miss Teacher Conference

    An 11-year-old boy from Spain faked his own kidnapping so that his parents would miss out on a meeting with his teachers. Police spent more than two hours searching for the boy before his father discovered him hiding in an apartment the family owned. Jen Markham has the story. 
  


Microsoft Uses 90s Nostalgia in Ad

    The 1990s are back in full effect in Microsoft's new Internet Explorer commercial. From The Oregon Trail to Tamagotchi's to JNCO jeans, get ready to take a trip down memory lane. Gillian Pensavalle is definitely feeling nostalgic.
  


Superbowl Commercial Season Starts Pre-Game

    The weeks before the Super Bowl on the internet have become as important to ad buyers as the TV ads themselves, with many companies releasing teasers, social media campaigns, and contests online in the days and weeks leading up to the big game.  Jen Markham has the story.

  


Best Buy Coupon Fail Leads to Shopping Frenzy

    Best Buy emailed out a coupon that - thanks to a lack of restrictions - caused a shopping frenzy that saved their customers thousands and cost the store a lot more. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


Icy Sidewalk Causes Slips and Spills

    A video taken on an icy street in Norfolk, in the United Kingdom shows people slipping and falling along a treacherous patch. The video is going viral online and its creator says since the video has gone up the city has come by and fixed the situation so that no one else will get hurt. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Man Sues After State Rejects Gay Pride Vanity Plates

    A Georgia man is suing the state after he claims the Drivers Services Department rejected his vanity plate requests three times. James Cyrus Gilbert says his rights to free speech were restricted when his application for plates 4GAYLIB, GAYPWR and GAYGUY were rejected. Jen Markham has the story and what other plates did and didn't make the cut. 
  


Smartphone Skin Cancer Apps Can Make Fatal Mistakes 

    Smartphone apps are being used to diagnose skin cancer but, as John Basedow reports, they're no doctor. A new study found 30-percent or more potentially lethal melanomas were not detected by the smartphone apps. False readings can result in life-threatening delays in getting proper treatment.
  


Fewer Chicken Wings Available for Super Bowl

    The National Chicken Council says that because of less chickens being raised due to higher feed costs, there will be fewer chicken wings available for Super Bowl XLVII and they will be more expensive. As long as you can still get them, right? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Transit Trivia Tests New Yorkers' Subway Knowledge

    The New York Transit Museum held its first "Transit Trivia" night where 200 devoted buffs answered questions about what's below ground, like "What's the highest subway station, not just in New York, but the world?" Kristina Behr has the details, but some of the answers are on our facebook page. 
  


Study: Condoms Don't Make Sex Less Enjoyable

    A study concluded that men don't find sex with a condom to be worse than sex without one. Men aged 18-59 both gave the both versions of sex the same high rating in the Indiana University School of Public Health questionnaire. Seems pretty obvious, right? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Tail for Humans Claims to Wag When Excited

    Introducing Tailly! The wearable tail for humans that is claimed to wag based on your heart rate. Gillian Pensavalle isn't sure how that works because you wear it around your waist. But she has a theory.
  


Smart Fridge Helps with Cooking, Food Shopping

    Samsung's T9000 refrigerator does a lot more than just keep your food cool. The $4,000 fridge comes with recipe apps like Epicurious and can even sync to your smartphone for shopping lists and for reminders of the expiration dates of your milk and cheese. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Set. 11 Museum Gets Go-Ahead 


	The special date of Sept 11 has transforming abilities.  After months of bickering over a proposed national 911 museum at ground zero, the politicians finally agreed on howto get it done - on Sept. 11; just in time for this year's remembrance anniversary.  Tim Minton reports.

	 



Plane Barely Misses People on Runway

    A viral video coming out of France shows people riding around on a runway as an airplane barely misses them. It leaves a lot of questions about whether it was staged or why else people would moped on a runway. But everyone was ok. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Hooters Revamps Restaurants For Family Friendliness

    Hooters, originally known for hot wings and hotter waitresses, is looking to make its restaurants more family friendly. In honor of the chain's 30th anniversary, Hooters unveiled a new restaurant design geared to modernize the restaurants and make them more comfortable for families. Rena Karefa-Johnson rules on whether this transformation is disgusting or delicious. 
  


They Sell Their Faces as Advertising Space

    Buyherface.com and Buyhisface.com are setup to help two young New Yorkers looking to help themselves out in what they describe as a tough economy. They are selling space on their faces for advertisers to paint the messages, and then go to public places in New York so people will see them. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


NASA Sends Mona Lisa Into Space

    NASA successfully sent Leonardo Da Vinci's Mona Lisa into space. Scientists used a laser to beam the masterpiece onto a space craft orbiting the moon, making it the first time there's been one-way laser communication at a planetary distance. Gillian Pensavalle has the story and what this might mean for future communication in space.  
  


 Apple Is Hiring A Writer for Siri

    Apple's Siri can do more than find directions. She could help you land a new job. Femi Redwood has more. 
  


Queen Elizabeth Receives Wacky Gifts for Jubilee

    Queen Elizabeth received some wacky gifts in honor of her 60th year on the throne. Buckingham Palace just released the gift list from the 2012 Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebration, and some of the items, from Antartica to a llama, are really quite odd. Femi Redwood has the story.
  


"Tron" Basketball Court is a Game Changer

    A futuristic floor can transform a gymnasium floor into any sport's court with lines and markers able to change with the touch of a button.  Jen Markham explains why the glass surface looks like something out of the movie Tron.
  


Subway's 5-Dollar Footlong Only 11 Inches?

    Australian Matt Corby posted a photo which measured his Subway $5 footlong at 11 inches onto the sandwich chain's Facebook page. It's prompted others to do the same, all demanding a response to the sandwich measuring in short. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


eBay Listing Goes Viral Thanks to Naked Seller

    A British woman's used ASOS dress goes for nearly $250,000 on eBay after she "accidentally" posts a photo of the dress with her naked body visible in the image.  Jen Markham explains why the sale has prompted some on Twitter to claim the nudity was no accident.
  


Vogue Superstorm Sandy Spread Causes Controversy

    Vogue Magazine released an editorial in the February issue aiming to celebrate Superstorm Sandy's first responders, shot by famed photographer Annie Leibovitz. While some love the photos, others say it's in poor taste. Kristina Behr has the details
  


Te'oing Trend Pops Up Quickly 

    The news about Manti Te'o's fake girlfriend is very odd and shocking, but that hasn't stopped the Internet from having a little fun at his expense. Te'oing in the new social media trend of posting pictures of yourself with your arm around or pretending to kiss someone who isn't there. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Rihanna's Relationship Timeline

    Rihanna was recently spotted canoodling with her ex, LA Dodger Matt Kemp, and not Chris Brown. Rena Karefa-Johnson has the story and does a rundown retrospective of RiRi and Breezy's controversial relationship.
  


White House Ups Minimum Petition Signatures Required for a Response

    The White House has increased the minimum number of signatures needed on "We The People" petitions to elicit an official response. As Patrick Jones reports, petitions will now require a minimum of 100,000 signees, up from 25,000. Their reasoning: the site's popularity was making it difficult to keep up with the responses. They hope the higher number will give them more time to spend on responding to those petitions that make the cut. 
  


Flu Fears Cause Youth Soccer High-Five Ban

    A New York City youth soccer league is asking players to stop high-fiving and fist-bumping during games to help curb the spread of influenza. Jen Markham has the story of the league's healthier celebration alternative during flu season. 
  


Cat Picks Stocks Better Than Experts

    A cat named Orlando picked stocks that performed better than professional wealth managers and British students in a year-long challenge put together by The Observer. Orlando ended up making 542-pounds in profit, compared to the experts 176-pound profit. Jen Markham has the story.
  


World's First Smartphone Breathalyzer to Debut at SXSW

    Breathometer, Inc. has created what it calls the World's First Smartphone Breathalyzer. The company plans to introduce the product at this year's South by Southwest festival. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


World of Warcraft Players Raise Over $2 Million for Hurricane Sandy Relief

    The World of Warcraft is a very generous gaming community. Over the last few years, Blizzard Entertainment has raised millions of dollars for charities such as the Make-A-Wish Foundation, St. Jude's Children's Hospital and Tsunami Relief. Their latest fundraising effort benefits the victims of Hurricane Sandy. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Prince William and Kate Hiring Housekeeper

    Prince William and his wife Kate are hiring a housekeeper for their Kensington Palace home. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have placed an ad seeking someone to do the laundry, walk the dog, clean and run errands for about 37 hours a week. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


FAA Warns of Exploding Airline Coffee Filters

    The FAA is telling flight attendants to beware of exploding coffee filters on fights. Jen Markham explains the danger and what it could mean for passengers.
  


McDonald's Replaces Toys With Books In Happy Meals

    McDonald's restaurants in the United Kingdom are giving kids books instead of toys in their Happy Meals. Some wonder if the trend will cross the pond and make its way to fast food chains in America. Femi Redwood has the story. 

  


NYPD Leads Post-Sandy Relief Efforts

    The New York City Police Department continues to lead the charge in providing food, blankets, water and other supplies to those impacted by Superstorm Sandy. Also working to help those in need are community groups like Occupy Sandy. Tim Minton has the story and ways you can get involved. 
  


Hasbro to Produce Gender-Neutral Easy Bake Oven Following Teen Petition

    Hasbro announces it will begin making a gender-neutral Easy Bake oven after 13-year-old  McKenna Pope of New Jersey successfully petitioned the toymaker to make a version of the oven she could give to her little brother for Christmas. Jen Markham tells us how one young girl was able to change the toy world.
  


Incredible List of Rules from World's Worst Landlord

    Laura Evelyn tweeted out a list of 31 rules a potential landlord gave her as she looked into renting a room. The strict rules range from when she could shower, how long she could take to cook, how guests would need to be approved, and that there would be no pork allowed. Could you do this? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Mark Cuban Fined $50,000 for Tweet Bashing NBA

    Mark Cuban, the outspoken owner of the Dallas Mavericks, has been fined by the NBA for trashing the officials... again. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea Spreading

    Scientists are studying ways to treat new strains of gonorrhea that have recently shown up in North America. The strains have been documented in Europe and Asia, but these are the first cases in the West. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Neil Patrick Harris Accused of Pushing Gay Agenda in Superbowl Ad

    Neil Patrick Harris is appears in a Superbowl commercial sporting the date of the big game in the traditional football eye black. A Christian group charges Harris is using the ad to promote a gay agenda. Beyonce is in a Superbowl commercial doing the same thing but she is not being accused of anything. Gillian Pensavalle gets to the bottom of it.
  


Monopoly Replacing One Token and You Get to Vote

    What's your favorite Monopoly token? You better vote fast if you want it to stay! Monopoly is replacing one of its classic tokens and you get to decide which one goes directly to jail and which one gets to roll the dice. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Union Wants NYC Subways To Slow Down

    After several high-profile cases of people getting hit by subway trains, a local union has come up with a plan they think is safe, but the MTA says it's illegal. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Congress Less Popular Than Root Canals, Cockroaches

    Public Policy Polling has discovered that Congress is very unpopular right now, getting less favorable ratings than Donald Trump, root canals, the band Nickelback and cockroaches. However, the legislative body did win out against some competition. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Robbery Suspect Calls Mom To Pick Him Up

    Police say 22-year-old Florida man admitted to calling his mom to pick him up after he allegedly attempted to rob a convenience store. He left empty-handed but is facing attempted robbery charges, and likely a very disappointed mother. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Court: Cops Can't Pull You Over for Giving Them Middle Finger

    Federal Court in New York has ruled in favor of a man suing two police officers for pulling him over after he flipped the cops the bird. Patrick Jones wonders even though you could, why would you want to flip off a police officer?
  


Stores Continue to Struggle in Neighborhoods Hit by Sandy

    Neighborhood stories and small businesses continue to struggle to surivive months after Super Storm Sandy struck. Our Kristina Behr reports on how mom-and-pop stores in the Rockaways and Coney Island are trying to hold on.
  


Fake Date Tricks Cell Phone Thief

    Nadav Nirenberg's plan to get back his cell phone was very clever. He realized the cab driver who stole his phone was using his cell phone and OK Cupid to message women, so Nadav set up a fake profile and messaged the driver. It worked. Nadav used a date to lure the cab driver to a location where he got his phone back! Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Law Forces Kids to Visit Elderly Parents

    Don't like visiting your parents? Well if you live in China you will now have to as part of a new law that was passed. The legislation states that children must visit their parents often. Could you imagine going to jail because you didn't visit your parents? Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


ESPN Airs Groundbreaking Same Sex Kiss

    ESPN cameras were rolling when Scott Norton won the World Series of Bowling and celebrated by kissing his husband on national television. This is a first in the world of sports and Gillian Pensavalle explains why ESPN lives up to their "Worldwide Leader in Sports" title.
  


Polaroid Launches FotoBar Printer

    In an effort to keep the Polaroid alive the company is launching the first Polaroid FotoBar, allowing customers to edit and print photos in their store. Gillian Pensavalle explains how it's different from printing from home.
  


Police: Texting Driver Hits Cop Car

    Police in Albany, Georgia say that Lauren Owens, 22, was texting when she crashed into the back of a cop car. She faces charges of failure to maintain a lane, texting while driving and not having her license. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Famous Twitter Last Words From Twilight To Edison

    Who knew that Thomas Edison would be immortalized on Twitter? As John Basedow reports, there's a new Twitter account called @LastWords1 that highlights the final lines of books and the last words uttered by famous people on their deathbed.
  


Mealworms to Become Protein of the Future

    Mealworms could replace chicken, beef and pork as the protein of the future, according to researchers in the Netherlands. They say the beetle larvae are much more sustainable than traditional animal protein, creating less greenhouse gas and requiring half the amount of energy. Jen Markham has the story.
  


Squeezing Breasts Can Stop Cancer 

    Squeezing breasts can stop the growth of cancer, according to a study out of University of California, Berkeley. Scientists say the pressure causes malignant cells to change course. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Most Popular Diets 2012: Google Zeitgeist List

    The new year is upon us and that means weight loss resolution time. John Basedow reports on the most popular diets of 2012 as compiled by Google Zeitgeist. From Dr. Oz's raspberry ketone diet recommendation to Beyonce's Master Cleanse revelation to Michael Phelp's 12-thousand-calorie-a-day training diet, Google was on fire with people searching for fat-loss solutions.
  


Southwest Announces New Fees

    Southwest Airlines announces new fees to try and keep regular fares down. They include doubling the overweight bag fee and charging customers who don't show up for flights. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Dissolving Condom Being Developed At University Of Washington

    Researchers at the University Of Washington are planning to change condoms as we know them. As John Basedow reports, they're developing a female hypercondom that scientists hope will stop unwanted pregnancies, block sexually transmitted diseases and release preventative drugs. Plus, it would dissolve inside the body.
  


Scientists Testing if Universe is Just Computer Simulation

    German scientists are testing a theory that The Matrix is real and the universe is really just a computer simulation. The scientists cite the laws of physics and constraints on energy particles as evidence. And, they believe we're not the first civilization advanced enough to run these complex universe models. But not everyone in the science community is thrilled with this assertion. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Synagogues Struggle to Recover after Sandy 

    Super Storm Sandy damaged at least 63 synagogues in its swath of destruction. Some houses of worship may not be able to reopen. And out Kristina Behr reports that FEMA may not offer any help either.


  


Drug Dealers Use 'Weed Cannon' to Get Marijuana into U.S.

    The United States Border Patrol was tipped off about cans in a plowed field near the Colorado River. Upon inspection, the USBP discovered the cans were sealed and filled with marijuana. The theory is that drug dealers from Mexico used air cannons, similar to those used at sporting events for t-shirts, to get the weed into the United States. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Singing Tops Happiest Careers List

    Singers are the most content with their careers, according to a study of the happiest professions by MyPlan.com. Also ranking high are municipal fire fighters and aircraft assemblers. But what jobs tend to make people miserable? Patrick Jones has the results. 
  


Student Flips Out When Professor Wakes Him in Class

    A student at Stony Brook University got a rude awakening when his professor woke him up in class. Even though the student was passed out and snoring in the front row, the professor - and the whole class - laughed it all off. Pretty embarrassing, Patrick Jones reports.
  


Romney's "47 Percent" Named Top Quote of 2012

    Fred Shapiro, a Yale law librarian, compiled his annual top quotes of the year for 2012. This group seems to be very political, not surprisingly since the presidential election of 2012. Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama are heavily featured, as well as Psy and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Patrick Jones knows why there is a lack of more pop culture references. 
  


New Handcuffs Can Shock, Inject Drugs

    Handcuffs haven't been updated in a while. This new design being worked on by Scottsdale Inventions, according to a recently filed patent, will potentially be able to administer shocks, as well as inject the restrained person with anything. They are not ready to be rolled out yet, but it's bound to be a controversial topic. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Obama Racks Up Expensive Dinner Tab

    President Barack Obama is being criticized for some pretty hefty costs for official state dinners. White House receipts show the First Family spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to entertain leaders of other countries in their home. Patrick Jones has a few alternate menu ideas.


  


Dogs Taught to Drive for Animal Adoption Campaign

    The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Auckland, New Zealand is teaching dogs to drive. It's part of a marketing campaign aimed at highlighting that rescue animals can be taught new tricks and are not second-rate animals. The videos coming out are adorable! Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Viral Video: Middle School Wrestler Intentionally Loses Match to Competitor with Cerebral Palsy 

    Middle School wrestler Justin Kievit has a big heart. His coach asked him to lose a match to a competitor from another school, Jared Stevens, who has Cerebral palsy. Kievit handled himself with the poise and respect of a person much older. See for yourself thanks to a video posted by Justin's father, Craig Kievit that has gone viral on Facebook. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Woman Sued Over Bad Yelp Review

    A Virginia women is shocked after she learned she was being sued for internet defamation with the asking amount sitting at $750,000. She wrote a poor review of a contractor she used, claiming the man stole from her and broke things. The contractor says the negative review isn't accurate and has hurt his business. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Viagra Used as To Gain Advantage, Says NFL Player 

    Viagra use is prevalent in the National Football League as a performance-enhancing drug, according to Chicago Bears wide receiver Brandon Marshall. He claims that players will do or take anything to get an advantage on the field. Patrick Jones has the story.  
  


GOP Loses With Any Immigration Deal 

    No matter where the Republicans come out on immigration reform, they lose. Get tough, and they lose ethnic voting blocks. Get soft, and they wipe out any leads they have for registered voters in red states. Jay DeDapper explains.
  


Study Ranks Cities with Best Looking Residents

    Miami, Florida has the most attractive people in the United States, according to readers of Travel + Leisure Magazine. The publication asked readers to rank 35 cities in order to find the best looking people in America. Patrick Jones has what other cities were tops and what area, despite its natural beauty, is lacking in pretty people.
  


Chinese Newspaper Falls for Onion Gag Citing Kim Jung Un as Sexiest Man Alive

    The comedy newspaper The Onion wrote an article proclaiming Kim Jong Un as the world's sexiest man of 2012, an obvious joke if you've ever seen Kim Boy. Yet a Chinese newspaper the People's Daily took it as truth...whoops. That's not all, the internet prank group 4chan is pushing people to vote Kim as Time Magazine's person of the year. Patrick Jones says that's just another rigged election.
  


Tasteless Photo Goes Viral, Threatens Woman's Job

    Lindsey Stone posted a photo of herself disrespecting the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. The photo went viral and now thousands of critics are calling for her to be fired. Gillian Pensavalle has both sides of the story.
  


CineMode App Gives Rewards for Not Texting During Movies

    CineMode is a new app that rewards moviegoers with free popcorn and tickers for not using their phones while in the movie theatre. That idea got our Gillian Pensavalle wondering how bad the movie has to be to forget about the rewards.

  


Chimps and Orangutans Have Midlife Crises 

    According to a group of international scientists, apes have mid-life crises, too. Although instead of doing something dramatic like buying a motorcycle, primates, chimps and orangutans specifically, seem to just get through it and get better with age. Vanessa Yurkevich has more on the study. 
  


Canadian Sex Toy Industry Booming During NHL Lockout

    The NHL lockout isn't all bad. According to sex store owners in Canada, hockey fans are finding other ways to keep busy without the game. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Handball Player Freaks Out After Opponent Kisses Him

    Ivan Stuffer of the Italian European Team Handball League didn't like it when an opponent laid a smooch on him. Video shows him freaking out to the point where he takes down his shorts and shows his underwear to the crowd, which gets him ejected. Patrick Jones has the rest. 
  


BYU Football Players Caught Fighting on Viral Video

    BYU Football players Joe Sampson and Zachary Stout were suspended and eventually kicked off the team and out of the university for their alleged involvement in a late-night fight at a Utah restaurant. They now face criminal charges, too. Patrick Jones has the video.
  


Study: Dancing Helps Ease Arthritis

    A study done in New York concludes that light movement exercises can make a big difference in easing pain associated with Arthritis. They include pilates, yoga and dancing. So Patrick Jones invites you to lace up your dance moves and get it out on the floor.  
  


Fake OkCupid.com Profile Shows How Low Men Will Go for Date

    Blogger Rob Fee shows us how low men will go for a date when he poses as a crazy girl on dating website OkCupid.com. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


World Chocolate Shortage Will Raise Prices

    It just might be a good thing for chocolate lovers that chocolate prices are on the rise. A shortage of cocoa beans, means less chocolate, and more money for it. Vanessa Yurkevich tells us why a bar of chocolate is not a sweet deal anymore. 
  


THE Word of 2012: Omnishambles

    The Oxford Dictionary is out with its pick of the word of the year: Omnishambles. It means "a situation that has been comprehensively mismanaged, characterised by a string of blunders and miscalculations." Vanessa Yurkevich shares what comes to her mind when she thinks of that word.
  


Bloomberg, Gun Violence Victims Demand Plan After Newtown Massacre




Man Changes Gender of Video Game's Characters for Daughter

    Mike Hoye was tired of doing gender translations on the fly while playing Nintendo's "Legend of Zelda" story with his three-year-old daughter. So he hacked the Wind Waker game, making Link into a girl and changing every he to she, him to her, and lad to milady. Vanessa Yurkevich has the story. 
  


Man Has No Regrets Over Romney Face Tattoo

    Eric Hartsburg auctioned space on his face for a tattoo. The winning bid was a person who slapped a Romney-Ryan tat on Hartsburg's temple. For reasons that go beyond having a face tattoo that's pretty awkward, although he remains optimistic. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Children's Bedtime Stories Get Terrifying Twist Thanks to Greenpeace 

    Greenpeace is using children's stories to warn of the dangers of the removal of trees. A new campaign created for the environmental rights organization has woodland creatures meeting violent ends as a result of deforestation. Patrick Jones has the disturbing tales. 
  


Sandy Damage Estimate: Over 250,000 Cars Lost

    New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's latest damage estimate for Hurricane Sandy to the region is $50 billion. A part of that is the estimated 250,000 cars that will need to be scrapped due to flooding and other damage. One company, Fisker, lost $30 million worth of unsold Fisker Karmas at the Port of Newark alone. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Candidate Tied Election, Wife Didn't Vote

    Robert McDonald tied the election for the last seat on the city of Walton, Kentucky's council. The unfortunate thing for him is that his wife didn't have the opportunity to vote for him! Without that vote, the election will go to a coin toss, but who knows about the marriage. Patrick Jones reports. 
  


Students Send Hamburger Up to Space 

    Space is all the rage right now and some unusual items are being sent on intergalactic journeys! Five friends from Harvard recently sent a hamburger to space and have video of the adventure. Gillian Pensavalle takes you on that trip, and looks at a Lego man and a teenager's early acceptance letter to MIT, which also took long voyages. 
  


Redskins Rule Predicts Presidential Election

    The Redskins Rule predicts the result of presidential elections based on whether the NFL team that moved to the American capital in 1937 wins or loses its final home game before election day. The rule's been right in 17 out of 18 elections since FDR's election. Tim Minton says Barack Obama figured to get the 2012 prediction. But Mitt Romney supporters got a gameday surprise.
  


The New Gerber Baby is Latina

    The newest Gerber baby is Mary Jane Montoya. She is Hispanic, which represents Gerber's mission to make the food brand more reflective of what America looks like. Vanessa Yurkevich has more on the cash and prizes little Mary Jane won. 
  


Big Crowds Line 5th Avenue for Columbus Day Parade

    Midtown Manhattan was an ocean of red, white and green in honor of the colors of Italy, and one of its proudest sons, explorer Christopher Columbus. The 68th annual Columbus Day Parade, marking the discovery of America, brought out 35,000 marchers to the delight of more than one million spectators. Tim Minton reports on the festivities.
  


The Man Who Owes More Money than Anyone Else in the World

    Jerome Kerviel owes his former boss $6.3 billion. Did we mention that Kerviel stole the money from his employer, Societe General, a big bank in Switzerland?  But as Patrick Jones reports Kerviel doesn't have to start paying back until after he gets out of prison.

  


"Cannibal Cop" Arrested In Plot to Kidnap, Cook Women

    NYPD Officer Gilbert Valle is under arrest  in an alleged plot to kidnap and cook women. Police said Valle was nabbed when his accomplice flipped and helped an FBI investigation.  The arrest ame before any of the targeted women were abducted. None was harmed. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Videos of Dancing Teachers Go Viral

    Faculty members from schools all over the country are going viral! Thanks to some sneaky teachers, great dance moves and YouTube, Gillian Pensavalle can showcase the best of their boogying down.
  


"Game of Thrones" Life-Sized Throne for Sale

    Want to get in on the Game of Thrones?  For $30,000 you can win the whole thing!  ThinkGeek.com is selling a life-sized Iron Throne, inspired by HBO's "Game of Thrones."  Gillian Pensavalle has the story and is accepting donations for her very own Iron Throne.
  


Spire Added to One World Trade 

    One World Trade Center continues to change the New York City skyline, with the latest addition of a 408-foot spire, that will serve as a broadcast antenna to transmit TV and radio stations that were forced off the air on September 11th, 2001. The new building is set to be the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Sunscreens Can be Flammable and Set You on Fire

    It turns out that you can get burned whether you're wearing sunscreen or not! Some sunscreens are flammable and have actually set people on fire. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Homeless Man Wins Lottery

    A homeless man from South Carolina won $200,000 from a lottery scratch off ticket. He did not want to have his name released, but it was revealed that he was a construction worker who had fallen on hard times, and sees this as an opportunity to get himself back to where he needs to be. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Teen Takes Pictures with 840 Wild Animals

    Tallon Nightwalker and his father are on a mission to have Tallon take a picture with every type of animal in the world. So far they've managed to take pictures with 840 different types. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Viral Video: 'Charlie Bit My Finger' Kids Are Back in Ragu Commercial 

    The "Charlie Bit My Finger" kids are back in a new Ragú commercial. The kids made headlines five years ago when their parents filmed Charlie biting his older brother to the tune of 500 million YouTube views. Vanessa Yurkevich tells us more about their newest video. 
  


Human Feet are Getting Bigger and Bigger

    According to the National Show retailers association, men and women's feet are getting bigger. In the last three decades retailers estimate the average size of our feet has grown by a size and a half. Vanessa Yurkevich tells us why that's troubling to shoe stores. 
  


Fans Create Incredible Lego BatCave

    Comic-Con isn't just the only convention around. From The UFO Congress Convention to LebowskiFest, there is a convention for everyone.  Gillian Pensavalle showcases an elaborate BatCave from Brick-Con, the Lego convention.
  


Research Shows You May Give Your Pet the Flu

    Even though you may want to snuggle with your pet when you're not feeling well, scientists say that's not a good idea.  Research shows that you and your pet can get each other sick.  Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Video Shows Teen Licking Entire NYC Subway Rail for One Dollar

    There's a viral video of a teenager licking an entire New York City subway entrance hand rail. Yes, that's gross. What makes it better is he did it all for $1! Patrick Jones walks you through this nonsense.
  


NASA Releases Audio of Earth Singing

    The Earth is singing to all of space and NASA has the audio for us. The song, called "Chorus," is caused by Earth emitting plasma rays, which pass through the radiation belts surrounding the planet, and was captured by satellites sent by NASA to record it and experiment in the area. Patrick Jones has the rest, so come listen to Earth sing!
  


Cute Pictures of Dogs and Cats Can Improve Human Focus

    A research group from Japan says that looking at cute pictures of animals in between mental activities may improve humans' ability to focus.  Gillian Pensavalle has the story and applied this very technique to her own research.
  


Photographer Recreates Movie Scenes with Computer Prints

    Movie lover and amateur photographer Chris Moloney recreates movie scenes with black and white images printed from his computer.  Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Global Bacon Shortage Expected in 2013


	A global pork and bacon shortage is unavoidable in 2013, says the U.K.'s National Pig Association. The group claims that farmers must cut back on herd size due to the rising cost of pig feed, in part as a result of droughts in North America and Russia. Patrick Jones takes a look at the far-reaching impact of this reduced product. 



Apes Love Slapstick Humor 


	Apes get all full of belly laughs when it comes to slapstick humor. Researchers in England say it's a way for the apes to bond with one another, you know: monkey see, monkey do. The primates are able to find the funny in others' misfortune, like slipping on a bannana peel. Patrick Jones has the rest.

	 



Billionaires on Forbes' Magazine Cover are Worth 126 Billion Dollars


	Forbes Magazine chose 15 billionaires who give back to grace the cover of their magazine. If you combine their net worth, the cover cost 126 billion dollars. Vanessa Yurkevich tells us what they are doing with their money.



Top Dirtiest Cities in America 2012


	Travel and Leisure Magazine released this year's 20 dirtiest cities in America. This year's winner, New York City, jumped five spots from last year. Vanessa Yurkevich gives us the top 5 dirtiest, and the cleanest, cities in America, along with some explanation as to why some places made the list. 



Drunk Parents Portrayed as Monsters in Child-Advocacy Commercial


	A child advocacy group called Fragile Childhood is behind a creepy anti alcoholism campaign. In a commercial by the group in Finland, drunk parents are portraited as monsters who scare and embarass kids. Patrick Jones walks us through.



Google Feature Creates Virtual "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon" Game 


	Google has created a way for us to waste more time at work with a version of the Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon game through the search engine. To access this Google feature, just type in "Bacon number" and the actor's name, and it will tell you the degrees of separation and from what movies. Patrick Jones is glued to it. 



Are Cameras in British School Bathrooms a Good Idea?


	A report says that more than 200 public high school across England have cameras installed in the bathrooms. A group called Big Brother Watch thinks that's an invasion of students' privacy and should be changed. School officials say the cameras provide safety and that the footage isn't reviewed unless there is an incident. Patrick Jones asks if that makes you a little skeptical.



Peyton Manning Jerseys Banned in Denver Schools


	Peyton Manning number 18 jerseys are banned at Denver schools due to trouble with a gang called the 18's. The district isn't against Manning; it's the number that's a problem. What do you think? Patrick Jones starts the discussion. 



Catroulette: Chatroulette For Cat Adoption


	Catroulette is a cat adoption website that operates on a similar basis to the Internet sensation, Chatroulette. Instead of nexting chatters, you look through videos of cute cats and kittens, all of which need homes. John Basedow reports.



Best Viral Videos of Summer 2012


	Patrick Jones takes a look at the best viral videos of Summer 2012. They include a bunch of "Call Me Maybe" parodies, including those by Jimmy Fallon, the U.S. swim team, Chatroulette users, and the Miami Dolphins' cheerleaders. Other highlights include the NASA rover video, Australian hurdler Michelle Jenneke, a 71 year old who thwarted a robbery, people freaking out at Kristen Stewart and that Chik-Fil-A jerk.



New Car Comes with Coffee Maker Built In


	So long Strabucks! The 2013 Fiat 500L comes with a built-in Lavazza coffee maker. It sits in the center-console area and comes with cups that hook up to the dispenser. Patrick Jones explains why having a water-boiling, espresso-making device could be a bad thing to have in an automobile. 



A Look Inside The New Fantasyland at Disney World's Magic Kingdom


	Disney World is opening a new Fantasyland expansion to its Magic Kingdom next year and we give you an inside look to some of the attractions.  Gillian Pensavalle tells you about the Beauty and the Beast-inspired restaurant called Be Our Guest, a new Little Mermaid attraction and the Seven Dwarfs' Mine Train.



New Chemical Could Mean the End of Cavities, Dental Visits


	Keep 32, a new chemical developed by researchers in Chile could be our best answer to cavity control, ultimately defeating them! The researchers are confident that the new product, once put into toothpaste, mouthwash or gum could destroy all the bacteria that causes cavities and keep it that way for hours. Dentists might be out of business, but Patrick Jones is rejoicing.



Perfect Summer Sport? Bossaball Combines Soccer, Volleyball and Gymnastics


	Bossaball is a new beach game sweeping the globe. It's played on inflatable courts with trampolines. Teams with three to five players on each side volley using whatever body part they'd like, while jumping around. Bossaball is currently touring the world so check the website Bossaballsports.com to see if an event will take place near you. Patrick Jones reports. 



Researchers Develop Spray-On Battery


	Researchers from Rice University developed a spray can battery fluid. In a report published in Nature, researchers say they hope eventually it can be used to make electronics smaller and even help power homes. Patrick Jones reports.



Weird Laws Take Effect in Iowa, PA, Florida and Illinois


	It's now legal to send a warrant by fax in Iowa and, in Florida, it's illegal to film someone without their knowledge in a residential dwelling. These are just a few of the unusual state laws that went into effect on July 1st. As Patrick Jones explains, legislators from Pennsylvania to Illinois have been busy crafting up some weird legislation. 



Designers Draw Up Plans For Drive-Through Airport


	Amsterdam based design firm Buro Fur Mehr has designed plans for a drive-through airport. And what is that? The idea is giant airports could be made smaller and offer faster service if instead of bringing poeple to planes, you bring planes to people. Patrick Jones wonders, what could go wrong with that idea.



Colony on Mars Set for 2023; Company Seeking Four for Trip


	Mars One has plans to set up a colony on the Red Planet by 2023. Look out NASA and SpaceX. In just four years from now, the private Dutch company wants to have a communications satellite in place, followed by rovers, infrastructure creation, and capped by a astronaut voyage. However, as Patrick Jones notes, there is a catch for those making the trip -- it's a one-way ticket.



Galaxies Set to Collide, but Can Earth Survive?


	Scientists are confirming what was once just a great sci-fi movie plot. The Andromeda Galaxy will collide with our Milky Way Galaxy, forming a single mega-galaxy. Don't cancel your weekend plans, it's not supposed to happen for another four billion years. But is it the end of Earth? Patrick Jones has the answer?



Giants' Fans Join Players in 2012 Super Bowl Victory Celebration


	For hundreds of thousands of die-hard New York Giants; fans, it was an unofficial day off from work and school to take part in a huge ticker-tape parade along Broadway for their Super Bowl champs. Tim Minton was there with them the whole way.



New Fragrance Line Lets You Smell Like Different Cities


	A new fragrance line called Scent of Departure promises to let you smell like 14 different cities. Places like Paris, London, Milan, Hong Kong, Dubai, Los Angeles and New York. Wait, New York?! Who wants to smell like New York City? Patrick Jones has the rest.

Show Buzz

Julianne Moore, Chloe Moretz Confirmed for "Carrie" Remake


	A remake of Brian de Palma's classic "Carrie," starring Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie, is coming to theatres next year.  Chloe Moretz is cast as Carrie and Julianne Moore is signed on to play her chilling mother, Margaret.  Gillian Pensavalle has more.



Netflix "House Of Cards," "Arrested Development" Radically Change TV Viewing

    New Netflix series "House Of Cards" and "Arrested Development" are radically changing the way we view television programming. As John Basedow reports, all 13 episodes of "House Of Cards" and all 14 new episodes of "Arrested Development" will be available for streaming at the same time. That means no waiting to watch.

  


Kristin Chenoweth Treated Like A Dog By Airline

    Actress Kristin Chenoweth says she was bullied and abused by American Airlines when she tried to take her dog Maddie on the plane with her. As John Basedow reports, Chenoweth claims Maddie is an "emotional support animal" and all her paperwork was in order. After tweeting her experience was a "trip from hell," American Airlines reportedly made amends.
  


Boyz II Men Hired to Increase Russia's Birth Rate

    Russian President Vladmir Putin has reportedly hired the group Boyz II Men to boost his nationwide fertility campaign. The singers will perform romantic ballads in Moscow on February 6th. Femi Redwood has the details. 
  


Lena Dunham Working on Another HBO Series

    Lena Dunham, writer, director and star of the HBO hit "Girls," is reportedly working on another series with Jenni Konner for the cable network. As John Basedow reports, the New York Times confirms HBO optioned the memoir "All Dressed Up and Everywhere to Go," which is about a celebrity stylist who has dressed Meryl Streep and Sarah Jessica Parker.  
  


Geraldo Rivera Considering Senate Run

    Geraldo Rivera says he's considering running for Senate. He announced on his radio show that he's reached out to the Republican Party in regards to a New Jersey seat currently held by Democrat Frank Lautenberg, 89. Patrick Jones wonders if the controversial TV and radio show host has more going for him than his mustache.  
  


Tracy Morgan Expecting Fourth Child

    Tracy Morgan will have plenty to keep him busy now that his show "30 Rock" is over. He's expecting a fourth child, as his fiancee, model Megan Wollover is pregnant. Morgan has three grown sons from a previous marriage. Kristina Behr hopes Morgan doesn't turn to his alter-ego Tracy Jordan for parenting assistance. 
  


Report: "Teen Mom" Star Jenelle Evans on "Judge Judy"

    "Teen Mom 2" star Jenelle Evans may end up in Judge Judy's small claims court. A woman named Sarah Rae Ann claims Evans never paid for work she did as a social media adviser. Now, she's threatening Evans with legal action. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


George Clooney Joins Disney Film "Tomorrowland"

    George Clooney has officially joined the film "Tomorrowland." Originally titled "1952," rumor has it that the film is about the creation of Walt Disney's Theme Park empire. "Lost" co-creator Damon Lindelof and Brad Bird are in charge of the film, and released teaser photos of a secret box filled with Disney memorabilia. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


"Warm Bodies" Makes Zombies Walking Dead Love Interests

    Werewolves and vampires may be taking a backseat to zombies in mortal-monster relationships thanks to the movie "Warm Bodies." As John Basedow reports, the walking dead are stealing hearts and setting a new precedent in supernatural relationships.
  


Kate Upton Stars in Sexy Shoe Campaign

    Model Kate Upton, who exploded onto the scene last year wearing a barely-there bikini for the "Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition," is now the face of Sam Edelman shoes. The company says it chose Kate for the ad campaign because she isn't "stick thin." Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Chris Brown Compares Himself to Jesus

    Singer Chris Brown is comparing himself to Jesus. Brown posted a photo of a painting he made to Instagram that features Jesus on the cross, writing "painting the way I feel today." This follows a reported altercation with Frank Ocean over a parking spot. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Snooki Gives Birth On Her Reality Show

    Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi can relive the birth of son Lorenzo since it was taped and aired on her MTV reality show, "Snooki & Jwoww." As John Basedow reports, an audience of millions gets to see Nicole's initial fears turn into tears of joy at the first sight of her baby son. And, in typical Snooki fashion, she's in full make-up throughout the entire ordeal.
  


Justin Timberlake's Surprise Performance at Grammys

    Justin Timberlake will be joining Rihanna, Taylor Swift the Lumineers and many other performers on this year's Grammy Awards show. Expect to hear Justin's new single "Suit and Tie" but our Gillian Pensavalle hopes we get more than that. 
  


Beyonce's Super Bowl Halftime Rehearsal Pics 

    Beyonce has been rehearsing for her big halftime show at the Super Bowl, and she's been posting the rehearsal photos to her Tumblr account. But none of the pictures  shows the other two ladies from "Destiny's Child" and Michelle Williams denies the trio will reunite on stage. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Entourage Movie Coming to the Big Screen

    It's official: an Entourage movie is in the works. Warner Bros. has announced that the movie will pick up six months after the HBO series finale left off. Expect to see Vinnie Chase, E, Johnny Drama, Turtle, Ari and a slew of celebrity cameos. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Rihanna Teases New Fashion Line

    Rihanna is the latest music star to cross over into the fashion world. She will be releasing a new clothing line with British Company River Island. She will debut her threads at London's Fashion Week, and it will be on sale in March. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Meet the Girl in "Girl Meets World" Pilot

    Rowan Blanchard is set to play the Girl in Disney's pilot of "Girl Meets World," according to Entertainment Weekly.  Blanchard's previous on screen credits include "Spy Kids: All the Time in the World" and "The Back-Up Plan." Find out what producer Michael Jacobs is saying about Rowan. Patrick Jones reports. 
  


Jane Kaczmarek, Bryan Cranston to Reunite on "Breaking Bad"

    Lois and Hal from "Malcolm in the Middle" will reunite on the final season of "Breaking Bad." Jane Kaczmarek confirmed via Twitter that she'll appear alongside Bryan Cranston on the final season of the AMC hit. Rena Karefa-Johnson has the story and lists the other TV couples she'd like to see reunite. 
  


Puppy Bowl IX Line-Up Revealed

    As football fans gear up to see the San Francisco 49ers square off against the Baltimore Ravens on Super Bowl Sunday, animal lovers are waiting to see "The Puppy Bowl IX." Thirty-five puppies will be fighting to the bone to become the "top dog," and all of them are available for adoption. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


Miley Cyrus Fuels Secret Wedding Rumors

    Miley Cyrus calls fiance Liam Hemsworth her "hubby" in an interview with Cosmopolitan, causing further speculation the couple may have married fiance Liam Hemsworth. Jen Markham explains the slip isn't the only attention-grabbing thing about the magazine's cover story.
  


Chris Brown, Frank Ocean Brawl Over Parking Spot

    Chris Brown and Frank Ocean reportedly got into a fight over a parking spot at Los Angeles recording studio. Ocean claims that Brown punched him, but sources reportedly claim that Ocean's entourage started the brawl. No arrests have been made at this time. Kristina Behr has the story.  
  


Brandi Glanville, Adrienne Maloof: Surrogacy Secret Revealed

    Real Housewives of Beverly Hills stars Brandi Glanville and Adrienne Maloof has been in on-going feud and legal battle. As John Basedow reports, the secret cause of this drama is Brandi's spilling of Adrienne's surrogacy of her twin sons and all is revealed in the new issue of US Weekly.
  


"Plastic Wives" Special Comes to TLC

    Plastic Wives is the latest of TLC's shocking reality shows. As John Basedow reports, this one-hour special, premiering on January 27th, features four women who are married to some of the most successful cosmetic doctors in Los Angeles…and they like to take advantage of their husbands' medical skills. From Botox to liposuction to breast enhancement, these ladies have had it all.
  


Kim Kardashian Visits African Orphanage

    Kim Kardashian shares pictures from a recent trip to an orphanage in Abidjan on the Ivory Coast of Africa. She brought the toys, food and a check to the kids at Case Blanche and was treated to songs and dances. Kim, who's expecting with fiance Kanye West, was in the region for two events.  Jen Markham has the story. 
  


"American Idol" Racism Lawsuit In The Works

    Nine former contestants who auditioned on "American Idol" plan to sue the show, claiming they were forced off because of a racist and illegal plot to boost ratings. Corey Clark, Jaered Andrews, Donnie Williams, Akron Watson, Terrell and Derrell Brittenum, Chris Golightly and Thomas Daniels say producers asked if they had ever been arrested and were made to look like destructive stereotypes. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Top Model Contestant Injured in Freak Accident

    Lisa D'Amato, an America's Next Top Model contestant and Top Model All-Stars winner, posted photos of injuries she sustained in a freak accident on the set of the movie "Cowboys and Indians." D'Amato is recovering and is in good spirits, making jokes about the cosmetic surgery she needed. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Taylor Swift Takes Teen Cancer Patient to Lunch

    Taylor Swift had a two-hour lunch with a teen who has been battling brain cancer. As John Basedow reports, Kayla Kincannon's dream came true thanks to a social media campaign that caught the eye of the pop star. Kincannon shared photos of the time they spent together, saying meeting his idol was "enchanting."
  


New Baywatch Movie Details Released

    A "Baywatch" movie is moving forward, with Bill Hader of "Saturday Night Live" rumored to be up for the lead role, possibly even taking on David Hasselhoff's character. However, Hader's reps deny involvement. There is also word both Hasselhoff and Pamela Anderson will be making cameos. Kristina Behr has all the details.
  


"Game of Thrones" Author Announces New Book

    George R. R. Martin, the author of "Game of Thrones," is writing a novella based on the Targaryen's. Luckily, you have season 3 of HBO's "Game of Thrones" to hold you over, starting March 31st, 2013. Gillian Pensavalle fills you in.
  


Hot "Mad Men" Season 6 Cast Photos Released

    AMC's hit show "Mad Men" is coming back April 7th, with its Season 6 two-hour premiere. The show released new official season black and white photos, and creators promise this season will answer many of the questions fans may have about Don and Megan's relationship, Peggy's new job, and if Betty will be back. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Justin Timberlake Announces Charity Concert

    Justin Timberlake announces his first concert in four years. JT will be performing at a charity benefit in New Orleans ahead of Super Bowl XLVII. Timberlake recently released his first single "Suit and Tie" featuring Jay-Z from his upcoming album "The 20/20 Experience." Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Dallas Brings Back "Who Shot J.R." Storyline

    Dallas Season 2 starts on TNT January 28th and producers are bringing back a familiar story. As John Basedow reports, the "Who Shot J.R." plot line, which drew 83-million viewers at one point during the original Dallas series in 1980, will be a major focus of the modern day relaunch, as well. 
  


Live Action "Toy Story" Makes History

    Toy Story superfans created a shot-for-shot live action remake of the animated classic featuring Woody and Buzz Lightyear. This marks the first animation-to-live action remake. Creators Jonason Pauley and Jesse Perrotta even got the okay from Pixar. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


HBO's "Girls" Inspires Reality TV Spinoff

    According to a Craigslist ad, an Emmy Award-winning production company is casting for a reality TV version of HBO's hit "Girls." The ad calls for 20-somethings living the NYC hipster dream, complete with the search for "fame, fortune, love or even a hookup with potential." Rena Karefa-Johnson wonders whether this show has the potential to be disgusting or delicious.
  


Lindsay Lohan Rejects "DWTS" Offer

    Lindsay Lohan has reportedly turned down an offer to appear on "Dancing with the Stars." The ABC reality dancing competition supposedly approached the troubled starlet, willing to pay her up to $550,000. Lohan, who has been struggling financially, even accepting a loan from Charlie Sheen, could have used the money. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Church Choir Outperforms Bieber, Madonna and Stones

    The Brooklyn Tabernacle choir performed at President Barack Obama's inauguration before a live audience numbering more than one billion viewers. Made up of doctors, lawyers, former drug addicts and people who used to be homeless, the choir can add the honor alongside their six Grammy Awards. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Best Horror Movie Mamas 

    Jessica Chastain is celebrating a box office win for her horror movie "Mama." In honor of her snagging the number one spot, Kristina Behr takes a look at some of the most memorable horror movie moms of all time -- including Mrs. Voorhees in "Friday the 13th Part 2," Wendy Torrance in "The Shining," Rosemary Woodhouse in "Rosemary's Baby," and "Mrs. Bates" in "Psycho. 
  


New Hanks, Spielberg & HBO Series on WW2

    There's a new World War 2 miniseries coming to HBO. Following the enormous success of both Band of Brothers and The Pacific, HBO is teaming up with Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg to create a third miniseries based on Donald L. Miller's book "Masters of the Air: America's Bomber Boys Who Fought the Air War Against Nazi Germany." Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Musical Moments in Inauguration History

    Many magical moments in music history have happened during the inauguration of presidents, from Frank Sinatra co-producing John F. Kennedy's inaugural events to Bill Clinton playing guitar with Clarence Clemons and George H. W. Bush taking the stage with B.B. King. Now Kelly Clarkson and Beyonce will join those ranks thanks to President Barack Obama. Kristina Behr has the story.
  


Taylor Swift's Rumored Secret Breast Implant Surgery

    Taylor Swift's curvy and more voluptuous figure sends the internet in rumor overdrive saying the pop star had a "secret boob job". As John Basedow reports, the Red singer's appearance on the red carpet at the People's Choice Awards and Golden Globes even caused a surgeon to speculate Taylor increase her breast size from an A to a B cup.

  


George Takei Reignites Shatner Feud

    George Takei, who played "Mr. Sulu" in the "Star Trek" movies, recently appeared on Bravo TV's  "Watch What Happens Live" with Andy Cohen. The host read a viewer question asking Takei who the biggest d*chbag was during the filming and Takei named William Shatner. Kristina Behr has the reason why. 
  


Jennifer Lopez Unrecognizable on People Cover

    Jennifer Lopez is almost unrecognizable on the latest cover of People magazine. Her camp is reportedly disappointed with the look, telling the New York Post she appears "old and haggard." She was even compared to 70-year-old fashion designer Betsey Johnson. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Nikki Reed, Husband Not Huge "American Idol" Fans

    "Twilight" star Nikki Reed is married to "American Idol" alum Paul McDonald, but she says they won't be watching the show religiously this season. She's one of many who didn't tune into the Season 12 premiere -- ratings for the show were down almost 20 percent from last year. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


The Office Series Finale: What to Expect

    The Office is coming to an end on May 9th, but we have some details straight from executive producer Greg Daniels. Gillian Pensavalle fills you in.
  


The Killing Returns to AMC

    In a twist worthy of the show itself, "The Killing" has been resurrected after being canceled last year. AMC has teamed up with Netflix to bring back the noir murder mystery for another season. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


Jennifer Lawrence to Host SNL

    Jennifer Lawrence is having a great year so far: a Golden Globe, a People's Choice Award and now she's hosting Saturday Night Live. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Khloe Kardashian Slams Rumors

    Khloe Kardashian Odom is slamming all of the tabloid fodder claiming she's had a miscarriage, her husband Lamar Odom is cheating on her, and that she's jealous of her sisters' lives. She's now speaking out after "InTouch Magazine" claimed that her dad is not her real father, and they say that's the real reason why she's struggling to have a baby. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


"Hot Tub Time Machine" Sequel Reportedly in the Works

    The 2010 cult comedy "Hot Tub Time Machine" may be getting a sequel. The Hollywood Reporter says that MGM is in exploratory talks with original cast members Rob Corddry, Craig Robinson, and Clarke Duke to return. So far, John Cusack and Chevy Chase are reportedly not part of the project. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Snooki Tries to Get Radio Host Fired Over Tweet

    Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi is trying to get SiriusXM radio host Adam Schein fired for what she's calling a mean tweet. Schein, co-host of Loud Mouths and Monday Morning QB, tweeted that he needed a shower after he walked by her. The pint-sized "Jersey Shore" star has now taken her complaint to XM management. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Same Delivery Date for Kim K and Kate Middleton?

    A day after Kate Middleton announces her baby is due in July, Kim Kardashian announces her baby is also due in July.  The news is prompting British bookmakers to give up to 25/1 odds the two babies will be born on the same day.  Jen Markham has the story.
  


Megan Fox Talks Bigfoot, Aliens and Lindsay Lohan

    Megan Fox is appearing in the new issue of "Esquire" magazine. In it, she talks about how she got her Marilyn Monroe tattoo removed, because the demise of the iconic actress reminds her of Lindsay Lohan. She also talks about how she believes in Bigfoot, space aliens, and the Loch Ness Monster, and how she hates being famous. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Howard Stern Apologizes to "Girls" Star Lena Dunham

    Howard Stern recently talked about the show "Girls" and Lena Dunham on his radio show, calling her a "little fat girl who kinda looks like Jonah Hill." After her recent Golden Globe wins, and her appearance on "The Late Show with David Letterman," Stern apologized for poking fun and invited Dunham to be a guest on his show. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


Prince Harry Named "Most Eligible Bachelor"

    Town & Country magazine named Prince Harry the most eligible bachelor in the world. You'll find other princes, politicians (Cory Booker), and sports figures (like Jeremy Lin and Tim Tebow) on the list, as well. Hollywood elite and notorious bachelors like Jack Nicholson, George Hamilton and George Clooney also earned a spot on the list. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


Ann Romney Turns Down "DWTS"

    Ann Romney will not be joining the new season of "Dancing With the Stars." A rep for Romney told TMZ that the show was interested in having Mitt Romney's wife as a contestant, but after several meetings with the show, Romney turned it down. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Blue Ivy Reportedly Gets Diamond-Encrusted Barbie Doll 

    Beyonce and Jay-Z reportedly threw a $200,000 birthday party for their one-year-old daughter Blue Ivy. And, they also supposedly dropped $80,000 for a Barbie doll encrusted with diamonds. Kristina Behr has the details and what other extravagant gifts the little girl received. 
  


Justin Timberlake Drops New Single "Suit and Tie"

    Justin Timberlake releases "Suit and Tie," his first new song in six and a half years. It features Jay-Z and will be part of his upcoming album "The 20/20 Experience," which is being produced by Timbaland. The singer-actor says making the album was the most fun he's had in his career. Kristina Behr takes a listen. 
  


Judge Nixes Lawsuit Against Bethenny Frankel's SkinnyGirl 

    A NYC judge has nixed a class action lawsuit against Bethenny Frankel's SkinnyGirl Margarita brand. Plaintiffs claimed they were lied to over the type of tequila used in the product. But one of the men involved in the suit said he would have purchased the drink regardless of the cost because his wife liked it. Jen Markham has the story.  
  


Beyonce Reveals Secret "Beyonce Vault"

    While everyone is talking about Beyonce's body on the cover of "GQ Magazine," many failed to realize what was actually in the article written about her. In it, the writer tells about meeting the singer at her office where she keeps a temperature-controlled vault containing every single Beyonce item that's ever existed. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Penelope Cruz Sings in Sexy New Music Video

    Penelope Cruz recently collaborated with Latin Grammy Award winner Miguel Bose for the new song "Decirmo Adios" and stars in a sexy new music video. It's not the first time she's been featured as a music video vixen- she appeared in her brother Eduardo Cruz's video with their sister Monica. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Demi Lovato Opts to Live in Sober House

    Singer and X-Factor judge Demi Lovato is living in a sober facility, according to a TMZ report, in hopes of preventing a backslide into old ways. Lovato has publicly battled a wide range of challenges, from anorexia and bulimia to cutting and sought treatment through inpatient rehab. John Basedow thinks many young starlets should use Lovato as a role model. 
  


Bieber Bodyguard Sues for Assault

    A former bodyguard for Justin Bieber is suing the 18-year-old singer, claiming he was punched and berated by the pop star. Moshe Benabou is also seeking more than $421,000 in unpaid overtime and vacation benefits. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Derek Jeter's Rumored Girlfriend Could Land SI Swimsuit Cover

    Yankee slugger Derek Jeter's rumored new girlfriend, Hannah Davis, could be the main choice for the new "Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition," knocking last year's bombshell Kate Upton out of the top spot. Kristina Behr explains why Davis may just get the job.
  


The Simpsons Nab an Oscar Nomination

    The 2013 Oscar nominations are out and here's a contender you may not expect: The Simpsons. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


The Wanted, Bieber, Swift Rock Annual Jingle Ball

    The Z100 Jingle Ball in New York City hosted some of the biggest names in music. Some performances included Taylor Swift, Justin Bieber, The Wanted, One Direction, f.u.n., B.o.B., Ed Sheeran, Jason Mraz, and Ne-Yo. Kristina Behr hit the red carpet to chat with the stars. 

  


Justin Timberlake To Release New Track Reportedly With Jay-Z

    Justin Timberlake is finally back doing what he does best-- making music. He's releasing a new track reportedly featuring Jay-Z. Also confirmed to Billboard: Timberlake will release an album this year, produced by Timbaland. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


"Lincoln" Leads 2013 Academy Award Nominations 

    The nominations are out for the 2013 Academy Awards.  "Zero Dark Thirty," "The Silver Linings Playbook," "Les Miserables," "Django Unchained" and "Lincoln" all received multiple nominations. Spielberg's "Lincoln" leads the pack with 12 nods. Seth MacFarlane, who will host the 85th Annual Oscars on February 24th, made the announcement with actress Emma Stone.Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Bethenny Frankel Breaks Down About Divorce On Ellen

    Bravo reality star Bethenny Frankel couldn't hold back tears, telling Ellen she feels like a failure now that her marriage is ending. As John Basedow reports, Bethenny, who turned TV exposure into a multi-million dollar empire of SkinnyGirl products and four best-selling books, is getting backlash from her fans who don't want her fairytale life to degrade into a nightmare.

  


Kim Kardashian, Kanye West Reportedly Buy $11 Million Home

    Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have reportedly bought an $11 million home in Bel Air, an exclusive community in Los Angeles. TMZ says the Italian-style mansion includes both an indoor and outdoor pool, a hair salon and bowling alley. Kristina Behr has all the details. 
  


Girls Costume Designer Partners with Lingerie Brand

    Jenn Rogien, the costume designer responsible for the duds on Hannah and Marnie on the HBO hit "Girls," is partnering with American Eagle as the Style and Fit Expert for its lingerie line Aerie. It may seem an unlikely pairing, but "Sex and the City" costume designer Patricia Field had an even more surprising partnership with Kotex. Rena Karefa-Johnson decides whether the collaboration seems disgusting or delicious.
  


Downton Abbey Fans Frustrated by Spoilers

    "Downton Abbey" is back in the U.S. on PBS so all should be right in the TV world, right? Wrong, since plot twists are revealed all over the Internet as the British series has already aired across the pond. Rena Karefa-Johnson has more on the spoiler controversy.
  


Twilight Leads Razzie Award Nominations

    The 33rd Annual Razzie Award Nominations are out, saluting the worst in Hollywood. But this year there were very little surprises. From the final "Twilight" installment scoring a nod in each category, to Adam Sandler scoring eight nods for "That's My Boy," Kristina Behr explores why these awards have gotten a little bit stale. 
  


Krysten Ritter Reveals Crush On Ryan Gosling

    Krysten Ritter, star of "Don't Trust The B----- In Apartment 23" on ABC, told Fashion Magazine the world needs more Ryan Goslings. As John Basedow reports, Ritter, a former model and Breaking Bad actress, loves all things unconventional and thinks she's breaking the mold for female stars with her funny, smart and confident "Apartment 23" character, Chloe.

  


Trailer Out for Lindsay Lohan's "InAPPropriate Comedy"

    Lindsay Lohan has a cameo in the upcoming movie "InAPPropriate Comedy" as Marilyn Monroe. It also stars Michelle Rodriguez, Adrien Brody, and Rob Schneider, and is written and directed by Vince Offer -- who is better known for his appearances in the ShamWow! and Slap Chop commercials. Kristina Behr has the first look at the movie. 
  


Spielberg Shares Rejection Note from "Lincoln" Star

    Director Steven Spielberg recently revealed that actor Daniel Day-Lewis originally turned down the role of Abraham Lincoln in his now heavily-nominated film "Lincoln." Spielberg shared the rejection letter he received from Day-Lewis early on in the project. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Lance Armstrong Agrees to Oprah Tell-All Interview

    Disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong has agreed to a sit-down interview with Oprah Winfrey for her OWN network. As John Basedow reports, the "no-holds-barred" interview from Armstrong's Texas home will air on January 17th. According to the network, Armstrong will address the doping scandal that brought down his career and ended in the stripping of his seven Tour de France titles. 
  


Macklemore: A Rapper You Should Know

    Seattle rapper Macklemore is the artist you need to know. Along with DJ/Producer Ryan Lewis, the two have been making music for more than a decade, but are blowing up the charts with their album "The Heist." And their hit single "Thrift Shop" is now number two and climbing on iTunes. Kristina Behr tells you why you need to download his songs now! 
  


Potential New Boyfriends for Taylor Swift

    Rumors are swirling that Taylor Swift and "One Direction's" Harry Styles have called it quits after just two months of dating. Kristina Behr offers a new list of guys that could be next in line that could spark some inspiration for her next hit single. 
  


Comedy Troupe Whips Up "50 Shades" Musical 

    Comedy troupe "Baby Wants Candy" is headed Off-Broadway with a musical spoof of E.L. James' best selling book "50 Shades of Grey." The show "50 Shades" features 11 original songs, and centers around a ladies book club which decides to read the book, and gives their own version of what happens. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Emma Watson Mistaken For Child At Airport

    "Harry Potter" star Emma Watson was recently travelling through a New York City airport heading back to class at Brown University when a member of the TSA stopped her because he was convinced she was a child missing her parents. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


NBC: We Stopped Trump from Running for President

    NBC Entertainment Chairman Bob Greenblatt claims the network talked Donald Trump out of running for president. However, Greenblatt says NBC won't step in and stop "The Apprentice" star from making political statements, unless they're deemed hurtful or they cross the line. Our Kristina Behr pokes some holes in this claim. 
  


Dying Man Granted Wish to See Unreleased Star Trek Movie 

    A terminally-ill man was granted his dying wish to see the not-yet released Star Trek movie "Star Trek Into Darkness." Director J.J. Abrams heard about Daniel Craft's desire through a Reddit post and had a producer hand-deliver a rough cut of the film to Craft's apartment. Gillian Pensavalle has the story. 
  


Real Housewives' Aviva Drescher Gives Bikini Body Fitness Tips

    Bravo TV star Aviva Drescher brings the drama on Real Housewives of NY. As John Basedow reports, however, she's now giving her secret diet and exercise tips to get a banging bikini body. In addition to being a 40-plus mother of four and an amputee, Aviva maintains a lean, defined physique many fitness models would envy.
  


Patrick Dempsey Wins Bid for Coffee Chain

    Known for playing Seattle-based "Dr. McDreamy" on "Grey's Anatomy," actor Patrick Dempsey won a bid to take over the failing Tully's Coffee chain, beating out Starbucks. If a bankruptcy judge approves, Dempsey and his partners will dole out $9.1 million and save 500 jobs. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Boyz II Men to Headline Vegas Show at Mirage

    Boyz II Men is back. Starting in March, the kings of crooning will be headlining their own Las Vegas show at the Mirage Hotel and Casino. Rena Karefa-Johnson decides whether this comeback is disgusting or delicious. 
  


Millionaire Madam Threatens to Expose Celebrity Clients

    The woman accused of running an exclusive call girl ring in New York City is throwing out hints she may expose her celebrity clients in a tell-all book.  Tim Minton tells us why at least one mega-millionaire is already terrified about being named as a client.
  


Kim Kardashian Faces Twitter Hate For Partying Ways

    Kim Kardashian's night out on New Year's Eve sent Twitter trolls on a hate binge. As John Basedow reports, tweets calling Kim K ugly and saying she's an unfit mother flooded the internet after she posted an instagram at a Las Vegas nightclub. Mom Kris Jenner defended her daughter with a shocking tweet and Facebook post.
  


Singer Frank Ocean Busted For Pot While Driving

    Singer Frank Ocean was busted, not once but twice for speeding on New Year's Eve. The second time he was pulled over, police say they smelled pot coming from the "Thinkin About You" singer's car, and he temporarily lost his license and now faces marijuana possession charges. It's not the first time he's had trouble behind the wheel. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Megan Fox Becomes First Death Hoax Victim of 2013

    Megan Fox is the first celebrity death hoax victim of 2013. After a fake report was filed on Global Associated News, "RIP Megan Fox" started trending on Twitter. "Harry Potter" author J.K. Rowling was also declared dead on the social network, but is also alive and well. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


"Mob Wives" Season 3 Promises More Catfights, Cursing

    Season 3 of VH1's "Mob Wives" premieres Sunday, January 6th, and by the looks of the trailer, this season promises more drama and catfights between Renee Graziano, Drita D'Avanzo, Carla Facciolo, Karen Gravano, Ramona Rizzo, Angela "Big Ang" Raiola and newcomer Love Majewski. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Claire Danes Rumored To Be Leaving "Homeland"

    According to the National Enquirer, Claire Danes, who stars on the wildly popular "Homeland" on Showtime, is thinking of leaving. She and her husband Hugh Dancy just had a baby boy named Cyrus, and the rag says that she would leave to spend more time with him. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


Rapper Lil' Wayne Gets Tattoo On His Forehead

    Rapper Lil' Wayne is no stranger to tattoos, since most of his body is covered in them. But this time, he decided to get a tattoo on his forehead that says "baked" after the company Baker Skateboards. Kristina Behr gives you a look at his new ink, plus some of the other celebs who wear their passion on their faces. 
  


Bravo TV Star Kim Zolciak Reveals Post-Baby Body

    Former Bravo "Real Housewives Of Atlanta" star Kim Zolciak reveals her new body in Life & Style Magazine. John Basedow reports on Kim's 30-pound weight loss just four months after giving birth to son Kash, her second child in 15 months. While she tried high tech laser treatments in past battles with the bulge, she credits her hectic life and working on her new show, "Don't Be Tardy," for her current success.
  


Rob Kardashian Disses Kim's Baby Before Marriage

    Rob Kardashian says that while he's excited to be an uncle again, he kind of dissed Kim and Kanye's baby announcement swearing he'll be married first before he has a baby. Kristina Behr takes a look at some of the other celebrity couples who had a baby before they walked down the aisle, and are still going strong. 
  


Honey Boo Boo Returns With Halloween Special in January

    Honey Boo Boo, the TLC ratings juggernaut, is powerful enough to make her own calendar. As John Basedow reports, Alana Thompson brings Halloween to January in the first of four "HOLLAday" specials on The Learning Channel. Thanksgiving comes on January 13th and we'll see the Thompson family celebrate Christmas on February 17th.
  


Most Anticipated Music Moments of 2013

    From Beyonce getting ready to hit the stage at the Super Bowl half-time show, Lady Gaga releasing her "Artpop", and Dave Grohl teaming with everyone including Stevie Nicks, Trent Reznor, and  Paul McCartney, we're taking a look at the most anticipated music moments coming in 2013. Our Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Kim Kardashian Sex Tape Sales Explode After Pregnancy Announcement

    Kim Kardashian's pregnancy is a goldmine for her sex tape sales. As John Basedow reports, Vivid Entertainment, the owners of Miss Kardashian's x-rated "Kim K Superstar," saw sales spike 80 percent since current boyfriend Kanye West announced the baby news. It's the biggest increase since Kim's wedding to Kris Humphries. 

  


Kanye West May Protest Grammy Awards

    Kanye West recently went on a tirade against the Grammy Awards, criticizing all the times he's been snubbed -- despite earning 18 awards for his record label in the past. And, the rapper claims he might not show up to this year's ceremony, where he's been nominated for six awards. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Kim Kardashian Stars In Tyler Perry's Temptation Movie

    Kim Kardashian is adding movie star to her resume. As John Basedow reports, the reality TV queen is featured prominently in the trailer for Tyler Perry's new movie, "Temptation: Confessions Of A Marriage Counselor," getting listed ahead of Vanessa Williams and Brandy Norwood in the trailer credits.
  


Quentin Tarantino's Best Movie Scenes

    Quentin Tarantino just earned a Golden Globe nominated for his new movie "Django Unchained," and critics are saying this could be a big Awards season for him. To honor the movie's success, we are taking a look at some of the best Tarantino movie scenes of all time. Our Kristina Behr gives us her picks.
  


FBI: Ashton Kutcher, Justin Bieber 'Swatting' Hacker Arrested

    Ashton Kutcher and Justin Bieber were victims of the same swatter, according to the FBI. If you don't know, swatting is when a person calls in a fake emergency at someone's house to police. Scary right? Well the FBI has a suspect in separate incidents that involved the celebrities. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Most Popular TV Shows 2012 

    The top trending TV shows for 2012 are all about reality and competition. As John Basedow reports, rival singing shows "American Idol" and "The Voice" battle TLC's "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo" for the top spot. An honorable mention goes to "Duck Dynasty."

  


Deadmau5 and Kat Von D Get Engaged Via Twitter

    DJ Deadmau5 and Kat Von D are engaged to be married after he tweeted his proposal. It's a little bit of a shock considering Kat Von D tweeted not so long ago that the pair had split. But congratulations are in order! Patrick Jones reports.
  


Jon Stewart Calls Hugh Grant Worst 'Daily Show' Guest

    Jon Stewart, host of "The Daily Show," revealed to a crowd that his least favorite guest of all time is Hugh Grant. This is because, according to Stewart, Grant was a diva and gave everyone a hard time during a 2009 taping. Stewart says that Grant won't ever be allowed back on the show. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Angry Birds Movie Confirmed

    Angry Birds will be made into a 3D animated feature film, according to Rovio Entertainment, the company that makes the game. The movie is set for release in 2016. Kristina Behr has more on the news and offers up some casting suggestions.  
  


Jersey Shore, Real Housewives Stars Taking A Dive On TV

    We know Dancing With The Stars and Ice Skating With The Stars but what about Diving With The Stars? John Basedow reports on a new Fox TV show called "Stars In Danger: The High Dive" which will have celebrities compete in a series of Olympic style dives. The first eight contestants are MTV Jersey Shore's JWOWW, Bravo Real Housewives of Beverly Hills sisters Kim and Kyle Richards, former NFL Pro Terrell Owens, soap star Antonio Sabato Jr., pro surfer Bethany Hamilton, and Baywatch alums Alexandra Paul and David Chokachi.
  


New Star Trek Trailer Promises "Dark" Sequel

    The latest trailer for "Star Trek: Into Darkness" gives fans some answers to many questions they've been asking about the J.J. Abrams sequel. For instance, we learn that actor Benedict Cumberbatch, who is from the hit BBC TV series "Sherlock," embraces his villainous side and takes on the role of Khan in the movie. Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


The Biggest Grammy Nomination Snubs 

    The Grammy Awards nominations were announced, and Kanye West, Jay-Z, fun., Mumford & Sons, Frank Ocean, and The Black Keys' lead singer Dan Auerbach all got the most nods with six a piece. However, some artists like Justin Bieber, Nicki Minaj, Carly Rae Jepsen, One Direction and Gotye barely got any recognition -- if any at all! Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Outrageous Gender Bending Photo Contest Changes Top Celebrities

    Want to see Robert Pattinson as a woman or Kristen Stewart as a man? As John Basedow reports, Worth1000.com hosted a gender bender photo editing competition where entrants swapped the sexual identities of President Barack Obama, Rihanna, Chris Brown, Angelina Jolie, Hugh Hefner, Sean Connery, the cast of "Vampire Diaries" and many other celebrities.
  


Octomom Nadya Suleman Gets Multiple Porn Award Nominations 

    Octomom Nadya Suleman is becoming a star in the porn industry. As John Basedow reports, Nadya's first adult film, Octomom Home Alone, is nominated for four AVN Awards, which are like the Oscars for sex tapes. Octomom says she's totally honored and "blown away" to be nominated.
  


New Star Wars Movies Can Count On Ewan McGregor, Carrie Fisher

    Casting for the new Star Wars movies should be easy since most of Hollywood is looking for a role. As John Basedow reports, Ewan McGregor is the latest celebrity to say he'd be interested in reprising Obi-Wan Kenobi in the next Star Wars feature. Billy Dee Williams (Lando Calrissian) and Carrie Fisher (Princess Leia) also want in, as does former Twilight vampire Robert Pattinson.
  


Lindsay Lohan Arrested for Club Fight

    Actress Lindsay Lohan has been arrested and charged with misdemeanor assault after an alleged altercation at the New York City nightclub Avenue, where she's accused of hitting a fellow patron in the face. The incident is the latest in a series of highly-publicized run ins with the law. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Jared Leto Waxes Eyebrows, Starves Himself for Movie Role

    Jared Leto is known for drastically changing his appearance for movie roles and his look for the upcoming "Dallas Buyers Club" is no exception. The actor waxed his body - including his eyebrows - and lost an almost unhealthy amount of weight to play a transsexual character with AIDS. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Rainn Wilson of The Office Parodies Angus T. Jones

    Angus T. Jones of "Two and a Half Men" recently released a video bashing the show that made him famous, and Rainn Wilson did a parody, as a way to promote the final season of "The Office." Gillian Pensavalle has the comparison.
  


Ben Savage, Danielle Fishel To Star in "Boy Meets World" Spinoff

    Ben Savage and Danielle Fishel, who played Cory and Topanga in the original ABC TV series "Boy Meets World," have both agreed to join the Disney spinoff "Girl Meets World." The two will reprise their roles, but this time will also be parents of 13-year-old Riley Matthews, the still-uncast star of the show. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


2013 Zombie Swimsuit Model Calendar

    The good people of ad agency Ireland Davenport and FX 110 a channel that broadcasts the American Movie Classics show "The Walking Dead" overseas put together a free promotional calendar to highlight the shows return. It's a zombie swimsuit model calendar and they just released behind the scenes footage of the shoot. Patrick Jones loves it but just feels a little weird loving it.
  


Lenny Kravitz to Play Marvin Gaye in Upcoming Biopic

    Rocker-turned-actor Lenny Kravitz, who was most recently seen in "The Hunger Games," is reportedly taking on the role of R&B legend Marvin Gaye in the upcoming biopic "Midnight Love." Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


HBO Releases "Game of Thrones" Season 3 Trailer 

    There's a new trailer out for the third season of HBO's "Game of Thrones" and while it's exciting, it doesn't give too many details. The only thing we know for sure is that season three starts on March 31st, 2013. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Joan Rivers is Mistaken for an Illegal Alien

    Joan Rivers was stopped by the border patrol in England while she was filming her show, "Joan Knows Best." The patrol was suspicious of a fishing boat Joan was using, and then they mistook her as an illegal immigrant. Patrick Jones doesn't think that's so strange, but he's glad everything was eventually cleared up. 
  


Famous Movie Roles Rejected by Top Stars

    Famous movie characters are made in large part by the famous actors who played them. But what is those defining roles were originally meant for someone else? 
What if Al Pacino played Superman instead of Christopher Reeve? That almost happened! Gillian Pensavalle has a lost of some other famous roles that almost never were. 
  


Janeane Garofalo Unwittingly Married for 20 Years

    Janeane Garofalo recently found out she had been married for 20 years to "The Big Bang Theory" executive producer Rob Cohen. The two wed while drunk at a drive-thru ceremony in Las Vegas. They were able to get it dissolved, but the whole thing is hilarious. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Jurassic Park Celebrates 20 Years with Jurassic Park 3D

    Jurassic Park is about to turn 20 years old and will be celebrating with a 3D release next year. Dinosaur lover Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


XXX Porn Parody of "Breaking Bad" Hits the Internet

    There's some new "Breaking Bad" footage on the internet but it's not the kind you think. Sweet Mess Films gives Breaking Bad the XXX parody treatment! Gillian Pensavalle has the story and some other porn parodies you may not know about.
  


Harrison Ford in Talks to Return as Han Solo in Star Wars: Episode 7

    The rumors are flying now that Disney bought LucasFilm and announced Star Wars: Episode 7. The latest gossip is that Harrison Ford is interested in reprising Han Solo, even though he wasn't too thrilled about the character way back. Gillian Pensavalle breaks it down.
  


Hollywood Shocker: Revealed Original Titles of Classic Movies Are Too Awful To Believe

    Many classic films we know and love were very close to having some unfortunate titles.  Some of the classics that dodged a bullet include Casablanca, The Breakfast Club and Saturday Night Fever. Gillian Pensavalle has the unbelievably bad original names.
  


Scary Movies Make You Shed Pounds

    The latest diet craze involves watching movies. Not just any movies; only horror films. Scary movies get us all worked up and that burns calories.  But what about the popcorn?  Tim Minton has the list of top horror classics that cause weight loss.

 
  


Realistic Gollum Sculpture "Welcomes" Visitors to New Zealand Airport

    A gigantic, and realistic, sculpture of Gollum from "The Lord of the Rings" series now greets visitors to Wellington Airport in New Zealand, which is being called the Middle of Middle Earth. The installation comes ahead of the release of "The Hobbit," the latest movie from Peter Jackson. Gillian Pensavalle takes a look at the new addition. 
  


Amanda Bynes: Leave Me Alone, I'm a Retired Multi-Millionaire

    Amanda Bynes has threatened to sue In Touch magazine for running a story about the troubled actress reportedly running around naked in a tanning salon. Bynes denies the report and adds that people need to respect her privacy as a 26-year-old retired multi-millionaire. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Ryan Gosling Video Shows Him as Adorable 12-Year-Old Mouseketeer

    Canadian TV station, CTV dug up some old footage of an adorable 12 year-old Ryan Gosling from their morning show "Canada AM." The fledgling mouseketeer talks about making it to the Mickey Mouse Club. Vanessa Yurkevich as more on the charming interview.
  


Bravo Real Housewives Divorce Curse

    Being a Bravo TV Housewife can take its toll on a marriage. To date, a staggering 14 couples divorced since the wives became Bravolebrities. Real Housewives of Atlanta, Beverly Hills, Orange County, Miami, New York and DC all faced the reality-show curse, leaving only New Jersey unaffected…so far. John Basedow reports.
  


"Game of Thrones" Life-Sized Throne for Sale

    Want to get in on the Game of Thrones?  For $30,000 you can win the whole thing!  ThinkGeek.com is selling a life-sized Iron Throne, inspired by HBO's "Game of Thrones."  Gillian Pensavalle has the story and is accepting donations for her very own Iron Throne.
  


Stephen Colbert Gets Role in "The Hobbit"

    Stephen Colbert, host of Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report," has reportedly got himself a small role in one of the two "The Hobbit" films. He says his love of J.R.R. Tolkien's works got him an invite from director Peter Jackson and things went from there. Patrick Jones is excited.
  


"Game of Thrones'" Emilia Clarke Will Have "Breakfast at Tiffany's" on Broadway

    Emilia Clarke is heading to Broadway as Holly Golightly in an upcoming production of "Breakfast at Tiffany's."  Clarke is best known for her role as The Khaleesi in "Game of Thrones" - a far cry from Audrey Hepburn's most iconic character.  Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Peanuts Celebrate 65 Years with New Movie in 2015

    The Peanuts are gearing up for the 65th Anniversary with a movie being released on November 25th, 2015. The animated feature of Snoopy and the gang is being produced by Charles Schulz's son and grandson, so they are keeping it in the Peanuts family. Gillian Pensavalle has the story and a happy dance.
  


Louis CK Taking "Louie" Hiatus Until 2014

    Louis CK says his hit FX show "Louie" will be taking a hiatus until Spring 2014. Louis writes, directs and edits the show, and he says the time off will help turn Season 4 into something "really great." He'll be staying busy though, continuing to tour and record his stand-up comedy. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Pop Stars Turned Movie Stars, from Worst to Best

    A lot of pop stars have tried to crossover on to the silver screen and some have succeeded more than others. Gillian Pensavalle takes a look at list compiled by TotalFilm.com of the worst to the best, from Gerri Halliwell of the Spice Girls to Frank Sinatra and Bette Midler.
  


Papparazzi Use Drones, Hacking to Get Celeb Photos

    Paparazzi photos are big money, not only for the photographers but for the sites who post them as well. Nude photos of Kate Middleton and other nude draw tons of clicks to satisfy the world's hunger for peeks into their lives. For example some paparazzi goes as far as using drones to fly over places where celebrities are hiding. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Photographer Recreates Movie Scenes with Computer Prints

    Movie lover and amateur photographer Chris Moloney recreates movie scenes with black and white images printed from his computer.  Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Facebook, Twitter Help Celebs Make Comebacks

    While some celebrities may dislike the idea of social media, others have used it to their advantage. Stars like James Van Der Beek, Betty White and George Takei have become social media pros. Gillian Pensavalle has more... and a meme of her own!
  


Flight of the Concords Creates Hilarious Song for Children's Charity


	Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement of Flight of the Conchords have dropped a song to help out a children's charity called CureKids. They're back in character, along with Murray, as they go from the regular role call to funny interviews with kids. The kids' answers helped create the song, which is now availible on iTunes. Patrick Jones is delighted by the new track and their efforts.



Arnold Scwarzenegger Turns 65: A Look Back


	Arnold Schwarzenegger is 65. Hard to believe, as he still seems like the guy chasing down predator, yelling get to the chopper! But the actor known for his roles in the Terminator series, Total Recall and Twins is no senior citizen. So happy birthday Arnold from Buzz60! Patrick Jones reports.



Dick Clark's Malibu House Right Out of Flintstones, For Sale


	Dick Clark's mountaintop Malibu home sits on 40 acres and has increbile Pacific and valley views but it also looks almost exactly like the Flintstones house in Bedrock. And it has just one bedroom. All for $2.5 million. Jay DeDapper says that's a pretty good deal.



Kanye West Wants Kim Kardashian to Look More Natural Like Kate Middleton


	Kanye West reportedly wants girlfriend Kim Kardashian to tone down the makeup. Kim's stylist Rob Scheppy admitted that Yeezy wants Kim's look to be more natural, like Kate Middleton. Many would argue that Kim Kardashian is perfect just the way she is. Rena Karefa-Johnson rules on whether Kanye's request is Disgusting or Delicious. 

Politics Buzz

Claiming Size Matters, NYC Mayor Bloomberg Bans Big Sodas 


	Forget about super-sizing sugary drinks in New York City starting in Spring of 2013. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, frustrated he couldn't get a "soda tax" passed, is ordering restaurants and delis to stop selling sodas, sugared teas and other sweet high-calory beverages in containers bigger than 16 ounces.  "We're simply forcing you to understand" the risk of obesity, said the mayor.



Geraldo Rivera Considering Senate Run

    Geraldo Rivera says he's considering running for Senate. He announced on his radio show that he's reached out to the Republican Party in regards to a New Jersey seat currently held by Democrat Frank Lautenberg, 89. Patrick Jones wonders if the controversial TV and radio show host has more going for him than his mustache.  
  


Man Sues After State Rejects Gay Pride Vanity Plates

    A Georgia man is suing the state after he claims the Drivers Services Department rejected his vanity plate requests three times. James Cyrus Gilbert says his rights to free speech were restricted when his application for plates 4GAYLIB, GAYPWR and GAYGUY were rejected. Jen Markham has the story and what other plates did and didn't make the cut. 
  


White House Ups Minimum Petition Signatures Required for a Response

    The White House has increased the minimum number of signatures needed on "We The People" petitions to elicit an official response. As Patrick Jones reports, petitions will now require a minimum of 100,000 signees, up from 25,000. Their reasoning: the site's popularity was making it difficult to keep up with the responses. They hope the higher number will give them more time to spend on responding to those petitions that make the cut. 
  


Congress Less Popular Than Root Canals, Cockroaches

    Public Policy Polling has discovered that Congress is very unpopular right now, getting less favorable ratings than Donald Trump, root canals, the band Nickelback and cockroaches. However, the legislative body did win out against some competition. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Obama Racks Up Expensive Dinner Tab

    President Barack Obama is being criticized for some pretty hefty costs for official state dinners. White House receipts show the First Family spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to entertain leaders of other countries in their home. Patrick Jones has a few alternate menu ideas.


  


GOP Loses With Any Immigration Deal 

    No matter where the Republicans come out on immigration reform, they lose. Get tough, and they lose ethnic voting blocks. Get soft, and they wipe out any leads they have for registered voters in red states. Jay DeDapper explains.
  


Man Has No Regrets Over Romney Face Tattoo

    Eric Hartsburg auctioned space on his face for a tattoo. The winning bid was a person who slapped a Romney-Ryan tat on Hartsburg's temple. For reasons that go beyond having a face tattoo that's pretty awkward, although he remains optimistic. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Candidate Tied Election, Wife Didn't Vote

    Robert McDonald tied the election for the last seat on the city of Walton, Kentucky's council. The unfortunate thing for him is that his wife didn't have the opportunity to vote for him! Without that vote, the election will go to a coin toss, but who knows about the marriage. Patrick Jones reports. 
  


Redskins Rule Predicts Presidential Election

    The Redskins Rule predicts the result of presidential elections based on whether the NFL team that moved to the American capital in 1937 wins or loses its final home game before election day. The rule's been right in 17 out of 18 elections since FDR's election. Tim Minton says Barack Obama figured to get the 2012 prediction. But Mitt Romney supporters got a gameday surprise.
  
Len Berman's Sports Time Out

Thunder, Heat Lead Sports World Full of Weather-Based Names


	Weather forecast or sports show? It's sometimes hard to tell. The NBA Finals matchup is a meteorologist dream with the Miami Heat facing off against the Oklahoma City Thunder and then there's the Tampa Bay Lightning and the Carolina Hurricanes in the NHL. Len Berman says it gets even crazier once you start including disasters like (the San Jose) Earthquakes, (the Colorado) Avalanches and (the Brooklyn) Cyclones. 



NBA Finalizes Plans to Ban Flopping

    The NBA says it's finally going to do something about the bad actors in the league -- not off the court, but during games. The league has plans to get rid of the "floppers." Len Berman says other sports deal with the problem, and now it's the NBA's turn to shine the klieg lights on the Oscar pretenders.

  
What the Buzz?!

Cat is a Memory Game Master 


	We've all seen the memory game, most likely at a sports stadium, where you have to guess which helmet the baseball is under. A cat named Frida Kahlo from Berlin may have mastered it. She looks cute as she studies the movements of the shells, and is pretty good at following her way to the correct answer. Patrick Jones is nervous she's better than him.  



Murderer Mistakenly Released from Jail

    Steven Robbins is serving a 60-year prison sentence for murder in Indiana but was accidentally released after charges were dropped in an unrelated court case in Chicago. He was transfered temporarily to Chicago to face the charges but was released mistakenly after his court appearance instead of being sent back to Indiana. The man hunt is on. Patrick Jones has the rest. 
  


Grandmother Gets Four Speeding Tickets on Way to Dance Recital

    Police in southern Minnesota handed a lead-footed grandmother four speeding tickets in three hours along the same stretch of roadway.  Jen Markham explains why the granny had her foot to the floor.
  


Real Life Ken and Barbie Hate Each Other

    The man and woman who altered their bodies to become real-life Barbie and Ken did not hit it off. The two met at a photoshoot and it was not a love connection. Instead, Justin Jedlica and Valeria Lukyanova started insulting each others overly-plastic bodies. Gillian Pensavalle tries to mediate.
  


Weird Traffic Laws

    There are some very odd traffic laws across the United States that you might not know about. From use of dirty underwear to restrictions on gorillas in the backseat, Gillian Pensavalle highlights some of the strangest traffic laws around.
  


Naked Public Intoxication Suspect Serenades Cops

    Police say a naked New Orleans man being arrested for lewdness broke out into song while touching himself. Officers say they didn't recognize the tune Osmar Hernandez, 33, was singing but they were eventually able to get him to dress himself. He now faces public intoxication and obscenity charges. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Bacon Taco Shell: Disgusting or Delicious?

    Philadelphia restaurant PYT has created an all-bacon taco shell. Think ground beef, cheese and salsa all wrapped in a weave of crispy pork fat. Rena Karefa-Johnson wonders whether these mini heart-attacks are disgusting or delicious.
  


Man Calls 911 After Being Stood Up

    A man called 911 after a woman he drove 400 miles to meet stood him up. Unfortunately, the police stood him up as well. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Restaurant Serves Dirt 

    Ne Quittez Pas is French restaurant in Tokyo. It's making waves all over the world however because its chef developed a several-course meal with one common theme...dirt. Yes, every dish features dirt. Reviews have been positive, but obviously eating dirt leaves some people skeptical. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


New Zealand Call to Eliminate Cats To Save Birds

    A New Zealand economist and environmentalist is causing a furor by calling for the elimination of all cats in his home country.  Jen Markham reports the man behind the movement says the pro-cat lobby is as fervent as the pro-gun lobby in the United States
  


Stoner Mice Blamed For Missing Marijuana Evidence

    Police in Wichita say pot-loving mice are to blame for the disappearance of three bags of marijuana that were torn into at a storage facility.  Jen Markham has the story of the stoner mice still on the loose in Kansas.
  


Scientist Examines What Dinosaur Would Taste Best

    A professor at Montana State University is studying what dinosaur meat would taste the best. His answers will surprise you, especially what he says about Tyrannosaurus rex meat. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Man Busted for DWI Wearing Breathalyzer T-Shirt

    A Wisconsin man was arrested for DWI while wearing a t-shirt making fun of drinking while driving. Jen Markham explains why the charges the man is now facing ensure the irony of the t-shirt.
  


Baby Flung From Car During Crash

    A one-year-old girl is seen being flung from a car and almost run over by a truck in dash-cam video captured in Russia. According to published reports, the child was not wearing a seat belt and, instead, was placed by her father on a shelf in the back window. After suffering a concussion and bruises, the little girl is expected to recover. Femi Redwood has the story. 
  


Boy Fakes Kidnapping So Parents Miss Teacher Conference

    An 11-year-old boy from Spain faked his own kidnapping so that his parents would miss out on a meeting with his teachers. Police spent more than two hours searching for the boy before his father discovered him hiding in an apartment the family owned. Jen Markham has the story. 
  


Tail for Humans Claims to Wag When Excited

    Introducing Tailly! The wearable tail for humans that is claimed to wag based on your heart rate. Gillian Pensavalle isn't sure how that works because you wear it around your waist. But she has a theory.
  


Hooters Revamps Restaurants For Family Friendliness

    Hooters, originally known for hot wings and hotter waitresses, is looking to make its restaurants more family friendly. In honor of the chain's 30th anniversary, Hooters unveiled a new restaurant design geared to modernize the restaurants and make them more comfortable for families. Rena Karefa-Johnson rules on whether this transformation is disgusting or delicious. 
  


Police: Naked Woman Drunk Behind the Wheel

    Police in Sparta, New Jersey investigating an accident scene say they found a 36-year-old woman wearing nothing but an unzipped leather jacket. According to the cops, the woman was slurring and unable to say where she was going. She now faces multiple charges after she allegedly failed the field sobriety test. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Scientist Determines Most Depressing Day of the Year

    A British scientist discovered that January 21st is the most depressing day of 2013, a day he's calling Blue Monday. He based his finding on the weather, the number of holiday shopping bills due, the likelihood New Year's resolutions have been suspended and other factors. But some are poking holes in his theory. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


NASA Sends Mona Lisa Into Space

    NASA successfully sent Leonardo Da Vinci's Mona Lisa into space. Scientists used a laser to beam the masterpiece onto a space craft orbiting the moon, making it the first time there's been one-way laser communication at a planetary distance. Gillian Pensavalle has the story and what this might mean for future communication in space.  
  


Nasty Client Website Turns Tables on Angie's List

    A landscaper fed up with the one-sided nature of review sites like Angie's List created the site nastyclient.com. There small business owners can share reviews about bad customers.  Jen Markham explains how the site works and why customers should treat contractors as they'd like to be treated.


  


eBay Listing Goes Viral Thanks to Naked Seller

    A British woman's used ASOS dress goes for nearly $250,000 on eBay after she "accidentally" posts a photo of the dress with her naked body visible in the image.  Jen Markham explains why the sale has prompted some on Twitter to claim the nudity was no accident.
  


Wrangler Launches Moisturizing Jeans

    Sick of putting on lotion and/or dieting? Wrangler has your back with its new line of moisturizing and cellulite fighting jeans. Lizzie Jagger, daughter of Mick Jagger and Jerry Hall, is the face of the Denim Spa line which features denim infused with different solutions meant to keep your skin silky smooth. Rena Karefa-Johnson decides whether the line, being sold on Asos.com, is disgusting or delicious.
  


Preschoolers Shown Porn by Mistake

    A French preschool class viewed several minutes of porn after their teacher clicked on the wrong file on her computer and then left the room while the movie played.  Jen Markham explains how the teacher meant to show the kids a cartoon but is now facing disciplinary action.
  


Smothered to Death by Breasts

    Police arrived at a trailer park in in response to a call of a man screaming. When they arrived they found a woman on top of a dead man. Police say the man was smothered to death by the woman's breasts. It's not the first time it's happened either. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Serial Toilet Part Thief on the Loose

    Police at several Wisconsin colleges and local authorities are looking for a person who they say has been stealing toilet flushing devices from fast food restaurants and college bathrooms for the past few months. They aren't exactly sure why the devices are being stolen. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Course Teaches How To Nail "X Factor" Auditions

    Bishop Auckland College in County Durham, England is starting a course that's controversial. The course is intended to help pupils learn how to nail auditions for shows like the X - Factor. Students will learn confidence and other techniques that the teachers say are typical of those who do so well. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Music Playing Coffin For Sale

    A Swedish man named Fredrik Hjelmquist has built a music playing coffin. It's designed with the hope that music fans will want to take their favorite songs with them so to speak. The playlist can be updated by anyone from outside of the coffin to keep things fresh. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Porn Site Holds Contest for Interactive Viewing Device

    Ever wonder what it could be like if pornography was more interactive? Now's your chance to make it happen! GameLink.com is holding a contest to see who can integrate their porn catalog with a motion sensor device. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Man, 94, Breaks Out of Hospital for a Birthday Beer

    A 94-year-old German man had to be escorted back to his Munich hospital bed after he broke out to celebrate his birthday at a beer hall.  Jen Markham explains why beer just doesn't taste the same in a hospital bed.
  


Alligator Found Guarding Marijuana in Home

    While doing a routine probation check up, police reportedly found an alligator named Mr. Teeth guarding 34 pounds of marijuana in a home. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Lawmaker Recommends Peeing in Shower to Save Water

    A government official in the Netherlands is recommending people urinate in the shower to save clean water.  Jen Markham tells us why those taking this advice to spare water should also spare folks at the gym. 
  


Joyride Ends When Girl, 12, Crashes Into 14-Year-Old Sister's Car

    A 12-year-old New Zealand girl's joyride came to an end when she crashed her car into another car driven by her 14-year-old sister, who was out looking for her. Neither were seriously injured. Jen Markham tells us why in times of trouble, it's always nice to have a big sister.
  


Thief Caught By Trail of Cheetos

    Police say Austin Lee Westfall Presler broke into a convenience store after hours, causing $2,500 worth of damage, and took some minor items like beer, cigarettes and munchies, including Cheetos. The Cheetos aspect is important because, according to police, he left a trail of the snack from the store to where he was staying. He's been charged with burglary. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Sent to Jail for Handcuffing Himself to Female Co-worker

    James Earl Dean waited for a female co-worker at a Georgia Taco Bell parking lot one night and then handcuffed himself to her. Her screams drew the rest of the staff out to her rescue. Dean was sentenced to four years in prison after pleading guilty to false imprisonment. Patrick Jones reports. 
  


Seniors Betting on When Cancer Patients Will Die

    The China Press is reporting that people - including family members and doctors - are placing bets on dying cancer patients in Taiwan. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Prostitutes Take English Classes to Prepare for Global Sporting Events

    Prostitutes in Brazil are starting to take English classes in anticipation of upcoming global sporting events including this year's Confederations Cup, the 2014 World Cup, and the 2016 Summer Olympics.  Jen Markham tells us how Brazil's working girls think the language skills will help them greet the world.
  


Thieves Steal iPads from Microsoft, Ignore Windows Devices

    Thieves broke into Microsoft's Research and Development Center in Silicon Valley to steal five iPads, passing over lots of Windows devices.  Jen Markham explains why even thieves don't want what Microsoft is building.
  


Man Offers Reward for Stolen Outhouse

    A man in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada is offering a cash reward for information about the thieves that snatched the $1,000 outhouse he built on his family farm.  Jen Markham tells us why making off with the outdoor bathroom had to be an impressive caper.
  


KFC Meal Looks Like Chicken Brains

    A man in England found what looks like brains in his KFC chicken. According to KFC it was probably a chicken kidney. MUCH Better! There were however no health risks despite the kidney's unsightliness. Patrick Jones reports.
  


People Spend Two Weeks Over their Lifetime Looking TV Remote

    A study by a UK website shows over the course of their lifetimes, TV viewers spend two weeks looking for the lost remote control.  Jen Markham tells us why advances in technology have not provided a solution to this age-old problem. 
  


Robbery Suspect Calls Mom To Pick Him Up

    Police say 22-year-old Florida man admitted to calling his mom to pick him up after he allegedly attempted to rob a convenience store. He left empty-handed but is facing attempted robbery charges, and likely a very disappointed mother. Kristina Behr has the story. 
  


Jilted Woman Gets Even by Auctioning Ex-Boyfriend's Fishing Spots

    A jilted woman in New Zealand got even with her ex-boyfriend by auctioning off the GPS locations of his secret fishing spots. Jen Markham explains how the auction collected thousands of views and netted her $3,000.
  


Pair Arrested for Three Fails to Rob Jewelry Shop

    Two men are under arrest in Australia after three botched robbery attempts on the same jewelry store. Their final attempt allegedly landed them in a Kentucky Fried Chicken. They were arrested after one of them confessed to their failed crime spree. Gillian Pensavalle explains.
  


Man Gets Prison Time for Poking Holes in Condoms

    A man in Nova Scotia is heading to prison for up to 18 months for poking holes in condoms he was using with his girlfriend. He says he thought having a baby would save their relationship, she didn't think so. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Taco Bell Hints at Cool Ranch Doritos Locos Taco

    Doritos Locos Tacos was the fast food gamechanger of 2012. Now Taco Bell's taken to Facebook to tease us with a potential Cool Ranch taco shell in 2013. Rena Karefa-Johnson weighs in.
  


Fake Date Tricks Cell Phone Thief

    Nadav Nirenberg's plan to get back his cell phone was very clever. He realized the cab driver who stole his phone was using his cell phone and OK Cupid to message women, so Nadav set up a fake profile and messaged the driver. It worked. Nadav used a date to lure the cab driver to a location where he got his phone back! Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Father Hires Video Game Assassin to Kill Son's Character

    A Mr. Feng in China found a creative way to try to motivate his 23 year old unemployed son: he hired someone to kill the young man's video game character so he'd stop playing and find a job. Gillian Pensavalle has the outcome of his interesting parenting experiment.
  


Law Forces Kids to Visit Elderly Parents

    Don't like visiting your parents? Well if you live in China you will now have to as part of a new law that was passed. The legislation states that children must visit their parents often. Could you imagine going to jail because you didn't visit your parents? Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Police: Texting Driver Hits Cop Car

    Police in Albany, Georgia say that Lauren Owens, 22, was texting when she crashed into the back of a cop car. She faces charges of failure to maintain a lane, texting while driving and not having her license. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Scientsts Use Gamma Rays to Make Instant Booze

    Scientists in Brazil found a way to speed up the aging process of alcohol - just give it a shot of gamma radiation! Researchers say that it's completely safe to drink, but since each radiation machine costs over $3 million, don't expect to see this radioactive booze in your local liquor store any time soon. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Strange New Laws in 2013

    Happy 2013! Before you get creative with your resolutions and do something other than dieting and working out more, check out these new laws that just went into affect. Gillian Pensavalle wishes you a happy, healthy and law-abiding 2013.
  


Police: Oompa Loompas Attack Man 

    A British man claims that he was beaten up by two men dressed as Oompa Loompas from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Police are now seeking the suspects. Patrick Jones has the unusual story. 
  


Spiders Making Incredible Decoys of Themselves

    The itsy-bitsy spider ain't no dummy. Scientists are observing spiders in South America that make actual copies of themselves to fool prey. The predators eat the decoys instead of the real spiders.  Patrick Jones has more.


  


Soccer Team Putting Fans' Names on Game Jerseys

    Real Sociedad, a soccer club in Spain's La Liga has an interesting campaign for the fans. It's called We Carry You on Our Shirts and what they're doing is selecting names at random from their fan club to put on their jerseys. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Woman Awarded Worker's Compensation for Sex Injury

    An Australian woman's claim for worker's compensation for a sex related injury while on a business trip was originally denied then approved on appeal.  The court ruled that her employer, the Australian government, didn't have the right to condone or not condone sex as a part of typical behavior. Patrick Jones reports.  
  


The Dirtiest Tech Gadgets We Use Everyday

    Some of the tech gadgets we use everyday have more bacteria than a toilet seat. John Basedow has the dirty truth about our computer keyboards, cell phones and remote controls, along with what can be done to clean them up.
  


Holiday Party Brawl Ends When Hand Grenade Explodes

    A joint holiday party for about 4,000 employees of Mazda and Ford in Thailand got a little out of hand. A brawl broke out over prizes being given out. The melee increased to a point where a person took out a hand grenade and used it. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Famous Twitter Last Words From Twilight To Edison

    Who knew that Thomas Edison would be immortalized on Twitter? As John Basedow reports, there's a new Twitter account called @LastWords1 that highlights the final lines of books and the last words uttered by famous people on their deathbed.
  


Man Busted Stealing Miley Cyrus Blowup Doll

    Benjamin Greene, a 22-year-old man from North Carolina was caught allegedly attempting to steal a Miley Cyrus sex doll from a South Carolina Spencer's Gifts. He now faces misdemeanor shoplifting charges, but Patrick Jones wonders if the shame he's gotta be feeling is enough punishment already.
  


The Headbutt King of the World 

    A strange video is going around of an intense guy talking about headbutting, elbowing and kneeing people in a fight. He uses cantelopes to show how he does it. The video's popularity caused some people to dubb him the headbutt king of the world. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Man Fails Horribly at Space Jump Reenactment

    Remember the Felix Baumgartner jump from space for Red Bull? This is nothing like that. A kid trying to pull a stunt jumping off of a brick ledge onto an exercise ball completely misses and hurts himself bad. He shatters two vertebra and needs extended time in the hospital. Patrick Jones has the video. 
  


Novak Djokovic Buys World's Supply of Donkey Cheese

    Tennis superstar Novak Djokovic has bought the world's supply of donkey cheese, known as pule. Djokovic plans to use the incredibly rare and expensive product that hails from his native Serbia in his soon-to-be opened restaurants. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Drug Dealers Use 'Weed Cannon' to Get Marijuana into U.S.

    The United States Border Patrol was tipped off about cans in a plowed field near the Colorado River. Upon inspection, the USBP discovered the cans were sealed and filled with marijuana. The theory is that drug dealers from Mexico used air cannons, similar to those used at sporting events for t-shirts, to get the weed into the United States. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Invisibility Cloaks Real Possibility, Company Claims

    Quantum Stealth is a material made by Hyperstealth Biotechnology that the company says bends light to make the person wearing it invisible. The U.S. military is seeking a new camouflage uniform and believes this one has potential. Patrick Jones sees many implications for this invisibility cloak. 
  


New Handcuffs Can Shock, Inject Drugs

    Handcuffs haven't been updated in a while. This new design being worked on by Scottsdale Inventions, according to a recently filed patent, will potentially be able to administer shocks, as well as inject the restrained person with anything. They are not ready to be rolled out yet, but it's bound to be a controversial topic. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Dogs Taught to Drive for Animal Adoption Campaign

    The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Auckland, New Zealand is teaching dogs to drive. It's part of a marketing campaign aimed at highlighting that rescue animals can be taught new tricks and are not second-rate animals. The videos coming out are adorable! Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Inmate Found Stuck in Wall Trying to Escape Prison

    Guards at a prison in Brazil found an inmate stuck in the wall as he attempted to escape. The hole wasn't big enough for all of the big man to pass through.  Two other prisoners waiting to get out behind him will be waiting for some time to come. Those are the breaks. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Drive-In Prostitution Approved 

    Zurich, Switzerland legalizes prostitution, but with a unique twist. The sex-for-hire workers are confined to zones where customers drive through. Officials say the drive-in method allows a closer eye on the sex trade and confines it to specified areas. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Solid Gold Christmas Tree For Sale

    A $4.2 million solid-gold Christmas tree is for sale at a jewelry store in Tokyo. It stands eight-feet tall and weighs 88 sparkling pounds. So far there haven't been any takers, but Patrick Jones has some other crazy dipped-in-gold items that you can buy...if you need that special gift.

  


Serbian Town Warns of Vampire on Loose

    The town of Zarozje, Serbia is very nervous. There's a legend of a vampire who hid in an old mill but that mill recently collapsed leaving residents to believe that he walks the streets. It's being taken so seriously that the mayor is telling residents to stock up on garlic and crosses. Patrick Jones wonders what would happen if it was revealed to be a hoax. 
  


Women Charged with Assault Over Unsatisfying Sex

    Patrick Jones brings you two stories involving the police and sex. Arteesha Donaldson was arrested for allegedly assaulting her girlfriend with an ironing board after Arteesha reportedly became angry and blamed her girlfriend for misplacing a sex toy. In the second Racquel Gonzalez was arrested and charged with assault after she allegedly began clawing at her boyfriend for being done with intercourse before she was.
  


Man Learns Wife of 19 Years Was Born a Man

    A man from Belgium learned that his wife of 19 years was actually born a man. His wife's cousin finally spilled the beans. That was the last straw in the relationship but they still live under the same roof after a judge ruled that the husband couldn't evict her. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Man Spends Life Savings on Ark for 12/21/12 Apocalypse 

    A Chinese man spent his life savings, about $160,000, on an ark he says will help protect him during the apocalypse some say will happen on Dec. 21, 2012. It doesn't appear to be the sturdiest thing ever built. Patrick Jones warns about getting swept up in the apocalypse fever.
  


2013 Zombie Swimsuit Model Calendar

    The good people of ad agency Ireland Davenport and FX 110 a channel that broadcasts the American Movie Classics show "The Walking Dead" overseas put together a free promotional calendar to highlight the shows return. It's a zombie swimsuit model calendar and they just released behind the scenes footage of the shoot. Patrick Jones loves it but just feels a little weird loving it.
  


Man Arrested After Telling Kids Santa Isn't Real

    A man was arrested for public disturbance and a probation violation after he allegedly drunkenly told kids at a Christmas parade that Santa Claus was not real. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


72-Year-Old Grandpa Is Next Top Model

    Liu Xianping, 72, of China started modeling women's clothes for his granddaughter's boutique clothing shop, Yecco. Since he began, the store's business had quadrupled. Patrick Jones has the rest. 
  


Peacock Romance Saves Turkey from Chopping Block

    A turkey was destined for the chopping block until a farmer noticed a budding romance between her and the farm's resident peacock. Vanessa Yurkevich has more on how the peacock, Pendragon, and Ms. McFeathers are the most unlikely birds of a feather. 
  


Company Selling Mannequins with Cameras Inside

    A store mannequin manufacturer is offering a model that has a camera in the eyes. They say the camera can help retailers learn more about customers from a new perspective. Benetton's and Nordstrom's are already using the eye-mannequins, but not many other stores have signed up yet. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Caught on Video: Burglar Begs Victim Not to Call Police

    Los Angeles Police say that the crime scene allegedly left behind by Miguel Luna is a study in how to get caught.  Miguel Luna was caught by the owner of the home he was allegedly about to rob. He made a run for it his car but it wouldn't start so he had to leave it there parked. But the car wasn't the only evidence left behind. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Lost Camera Found Around Bird's Neck

    Karen Gwillim found a digital camera around the neck of a large bird and posted the photos on Facebook to find the owners. After a few weeks and a television appearance, the camera owners came forward. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Truffles the Guinea Pig Makes Guinness Book of World Records, Breaking His Own Long Jump Record

    The Guinness Book of World Records is welcoming one of its weirdest and cutest new record holders. Truffles the Guinea Pig holds the new rerecord for the long jump, with an 18.9 inch jump. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Cops: Man Steals Delivery Car, Makes Deliveries

    A man is accused of stealing a delivery boy's car and then continuing to make the deliveries. It was pretty easy to catch the thief because the restaurant had the police set up at addresses on the delivery route and that's where they nabbed him. Patrick Jones reports.
  


XXX Porn Parody of "Breaking Bad" Hits the Internet

    There's some new "Breaking Bad" footage on the internet but it's not the kind you think. Sweet Mess Films gives Breaking Bad the XXX parody treatment! Gillian Pensavalle has the story and some other porn parodies you may not know about.
  


Children's Bedtime Stories Get Terrifying Twist Thanks to Greenpeace 

    Greenpeace is using children's stories to warn of the dangers of the removal of trees. A new campaign created for the environmental rights organization has woodland creatures meeting violent ends as a result of deforestation. Patrick Jones has the disturbing tales. 
  


Kid Steals 4K From Parents for Candy

    A kid in Ukraine stole $4,000 dollars from his parents which was sitting under a sofa. Obviously not the best place to hide money but he took that money out and spent it on candy. Patrick Jones brings it to you.
  


Study: Women Can Smell Wimpiness in Men

    Women can smell nervousness and repulsion on men, according to a study out of the Netherlands. Scientists had men watch "The Shining" and MTV's "Jackass" and then bottled that sweat. Smelling the results had almost a contagious-like effect on the women. Patrick Jones has the story.  
  


Woman Sentenced to Wearing an Idiot Sign

    A woman in Cleveland has been sentenced to wear an "I am an Idiot" sign for two days for driving past a school bus stop sign. She was caught on camera by the bus driver who set up a sting operation. Patrick Jones wonders how the judge came up with this punishment. 
  


Drinking Human Toe Cocktail Gets You Into Special Cocktail Club

    If you're thinking you can stomach the toe, step up to the bar at the SourDough Saloon in Canada's Yukon territories. There, you can get a pickled human toe in any drink as a right of passage. To complete it, and become a member of the Sourtoe Cocktail Club, you'll have to allow the toe to touch your lips. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Defendant Wants Murder Trial to Hurry So He Can Watch "Monday Night Football"

    Nathan Burris is representing himself against charges of murder. According to those present in the courtroom, Burris admitted to the murder several times and even snapped his fingers urging the prosecutor to hurry the proceedings along so that Burris could get back to his cell and watch "Monday Night Football." Patrick Jones has the details.
  


The Weirdest Job Application Could Make You An Internet Star

    It's the weirdest job application you may ever see but it could make you an Internet star. Wieden & Kennedy Portland, the company responsible for cyber sensation Old Spice TV commercials, is trying to find a social media strategist who will rock the Internet. As John Basedow reports, the job application includes ten challenges, including uploading armpit shots to Instagram and getting the most people to friend your parents on Facebook.
  


Nudity in Coffin Ads Causes Controversy

    Lindners is a Polish coffin company that has gotten a little creative with its advertising. Lindners is displaying its products in a calendar featuring naked women. This decision has the Catholic Church upset, saying the calendar doesn't respect the dearly departed. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Man Sues Wife Over Ugly Baby

    A Chinese man sued his now ex-wife over the couple's ugly daughter. He was unaware his wife had plastic surgery before they met, making her better looking than her gene pool. The court ruled in his favor, saying her wife married him under false pretenses and ordered her to pay him $120,000 in damages. Patrick Jones has the unbelievable story. 
  


Realistic Gollum Sculpture "Welcomes" Visitors to New Zealand Airport

    A gigantic, and realistic, sculpture of Gollum from "The Lord of the Rings" series now greets visitors to Wellington Airport in New Zealand, which is being called the Middle of Middle Earth. The installation comes ahead of the release of "The Hobbit," the latest movie from Peter Jackson. Gillian Pensavalle takes a look at the new addition. 
  


Catching Giant Rats Can Earn South Africans Free Cell Phones

    There's a giant rat problem in South Africa. It's so bad that the city of Alexandra is offering a bounty to anyone who brings in 60 or more of the varmints. The prize? A free cell phone.  Even though some oppose the offer, as Patrick Jones explains, business is brisk.





  


Female Black Belt Chops Away Tiger Shark

    A woman tourist who was attacked by a 12-foot Tiger shark used her karate skills to fight back and sent the monster packing.  She fared a lot better than a surfer who was killed by a shark recently at the same beach in Maui.  Patrick Jones has details.




  


"Cannibal Cop" Arrested In Plot to Kidnap, Cook Women

    NYPD Officer Gilbert Valle is under arrest  in an alleged plot to kidnap and cook women. Police said Valle was nabbed when his accomplice flipped and helped an FBI investigation.  The arrest ame before any of the targeted women were abducted. None was harmed. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Shark Falls Out of Sky Onto Golf Course

    A shark fell from the sky onto a green of a hole at the San Juan Hills Golf Course in southern California. It was found and rescued by the course marshall. The best guess is that a bird of prey had scooped it up in the shallows and then dropped it. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Abercrombie CEO's Weird Private Jet Rules

    Abercrombie and Fitch CEO Michael Jeffries has some weird rules for the company's private jet and its staff. The rules, which cover everything from what underwear the crew should be wearing to what music is playing, surfaced after a 55-year-old pilot sued the company, saying that he was removed from his position for being too old. Patrick Jones has the rest. 
  


Man Pays Someone to Slap Him to Prevent Him From Facebooking

    Maneesh Sethi noticed his productivity at work slipping and decided to take action. He hired a woman from Craigslist for $8 an hour to slap him every time he logged onto Facebook. The so-called Slap Challenge seems to be working. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Viral Weirdos Crash, Fall and Embarass Themselves

    Wanna see some people injure and embarrass themselves? Yeah, it's the internet! Patrick Jones' got three videos of some guy crashing his bike, another guy trying to jump through solid ice and a final person let's say misinterpreting some workout videos. 
  


Blind Man Tasered after Police Mistake his Cane for a Samurai Sword 

    A blind man on his way to a bar was stopped by police who mistook his walking cane for a samurai sword. The man was shocked with 50,000 volts.  Gillian Pensavalle tells us what happened next.


  


Four Freakiest Dinosaurs That Should Be In "Jurassic Park 4"

    Dinosaurs are a huge part of pop culture due to the success of the "Jurassic Park" movies. Tyrannosaurus Rex is a household name, but John Basedow found four freakishly bizarre, lesser known dinosaurs that could steal T-Rex's thunder if Steven Spielberg casts them in "Jurassic Park 4."
  


Funeral Strippers Pole Dance for the Dead

    Everyone mourns in their own way. But in Taiwan they choose to have big parties complete with parades, fireworks and strippers!  Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Inventor Creates Salt Shotgun to Kill Flies

    Lorenzo Maggiore has a new idea about how to get rid of flies and it involves a shotgun. He's trying to take his product, the Bug-A-Salt, to market and is looking for $15,000 to help him do so.  The gun uses table salt to destroy the flies. Patrick Jones loves the idea.
  


Police: Woman Hid Meth in Her Private Parts

    Nicole Denzer was arrested for allegedly driving erratically and possessing a controlled substance. During a search of her jail cell, a drug sniffing dog sniffed her privates and she allegedly admitted she had meth in there. She now faces up to 25 years behind bars. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Hundreds Build Human Towers for 24th Annual Tarragona Castells Competition

    Thousands of spectators gathered in Spain for the 24th annual Tarragona Human Tower Competition. Thirty groups participated in the two-day event, where the object is to build the tallest and most complex human tower, and then safely dismantle it. Patrick Jones has pictures of the spectacular event.
  


Video Shows Teen Licking Entire NYC Subway Rail for One Dollar

    There's a viral video of a teenager licking an entire New York City subway entrance hand rail. Yes, that's gross. What makes it better is he did it all for $1! Patrick Jones walks you through this nonsense.
  


Two Men Banned From All-You-Can-Eat Buffet For Eating Too Much

    Two men are banned from a Mongolian BBQ restaurant for indulging in the all-you-can-eat buffet.  The management says they have abused the buffet for over 2 years and are no longer welcome.  Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Four Pound Chalky Hairball Removed From Girl's Stomach

    A girl in India went to the hospital after she was unable to eat or drink. Doctors poked around and found a four pound collection of chalk and hair that was preventing anything from passing through. They operated and removed the mass -- and took pictures! Patrick Jones has the details.
  


'Bagel Heads' Body Modification Trending in Japan

    The "Bagel Head" body modification trend is continuing to grow in Japan and, with all its recent press, could start spreading. The process involves getting a saline solution injection under the skin of the forehead so that it fills up, and then pushing in the center creating a bagel look. Forget tattoos and piercings, Patrick Jones has more on these Bagel Heads. 
  


Alarm Clocks Make You Solve Puzzles Before Turning Off


	Alarm clocks are bad enough. Afterall, waking up is a real drag.  You have to stop dreaming, leave your comfortable bed. Now, to make it worse, there are apps that make you solve puzzles before they shut off. An exhausted Gillian Pensavalle has the story.



Man Calls 911 After Daughter Refuses to Buy Him Beer


	Robert Hagerman faces charges of reporting a false crime after police say he dialed 911 15 times claiming his daughter was beating him and using drugs. Except, it turns out, the dad just wanted some beers. Patrick Jones has the rest of the story. 

	 



Man Hopes to Set World Record Pulling 40-Ton Train with His Hair 


	Sailendra Nath Roy might have himself a new world record after pulling a 40-ton train two-and-a-half inches with his hair. The claim is being submitted to the Guinness Book of World Records. This wouldn't be Roy's first world record. Patrick Jones has the rest.



NASA Claims Starships Traveling Faster Than Light Maybe Possible


	Scientists at NASA think that bending space and time could be possible. This would allow starships to travel faster than the speed of light and thus zip between different solar systems. Devices used in Star Trek might not be that far off as NASA scientists have begun testing their designs and theories in the lab. Patrick Jones has the rest.



Cops: Woman Pulls Gun on Man During Sex in Moving Car


	Amanda Linscott is charged with armed robbery after allegedly holding a gun to a man's head during sex with him while he was driving. Police say she was looking for money from the man whom she had met earlier that night. Patrick Jones has the great details.



People Who are Busted for Hiding Monkeys, Dogs in their Pants


	Johna Turner is charged with animal cruelty after police say she put a five-week-old Chihuahua down her pants. When told to remove the dog she shook her leg and the dog came out the bottom.  And in India, three travelers stopped because two of them were found to have monkeys down their pants. Patrick Jones has the details.



Portable Stripper Pole Hits the Market 


	The company Platinum Stages is giving the pole more accesibility than just in strip clubs and gym classes. The mobile stripper pole can hitch up to any truck or fold neatly into a case that can be tossed into a car for any exotic dance on the go. Priya Desai takes a look at the stripper pole..... travel edition. 



Doctor Finds Spider Inside Woman's Ear Canal


	A woman in China complaining of pain and itchiness discovered that a spider in her ear canal was to blame. The spider had climbed into her ear while she was sleeping and had stayed for five days. Doctors were able to remove the spider but scientists warn incidents like this could increase thanks to global warming. Patrick Jones has the story. 



NYC Restaurant Creates Buzz with Liquor-Infused Sandwiches


	Food-flavored alcohol, from bacon vodka to pizza beer, is so last year. Salume, a NYC restaurant, is all about alcohol-flavored food. Its gourmet Italian paninis  are made with meats that have been infused with alcohols like gin or grappa. Rena Karefa-Johnson has more.



Giant Mech Warrior Robot For Sale


	The Kurata 01 is a giant Mech that comes complete with reportedly safe cannons and BB gatling guns. We're skeptical about the safety, but sold on the cool - even if the price tag is $1.4 million. Then there's the question of the wrong people getting hold of this monster. Our Patrick Jones thinks it through. 



Astronauts Say Space Stinks


	Astronauts returning from the International Space Station say that space stinks, bad. They describe it as a mixture of burnt steak and hot metal that lingers on their gear. NASA  scientists say the smell is caused by the astronauts themselves, stiring up particles as they move. Patrick Jones has the rest. 



Surprising Items You Can Put in Your Checked Luggage


	The Transportation and Safety Administration is good about letting passengers know what can and cannot be carried on a flight. The TSA also has an extensive list of what passengers can check in their luggage. Some may be surprising. Vanessa Yurkevich answers the question, can I check my meat cleaver?



Designers Draw Up Plans For Drive-Through Airport


	Amsterdam based design firm Buro Fur Mehr has designed plans for a drive-through airport. And what is that? The idea is giant airports could be made smaller and offer faster service if instead of bringing poeple to planes, you bring planes to people. Patrick Jones wonders, what could go wrong with that idea.



Colony on Mars Set for 2023; Company Seeking Four for Trip


	Mars One has plans to set up a colony on the Red Planet by 2023. Look out NASA and SpaceX. In just four years from now, the private Dutch company wants to have a communications satellite in place, followed by rovers, infrastructure creation, and capped by a astronaut voyage. However, as Patrick Jones notes, there is a catch for those making the trip -- it's a one-way ticket.



Galaxies Set to Collide, but Can Earth Survive?


	Scientists are confirming what was once just a great sci-fi movie plot. The Andromeda Galaxy will collide with our Milky Way Galaxy, forming a single mega-galaxy. Don't cancel your weekend plans, it's not supposed to happen for another four billion years. But is it the end of Earth? Patrick Jones has the answer?



Claiming Size Matters, NYC Mayor Bloomberg Bans Big Sodas 


	Forget about super-sizing sugary drinks in New York City starting in Spring of 2013. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, frustrated he couldn't get a "soda tax" passed, is ordering restaurants and delis to stop selling sodas, sugared teas and other sweet high-calory beverages in containers bigger than 16 ounces.  "We're simply forcing you to understand" the risk of obesity, said the mayor.



Man Turns Nerf Gun into 20,000-Volt Tesla Gun


	A man has turned a rather harmless Nerf gun into a Tesla gun that shoots out 20,000 volts of electricity and he's posted instructions on his website for others to build it, too. Rob Flickenger says it's based on the weapon in the graphic novel The Five Fists of Science. Patrick Jones has more on Flickenger's creation, which looks like it's straight out of the movie "Independence Day."



Poo WiFi Turns Dog Waste Into Free WiFi


	Internet provider Terra has teamed up with ad agency DDB to create a contraption called Poo WiFi that transforms dog waste into free WiFi in ten Mexico City parks. The machine turns on free WiFi for a period of time dependent on the weight of the deposit.



Online Dating Sites for Dogs All the Rage


	Worried that your pup might be unlucky in love? Just sign them up for online dating! Social networking sites like Dogster, Spotwag and Matchpuppy allow owners to make profiles for their pups and match them for play dates. Rena Karefa-Johnson has more.



Doctor Brings Traveling Hangover Treatment to Las Vegas


	Hangover Heaven aims to cure revelers in Las Vegas of their next-day pains in just 45 minutes. The traveling treatment center was created by Dr. Jason Burke and makes pickups at many major hotels along the Las Vegas Strip. Packages start at $90 and go up to $500 for in-room services. Patrick Jones has more on what customers can expect.  



Video Captures St. Maarten Beach-goer Getting Blown Over by Jet Propulsion 


	Maho Beach in St. Maarten is beautiful, but it's also very, very windy as a result of its proximity to Princess Juliana International Airport. One beach-goer learned that lesson too well. Gillian Pensavalle has more.



Urinal Game Let's You Play Guitar 


	A new urinal game called Guitar Pee lets you play guitar while using the restroom. It has several tabs you can relieve yourself onto, producing a different guitar noise for each. There's even a mobile-only website that allows you to listen to what others have recorded. Patrick Jones can't wait.  



Fridge Magnet Allows for Instant Pizza Ordering 


	A pizza company, Red Tomato Dubai is coming out with a fridge magnet that will allow customers to order with the press of a button. You synch up your order with your smart phone and whenever you're hungry just give that button a press. Patrick Jones thinks there should be a petition to get this in the United States immediately. 



Nokia's Vibrating Tattoos Buzz When Your Cell Phone Rings


	Nokia has filed a patent for a vibrating tattoo using magnetic ink that would allow your mobile phone to buzz you when you get a call, text or email. The technology allows for different buzzes for different alterts. But why stop there? 

Life Buzz

Fridge Magnet Allows for Instant Pizza Ordering 


	A pizza company, Red Tomato Dubai is coming out with a fridge magnet that will allow customers to order with the press of a button. You synch up your order with your smart phone and whenever you're hungry just give that button a press. Patrick Jones thinks there should be a petition to get this in the United States immediately. 



Husbands With More Masculine Chores Have More Sex

    A study shows married men who spend more time doing traditionally female chores have less sex than men that don't do as many of those chores. Jen Markham explores if the findings say something about sexual desire or time management.
  


Dolce & Gabanna Launches Baby Perfume

    Dolce & Gabanna is the latest luxury fashion brand to launch a designer fragrance made for babies. Jen Markham explains why it's difficult for high-priced luxury baby fragrances to improve on a baby's natural scent.
  


Best Colleges for 'B' Students

    The US News & World Report put together its top 11 schools for 'B' students. The list is called A+ Schools for B Students. The rankings are based on the schools having a B range of test scores and GPA for admissions, how the school ranked on the overall report, and freshman retention rate and could be helpful for students starting to get acceptance letters in the mail. Patrick Jones has the list.
  


New Pepper Spray Takes Photo of Attacker

    A new type of pepper spray is being developed that takes a photo of your attacker while also calling an emergency phone number. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


Kate Upton Stars in Sexy Shoe Campaign

    Model Kate Upton, who exploded onto the scene last year wearing a barely-there bikini for the "Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition," is now the face of Sam Edelman shoes. The company says it chose Kate for the ad campaign because she isn't "stick thin." Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Restaurant Serves Dirt 

    Ne Quittez Pas is French restaurant in Tokyo. It's making waves all over the world however because its chef developed a several-course meal with one common theme...dirt. Yes, every dish features dirt. Reviews have been positive, but obviously eating dirt leaves some people skeptical. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Study: Lightning Could Cause Migraines

    Research is finding that there may be a link between lightning and migraines. The reason could be changes to the air's ionic charges from a lightning strike affecting a person's brain, giving them a migraine. But the scientists admit more research needs to be done. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Bacon Taco Shell: Disgusting or Delicious?

    Philadelphia restaurant PYT has created an all-bacon taco shell. Think ground beef, cheese and salsa all wrapped in a weave of crispy pork fat. Rena Karefa-Johnson wonders whether these mini heart-attacks are disgusting or delicious.
  


Coach to Launch Women's Clothing Line

    American handbag maker Coach announced it will begin producing a line of womenswear. Jen Markham reports the more than $4 billion a year business has hired the former creative director of Bonobos to design the line. There's no word yet on what role the famous "C" logo will play. 
  


Twitter's Vine App Flooded with Porn 

    Twitter's new video app Vine is being flooded with porn. But, given the social network's emphasis on free speech, it doesn't plan on removing the videos. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Coach to Launch Women's Clothing Line

    American handbag maker Coach announced it will begin producing a line of womenswear. Jen Markham reports the more than $4 billion a year business has hired the former creative director of Bonobos to design the line. There's no word yet on what role the famous "C" logo will play. 
  


Microsoft Uses 90s Nostalgia in Ad

    The 1990s are back in full effect in Microsoft's new Internet Explorer commercial. From The Oregon Trail to Tamagotchi's to JNCO jeans, get ready to take a trip down memory lane. Gillian Pensavalle is definitely feeling nostalgic.
  


Majority of Parents Lie to Their Kids, Study Finds

    A study done by the University of California concluded what you've probably suspected: your parents lied to you. Researchers say lies are tools parents use to correct children and get their behavior in line with what's considered normal. Although they did say parents should be careful about that. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Smartphone Skin Cancer Apps Can Make Fatal Mistakes 

    Smartphone apps are being used to diagnose skin cancer but, as John Basedow reports, they're no doctor. A new study found 30-percent or more potentially lethal melanomas were not detected by the smartphone apps. False readings can result in life-threatening delays in getting proper treatment.
  


Fewer Chicken Wings Available for Super Bowl

    The National Chicken Council says that because of less chickens being raised due to higher feed costs, there will be fewer chicken wings available for Super Bowl XLVII and they will be more expensive. As long as you can still get them, right? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Transit Trivia Tests New Yorkers' Subway Knowledge

    The New York Transit Museum held its first "Transit Trivia" night where 200 devoted buffs answered questions about what's below ground, like "What's the highest subway station, not just in New York, but the world?" Kristina Behr has the details, but some of the answers are on our facebook page. 
  


Study: Condoms Don't Make Sex Less Enjoyable

    A study concluded that men don't find sex with a condom to be worse than sex without one. Men aged 18-59 both gave the both versions of sex the same high rating in the Indiana University School of Public Health questionnaire. Seems pretty obvious, right? Patrick Jones reports.
  


DIY: Snackadium for Super Bowl Parties

    A Super Bowl party is nothing without good snacks. But you don't have to be a top chef to create the Snackadium, all the party treats you can imagine put together in the shape of a stadium. Gillian Pensavalle walks you through how to make one. 
  


Smart Fridge Helps with Cooking, Food Shopping

    Samsung's T9000 refrigerator does a lot more than just keep your food cool. The $4,000 fridge comes with recipe apps like Epicurious and can even sync to your smartphone for shopping lists and for reminders of the expiration dates of your milk and cheese. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Study: Third of Facebook Users Leave Site Depressed

    A study in Germany found that a third of users leave Faceboo feeling depressed or anxious. They say that's because users look at their friends' pictures and think that they have better jobs, are more popular and live more exciting lives. Which may not always be the case. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Controversy Over Super Thin Male Models 

    While weight has always been an issue when it comes to the runway, criticism usually is drawn to female models. But at the Yves Saint Laurent show at Paris Fashion Week, the male models are at the center of the controversy, being called "dangerously thin." Kristina Behr has the details. 
  


Flu Sorbet: New Tasty Treatment

    Jeni's Splendid Ice Cream is now making an influenza sorbet that includes pepper, ginger, honey, orange juice, lemon juice, whiskey, and a little bit of medicine. It's based off a classic home remedy for fighting the flu and it's selling for $12 a pint. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Scientist Determines Most Depressing Day of the Year

    A British scientist discovered that January 21st is the most depressing day of 2013, a day he's calling Blue Monday. He based his finding on the weather, the number of holiday shopping bills due, the likelihood New Year's resolutions have been suspended and other factors. But some are poking holes in his theory. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Mila Kunis Butt Cream Ad Banned

    An ad for Rodial's Body Sculpture cream claiming to give a user Mila Kunis' figure, has been banned in the UK for being misleading. Jen Markham tells us how this isn't the first beauty product ad to be outlawed in the UK for making promises it can't deliver.
  


Vogue Superstorm Sandy Spread Causes Controversy

    Vogue Magazine released an editorial in the February issue aiming to celebrate Superstorm Sandy's first responders, shot by famed photographer Annie Leibovitz. While some love the photos, others say it's in poor taste. Kristina Behr has the details
  


Wrangler Launches Moisturizing Jeans

    Sick of putting on lotion and/or dieting? Wrangler has your back with its new line of moisturizing and cellulite fighting jeans. Lizzie Jagger, daughter of Mick Jagger and Jerry Hall, is the face of the Denim Spa line which features denim infused with different solutions meant to keep your skin silky smooth. Rena Karefa-Johnson decides whether the line, being sold on Asos.com, is disgusting or delicious.
  


Dunkin' Donuts Expanding to California

    Dunkin' Donuts is expanding over the next few years, planning to jump from 10,000 to 15,000 locations. They're starting in California in 2015, making a lot of celebrities very happy. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Crazy Blind Date App Lives Up to Its Name

    Online dating site OkCupid.com has a new smartphone app called Crazy Blind Date which does just that: sets up dates for people who know absolutely nothing about each other. The app is available on iPhone and Android. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


Easy to Fall in Love with Siri, Other Cellphone Assistants

    A survey says the majority of smartphone users feel a close, personal connection with their virtual assistants. Apps like Siri and GoogleNow are winning people over with their endless knowledge and witty comebacks. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Flu Fears Cause Youth Soccer High-Five Ban

    A New York City youth soccer league is asking players to stop high-fiving and fist-bumping during games to help curb the spread of influenza. Jen Markham has the story of the league's healthier celebration alternative during flu season. 
  


World's First Smartphone Breathalyzer to Debut at SXSW

    Breathometer, Inc. has created what it calls the World's First Smartphone Breathalyzer. The company plans to introduce the product at this year's South by Southwest festival. Gillian Pensavalle has the details.
  


Study Can't Find Any Men Who Haven't Watched Porn

    Well so much for the funding. A study in Canada was trying to figure out how internet porn affects men's mind. The problem was that they had nothing to compare it against. The study had to scrap itself because they couldn't find any men who hadn't seen porn. Patrick Jones reports.
  


FAA Warns of Exploding Airline Coffee Filters

    The FAA is telling flight attendants to beware of exploding coffee filters on fights. Jen Markham explains the danger and what it could mean for passengers.
  


Judge Nixes Lawsuit Against Bethenny Frankel's SkinnyGirl 

    A NYC judge has nixed a class action lawsuit against Bethenny Frankel's SkinnyGirl Margarita brand. Plaintiffs claimed they were lied to over the type of tequila used in the product. But one of the men involved in the suit said he would have purchased the drink regardless of the cost because his wife liked it. Jen Markham has the story.  
  


Fat Genes Determine Obesity According to UCLA Study

    New research shows weight gain from a high fat diet is genetic. John Basedow reports on the first comprehensive study, done at the University of California Los Angeles, that links body fat percentage increases to genetic factors in mice. Some mice fed a high fat diet for eight weeks saw no fat gain while others increased 600-percent in body fat. Diet and exercise remain huge factors in obesity and further research is needed to find designer drugs and treatments to target "fat genes."
  


McDonald's Replaces Toys With Books In Happy Meals

    McDonald's restaurants in the United Kingdom are giving kids books instead of toys in their Happy Meals. Some wonder if the trend will cross the pond and make its way to fast food chains in America. Femi Redwood has the story. 

  


Cheating Men Stay Faithful to "Infidelity" Cellphones

    A particular brand of older flip phones is gathering a faithful following from philanderers in Japan. The phone's ability to conceal any evidence of communication with private contacts gives them a free pass.  Jen Markham tells us how the phone works and how a similar app is gaining popularity in the U.S.


  


Incredible List of Rules from World's Worst Landlord

    Laura Evelyn tweeted out a list of 31 rules a potential landlord gave her as she looked into renting a room. The strict rules range from when she could shower, how long she could take to cook, how guests would need to be approved, and that there would be no pork allowed. Could you do this? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Girls Costume Designer Partners with Lingerie Brand

    Jenn Rogien, the costume designer responsible for the duds on Hannah and Marnie on the HBO hit "Girls," is partnering with American Eagle as the Style and Fit Expert for its lingerie line Aerie. It may seem an unlikely pairing, but "Sex and the City" costume designer Patricia Field had an even more surprising partnership with Kotex. Rena Karefa-Johnson decides whether the collaboration seems disgusting or delicious.
  


Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea Spreading

    Scientists are studying ways to treat new strains of gonorrhea that have recently shown up in North America. The strains have been documented in Europe and Asia, but these are the first cases in the West. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Kindness Inspires Tim Horton's Customers to Pay for Each Other's Coffee

    A drive-thru customer at a Tim Horton's in Winnepeg, Canada sets off a chain reaction of kindness when the customer pays for the next car's order, and 227 customers continue to pay it forward.  Jen Markham has the story.
  


Underweight Models Banned in Israel

    In an effort to change the way people view beauty, Israel is banning all underweight models from working in magazines and walking in fashion shows. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Kate Middleton and Prince William Sex Tape Voted Most Wanted

    The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have been chosen by voters in a new poll conducted by a porn company as the celebrity couple they'd most like to see appear in a sex tape.  Jen Markham tells us why the emergence of such a tape is unlikely.
  


Researchers Say Kindergarden is Rigged for Girls

    Economists say boys get worse grades than girls even though they do better on tests because kindergarden is rigged to favor girls. Jen Markham explains why the fix is in for five-year-olds.
  


People Spend Two Weeks Over their Lifetime Looking TV Remote

    A study by a UK website shows over the course of their lifetimes, TV viewers spend two weeks looking for the lost remote control.  Jen Markham tells us why advances in technology have not provided a solution to this age-old problem. 
  


Taco Bell Hints at Cool Ranch Doritos Locos Taco

    Doritos Locos Tacos was the fast food gamechanger of 2012. Now Taco Bell's taken to Facebook to tease us with a potential Cool Ranch taco shell in 2013. Rena Karefa-Johnson weighs in.
  


Study: Video Gamers Can Have Friends, Real Relationships

    A study claims that video game players aren't always loners. The Penn State report is good news for players who sometimes catch a bad wrap as loners. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


Panda Blood Stronger Than Antibiotics

    Scientists are discovering that beyond being cute and great a kung fu, humans may be interested in keeping the endangered panda bears around for their health benefits. They've found that there are agents produced naturally in a panda's bloodstream that could be used to fight super viruses. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Scientsts Use Gamma Rays to Make Instant Booze

    Scientists in Brazil found a way to speed up the aging process of alcohol - just give it a shot of gamma radiation! Researchers say that it's completely safe to drink, but since each radiation machine costs over $3 million, don't expect to see this radioactive booze in your local liquor store any time soon. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Holiday Parties Are (Yeech) Breeding Grounds for Stomach Virus

    Scientists say there's usually a jump in stomach viruses this time of year. They point to the close people-on-people contact at holiday parties. All that hugging and kissing everyone hello and goodbye. There are ways to stay healthy, like washing your hands, cleaning your counters and bathroom. But our Patrick Jones has an idea of his own. 
  


Mealworms to Become Protein of the Future

    Mealworms could replace chicken, beef and pork as the protein of the future, according to researchers in the Netherlands. They say the beetle larvae are much more sustainable than traditional animal protein, creating less greenhouse gas and requiring half the amount of energy. Jen Markham has the story.
  


The Dirtiest Tech Gadgets We Use Everyday

    Some of the tech gadgets we use everyday have more bacteria than a toilet seat. John Basedow has the dirty truth about our computer keyboards, cell phones and remote controls, along with what can be done to clean them up.
  


Squeezing Breasts Can Stop Cancer 

    Squeezing breasts can stop the growth of cancer, according to a study out of University of California, Berkeley. Scientists say the pressure causes malignant cells to change course. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Hasbro to Produce Gender-Neutral Easy Bake Oven Following Teen Petition

    Hasbro announces it will begin making a gender-neutral Easy Bake oven after 13-year-old  McKenna Pope of New Jersey successfully petitioned the toymaker to make a version of the oven she could give to her little brother for Christmas. Jen Markham tells us how one young girl was able to change the toy world.
  


Computerized Car Windshields Display Like Smartphones

    Two major automakers are working to develop high-tech windshield glass that can turn into a smartphone display.  Tim Minton tells us how glass will allow drivers to get information such as travel directions to weather information, all while keeping their eyes safely on the road.
  


Most Popular Diets 2012: Google Zeitgeist List

    The new year is upon us and that means weight loss resolution time. John Basedow reports on the most popular diets of 2012 as compiled by Google Zeitgeist. From Dr. Oz's raspberry ketone diet recommendation to Beyonce's Master Cleanse revelation to Michael Phelp's 12-thousand-calorie-a-day training diet, Google was on fire with people searching for fat-loss solutions.
  


Dissolving Condom Being Developed At University Of Washington

    Researchers at the University Of Washington are planning to change condoms as we know them. As John Basedow reports, they're developing a female hypercondom that scientists hope will stop unwanted pregnancies, block sexually transmitted diseases and release preventative drugs. Plus, it would dissolve inside the body.
  


Scientists Testing if Universe is Just Computer Simulation

    German scientists are testing a theory that The Matrix is real and the universe is really just a computer simulation. The scientists cite the laws of physics and constraints on energy particles as evidence. And, they believe we're not the first civilization advanced enough to run these complex universe models. But not everyone in the science community is thrilled with this assertion. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Decrease Cancer Risk By Eating Rainbow Of Fruits, Vegetables

    Micronutrients in brightly-colored produce may help decrease cancer risk. As John Basedow reports, researchers from Harvard Medical School and Brigham & Women's Hospital believe carotenoids, the pigments that give fruits and vegetables vibrant colors, have anti-cancer effects. Carrots, spinach and kale are particularly high in carotenoids.
  


Singing Tops Happiest Careers List

    Singers are the most content with their careers, according to a study of the happiest professions by MyPlan.com. Also ranking high are municipal fire fighters and aircraft assemblers. But what jobs tend to make people miserable? Patrick Jones has the results. 
  


Hoppit App Lets You Pick Restaurants, Bars by Your Mood

    The Hoppit App allows people to pick a restaurant, bar or lounge based on what they're mood is at the moment. You can also factor in who you'd be with, price, location and other details. Patrick Jones has the details. 
  


2013 Fashion Forecast

    Say goodbye to peplum dresses; 2013 fashion is here. Rena Karefa-Johnson names the most disgusting and delicious new trends including the color green, cutout dresses and short suits. 
  


Couple Creates Music Video to Announce Breakup

    A very creative Brooklyn couple created a music video as a way to announce their separation. It's a great idea because as most of us know it's not much fun explaining a break up to friends over and over again when you just want to move on. Maybe this starts a new trend. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Dirty Teeth Can Lead to Erectile Dysfunction

    A study out of Turkey concludes that poor oral hygiene can lead to erectile dysfunction. Your mother was right, forcing you to brush your teeth Now, Ed joins other more common problems associated with dirty teeth,  like chronic bad breath and heart disease. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Study: Psychopaths Are Better at Making Themselves Look Attractive

    A study finds that people who score higher on personality tests for traits associated with psychopathy are better at making themselves look attractive. Patrick Jones says there are exceptions to the rule though. 
  


Study: Soda Contributes To Prostate Cancer Risk

    A new study shows men who drink one soft drink a day have an increased risk for developing prostate cancer. As John Basedow reports, soda drinkers face about a 40 percent greater chance of coming down with more aggressive forms of prostate cancer than non-soda drinkers. Drinking water, however, still remains a great way to stay healthy.

  


Study Ranks Cities with Best Looking Residents

    Miami, Florida has the most attractive people in the United States, according to readers of Travel + Leisure Magazine. The publication asked readers to rank 35 cities in order to find the best looking people in America. Patrick Jones has what other cities were tops and what area, despite its natural beauty, is lacking in pretty people.
  


CineMode App Gives Rewards for Not Texting During Movies

    CineMode is a new app that rewards moviegoers with free popcorn and tickers for not using their phones while in the movie theatre. That idea got our Gillian Pensavalle wondering how bad the movie has to be to forget about the rewards.

  


Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 37 -- Last-Minute Preparations

    You're 37 weeks pregnant, full term, and it's time to learn the hospital procedure for your delivery. You should know your doctor's after-hours number, how long you should wait before calling and you should keep this information handy on your fridge or your phone. Parenticity's Dawn Siff breaks down the basics in this Growing and Glowing report. 
  


Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 38 -- Delivery Time

    You're 38 weeks pregnant and could deliver at any time. Parenticity's Dawn Siff walks you through what you can expect from when you arrive at the hospital for delivery, to who you will see (OBGYNs, anesthesiologists, nurses), to what you'll need (insurance card, patience) in this Growing and Glowing report. 
  


Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 39 -- Newborn Essentials

    You’re 39 weeks pregnant. Do you have everything you need to bring home the baby? In this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment, Dawn Siff explains that you don’t need to buy out the baby store or pharmacy to be prepared.
  


Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 40 -- Past Your Due Date

    When is this baby coming anyway? At 40 weeks pregnant, you’re deep into the waiting game. So why isn’t your baby here? What happens next? And what advice should you avoid? Dawn Siff explains in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment.
  


T-Shirt Let's You Wear A Book on Your Sleeve

    Can't keep track of your favorite book? Well a company called Litographs, puts the text from entire books on t-shirts and makes the literary fashionable. Vanessa Yurkevich has more on this novel idea. 
  


Chimps and Orangutans Have Midlife Crises 

    According to a group of international scientists, apes have mid-life crises, too. Although instead of doing something dramatic like buying a motorcycle, primates, chimps and orangutans specifically, seem to just get through it and get better with age. Vanessa Yurkevich has more on the study. 
  


DIY: Make Your Own Twinkies

    Hostess may be closing its doors, ending the era of the Twinkie. But there is no reason why you can't make this so bad, yet so good treat in your own home. Vanessa Yurkevich shows us how. 
  


Study: Dancing Helps Ease Arthritis

    A study done in New York concludes that light movement exercises can make a big difference in easing pain associated with Arthritis. They include pilates, yoga and dancing. So Patrick Jones invites you to lace up your dance moves and get it out on the floor.  
  


Study Shows Bored Animals Behave Like Humans

    Animals and humans are very similar... at least when it comes to how we behave when we're bored. Gillian Pensavalle highlights the similarities. 
  


Caffeine in Cracker Jacks May Be a Health Risk

    Cracker Jacks is adding caffeine in their Cracker Jack'd line. Not everyone is excited because health experts say it might be unhealthy. Cracker Jack'd adds to the list of products with too much caffeine like Red Bull, Monster and 5 Hour Energy that may pose a health risk. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Fake OkCupid.com Profile Shows How Low Men Will Go for Date

    Blogger Rob Fee shows us how low men will go for a date when he poses as a crazy girl on dating website OkCupid.com. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Reading Maxim Could Get You Robbed

    A study conducted by a criminologist concluded that people are more likely to be victims of theft if they appear to exhibit behavior outside the realm of normal. The test involved how much change would be taken by people working at car washes from cars with sexual materials, like Maxim magazine, and cans as opposed to those without. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Man Creates Gamer Paradise in Home

    Reddit user Citizen_Gamer posted photos of his friend's amazing gamer house and prepare to be blown away. The setup includes over 20 game consoles and several arcade games - even foosball. Gillian Pensavalle thinks it's only a matter of time before this guy starts charging admission.
  


App Helps Men Dress Themselves

    Dapprly is an app that helps men dress well. The tool helps users reach out to their social network on Facebook and Twitter for feedback on their outfits, especially ahead of big occasions like dates and job interviews. It also helps them develop their own unique style. Patrick Jones thinks it can be beneficial.
  


Man Changes Gender of Video Game's Characters for Daughter

    Mike Hoye was tired of doing gender translations on the fly while playing Nintendo's "Legend of Zelda" story with his three-year-old daughter. So he hacked the Wind Waker game, making Link into a girl and changing every he to she, him to her, and lad to milady. Vanessa Yurkevich has the story. 
  


Luxury Car Bentley Releases New Model with a Built In Office 

     The newest Bentley pampers big time execs by letting them take power meetings from the board room to the road. The car-maker's Mulsanne Executive Interior Concept comes complete with an Apple Processor, several big screen TVs, and a custom fitted pen. Priya Desai takes an inside look at the corner office on four wheels. 





  


Children's Bedtime Stories Get Terrifying Twist Thanks to Greenpeace 

    Greenpeace is using children's stories to warn of the dangers of the removal of trees. A new campaign created for the environmental rights organization has woodland creatures meeting violent ends as a result of deforestation. Patrick Jones has the disturbing tales. 
  


Men Who Can't See Their Manhood May Be Risking Their Lives

    A health advocacy group called The Big Check wants men to realize if they're a health risk. The test is real simple:  guys if you look down and cannot see past your stomach you're at a big risk and should go see a doctor. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Sandy Damage Estimate: Over 250,000 Cars Lost

    New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's latest damage estimate for Hurricane Sandy to the region is $50 billion. A part of that is the estimated 250,000 cars that will need to be scrapped due to flooding and other damage. One company, Fisker, lost $30 million worth of unsold Fisker Karmas at the Port of Newark alone. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Students Send Hamburger Up to Space 

    Space is all the rage right now and some unusual items are being sent on intergalactic journeys! Five friends from Harvard recently sent a hamburger to space and have video of the adventure. Gillian Pensavalle takes you on that trip, and looks at a Lego man and a teenager's early acceptance letter to MIT, which also took long voyages. 
  


Movie Experience Lets You Watch From a Hot Tub

    Hot Tub Cinema is an underground movie experience in London that allows viewers to take in a film, along with some food and drinks, from a hot tub.  It hosts screenings both indoors and outside with a variety of movies. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Study: Women Can Smell Wimpiness in Men

    Women can smell nervousness and repulsion on men, according to a study out of the Netherlands. Scientists had men watch "The Shining" and MTV's "Jackass" and then bottled that sweat. Smelling the results had almost a contagious-like effect on the women. Patrick Jones has the story.  
  


Drinking Human Toe Cocktail Gets You Into Special Cocktail Club

    If you're thinking you can stomach the toe, step up to the bar at the SourDough Saloon in Canada's Yukon territories. There, you can get a pickled human toe in any drink as a right of passage. To complete it, and become a member of the Sourtoe Cocktail Club, you'll have to allow the toe to touch your lips. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


Scary Movies Make You Shed Pounds

    The latest diet craze involves watching movies. Not just any movies; only horror films. Scary movies get us all worked up and that burns calories.  But what about the popcorn?  Tim Minton has the list of top horror classics that cause weight loss.

 
  


Nudity in Coffin Ads Causes Controversy

    Lindners is a Polish coffin company that has gotten a little creative with its advertising. Lindners is displaying its products in a calendar featuring naked women. This decision has the Catholic Church upset, saying the calendar doesn't respect the dearly departed. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Global Bacon Shortage Expected in 2013


	A global pork and bacon shortage is unavoidable in 2013, says the U.K.'s National Pig Association. The group claims that farmers must cut back on herd size due to the rising cost of pig feed, in part as a result of droughts in North America and Russia. Patrick Jones takes a look at the far-reaching impact of this reduced product. 



Top New Apps for Kids

    There are a lot of kid-friendly apps currently on the Apple and Android market. From silly photo apps like Facebomb Swap to The Digital Problem Solver from The Social Express, which helps children with special needs, Parenticity's Dawn Siff highlights some of the best. 
  


The Weirdest Job Application Could Make You An Internet Star

    It's the weirdest job application you may ever see but it could make you an Internet star. Wieden & Kennedy Portland, the company responsible for cyber sensation Old Spice TV commercials, is trying to find a social media strategist who will rock the Internet. As John Basedow reports, the job application includes ten challenges, including uploading armpit shots to Instagram and getting the most people to friend your parents on Facebook.
  


Sunscreens Can be Flammable and Set You on Fire

    It turns out that you can get burned whether you're wearing sunscreen or not! Some sunscreens are flammable and have actually set people on fire. Gillian Pensavalle has more.
  


Homeless Man Wins Lottery

    A homeless man from South Carolina won $200,000 from a lottery scratch off ticket. He did not want to have his name released, but it was revealed that he was a construction worker who had fallen on hard times, and sees this as an opportunity to get himself back to where he needs to be. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Man Pays Someone to Slap Him to Prevent Him From Facebooking

    Maneesh Sethi noticed his productivity at work slipping and decided to take action. He hired a woman from Craigslist for $8 an hour to slap him every time he logged onto Facebook. The so-called Slap Challenge seems to be working. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Best Cities to go Trick or Treating

    How do you rate cities as to how friendly they are to trick or treating? Real Estate company Zillow has a list of 20 Best Cities to go Trick or Treating. The findings are based on how walkable the cities are, safety and how much candy kids get. Vanessa Yurkevich tell us who made the top 5. 
  


No Homework? France Next to Consider Ban

    French President Francois Hollande is proposing a homework ban as a part of his education reform plan. France wouldn't be the first to do this; some places in Germany and the Untied States have tried similar bans. Nonetheless, this will be heavily debated, as the Patrick Joneses report.
  


New Effective Ways to Reduce Office Stress

    Stress at the office is right up there behind stress over money.  Old ways of dealing with stress, like counting to ten or closing your eyes, just don't cut it.  New research from the University of Massachusetts Medical School recommends meditation, breathing exercises, even plants. Patrick Jones walks us through some of the best and worst ways to handle STRESS.
  


Inventor Creates Salt Shotgun to Kill Flies

    Lorenzo Maggiore has a new idea about how to get rid of flies and it involves a shotgun. He's trying to take his product, the Bug-A-Salt, to market and is looking for $15,000 to help him do so.  The gun uses table salt to destroy the flies. Patrick Jones loves the idea.
  


Studies Look for Most Promiscuous City in America

    Two dating websites are claiming different cities to be America's most promiscuous. According to OKCupid.com, Portland is the most oversexed, while SeekingArrangements.com says it's Chicago. Both used different methods to come to their conclusions. Patrick Jones points out that the United States of America has some ground to make up if it's going to get into the top 5 worldwide.
  


Blacksocks: A Sock Matching App Unnecessarily Matches Same-Colored Socks

    Blacksocks is an iPhone application that helps users match their socks in the morning. For $189, you'll get ten pairs of socks and a sock scanner that will help you match the socks, and tell you when it's time to buy new ones. Patrick Jones thinks this is a complete waste.
  


HotTug Brings Hot Tub Comfort Onto the Water 

    HotTug is a new product out of the Netherlands that is a combination of a hot tub and boat. You can float around in the luxury of 100-degree water thanks to a wood stove that does the heating. The most expensive version goes for about $21,000 with all of the accessories. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Cute Pictures of Dogs and Cats Can Improve Human Focus

    A research group from Japan says that looking at cute pictures of animals in between mental activities may improve humans' ability to focus.  Gillian Pensavalle has the story and applied this very technique to her own research.
  


Best Times for Everyday Activities Can Be Based on Body Rhythm

    The Wall Street Journal condensed several studies into one article about the best time to perform some everyday activities. The WSJ based the optimum time for napping, tweeting, getting emails read, working out and eating on the body clock's natural rhythms. Patrick Jones breaks it down.
  


'Bagel Heads' Body Modification Trending in Japan

    The "Bagel Head" body modification trend is continuing to grow in Japan and, with all its recent press, could start spreading. The process involves getting a saline solution injection under the skin of the forehead so that it fills up, and then pushing in the center creating a bagel look. Forget tattoos and piercings, Patrick Jones has more on these Bagel Heads. 
  


Alarm Clocks Make You Solve Puzzles Before Turning Off


	Alarm clocks are bad enough. Afterall, waking up is a real drag.  You have to stop dreaming, leave your comfortable bed. Now, to make it worse, there are apps that make you solve puzzles before they shut off. An exhausted Gillian Pensavalle has the story.



iPad Owners Would Prefer Broken Nose to a Broken iPad, Study Finds


	A software company called Brainshark conducted a study on people's love for their iPads and what they would rather go without. You'd be surprised to hear what percentage would rather go without brushing their teeth or how many would prefer to have their nose broken than lose the portable device. Patrick Jones walks you through.



Kid Yanks Loose Tooth Out with Remote Controlled Monster Truck


	A great new video circulating on the web shows a tough little kid finding a creative way to pull out his first tooth. A first grader named Easton tied a string to his tooth and the other end to a remote-controlled monster truck. He controlled the truck as he gunned it and it yanked the tooth right out. Easton showed no signs of pain or discomfort. Patrick Jones is impressed.



Craziest Food Offerings at NFL Stadiums 


	It's the beginning of the NFL season and with that comes hope for a chance to see your favorite football team make it to the Super Bowl. Some teams may be luckier than others. So what's a fan struggling to see their team under .500 to do? Well, eat of course. Priya Desai takes a look at some crazy, and super-sized, stadium eats. 



Catroulette: Chatroulette For Cat Adoption


	Catroulette is a cat adoption website that operates on a similar basis to the Internet sensation, Chatroulette. Instead of nexting chatters, you look through videos of cute cats and kittens, all of which need homes. John Basedow reports.



Logitech, Finally, Release a Spillproof, Waterproof Keyboard


	Logitech has created a waterproof, sink-washable keyboard for all the computer-area snackers out there. Never again will you have to deal with the dead key that gets stuck because you spilled soda on it. Patrick Jones has the details of this exciting invention. 



The Fattest States in America Listed by Centers for Disease Control


	Red states, blue states, even square states. Now there are even fat states. The Centers for Disease Control lists the United States in order of obesity. Find out which states are the fattest. Patrick Jones hosts.



Facedeal Facebook App Gets Users Deals by Showing Up


	Facedeals is a new Facebook app that will get its users deals at local businesses. Participating vendors use cameras that recognize users by their Facebook pictures. Those actions are tracked and the app will then text users any deals based on their "like" history. Patrick Jones has the rest.



New Car Comes with Coffee Maker Built In


	So long Strabucks! The 2013 Fiat 500L comes with a built-in Lavazza coffee maker. It sits in the center-console area and comes with cups that hook up to the dispenser. Patrick Jones explains why having a water-boiling, espresso-making device could be a bad thing to have in an automobile. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 30 -- Setting Up a Birth Plan


	You're 30 weeks pregnant, three-quarters of the way through your pregnancy. Now’s a good time to start thinking about the delivery. You might have heard people talk about making a “birth plan.” So what is a birth plan and do you need one? Dawn Siff explains in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 29 -- Water Retention


	You’re 29 weeks pregnant and your wedding ring might be getting tight, or your shoes. Swollen feet, ankles and fingers are just a part of pregnancy, but there are things you can do that help. Dawn Siff talks about water retention or edema, in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 28 -- Knowing Your Maternity Policy


	You're 28 weeks pregnant and are now in the third trimester. It's a good time to start planning for the baby's arrival -- taking birthing classes, infant CPR classes and even child care classes. You should also start looking into your company's maternity policy. Dawn Siff has more on what you can do to prepare in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 27 -- Sleeping Difficulties


	You're 27 weeks pregant and growing at a rapid pace. As your belly continues to expand, you may be finding it increasingly difficult to sleep. Dawn Siff explains why and offers up a variety of techniques to get some shut eye in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



New Chemical Could Mean the End of Cavities, Dental Visits


	Keep 32, a new chemical developed by researchers in Chile could be our best answer to cavity control, ultimately defeating them! The researchers are confident that the new product, once put into toothpaste, mouthwash or gum could destroy all the bacteria that causes cavities and keep it that way for hours. Dentists might be out of business, but Patrick Jones is rejoicing.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 23 -- 3D Imaging


	You're six months pregnant and your baby is rapidly growing in size -- doubling in weight from one pound to two. You may want to get a better look at your little guy or girl but many medical professionals warn against getting a 3D look. Dawn Siff talks about this technology, the FDA's take and more in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 24 -- Classical Music?


	You're 24 weeks pregnant and your baby can now hear all kinds of noises. What can you expose them to? Can they understand your voice? Should you only listen to classical music like Mozart? Dawn Siff explores this and more in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 25 -- Glucose Tolerance Test


	You’re 25 weeks pregnant. Around this time of your pregnancy, your doctor may order a special screening called the glucose tolerance test or gestational diabetes screening. The test is given during the second trimester to check for a kind of diabetes that can develop in pregnant women. Dawn Siff explains in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 26 -- Momnesia


	It’s been called “mommy brain” and “momnesia” and at week 26 of your pregnancy, you might be experiencing it – that forgetfulness of everyday things. Whether it’s real is a matter of some debate. Some offer biological explanations, others blame pregnancy insomnia. Dawn Siff explains how you can combat it in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 21


	You're 21 weeks pregnant and your baby nearly weighs a pound. You may notice that your skin has been glowing lately. It's caused by an increase in blood flow and hormones. What do you do if your skin is getting too shiny or breaking out? What other skin changes can you expect? Dawn Siff has tips in this Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 20


	You're 20 weeks pregnant -- halfway through the pregnancy. Your baby's nerve pathways are developing and it will soon be able to control movement. This is around the time you'll have your second trimester ultrasound. Dawn Siff explains what you can expect in this Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 19


	You're 19 weeks pregnant and your baby now weighs about a half of a pound. One of the most important relationships you have during your pregnancy is with your doctor and you should feel comfortable asking him or her all sorts of questions. What do you do if it's not working out? Dawn Siff has some suggestions in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing report. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 18


	You're 18 weeks pregnant and your belly is getting noticeably bigger. You may notice that everyone, including strangers, may start asking you about your pregnancy and wanting to touch your stomach. Dawn Siff has some advice on how to manage these requests in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 22


	You're 22 weeks pregnant and your baby is now able to reach out and touch its face or grab the umbilical cord. One thing you might be noticing now is the linea nigra -- a dark line running down your stomach. You may also notice your skin is rather itchy. What causes it and what can you do to make it feel better? Dawn Siff explains in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment.



New Fragrance Line Lets You Smell Like Different Cities


	A new fragrance line called Scent of Departure promises to let you smell like 14 different cities. Places like Paris, London, Milan, Hong Kong, Dubai, Los Angeles and New York. Wait, New York?! Who wants to smell like New York City? Patrick Jones has the rest.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 16


	You're 16 weeks pregnant and it's time to talk about dental hygiene. Pregnancy can be incredibly hard on your gums and teeth thanks to an increase in progesterone and more breathing through your mouth. It's crucial to keep up the brushing and flossing. Dawn Siff has more on what you can do in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 15


	You're 15 weeks pregnant, around the time you can find out your baby's gender. Do you want to know if it's a boy or girl? The most common way to find out is through an ultrasound. Dawn Siff explains the procedure and some reasons to find out or wait in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 14


	You're 14 weeks pregnant, the start of the second trimester, and your baby is about the size of a small lemon. You may have many questions, including whether you can have sex during pregnancy. The quick answer: yes. Dawn Siff explains that and more in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 13


	You're 13 weeks pregnant and almost done the first trimester. While your nausea or morning sickness may have died down, you may notice that you're snoring. It's a result of increased blood flow throughout your body. What to do? Dawn Siff has some suggestions in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. To see more images from this time, go to EHD.org.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 11


	You're 11 weeks pregnant, so what can you expect? One thing is a heightened sense of smell. You may notice that certain smells make you sick. What causes it? What can you do to help?  Dawn Siff has more in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 12


	You're 12 weeks pregnant, what should you expect? You may notice increased exhaustion, dizzy spells or shakiness as a result of increased progesterone and lower blood sugar levels. One of the best ways to combat this is through greater water intake. Dawn Siff has more advice in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. To see more images from this phase, go to EHD.org.



Pregnancy: What to Expect Week 17


	You're 17 weeks pregnant and you just might be starting to feel the baby move. The first motions are called "quickening" and you might feel the flutter, but it'll be a few weeks until anyone else can feel anything. What factors are involved? Dawn Siff explains in this Parenticity: Growing and Glowing segment. 



Man Turns Nerf Gun into 20,000-Volt Tesla Gun


	A man has turned a rather harmless Nerf gun into a Tesla gun that shoots out 20,000 volts of electricity and he's posted instructions on his website for others to build it, too. Rob Flickenger says it's based on the weapon in the graphic novel The Five Fists of Science. Patrick Jones has more on Flickenger's creation, which looks like it's straight out of the movie "Independence Day."



Poo WiFi Turns Dog Waste Into Free WiFi


	Internet provider Terra has teamed up with ad agency DDB to create a contraption called Poo WiFi that transforms dog waste into free WiFi in ten Mexico City parks. The machine turns on free WiFi for a period of time dependent on the weight of the deposit.



Dangers of Texting and Driving Highlighted in Belgian Non-Profit's New PSA


	Responsible Young Drivers, a Belgium non-profit, has released a public service announcement against texting while driving. The clip shows unsuspecting students on a hidden camera being asked to prove they can text and drive safely during their final driving test.  Gillian Pensavalle appreciates this fresh approach to spread awareness about this very important issue.



Stationary Bike Charges Your Phone, Keeps You Healthy


	The new We Bike lets people pedal a stationary bike to charge their phones, tablets and computers while Steelcase has the Walkstation designed to make sure office drones get plenty of exercise. The Gamercize shuts off your mouse and keyboard if you stop pedaling. Is this what it takes to keep us from going full Wall-E?



Unusual Destinations Like Bubble Gum Alley, Ice Aquarium Draw Tourists


	With summer vacation almost two months away, why not take a trip on the road less traveled? At Bubble Gum Alley in San Obispo, California, you can add your "flavor" to a 65-foot wall of gum. Cross the Atlantic and head to Cadiz, Spain, for a rocking good time while visiting the cliff houses. Or cool it down at the Kori no Suizokukan (ice aquarium) in Japan, where you'll see frozen fish... as art. Vanessa Yurkevich has more. 



Online Dating Sites for Dogs All the Rage


	Worried that your pup might be unlucky in love? Just sign them up for online dating! Social networking sites like Dogster, Spotwag and Matchpuppy allow owners to make profiles for their pups and match them for play dates. Rena Karefa-Johnson has more.



Kirin Soft Serve Beer Keeps Brew Cold, Gives Pinkberry Lovers Ideas


	Japanese brewer Kirin has come up with a new machine that makes soft serve beer. The Ichiban Shibori Frozen Draft machine pumps air into super cooled beer and creates a creamy, frozen, foamy head that insulates the brew below. Maybe Kirin ought to team up with Pinkberry.



Doctor Brings Traveling Hangover Treatment to Las Vegas


	Hangover Heaven aims to cure revelers in Las Vegas of their next-day pains in just 45 minutes. The traveling treatment center was created by Dr. Jason Burke and makes pickups at many major hotels along the Las Vegas Strip. Packages start at $90 and go up to $500 for in-room services. Patrick Jones has more on what customers can expect.  

Sports Buzz

Thunder, Heat Lead Sports World Full of Weather-Based Names


	Weather forecast or sports show? It's sometimes hard to tell. The NBA Finals matchup is a meteorologist dream with the Miami Heat facing off against the Oklahoma City Thunder and then there's the Tampa Bay Lightning and the Carolina Hurricanes in the NHL. Len Berman says it gets even crazier once you start including disasters like (the San Jose) Earthquakes, (the Colorado) Avalanches and (the Brooklyn) Cyclones. 



Ravens Cheerleader Petitions NFL to Go to Super Bowl

    Courtney Lenz is a five-year veteran of the Baltimore Ravens Cheerleading squad. She's been left out of the girls being sent to cheer at the Super Bowl because she says she's being punished for announcing her retirement after the season, and she's asking for the internet's help. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Pro-Bowl Players Stop to Watch Brawl in the Stands 

    Video is surfacing of a brawl in the stands at the NFL's Pro-Bowl in Hawaii. The fight gets so intense that players turn their attention from the game into the stands. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Weirdest Super Bowl Prop Bets

    Every year, the Super Bowl gets weirder and weirder prop bets. With the Harbaugh family and Ray Lewis at the center of this year's game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Baltimore Ravens, it's nothing different. Patrick Jones searched the Internet for some of the weirder ones, including the ever popular national anthem length which will be sung by Alicia Keys. 
  


Puppy Bowl IX Line-Up Revealed

    As football fans gear up to see the San Francisco 49ers square off against the Baltimore Ravens on Super Bowl Sunday, animal lovers are waiting to see "The Puppy Bowl IX." Thirty-five puppies will be fighting to the bone to become the "top dog," and all of them are available for adoption. Kristina Behr has the details.
  


Fewer Chicken Wings Available for Super Bowl

    The National Chicken Council says that because of less chickens being raised due to higher feed costs, there will be fewer chicken wings available for Super Bowl XLVII and they will be more expensive. As long as you can still get them, right? Patrick Jones reports.
  


Te'oing Trend Pops Up Quickly 

    The news about Manti Te'o's fake girlfriend is very odd and shocking, but that hasn't stopped the Internet from having a little fun at his expense. Te'oing in the new social media trend of posting pictures of yourself with your arm around or pretending to kiss someone who isn't there. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Denver Mayor Reneges on Bet with Baltimore Mayor

    We've all heard how mayors of different cities bet on their sports teams when it comes to the playoffs. The matchup was no different between the mayors of Baltimore and Denver when the Ravens and Broncos recently squared off. Denver lost, yet Mayor Michael Hancock hasn't yet done his punitive Ray Lewis dance because of what he calls a leg injury. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Lance Armstrong Agrees to Oprah Tell-All Interview

    Disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong has agreed to a sit-down interview with Oprah Winfrey for her OWN network. As John Basedow reports, the "no-holds-barred" interview from Armstrong's Texas home will air on January 17th. According to the network, Armstrong will address the doping scandal that brought down his career and ended in the stripping of his seven Tour de France titles. 
  


AJ McCarron's Girlfriend Katherine Webb is BSC Game Winner

    It's good to be Alabama quarterback AJ McCarron. He's coming off a national championship that solidifies his crimson tide's legacy as a dynasty and he's dating Katherine Webb, aka Miss Alabama who definately stole a little of his thunder during ESPN's broadcast. Her twitter followers have exploded after she was mentioned several times during the broadcast. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


ESPN Airs Groundbreaking Same Sex Kiss

    ESPN cameras were rolling when Scott Norton won the World Series of Bowling and celebrated by kissing his husband on national television. This is a first in the world of sports and Gillian Pensavalle explains why ESPN lives up to their "Worldwide Leader in Sports" title.
  


Cowboys Fan Shoots Up Tony Romo Jersey

    Dallas Cowboys fans aren't too happy with Tony Romo's latest choking act against the Washington Redskins that ended the team's playoff hopes. One fan was so upset with Romo that he took his Romo Cowboys jersey and fired shots at it until he blew it up. Patrick Jones wonders what that means for Mark Sanchez jerseys. 
  


Soccer Team Putting Fans' Names on Game Jerseys

    Real Sociedad, a soccer club in Spain's La Liga has an interesting campaign for the fans. It's called We Carry You on Our Shirts and what they're doing is selecting names at random from their fan club to put on their jerseys. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


Biggest Sports Controversies of 2012

    Every year there are controversies that rock the sports world. 2012 was no different. From the Penn State football scandal, Melky Cabrera and Lance Armstrong being found out as users of performance enhancing drugs, the insanity of the New York Jets quarterbacks and finally those infuriating replacement NFL refs, Patrick Jones walks you through a year of insanity. 
  


MLB Player Leaves Honeymoon Early

    Washington Nationals pitcher Ross Detwiler is leaving his Hawaiian honeymoon early. But, he is leaving because he was given the opportunity to go hangout with U.S. troops stationed overseas. Detwiler considers this an opportunity of a lifetime, and says his wife is okay with his departure. Patrick Jones, however, wonders if she means it.
  


Novak Djokovic Buys World's Supply of Donkey Cheese

    Tennis superstar Novak Djokovic has bought the world's supply of donkey cheese, known as pule. Djokovic plans to use the incredibly rare and expensive product that hails from his native Serbia in his soon-to-be opened restaurants. Patrick Jones has the story. 
  


Michelle Jenneke Tops Breakout Athletes of 2012

    2012 had a lot of breakout sports stars. In the NFL, there are seemingly countless rookie quarterbacks like RGIII and Andrew Luck taking the league by storm and Johnny Football rocking the college ranks. There there's Anthony Davis, Gabby Douglas, Ryan Lochte and, for different reasons, hurdler Michelle Jenneke. Patrick Jones reports.
  


Viral Video: Middle School Wrestler Intentionally Loses Match to Competitor with Cerebral Palsy 

    Middle School wrestler Justin Kievit has a big heart. His coach asked him to lose a match to a competitor from another school, Jared Stevens, who has Cerebral palsy. Kievit handled himself with the poise and respect of a person much older. See for yourself thanks to a video posted by Justin's father, Craig Kievit that has gone viral on Facebook. Patrick Jones has the rest.
  


NFL Teams Social Media Power Rankings

    Unmetric, a social media company ranked the 32 NFL teams for their social media presence. The company looked at things like growth, response time and frequency, number of posts and engagement on both Twitter and Facebook. Patrick Jones has the list.
  


Hockey Fans Toss 25,000 Teddy Bears To Celebrate Goal

    The Calgary Hitmen of the Western Hockey League in Canada put together a crazy celebration of a goal by having fans throw 25,000 teddy bears on the ice. It's a stunt done annually to highlight local children's charities at Christmas time. Patrick Jones walks you through. 
  


Viagra Used as To Gain Advantage, Says NFL Player 

    Viagra use is prevalent in the National Football League as a performance-enhancing drug, according to Chicago Bears wide receiver Brandon Marshall. He claims that players will do or take anything to get an advantage on the field. Patrick Jones has the story.  
  


Man's Death Blamed on Kansas City Chiefs Bad Playing

    The Kansas City Chiefs are very bad this year and it's weighing heavily on their fan base. In one instance, a grumpy fan shot a friend in the fan with a shotgun while watching the game and another person had his family blame the Chiefs in his obituary. Patrick Jones has the story.
  


Canadian Sex Toy Industry Booming During NHL Lockout

    The NHL lockout isn't all bad. According to sex store owners in Canada, hockey fans are finding other ways to keep busy without the game. Gillian Pensavalle has the story.
  


Handball Player Freaks Out After Opponent Kisses Him

    Ivan Stuffer of the Italian European Team Handball League didn't like it when an opponent laid a smooch on him. Video shows him freaking out to the point where he takes down his shorts and shows his underwear to the crowd, which gets him ejected. Patrick Jones has the rest. 
  


Cindy Crawford Distracts UFC Fighter Georges St. Pierre During Fight

    Georges St. Pierre recently admitted that during one of his fights against BJ Penn he looked up and was distracted by model Cindy Crawford's beauty. He added that he was nervous because her husband was right there, too, and was staring at him. Patrick Jones has the details.
  


BYU Football Players Caught Fighting on Viral Video

    BYU Football players Joe Sampson and Zachary Stout were suspended and eventually kicked off the team and out of the university for their alleged involvement in a late-night fight at a Utah restaurant. They now face criminal charges, too. Patrick Jones has the video.
  


Report: Ads Could Be On NBA Jerseys Starting in 2014

    There's a report floating around that, according to team owners, advertisements could appear on NBA game jerseys as early as 2014. Obviously this would be a huge money draw for the league, and would most likely be small and regulated ads. However, Patrick Jones is looking far into the future of basketball jerseys. 
  


Defendant Wants Murder Trial to Hurry So He Can Watch "Monday Night Football"

    Nathan Burris is representing himself against charges of murder. According to those present in the courtroom, Burris admitted to the murder several times and even snapped his fingers urging the prosecutor to hurry the proceedings along so that Burris could get back to his cell and watch "Monday Night Football." Patrick Jones has the details.
  


MMA Fighter Tells Opponent to Hit Him, Gets Knocked Out

    There's a hilarious video of a MMA fighter daring his opponent to hit him in the face, which he does. The original fighter gets knocked out from the punch.  More than a little embarrassing. Patrick Jones has more.
  


Football Kicker Trick Shots Video Goes Viral

    A video of a man from Norway performing football kicker trick shots is going viral. Havard Rugland's "Kickalicious" video has him kicking onto moving boats and cars, and hitting consecutive 50-yard field goals. Some may question what editing was involved, but Patrick Jones thinks with kicking this good, the NFL should start recruiting in Europe. 
  


Hundreds Build Human Towers for 24th Annual Tarragona Castells Competition

    Thousands of spectators gathered in Spain for the 24th annual Tarragona Human Tower Competition. Thirty groups participated in the two-day event, where the object is to build the tallest and most complex human tower, and then safely dismantle it. Patrick Jones has pictures of the spectacular event.
  


NBA Finalizes Plans to Ban Flopping

    The NBA says it's finally going to do something about the bad actors in the league -- not off the court, but during games. The league has plans to get rid of the "floppers." Len Berman says other sports deal with the problem, and now it's the NBA's turn to shine the klieg lights on the Oscar pretenders.

  


Craziest Food Offerings at NFL Stadiums 


	It's the beginning of the NFL season and with that comes hope for a chance to see your favorite football team make it to the Super Bowl. Some teams may be luckier than others. So what's a fan struggling to see their team under .500 to do? Well, eat of course. Priya Desai takes a look at some crazy, and super-sized, stadium eats. 



Peyton Manning Jerseys Banned in Denver Schools


	Peyton Manning number 18 jerseys are banned at Denver schools due to trouble with a gang called the 18's. The district isn't against Manning; it's the number that's a problem. What do you think? Patrick Jones starts the discussion. 



Eleven-Year-Old Footless Soccer Player Invited to Train with Barcelona


	Gabriel Muniz, 11, was born with no feet, but is quite good at soccer. Gabriel has been invited to train at FC Barcelona's facility in his hometown of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This comes after an impressive showing at a summer camp at the facility. Patrick Jones has the details. 



Perfect Summer Sport? Bossaball Combines Soccer, Volleyball and Gymnastics


	Bossaball is a new beach game sweeping the globe. It's played on inflatable courts with trampolines. Teams with three to five players on each side volley using whatever body part they'd like, while jumping around. Bossaball is currently touring the world so check the website Bossaballsports.com to see if an event will take place near you. Patrick Jones reports. 



Giants' Fans Join Players in 2012 Super Bowl Victory Celebration


	For hundreds of thousands of die-hard New York Giants; fans, it was an unofficial day off from work and school to take part in a huge ticker-tape parade along Broadway for their Super Bowl champs. Tim Minton was there with them the whole way.

Fav Buzz

Redskins Rule Predicts Presidential Election

    The Redskins Rule predicts the result of presidential elections based on whether the NFL team that moved to the American capital in 1937 wins or loses its final home game before election day. The rule's been right in 17 out of 18 elections since FDR's election. Tim Minton says Barack Obama figured to get the 2012 prediction. But Mitt Romney supporters got a gameday surprise.
  


Global Bacon Shortage Expected in 2013


	A global pork and bacon shortage is unavoidable in 2013, says the U.K.'s National Pig Association. The group claims that farmers must cut back on herd size due to the rising cost of pig feed, in part as a result of droughts in North America and Russia. Patrick Jones takes a look at the far-reaching impact of this reduced product. 



Kanye West Wants Kim Kardashian to Look More Natural Like Kate Middleton


	Kanye West reportedly wants girlfriend Kim Kardashian to tone down the makeup. Kim's stylist Rob Scheppy admitted that Yeezy wants Kim's look to be more natural, like Kate Middleton. Many would argue that Kim Kardashian is perfect just the way she is. Rena Karefa-Johnson rules on whether Kanye's request is Disgusting or Delicious. 

 





Buzz60


FAQ
the 411
contact























© 2013 Zazoom, LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy





















