BBC News - Indonesia profile - Timeline


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia-Pacific







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video




















31 July 2012
Last updated at 04:54 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Indonesia profile




Overview


Facts


Leaders


Media


Timeline





A chronology of key events:


Dutch colonialists were the masters of Indonesia until 1949

1670-1900 - Dutch colonists bring the whole of Indonesia under one government as the Dutch East Indies. 
1928 - A youth conference pledges to work for "one nation, one language, one people" for Indonesia. 
1942 - Japan invades Dutch East Indies. 
1945 - The Japanese help independence leader Sukarno return from internal exile and declare independence. 
1949 - The Dutch recognise Indonesian independence after four years of guerrilla warfare. 
1950s - Maluku (Moluccas) declares independence from Indonesia and fights an unsuccessful separatist war
1962 - The Dutch agree to transfer West Papua to Indonesia after a period of UN administration. 


Sukarno: Indonesia's founding father

Suharto comes to power
1965 - Failed coup: In the aftermath, hundreds of thousands of suspected Communists are killed in a purge of leftists which descends into vigilantism. 
1966 - Sukarno hands over emergency powers to General Suharto, who becomes president in March 1967.
1969 - West Papua formally incorporated into Indonesia, becoming Irian Jaya Province. 
1975 - Portugal grants East Timor independence. 
1976 - Indonesia invades East Timor and incorporates it as a province. 
1997 - Asian economic crisis: Indonesian rupiah plummets in value. 
1998 - Protests and rioting topple Suharto; B J Habibie becomes president. 
East Timor independence vote
1999 - Ethnic violence breaks out in Maluku. Free elections are held in Indonesia. 
East Timor votes for independence in UN-sponsored referendum, after which anti-independence militia go on the rampage. East Timor comes under UN administration. Abdurrahman Wahid (Gus Dur) becomes president. 

Continue reading the main story Flashpoint: Aceh





15,000 died in 30-year separatist conflict


Indonesia flashpoints: Aceh
Aceh rebels sign peace agreement

 2000 - Two financial scandals dog the Wahid administration: Buloggate (embezzled funds from the state logistics agency), and Bruneigate (missing humanitarian aid funds from the Sultan of Brunei). The corruption case against former President Suharto collapses. 
Irian Jaya separatists become more vocal in demanding a referendum. 
2001 - Ethnic violence in Kalimantan as indigenous Dayaks force out Madurese transmigrants. Mass political demonstrations by Wahid's supporters and opponents. IMF stops further loans citing lack of progress in tackling corruption.
Megawati sworn in
2001 July - Parliament dismisses President Wahid over allegations of corruption and incompetence. Vice President Megawati Sukarnoputri is sworn in as his replacement, even as Wahid refuses to leave the presidential palace. 

Continue reading the main story Flashpoint: Papua 





Raising the Papuan flag is illegal in Indonesia


Indonesia flashpoints: Papua
Papua's struggle for independence

 2002 January - Indonesia inaugurates human rights court which is expected to test government's willingness to hold the military accountable for atrocities in East Timor after the 1999 independence vote. 
Irian Jaya province granted greater autonomy by Jakarta, allowed to adopt locally-preferred name of Papua. 
2002 May - East Timor becomes independent. 
2002 August - Constitutional changes are seen as a step towards democracy. For the first time, voters will be able to elect a president and vice president. 
Bali attacks
2002 October - Bomb attack on the Kuta Beach nightclub district on Bali kills 202 people, most of them tourists. 
Muslim Cleric Abu Bakar Ba'asyir is arrested shortly after the bombings. He is accused of plotting to overthrow the government as the alleged spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiah (JI), the group thought to be behind the Bali bombing.

Continue reading the main story 




More than 200 people died in the 2002 Bali nightclub bombing


BBC NEWS  In Depth  Bali
2003: Bali bomber smiles at guilty verdict

 2002 December - Government and separatist Free Aceh Movement (Gam) sign peace deal in Geneva, aimed at ending 26 years of violence. The accord provides for autonomy and free elections in the Muslim oil-rich province of Aceh; in return the Gam must disarm. 
2003 May - Peace talks between government and Gam separatists break down; government mounts military offensive against Gam rebels. Martial law is imposed. 
2003 August - Car bomb explodes outside the Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, killing 14 people. 
2003 August-October - Three Bali bombing suspects are found guilty and sentenced to death for their roles in the 2002 attacks. A fourth suspect is given life imprisonment. 
Abu Bakar Ba'asyir is cleared of treason but jailed for subversion and immigration offences. The subversion charge is later overturned. 
2004 April - Parliamentary and local elections: Golkar party of former President Suharto wins greatest share of vote, with Megawati Sukarnoputri's PDI-P coming second. 
2004 July - First-ever direct presidential elections; first round narrows field to Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and incumbent Megawati Sukarnoputri. 
2004 September - Car bomb attack outside Australian embassy in Jakarta kills nine, injures more than 180. 

Continue reading the main story 




Giant waves left more than 220,000 dead, missing in 2004


In depth: Asia quake disaster

 Former general Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono wins second round of presidential elections, unseating incumbent Megawati Sukarnoputri. 
2004 November - End of two-year process under which 18 people were tried by Indonesian court for human rights abuses in East Timor during 1999 crisis. Only one conviction - that of militia leader Eurico Guterres - is left standing. 
Tsunami; Aceh deal
2004 December - More than 220,000 people are dead or missing in Indonesia alone after a powerful undersea earthquake off Sumatra generates massive tidal waves. The waves devastate Indian Ocean communities as far afield as Thailand, India, Sri Lanka and Somalia. 
2005 March - Court finds Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Ba'asyir guilty of conspiracy over 2002 Bali bombings, sentences him to two-and-a-half years in jail. He is freed in June 2006. 
A powerful earthquake off Sumatra kills at least 1,000 people, many of them on the island of Nias. The quake triggers tsunami alerts around the Indian Ocean. 

Continue reading the main story 




A year on, Tsunami survivors rebuild


2005: Aceh rebuilding gets on track

 2005 August - Government and Free Aceh Movement separatists sign a peace deal providing for rebel disarmament and the withdrawal of government soldiers from the province. Rebels begin handing in weapons in September; government completes troop pull-out in December. 
2005 September - Airliner crashes on take-off from Sumatran city of Medan, killing more than 100 passengers and around 50 people on the ground. 
2005 October - Three suicide bombings on the resort island of Bali kill 23 people, including the bombers
2006 January - East Timorese report accuses Indonesia of widespread atrocities during its 24-year occupation, holding it responsible for the deaths of more than 100,000 people. 
2006 February-March - Deadly protests at a major US-owned gold and copper mine in Papua province follow attempts to remove illegal prospectors from the site. 
2006 May - A powerful earthquake kills thousands of people on Java. 
2006 July - A tsunami, triggered by a large undersea earthquake, kills more than 500 people on Java. 
Aceh elections
2006 December - First direct elections held in Aceh province, consolidating the August 2005 peace accord. Former separatist rebel leader Irwandi Yusuf elected governor. 


Aceh's special autonomy status allows the partial practice of Islamic laws 

2007 June - Police capture the alleged head of the militant group Jemaah Islamiah (JI), Zarkasih, and the leader of the group's military wing, Abu Dujana. 
2007 December - Alleged JI leader Zarkasih goes on trial in Jakarta.
2008 January - Former President Suharto dies. 
2008 July - Final report by joint Indonesian-East Timorese Truth Commission blames Indonesia for the human rights violations in the run-up to East Timor's independence in 1999 and urges it to apologise. President Yudhoyono expresses "deep regret" but stops short of an apology.  
2008 November - Three Islamic militants convicted of carrying out the 2002 Bali bombings are executed. 
2009 July - President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono wins re-election. 
Twin suicide bomb attacks on the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta kill nine people and injure scores of others. 
Pressure mounts on militants
2009 September - Police shoot dead Indonesia's most-wanted Islamist militant Noordin Mohammad Top, thought to be responsible for a series of deadly attacks across the archipelago. 


Former President Suharto died in 2008. He led Indonesia for 32 years until 1998

2010 February-March - Several suspected militants are arrested in series of raids on alleged training camps of groups thought to be linked to Jemaah Islamiah (JI) in Aceh province. Fourteen men are charged with plotting to launch terrorist attacks. 
2010 March - Police shoot dead Dulmatin - an alleged leading member of JI and the last main suspect in the 2002 Bali bombings still at large - during a raid on a Jakarta internet cafe. 
2010 October - Indonesia admits that men seen torturing Papuan villagers in a video are members of the military. 
President Yudhoyono calls off a state visit to the Netherlands because of a threatened bid by separatists to have him arrested. 
2010 November - US President Barack Obama visits, hailing Indonesia as an example of how a developing nation can embrace democracy and diversity. 
2011 February - Two churches are set alight in central Java during a protest by hundreds of Muslims about blasphemy. 


Buddhist temple of Borobudur - Indonesia's most visited tourist attraction

Three members of the Ahmadiyah sect, a minority Muslim group, are bludgeoned to death in a mob attack in West Java. 
2011 June - Radical cleric Abu Bakar Ba'asyir gets 15-year jail sentence for backing an Islamist militant training camp. 
2011 December - Pay deal ends acrimonious three-month strike by 8,000 workers at copper and gold mine owned by US company Freeport-McMoran in the restive eastern province of Papua.
Dutch government apologises for massacre of at least 150 people in the village of Rawagede, on the island of Java, in 1947, during Indonesia's war of independence.
2012 March - Court sentences Islamist militant Pepi Fernando to 18 years in prison for a parcel-bombing campaign targeting Muslim leaders and police.
2012 June - Jakarta court sentences bombmaker Umar Patek to 20 years in prison for his role in the 2002 Bali attacks. He was extradited from Pakistan in 2011. The sentencing brings to an end the 10-year investigation into the bombings.




More on This Story


Country profiles: Asia


Afghanistan 
Australia 
Bangladesh 
Bhutan 
Brunei 
Burma 
Cambodia 
China 
Cook Islands 
East Timor 
Fiji 
French Polynesia 
Guam 
Hong Kong 
India 
Indonesia 
Japan 
Kashmir 
Kazakhstan 
Kiribati 
North Korea 
South Korea 
Kyrgyzstan 
Laos 
Macau 
Malaysia 
Maldives 
Marshall Islands 
Micronesia 
Mongolia 
Nauru 
New Caledonia 
Nepal 
New Zealand 
Niue 
Northern Marianas
Pakistan 
Palau 
Papua New Guinea 
Philippines 
Samoa 
Singapore 
Sri Lanka 
Solomon Islands 
Taiwan 
Tajikistan 
Thailand 
Tibet 
Tokelau 
Tonga 
Turkmenistan 
Tuvalu 
Uzbekistan 
Vietnam 
Xinjiang 











Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Asia-Pacific stories
RSS




Australia shock at asylum tragedy

Australians are shocked after a boat filled with asylum seekers capsizes on its way from Indonesia, and at least eight people die.



Xenon detected at Fukushima plant




China schools closed after blast












Top stories



UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


France vows to help rebuild Mali


Netanyahu asked to form coalition









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



4: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



5: Car park dug up around parked car



6: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



7: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



8: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



9: UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks



10: Plans to 3D print Moon building 



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: A fruity guide to American football Watch



3: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



4: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



5: Manhattan, unchained: Fighting 7-Eleven Watch



6: Indian fisherman held in Pakistan Watch



7: Brazil fire 'felt like an eternity' Watch



8: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



9: Iraq pleas for oil reserve search Watch



10: Madonna performs at Super Bowl Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





