BBC News - Revolution through the lenses of Magnum photographers


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




In Pictures







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Editors' Blog
Have Your Say
World News TV
World Service Radio
Special Reports

















9 December 2012
Last updated at 19:32 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Phil Coomes

Picture editor

More from Phil



Revolution through the lenses of Magnum photographers
 


Student protest in Tiananmen Square, China, 1989




More from Phil


New Orleans and the 'Super Gras'


Life behind the sea wall


The life and death of Tim Hetherington


Uncovering the past



 Almost since the birth of photography, political unrest and conflict have drawn photographers to capture the drama of the moment, and in some cases to offer comment through their work.
Magnum Photos was brought to life in the aftermath of World War II by photographers Robert Capa, Henri Cartier-Bresson, George Rodger and David "Chim" Seymour, each of whom was well acquainted with covering a changing world, where borders and allegiances were shifting as players set themselves for what was to become the Cold War. 
So it is no surprise that the many photographers who have followed in their footsteps continued to do the same, throwing themselves at the heart of revolutions around the globe, from the uprisings in Europe as countries attempted to free themselves from Soviet rule to the more recent Arab Spring.
This work by a select band of photojournalists captures the intensity of the struggle for change and in many cases the tragedy and suffering on both sides of the divide. Yet through the decades the pictures show that at the heart of all revolutions are the people, human voices seeking to change their lot in life. As always, the story is what matters.
Here's a selection from the archives of Magnum Photos; see what you make of them. 
Burt Glinn - Cuba
One of the most famous revolutions was the one in Cuba that saw Fidel Castro rise to power, fighting alongside Ernesto "Che" Guevara against the regime led by Gen Batista, finally seizing power when the dictator fled on New Year's Day in 1959.
The pictures from that time show figures who seem larger than life and this one by Burt Glinn depicts Castro delivering a long speech in Santa Clara, the town having been liberated earlier by Che.



Josef Koudelka - Czechoslovakia
1968 became known as the year of revolution, and Koudelka was on hand that August to record the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact troops' invasion of Czechoslovakia following Alexander Dubcek's Prague Spring. 
Koudelka did not see himself as a photojournalist: "What was happening in Czechoslovakia concerned my life directly," he said. "It was my country. That's what made the difference between me and other photographers who came here from abroad. I took these photos for myself, not for a magazine. It was only by chance that they were published."



Abbas - Iran
Abbas was born in Iranian Balichistan but left the country with his family when he was eight years old, returning in 1978 to cover the uprising and staying to be on hand when the Shah was removed from power in 1979. "When the revolution started, it was democratic," says Abbas. "It was my country, my people and my revolution. Then, slowly, it was being hijacked." 
Abbas photographed the corpses of four of the Shah's commanders and realised at this point that these executions followed a secret trial. "Something we learned is that the extremists always win. That was my main lesson from the revolution. The extremists were prepared to kill, imprison, torture - everything. So they won."
In this picture a militia woman armed with an Uzi sub-machine gun controls a demonstration against Iraq in Tehran, 1979.



Susan Meiselas - Nicaragua
Susan Meiselas covered the conflict in Nicaragua from the late 1970s which saw the rise to power of the Sandinistas, having overthrown the Somoza regime, swiftly followed by the covert war by US-backed Contra rebels. Meiselas' use of colour adds a powerful punch to her pictures and she is a photographer anyone interested in the field should study.  For those who are interested in a previous post, Behind the contact sheet, I look briefly at her working methods alongside other Magnum photographers.



Ian Berry - South Africa
The long struggle for freedom from apartheid in South Africa was documented by Ian Berry, who had joined Magnum in 1962. Like many Magnum photographers he dedicated much of his working life to the story, capturing the deaths of 70 black demonstrators at Sharpeville in 1960 through to the release of Nelson Mandela in 1990 - apart from the eight years when he was banned from the country. 
Here, Archbishop Desmond Tutu conducts a funeral service in a tent for a schoolgirl shot by police in 1985. This is what photography is all about. Aesthetically it's a gorgeous picture, yet behind Tutu, look at the faces. Here you see a new generation who will help to finally break the hold of apartheid; decades of struggle are summed up in one frame.



Jean Gaumy - Poland
Poland was the birthplace of the former Soviet bloc's first officially recognised independent mass political movement when strikes at the Gdansk shipyard in August 1980 led to agreement with the authorities on the establishment of the Solidarity trade union. 
Here we see relatives of the strikers waiting outside the headquarters of the Gdansk shipyards in 1980. Once again, the photographer has turned the camera on the faces in the crowd, and the use of the barrier adds to the isolation and uncertainty of those pictured, as well as the feeling of being prisoners in their own country.
Yet as with all photographs, all may not be as it seems and Gaumy notes that the mood inside the shipyard, "Solidarity's fortress", was more optimistic. 



Leonard Freed - Romania 
Freed is probably best known for his work on the American civil rights movement yet his coverage of the Romanian revolution of 1989 generated many memorable frames, one of which is this one that depicts a couple sheltering from sniper fire on Christmas Eve in Bucharest. It's an incredibly powerful picture with the fear almost flowing from the frame.
The revolution culminated in the execution of Romania's dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, and his wife, by a firing squad the next day. 



Thomas Dworzak - Chechnya
In 2000, Dworzak photographed Chechen fighters dragging a fallen comrade during a mass escape from Grozny through a minefield, following years of conflict with Russian forces, the roots of which were formed when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
Dworzak covered the conflict from 1994, noting that "the intensity of the first war was almost unimaginable. It was crazy, the air war, the flattening of Grozny, the 'filtration camps' - the whole thing." 



Moises Saman - Arab Spring 
Saman is a recent member of Magnum Photos, joining as a nominee in 2010 and becoming an associate this year. He is a regular contributor to the New York Times, Newsweek and Time magazine, among others. He has spent much of the past year or so covering the uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and now Syria.
He works at the heart of the action, freezing the exact moment where events have maximum impact and drawing us into the frame. Here a protester with a wound to the head is evacuated on a motorcycle from clashes in Tahrir Square in Cairo, in November 2011. Each figure in the frame is separated from the others creating the perfect composition - and no doubt each one has a story to tell.



Magnum Revolution: 65 Years of Fighting for Freedom, with an introduction by Jon Lee Anderson and text and interviews by Paul Watson, is published by Prestel.
You can see more work by Magnum Photos on their website or you can follow them on Twitter.

 





Article written by Phil Coomes
Phil Coomes

Picture editor

More from Phil



New Orleans and the 'Super Gras' 
17:21 UK time, Friday, 1 February 2013
Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores the streets of New Orleans ahead of the Super Bowl weekend.

                    
                                                Read full article
                                        








More on This Story


More from Phil
	      






New Orleans and the 'Super Gras'




Life behind the sea wall




The life and death of Tim Hetherington




Uncovering the past




Inside Haiti's Iron Market




Untold Story of Urban Refugees




The year in pictures




Running for gold




Collapsed bridge




The price of war













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 27       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 27.  Bonefolderjones  10th December 2012 - 23:08   These are great photographs and Magnum have helped bear witness to the world's suffering for half a century. Its a worthy thing to bring the photographers and their work to a wider audience, but you have missed out on one of the greatest. Why wasn't Phillip Jones Griffiths included,  'Vietnam Inc.' probably did more to undermine an unjust war and its suffering than any other single photographer.    Report this comment (Comment number 27) Link to this (Comment number 27)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 26.  Ad  10th December 2012 - 20:39   The photograph gives the viewer a glimpse - silent, yet filled with voices - into a moment that they could not have otherwise peered. Yet with all its poignancy, the experience is abstract: the outsider has no true idea of that moment - the adrenaline rush of exultation or fear. Yet we must struggle always to show that we live. Brilliant work by the photographers.    Report this comment (Comment number 26) Link to this (Comment number 26)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 25.  thomas99  10th December 2012 - 19:19   The ine that hits me quite hard here is that of Iran. There is a worrying parralel between the their revolution being hyjacked and the current issues in Eygpt and Syria    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 24.  Reynardine Fox  10th December 2012 - 16:50   >> #23. conspicuous by its absence …Tiananmen square massacre. Chinese internet censorship curtain reaching the BBC?Er, first picture on the page: 'Student protest in Tiananmen Square, China, 1989'    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)                 rate this     -10      rate this     -10   Comment number 23.  Alan  10th December 2012 - 15:54   conspicuous by its absence …Tiananmen square massacre.Chinese internet censorship curtain reaching the BBC?    Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 22.  Knut Largerson  10th December 2012 - 15:16   21. AdelC Thanks, I was going by the turret shape, but the ventilator dome is more characteristic. Owe you one.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 21.  AdelC  10th December 2012 - 14:39   #5, T55. Turret is lacking the T54 ventilation dome.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 20.  dik-dik  10th December 2012 - 13:53   Pictures are powerful. But not as powerful as some people would have you believe. All art is quite useless someone once said. True but useless in surprising ways.    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 19.  helious   10th December 2012 - 12:52   Similarly, people behind bars have been used many times. Concentration camp victims to prisoners in their cells have been pictured throughout history.None of this reduces the power of each image; indeed it takes knowledge by the photographer of visual imagery including that of art to recognize such compositions.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 18.  helious   10th December 2012 - 11:52   The more images I see over the years the more I feel that I have seen so many of them before. In some cases that is true but for most it is the reoccurring shapes and compositions that are similar. The first with the semi naked figure with his arms outstretched is similar to a Goya painting of an execution from another revolution, which itself had religious overtones.    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 17.  Honest-to-God  10th December 2012 - 11:45   Let's not get carried away here; of course the pictures are stunning and do  present a frozen moment in time, but are often the end of complex and tortuous processes. Our image-based age often seeks to simplify complexity; why bother to gather intelligence over an age when a single image can say it all. Not so.    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 16.  Lord Teapot  10th December 2012 - 11:32   Neat pictures, but lets not get the wrong idea and compare our problems here with the problems that are causing these revolutions overseas.  We have issues with fair taxation on the wealthy and music downloads, these people are fighting for basic human rights.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 15.  BluesBerry  10th December 2012 - 11:22   Magnum Photos, a cooperative is owned by its members. The pictures always express extraordinary vision, an insight into the world, its peoples, its issues & events. The pictures speak to us, as words never could, about passion, fear, breaking news, old news seen in new ways...The foregoing are amazing examples of photographers doing what they do best.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 14.  Skinbobrabbit  10th December 2012 - 11:18   Magnum photographs were an inspiration to me in wanting to become a photographer. Especially the work of Sebastiao Salgado.  Thanks Magnum. I did it.    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 13.  hw  10th December 2012 - 11:00   #9 DefencePhotography has obviously never been to a war zone and been under fire and yet still expected to take a photograph; of those fatally wounded, at the height of their emotions and armed to the teeth, or of the victims of a suicide bombing just seconds after the explosion, or faced with uncertainty about where the next shell will fall, if the combatants you are with can be trusted…    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 12.  Travis  10th December 2012 - 10:10   colliwobbles, I do not know the exact story of the photo but after doing a reverse image search I found it was by Stuart Franklin and is from Tianenmen Square. It can be seen in Franklin's portfolio at Magnum.http://www.magnumphotos.com/C.aspx?VP3=SearchResult&ALID=2K7O3R185SZI    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 11.  canarycoal  10th December 2012 - 10:02   Back in the day this was slow technology as opposed to now where the questions are not used to edit as shown by image from New York subway.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 10.  colliwobbles  10th December 2012 - 9:55   The first picture _ appears to be Tianenmen Square is not commented on , are there associated comments on this photo?    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     -8      rate this     -8   Comment number 9.  DefencePhotography  10th December 2012 - 9:44   Great photographs...but...it's almost impossible not to get a great photograph in these circumstances.    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 8.  Jack  10th December 2012 - 9:26   Magnums work has always been powerful, and the greatest of them all was Robert Capa. many of his Photo's have iconic status, especially those from the Spanish Civil War. he was a man who lived and died for his work, stepping on a landmine in Indochina in 1956, trying to get "that picture"    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)         Page 1 of 2    Newer 1 2 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



3: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



6: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Mars rover hammers down into rock



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



4: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



5: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



6: Digital artists inspired by the gif's resurgence Watch



7: Gore's problem with politicians Watch



8: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



9: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



10: Acid attack on Bolshoi director  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





