Australian Radio Hosts Behind Prank Call Speak Out: We’re ‘Heartbroken’ By Nurse’s Death | Mediaite





Mediaite
Gossip Cop
Geekosystem
Styleite
SportsGrid
The Mary Sue
The Jane Dough
The Braiser









WATCH: The Best 2013 Super Bowl Ads All In One Video





Dry-Humping Soccer Fans Videobomb Live Sports Report





The Biggest Cable News Fights Of The Month: January 2013





Stewart Trashes Wayne LaPierre And Female Gun Advocate Over Senate Testimony





Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus' NBC News Tenure










 




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook





 



Australian Radio Hosts Behind Prank Call Speak Out: We’re ‘Heartbroken’ By Nurse’s Death
by Meenal Vamburkar | 7:05 am, December 10th, 2012
video

» 32 comments




 
















  

Michael Christian and Mel Greig — the Australian radio hosts behind the prank call made to Kate Middleton‘s hospital — spoke out for the first time following the suicide of the nurse who answered their call. Apologizing for the incident in an interview on Today Tonight, they said they were “heartbroken.”
Grieg recalled hearing the tragic news, saying, “unfortunately I remember that moment very well because I haven’t stopped thinking about it since it happened, and I remember my first question was ‘was she a mother?’”
The nurse, Jacintha Saldanha, 46, was married with two children. Greig said she was “very sorry and saddened for the family. I can’t imagine what they’d be going through.” Christian said he was “gutted,” “shattered,” and “heartbroken.”
“If we played any involvement in her death, then we’re very sorry for that. And time will only tell,” he later added.
Both said that they never expected the prank to take such a somber turn; it was intended to be a silly joke. “We’re still trying to get our heads around everything,” Christian said. “Trying to make sense of the situation.”
“The call to begin with wasn’t about speaking to Kate. It wasn’t about trying to get a scoop or anything. The call was just – I mean we’d assumed that we’d be hung up on and that’d be that,” Christian said.
Asked about who came up with the idea, Christian said no one person is responsible. “Everything’s done as a team,” he said. “The joke was always on us, not anyone else. It wasn’t about trying to fool someone.”
The Australian radio show that made the prank call has been canceled, according to a Bloomberg report. The station said it is cooperating with authorities following Saldanha’s death. 
“The radio show won’t go ahead into the future,” Rhys Holleran, chief executive officer of Southern Cross Media Group Ltd., which owns the 2Day FM station, said.
In addition to the Hot 30 show’s cancellation, prank calls have been banned company-wide, and advertising is suspended on the station.
Video of the hosts’ interview below:

 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook


 
filed under
Jacintha Saldanha, Mel Greig, Michael Christian, Prank Call







New X-Men Movie Cast: Who Made The Cut?





Taylor Swift's Boob Job Proven?





Johnny Depp's New Movie Not a Laughing Matter





Kate Upton's Message to Notre Dame





Beverly Johnson Reveals Her Real Hair


 







Anonymous



We’re “heartbroken” that our careers as radio hosts are over, is more like it.






Anonymous



DJs have been pulling these stunts for decades.
I remember there were djs in my city that used to send a dozen red roses to a husband or wife at work and say it was from “you know who” or something like that.
These stupid tricks were bound to blow up one day, I’m just surprised not before today.
In today’s world people are just not able to handle these pranks.  The nurse was from India, maybe the humiliation to her was something cultural that she could not live with.  Maybe she was unstable.  
These kinds of tricks are clearly a violation of another person’s rights.  You just don’t have the right to call someone and pretend to be another person in order to humiliate them.
Still, how is what these djs did any worse than what Sasha Baron Cohen did in the Borat or Bruno movies?  These guys are just the ones who finally pranked the wrong person.






Anonymous



These 2 started it, but it was thepress and the media who finished her off with their constant yapping and breaking news of the issue. Its convinient for them to let these 2 take the fall, but they need to look in the mirror. Sadly enough, it looks like theyll get away with it and find another trivia to engage with.






Anonymous



Hideous hypocrite hyenas Greig & Christian should never be allowed to work anywhere, except maybe on a prison road-gang.






    http://twitter.com/mdcdnmf                            Matthew



Ok its time to cancel all prank calls, all comedy shows and no one is allowed to tell jokes anymore. It might hurt somebody’s feelings.






    http://www.facebook.com/mckenny.stleger                            McKenny St-Leger



these 2 are getting far too much flack for this. And to be honest this is happening solely because this woman killed herself. Hindsight is really 20/20…All this outrage coming from the same people who probably snickered at the prank.






Anonymous



And to be honest this is happening solely because this woman killed herself
BINGO !!!!….in one sentence you debunked the myth that republicans are intellectually inferior to freaking fence posts.






Anonymous



youre another FINE example of why REPUBLICAN THINK is considered far less sophisticated than that of trouser snakes






    http://twitter.com/mdcdnmf                            Matthew



Awesome. You think I’m a republican. Anyways.. its too bad you couldn’t actually put up an equally sarcastic opposing statement, you had to go for the old ad hominem attack.






Anonymous



whats REALLY funny to me is how you victims of a perpetual prank called conservatism are suddenly experts…only difference between you and the victim in this case is she wasnt to cowardly to do something about it…you on the other hand continue to have to much pride to admit youve been taken to the cleaners by your radio heros plus  you dont know what to do with all those packets of survival seeds and the ton of gold bars you keep in the fallout shelter hidden in the bottom of a barrel of bullets






Anonymous



great point about Sasha Cohen.  Along those lines – see “Punked”, see “Candid Camera”, see “Dateline”, see “Jackass”, etc., etc.  My initial reactoin was “these people are evil.”  No they are not – they played a prank, and something completely unexpected happened.






Anonymous



I am sure you think the same of Dick Clark and Ed McMahon for their show “TV’s Bloopers and Practical Jokes,” and of the show “Candid Camera.”  Also, “Punked”, and “Jackass.”  You are crazy to think that these two had anything to do with the death of a person.  If you do, you MUST villainize the entire genre.






Anonymous



How about the media take a break, and leave Kate alone for her pregnancy?  That should be the big lesson.  The radio hosts should never prank a hospital, fire them, but stop pretending they created the media monster.






    http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100003767419052                            Jimmy Tickles



The life of a professional sycophant must truly be like that of a sloth or some other low hanging creature.  Hope it was fun and cute! Yay ratings!!!






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Barbara-Sorin/100000788662152                            Barbara Sorin



They remind me of young adolescents whose brains are not yet developed enough so that they do impulsive things and don’t have the wherewithal to recognize that actions, all actions have consequences. This was a woman from a different culture who perceived that this one action would be unforgivable and unforgettable. Idiots. Americans particularly did not snicker because  Americans know or should know that there is a FEDERAL law (HIPPA) that prevents medical personnel from giving out any information about patients unless there is specific permission.






RyanT



If I were a patient at this hospital, I would be very concerned that nurses apparently give out private info to whomever calls up and asks for it. Seems to me that’s the important issue, here. This nurse was absolutely terrible at her job and should’ve been fired long ago. It’s very sad that she killed herself but blaming these DJs seems insane to me.






Anonymous



Surely, you feel that Dick Clark and Ed McMahon were also young adolescents whose brains were not developed – I saw much worse than this on “TV’s Bloopers and Practical Jokes.”  Jack Paar also must be included in this list – remember “Candid Camera”?  How about Jimmy Kimmel, Sara Siverman, Wanda Sikes, or Tracy Morgan on “Crank Yankers”, who did the EXACT SAME THING in 70 different episodes?  All idiots, right?  Or Johnny Carson, or Jay Leno, or David Letterman, or Jon Stewart?  All guilty of the same thing – comedy.






    http://buydemocracy.wordpress.com/                            Dr. Jamf



If everyone killed themselves over a prank call then New Jersey would be depopulated.  These hosts did absolutely nothing wrong.






Anonymous



With the whole psychiatrist thing, the whole thing feels staged.  Now THEY’re the victims.






corri anderson



Thanks Matthew.  I’m going to break out my old Jerky Boys cd’s and have a good laugh in your honor today.






corri anderson



The nurse was not reprimanded by the hospital, and they said she was very good at her job.  She made a mistake, but so did the lady at the switchboard.  I don’t believe the prank and aftermath was the underlying reason she killed herself, nor do I think it’s appropriate to make disparaging comments about her and the work she did that are unfounded.  Especially since she is dead.






diditlive



no, a “team” doesn’t come up with this…one person does and then the “team” agrees….answer the question directly






RyanT



Anyone who gives out patient info the the “Queen of England” on the phone is most assuredly not good at her job.






corri anderson



Whatever you say.






    http://www.facebook.com/hermadite                            Alan Abel



AN AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG
By Alan Abel 
 Two Australian DJs who pranked a call from
the Queen of England to the Duchess of Cambridge should not shoulder total
blame for the tragic suicide of a hospital nurse, who unwittingly connected the
culprits’ telephone call to the Royal Suite. How many of the hundreds of prank
calls made by Howard Stern in the USA, or the late Jeremy Beadle in the UK,
have injured an innocent participant? Probably none.
     The events leading up to nurse Jacintha
Saldanha’s death are going to receive intense scrutiny by Scotland Yard, and
certainly Her Majesty’s security team. An autopsy should reveal any critical
medical problems. MI5 interviews with Mrs. Saldanha’s family will discover her
prior behavior profile. All this information can realistically determine if she
had suicidal tendencies. We just have to wait and see. 
     Meantime, some Monday morning
quarterbacks, both journalists and talk show hosts, have voiced a desire to ban
all further prank phone calls made by FCC licensed radio and television
programs.  That would certainly
hinder David Letterman from taking another faux call from Jesus Christ, as he
did recently on his nightly show. Yet, nobody in the Bible Belt ended their
life over his irreverence.
     All the worldwide outrage about Jacintha
Saidanha’s unfortunate death is understandable. But we must not rush to
judgment by condemning the DJ pranksters. Nor should we curtail further fun on
the phone. Tragic consequences in life are inevitable and we must all cope with
them accordingly.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
© 2012 Alan Abel






Anonymous



Pranks and hospitals don’t mesh very well.  There should be a law regarding interfering with hospital business.  Give them 6 months in jail.  One more thing, pranks are for people you know, not complete strangers.






Anonymous



They interfered with hospital business.  It’s 100% wrong.






    http://twitter.com/mdcdnmf                            Matthew



You should check out Tom Mabe. He’s very funny. He actually does the opposite. He pranks telemarketers that call him. I should ask all the faux outrage people if its ok to do that.






X X



Let’s imagine that this poor woman didn’t kill herself….instead let’s pretend that she was severely reprimanded, her career path stopped short as she’s overlooked for well earned promotions or perhaps imagine she was instantly fired by the hospital 3 weeks before Christmas because of this nonsense. Would the DJ’s be feeling any better about themselves today? Just a thought.






Anonymous



Bulls–t.
Christian and Greig, mouthing the rehearsed lines offered by some spin doctors and disaster managers, just want to keep the vigilante groups off their front steps.






Anonymous



I totally agree.  It wasn’t even a nasty prank phone call.  And who hasn’t done a prank phone call?  Frankly, I’m even wondering about it being a suicide.  The police keep saying ‘probable suicide’.  What do they mean by that?  And she was just the person who put them through to the nurse who actually gave out info.  If there was going to be so much fuss raised, why didn’t they have better security in place to prevent this kind of thing from happening?






Anonymous



You certainly judge political alliances on scant evidence, don’t you?  I would say YOU’RE the one whose thinking is lacking in depth.


















 


Most Popular
Most Commented







30 Rock’s 13 Most Hilarious Political And Media Moments




Ronald Reagan’s Childhood Home To Be Bulldozed For Possible Future Home Of Obama Library




Reporter Hilariously Shames Seemingly Drunk Videobomber: ‘How Long Have You Had An STD?’




CNN Airs Video Of Snowmobile Jump That Killed X Games Competitor




Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward


 





Did The Media Blatantly Mischaracterize Video Of Newtown Father Being ‘Heckled’ By ‘Gun Nuts’?          »410






Female Gun Advocate Lays Into Democratic Senator Over Women’s Second Amendment Rights          »398






Hide Your Bibles, Hide Your Kids, Because Muslims Are Coming! Or So Suggests Fox News’ Todd Starnes          »360






Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward          »282






Fox’s The Five Goes After MSNBC For Edited Video Of Sandy Hook Father Being ‘Heckled’          »245



 






Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Pilot Season: ABC Orders Divorce Comedy Based on Israeli Series



• 

Pilot Season: CBS Orders Psychological Thriller From Homeland, CSI Executive Producers



• 

Christina Ricci Engaged to Boyfriend James Heerdegen



• 

Glee Sneak Peek: New Directions Covers a Diva and Tina Gets Called Out!



• 

Was the Iranian Space Monkey Launch a Hoax? 


 

TV Guide Listings









 
 







  Online/Print
»»



Hot:
Barack Obama | Immigration | Rush Limbaugh 







WaPo Fact-Checker Demands Multiple Skeet-Shooting Photos To Clear President Obama Of Lying


by Tommy Christopher | 2:35 pm, Friday

 

» 39 comments






Mark Levin Explodes: ‘The Muslim Brotherhood Has Infiltrated Our Gov’t — It’s Called Barack Obama’


by Andrew Kirell | 1:16 pm, Friday

 

» 176 comments



 



Limbaugh Mocks CNN: They Might Start Black History Month By Nixing Show For ‘Too Ethnic’ Audience


by Meenal Vamburkar | 3:24 pm, Friday

 

» 9 comments






WATCH: San Francisco’s Nudity Ban Off To A Rocky Start


by Matt Wilstein | 9:53 pm, Friday

 

» more inside



 



Winners Of The Week: Hillary, Greta, Cuomo (The TV One), The Next Turner And Meticulous MSNBC


by Joe Concha | 5:31 pm, Friday

 

» 2 comments






Beware The ‘Muffin Macer’: Woman Sprays Man In Face After Intense Convenience Store Argument


by Andrew Kirell | 4:54 pm, Friday

 

» 11 comments



 



Man Defends Horse Rape: ‘I Was Thinking It Would Have A Horseman Baby’


by Noah Rothman | 3:34 pm, Friday

 

» 60 comments






Conservative Former SNL  Star Victoria Jackson Deletes ‘White History Month’ Article


by Tommy Christopher | 6:10 pm, Thursday

 

» 61 comments








Newsletter:

Sign up for the Mediaite newsletter:








More Online/Print:



 
Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus’ NBC News Tenure                                      »3








 
                  Officials Release Photo Of Alabama Hostage Suspect Jimmy Lee Dykes                                  







 
                  Newsweek Trolls The Nation: Hillary Clinton ‘Most Powerful Woman In American History’                                      »16








 
                  Scott Brown Will Not Seek John Kerry’s Empty Senate Seat                                      »19








 
                  Steve Capus Now Officially Out As NBC News President                                      »20








 
                  John Kerry Says Obama Offered Secretary Of State Job Before Susan Rice Withdrew                                      »9








 
                  Conservative Website Falsely Claims Gabby Giffords’ Therapist ‘Gave Her’ Handwritten Testimony                                      »24








 
                  Newtown Votes To Request Armed Police Officers In Elementary Schools                                      »28








 
                  Hillary Clinton Hits Benghazi Critics Who ‘Just Will Not Live In An Evidence-Based World’                                      »81








 
                  Former NYC Mayor Ed Koch Dies At Age 88                                      »8








 
                  New Report Shows Obama Admin Will Have Deported 2 Million By 2014                                      »16








 
New York Times, Wall Street Journal Allege Targeting By Chinese Hackers                                      »2









 



 



click here for advertising opportunities





Last Call: Calm Down, There’s No Chicken Wing Shortage, Just Like There Was No Baconpocalypse
WATCH: Emeril Lagasse Hawks Ritz Crackers As The Taste Of New Orleans







So Ronaiah Tuiasosopo Apparently Was Doing Lennay Kekua’s Voice After All And Oh Come On What The Hell We Give Up With This Crap
“Fenway Parks” Is The Name Of An Actual High School Baseball Player. He’s From Florida.







EOD Roundup: Science Thinks That Men Who Do Chores Aren’t Attractive
10 Things We Would See If Women Ran The Super Bowl







Editors’ Picks 2/1: Field Gambling Chess
Here’s an Entire Hour of Valve’s Gabe Newell on Business, Economics, and Video Games [Video]







NAACP Image Awards Red Carpet Photos!
American Idol Contestant Admits to Lying About Military Accident, Miracle Baby







StyleDish: Of Course Kanye Wore A Straitjacket During His Concert
Bar Refaeli Makes Out With A Go Daddy Geek For Her First Super Bowl Ad







We Can All Quit: Sesame Street Did A Spoof Called Upside Downton Abbey [VIDEO]
Things We Saw Today: The Princess and the Evil Queen from Disney’s Frozen






 





 




© 2013 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
	  			
 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram

















 

X


