Connecticut Gun Laws Are So ‘Strict’ You Can Have A Grenade Launcher On Your AR-15 | Mediaite





Mediaite
Gossip Cop
Geekosystem
Styleite
SportsGrid
The Mary Sue
The Jane Dough
The Braiser









WATCH: The Best 2013 Super Bowl Ads All In One Video





Dry-Humping Soccer Fans Videobomb Live Sports Report





The Biggest Cable News Fights Of The Month: January 2013





Stewart Trashes Wayne LaPierre And Female Gun Advocate Over Senate Testimony





Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus' NBC News Tenure










 




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook





 
»» Columnists





Connecticut Gun Laws Are So ‘Strict’ You Can Have A Grenade Launcher On Your AR-15
by Tommy Christopher | 2:11 pm, December 17th, 2012

» 109 comments




 
















  

One of the persistent talking points to emerge from media discussion of the horrific mass shooting in Connecticut on Friday is the notion that, because Connecticut has some of the most strict gun laws in the country, the shooting demonstrates the futility of legislating against gun violence. The point is made explicitly by those who oppose enacting new gun laws, but is also implicit in pervasive mainstream media citation of Connecticut’s gun laws, and it ignores the far more rational conclusion that even our “strict” gun laws are miles away from where we need to be, as evidenced by the fact that “strict” Connecticut allows citizens to own an assault-style rifle with a grenade launcher.
That’s right, even according to Connecticut state law, which The Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun Violence ranks as 5th strongest in the nation, allows for the possession of a semiautomatic assault-style rifle with a grenade launcher, as long as it doesn’t also have one of these features:

A folding or telescoping stock;
A pistol grip that protrudes conspicuously beneath the action of the weapon;
A bayonet mount;
A flash suppressor or threaded barrel designed to accommodate a flash suppressor

You’re allowed to have any one of those features on your semiautomatic rifle, but not two of them, so if you want to fire bullets as fast as you can pull the trigger and launch grenades, and use a bayonet, you’re out of luck. Bullets and grenades, only. Thankfully, real grenade-launcher rounds are tough to get, but the launchers can also be adapted to fire shotgun shells.
The real point, though, is that characterizing Connecticut’s gun laws, or any U.S. gun laws, as “strict” sets up a series of wholly inadequate goalposts for the laws we hope to end up with as the “discussion” on gun violence continues, and it leads to a distorted view of this tragedy as it relates to the law, that the law is not an effective way to address it. On Saturday’s Up With Chris Hayes, host Chris Hayes threw out this idea in devil’s advocate mode, and gun control advocates Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY)  and Deputy New York City Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson immediately folded like self-aware origami, and accepted the premise.
“Gun advocates are going to say, ‘In this case, we had three weapons in a state with relatively strict gun laws,’” Hayes said, “all legally purchased, registered to the mother. You guys are coming with your prepackaged solutions, which is to crack down on the laws, even though the facts in the case, as we know them, don’t manifest themselves as things that would have been prevented.”
Wolfson immediately pivoted to inner-city violence, saying we should care about, and legislate around, gun violence against children “regardless of the circumstances around their shooting.”
Rep. McCarthy allowed that “we cannot save every single person,” but that doesn’t stop you from trying, and that “maybe in this case, there might not have been anything that we could have done,” although she did raise the issue of large-capacity magazines:

We shouldn’t surrender so quickly, or at all, to this logic-defying argument. If an arsenal like this can be legally deployed in a state with “relatively strict gun laws,” then the natural conclusion should be that we have no idea what the words “strict gun laws” mean. Whatever the solutions we arrive at (quickly, I hope), we must begin with agreement that tragedy of this scale can be prevented, or at least mitigated, and we must be prepared to challenge basic assumptions about gun ownership, like why any civilian even needs to own a firearm with a detachable clip, let alone an extended magazine. Is convenience at the target range or the hunting grounds worth this potential risk?
We don’t know enough about the details of this shooting to formulate comprehensive policies around issues peripheral to guns, but we know for sure that the guns are a problem. Even if there turns out to be a strong mental health component to this, caring for the mentally ill, while a desirable goal, is like screening out a needle from a haystack when it comes to preventing shootings like this. We should get to that haystack, but right now, we need to deal with the haystacks made of guns and bullets, and we need to attack them with a big-ass pitchfork, not a set of tweezers.
That is not to say that we should throw out the Second Amendment, or that we can’t respect it while we work this out, but we need to change the way we think about it:
A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.
Obviously, we already recognize limits to the term “arms,” but when our founders passed this amendment, here’s how long it takes to load a musket:

Three shots per minute might not seem like a realistic place to begin this discussion, but if Connecticut is what we call “strict,” it makes a hell of a lot more sense than starting at “grenade launcher.”
 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook


 
filed under
Brady Campaign, Carolyn McCarthy, ct shooting, Gun Control, Howard Wolfson, Up with Chris Hayes







Which Celebs Are Barely Recognizable Without Makeup?





Johnny Depp's New Movie Not a Laughing Matter





Taylor Swift's Boob Job Proven?





Celebs and Their Cartoon Character Look-A-Likes





Black Celebrities Who Have Turned White 


 







Anonymous



OK, to me, this points out the sillyness of trying to solve the problem of gun violence by picking scary looking (or sounding) features of guns and saying “nobody NEEDS that, let’s ban it”.
It won’t DO anything, any more than banning 3 oz+ shampoo bottles on planes or making you take your shoes off, but it means they can say “LOOK, We DID something!”






    http://twitter.com/UrbanAchievr                            Brandt



“when our founders passed this amendment, here’s how long it takes to load a musket”…
And when our founders passed the First Amendment, there was no such thing as Twitter, either.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



So limiting magazine size would not have reduced the death count?
Is that your theory?






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



his pump or auto shotgun could have done just as much damage… 
 A 10 round magazine reloads as quicky as a 18 round magazine..
You can use speed loaders with revolvers.. the fastest shooters use single action and can reload before you can get on your knees.. you can’t fix crazy or stop it without meeting force with the same force or better period.






Anonymous



When I learned there were people willing to strap explosives to their bodies and blow themselves up and kill as many people as they could, I came to the conclusion, the only way to rid this planet of evil is to kill it first. People who are willing to kill will find whatever is available. Timothy McVeigh used a van fill with fertilizer and diesel fuel to kill 168 and injure 800 and destroyed a building without firing a single shot. 19 hijackers brought our country to it’s knees with box cutters and without firing a single shot. Evil people will find whatever is available to inflict their evil, no matter how illegal we make being evil.






Anonymous



True shot guns can be just as devastating if not more so. Only down side to a shotgun is most only carry 5 rounds and have limited range but of course that can be extended as well. Another downside is they are a little bit more clumsy to use. Once you are out it takes a little to reload unless of course you are tactically loading. Im actually surprised more of these lunatics don’t use shotguns.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



But he didn’t.  He used something with giant clips.  This hypothetical thing is so f$%king tired/limp/pathetic






Anonymous



This is the truth.






Anonymous



Here is the difference. After Mcveigh used that fertilizer to blow up those people the government stepped in to put restrictions on that stuff and its monitored very carefully. After those terrorist used those box cutters you are no longer allowed to carry a box cutter on a plane. After a shooting like this we all sit around and wait for another shooting. Nothing is ever going to be perfect and bad guys will find ways to kill. But we shouldn’t make it easier on them to do so we should make it more difficult. The challenging part is how do we do that. I have my ideas and im sure you have yours. I would hope that even the pro gun people in this country have some ideas other than more people need to have more guns and its the video games fault. So far thats all I have heard.






Anonymous



Well, there were no hand grenades either. Or shoulder launched missles. But we do not allow people to have those because, even though they are “arms”, like a musket, they are too dangerous. Likewise, automatic weapons, which like missle launchers can kill lots of people in a hurry, should be regulated. Like Australia.






Anonymous



You are right that there are some very messed up people who would inflict violence on others, but the harder we make it for such people to carry out their plans, the less such people will be successful in doing it. Its way too easy for any nut to get extremely dangerous automatic weapons. As for McVeigh, with the fertilizer, that had the effect of causing the sale of large quantities of fertilizer to monitored. And blowing up planes? That had the effect of our nation implementing very tight airport security that has been, in fact, extremely effective. Likewise, given the number of nuts with auto weapons, we need to act to make that more difficult.






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



that’s it.. keep it real..sigh…
So carrying 9 10 rounds clips as you call them would be different and you would rush that individual bare handed… sigh.. please, try for one to :”think” just once..






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



I would beg to differ.. you can reload a shotgun pretty quickly.. would you advance unarmed on the man/woman doing so?
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q3E5wtmWCk4






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



“keep it real”
from the retard that injects oodles of hypatheticals in each of your replies
bless your heart






freedomrocks4



automatic weapons are regulated…..you need a permit






Anonymous



Not him. But most people aren’t that good. Believe me dude I know about shotguns. Its much easier to load a magazine fed weapon under stress than a normal shotgun.  Speed loaders are also very quick for revolvers but its more difficult to carry tons of speed loader than it is tons of magazines. Again there is no need to make things easier for lunatics to kill. I disagree with everything you say all the time.  And its not going to change now.






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



ok, I warned you before.. back to the childrens table you go..






Ben K



Does the second amendment cover tanks and mortars too? Why not?






Anonymous



In the US, basically, we do not permit full auto weapons, but we do permit people to buy semi-auto weapons. In Australia, they limit semi-auto weapons, such as the ones the shooters in CO, CT, VA, AR … had, too.






freedomrocks4



then move to Australia….






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



“Believe me dude I know about shotguns.”  
sigh..and you MUST know cause you are a devote  “internet police officer?”
Please..walk forward into ANY man reloading a shotgun 30 feet away while unarmed.. sigh
There are regular rigs to hold speed loaders..
what is the weight ratio of a loaded 30 round mag compared to a 10 round mag per weight? how many magazines can your average molle vest hold? 
Will you take that chance as to how good the person is reloading a shotgun 30 feet away and you unarmed?
What parts of all your points do you see as invalid?
What part of NO GUN ZONE those that died in don’t you see as a matter of choice taken away and fell to an armed assailant?.
Please get back to me.. when you make sense with reason mister “internet” police officer that knows all.. let us all once again know for “fact” the outcomes.. you should find outcomes in those papers you fill out “after” an incident.






Anonymous



Sigh its always the same with you. I really need to stop trying. Do you have any solutions to anything? Honestly and I am not even being a prick here. Other than give everyone guns do you have anything to offer? If that is it I will cease to reply. But im curious what other than more guns and more powerful guns in peoples hands what do you have to offer? Would you like access to automatic crew served weapons? And if not why not? I will be waiting your answer.






Anonymous



When our Founders passed the 2nd they were well aware of military advances.  They were experts on history.  The shotgun was also in existence, and would likely have beejn as deadly.
As to the grenade launcher… where can I buy grenades for it?  Oh, right.  This is just more dancing in the blood of murdered children for agenda.  How do I know?  Children were murdered from Obama *supplying* guns to drug cartels in Mexico with Operation Fast and Furious, yet the same vermin screaming about control here had nothing to say.  Know your deceitful, cowardly fanatics for what they are.






Anonymous



But twitter is regulated, the Govt has accessed numerous twitter & facebook accounts, if the 1st Amendment can be regulated then so can the 2nd.






    https://apollo.pirat3.com                            John Andeson



A shotgun shooting slugs is accurate enough out to 100 yards.  Rifled slugs are used for deer hunting when range is limited by terrain features, and overshot presents a danger (you can’t see what is beyond your target).  I can swap buckshot for slugs in my mossberg in about a second.  I can fire 6 shells on target in a few seconds and about 1 shell from a stripper clip on target each additional second afterwards.  You don’t have to completely reload the tube magazine before firing, you can pull a single shell from a side saddle or belt stripper and slap it onto the elevator at the breech opening in the blink of an eye.






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



“Sigh its always the same with you. I really need to stop trying. ”
True..your fallacies have no meaning to logic..
I will not just nod and agree to agree.
I told you solutions many times.. you just beat your anti-gun rhetoric.. find old postings for your answers. then as now..you wont like them.






Anonymous



My rhetorical question of the day….can you buy grenades for that grenade launcher, or just look at it?
Oh that’s right, you can’t buy explosives without extensive permitting, and then being subject to random checks from ATF to ensure that you are storing them properly, and that they are not being sold illegally.
Here’s a general list of laws broken by Adam Lanza:
Unlawful Entry – broke into moms house
Grand Theft – Stole about $2500-$3500 dollars worth of guns and ammo (Not sure who’s car was used, did he steal that from mom too?)
Murder – 1 count, mom
Illegal Carry – In CT it is unlawful to carry weapons in your vehicle without a permit, unless going to and from a shooting range with an unloaded weapon.
Illegal Possession of a Weapon – In CT it is unlawful for anyone under the age of 21 to own or buy a handgun.
Possession of a weapon on school grounds – self explanatory
Murder – 27 counts, children and faculty
Unlawful Discharge of a Firearm – it is unlawful to discharge a firearm in inappropriate places, within city limits, where firearms are prohibited, etc.
And I’m sure that were he going to court the police could find a few more things to charge him with, this is just what I found on the CT gun law web site.
As another aside, CT also provides lawful confiscation of firearms from individuals believed to be mentally unstable.  But notice it didn’t matter because of the first three laws he broke.
Will adding more laws change the ones he already broke?






Anonymous



They are  banned federally so no need for a state law to address it, just like automatic weapons (ffl exceptions notwithstanding). Nice try though, author






Simple_Phil



Once again, our resident propagandist shamelessly lies through his
teeth. Grenade launchers are ‘Destructive Devices’ . Meaning, you
cannot own them. what you can own is a 37mm flare launcher.A fake replica. Real 40mm
grenades will not fit in it. Tommy, you are a loathsome , lying,
oxygen thief. At least Rothman has the stones to answer his critics.






    https://apollo.pirat3.com                            John Andeson



The author is an idiot, or malevolent. Either he doesn’t know that
grenades are highly illegal everywhere in the U.S., or he intentionally
is attempting to mislead the conversation. 
A ‘grenade launcher’ minus grenades is a big metal tube with a firing pin.  Without a license for those grenades, which is next to impossible to obtain, it might as well be a paperweight, and will actually do more to obstruct the shooter than shorter magazines, adding more weight to the barrel increases the time it takes to center the sights on a target when traversing from target to target.  
The grenades the launcher fires are highly illegal to own, transport and obtain.  There is no black market for them I’ve ever heard of.  Merely possessing one without proper government clearance will get you 20 years of Federal time. Smoke, flares and flechette rounds are available, which could possibly cause some choking, or turn the assault-like rifle into a single shot, extremely slow shotgun.
Some people are just broken in the brain.  The same people calling for a gun ban are those who would freak out if a fire control system were not installed in a school, or if a car were sold without seat belts or airbags.  The solution for fire and automotive collision casualties is not to ban fires or collisions, but to limit the impact of them.  The solution of gun violence in schools, which carried on unabated during the Clinton AWB, is not to ban guns, but to limit the impact of those who want to do violence.  This means having trained, and armed staff in schools, either faculty or police officers.  If you believe a gun ban is the answer, ask yourself why these criminals always target schools and other gun-free zones.  They know for an absolute fact that it will be shocking, and that they can do their violence without risk to themselves.  Apply the air marshall doctorine to schools, and watch the entire doctrine change.






Anonymous



tell me again.






Anonymous



I know John.  I pointed that out.  Its absolutely incredible how you guys try and get technical.  Both the AR and shotgun are devastating weapons. Much easier for someone who is not highly trained to reload an AR and much easier to carry a massive amount of rounds.  Reloading and firing a shotgun is more complicated ,you cant carry the same amount of ammo and its range is not nearly as far. I will give you a shotgun at 150 yards. You give me an AR. You wont win. Law enforcement is moving toward the AR  more than the shotgun. Many reasons for this including less collateral damage, and accurate hits at greater ranges. Loading and manipulating a shotgun in high stress situations handling individual rounds is far more difficult than grabbing a 30 round clip and slapping in into an AR. Put me on a range with you at 50 yards. Give us a minute. I will shoot rings around you.






Anonymous



Yes, if we could confiscate all the millions of 30-round clips in private hands, it MIGHT reduce the death count. If you could do that. 
But we’ve had the 10 round limit in California for decades, and it hasn’t cut down the number of incidents.
I’m more interested in reducing the number of mass shooting incidents than in “reducing the death count”. 
I’m frustrated and pissed and angry too.
I’ve just been asking people (in lots of places) to try and come up with ideas that might actually be helpful in reducing the acts.
Because for the life of me, I’m coming up short.
The only one I’ve heard recently was the Canadian law about needing two people to vouch for you before you can get a gun permit. (I’m sure there’s more to it than this, I’d make it that they both have to be 10+ year permit holders themselves, maybe one of them an instructor?)






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



Here are 5 changes even NRA members support:
1. Requiring criminal background checks on gun owners and gun shop employees. 74% approve.
2. Prohibiting terrorist watch list members from acquiring guns. 71% approve.
3. Mandating that gun-owners tell the police when their gun is stolen. 64% approve.
4. Concealed carry permits should only be restricted to individuals who have completed a safety training course and are 21 and older.  74% approve  (63 percent for the age restriction).
5. Concealed carry permits shouldn’t be given to perpetrators of violent misdemeanors or individuals arrested for domestic violence.  75 approve in favor of the violent misdemeanors provision and (68 percent in favor of the domestic violence restriction).






    http://twitter.com/EricsBizTweets                            EricsBizTweets



yes, but we’re not going to ban Twitter, are we?






Simple_Phil



You make some valid points, but why not treat all firearms as dangerous? If some one takes a lever action 45/70 and a pump 12 gauge into a school and kills a dozen children, isn’t that just as bad?
Bans are unpopular and never achieve anything tangible.






Simple_Phil



All of these nutcases carried a secondary weapon to kill anyone who tried to rush them while they were reloading. A 10 round magazine would make little diffference.






Anonymous



Taking a shotgun into a school and killing is just as bad true. Picking out individual targets with a shotgun taking them out then moving on to another while having to reload often fumbling with individual rounds is hard. Not impossible and yes you are correct the results would probably be at least as devastating. Now if this individual chose to engage law enforcement with a shotgun he would do far less damage against trained officers with ARS. I would much rather repond to a scene knowing a man has a shotgun even if he has slugs. My standoff capabilities are much greater and his gun loses accuracy and killing power after 50 yards. If he has slugs he can only put so many down range before having to reload. The military uses them for close combat. Swat teams( at least mine use them to breach a door with breaching rounds. But when they do entry its all ARs.  For law enforcement to deal with a man with a high powered weapon that can strike with lethal power and a large amount of rounds out to 500 yards is not a task that any of them like to think about. It makes the job much more difficult.






Anonymous



M203 grenade launcher attachments fitted with the standard rifled 40mm barrel
are classified as “Destructive Devices” under the National
Firearms Act part 26 U.S.C. 5845, 27 CFR 479.11, because they are a
“non-sporting” firearm with a bore greater than one-half inch in diameter. New M203s sell for
approximately $1,750 to $2,000 plus a $200 transfer tax, and new manufacture
40mm training ammunition is available for $8 to $10 per cartridge, as of March
2008. 
High explosive 40mm grenades are available for $400 to $500 per cartridge;
however, they are exceedingly rare on the civilian market, as each grenade
constitutes a Destructive Device on its own, and must be registered with the
Federal government, requiring payment of a $200 tax and compliance with storage
regulations for high explosives.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



BS Conjecture.  Why does anyone need high-capacity mags?  People stormed beaches with 8.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



Good luck talking to this moron.  He is hyperbole defined.






Simple_Phil



No. Fact. Another straw man fallacy, I see. You’re off the list.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



I don’t think you know what a strawman is.  
But one upside, I like your boobs…Phil.
Lol






Anonymous



Yea I know.






Anonymous



M203s are relatively common on the civilian NFA market. New M203s sell for approximately $1,750 to $2,000 plus a $200 transfer tax, and new manufacture 40mm training ammunition is available for $8 to $10 per cartridge, as of March 2008. High explosive 40mm grenades are available for $400 to $500 per cartridge; however, they are exceedingly rare on the civilian market, as each grenade constitutes a Destructive Device on its own, and must be registered with the Federal government, requiring payment of a $200 tax and compliance with storage regulations for high explosives.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M203_grenade_launcher#Civilian_ownership_in_the_United_States






Anonymous



M203s are relatively common on the civilian NFA market. New M203s sell for approximately $1,750 to $2,000 plus a $200 transfer tax, and new manufacture 40mm training ammunition is available for $8 to $10 per cartridge, as of March 2008. High explosive 40mm grenades are available for $400 to $500 per cartridge; however, they are exceedingly rare on the civilian market, as each grenade constitutes a Destructive Device on its own, and must be registered with the Federal government, requiring payment of a $200 tax and compliance with storage regulations for high explosives.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M203_grenade_launcher#Civilian_ownership_in_the_United_States






Anonymous



They are not banned federally. Nice try though, internet commenting person.






Anonymous



I have no objections to any of those. The last two are already law in California, which is a “may issue” instead of a “shall issue” state anyway.
(Which means CCP’s are up to the discretion of the local chief LEO. )
In Sacramento, there’s a year wait for those who have completed the training, just for the paperwork to clear. Before our present sheriff, you pretty much just couldn’t get them at all unless you were politically connected.
But I don’t see what effect any of those would have had on any of the recent mass shootings.
The state Senate passed a bill on the mandatory theft reporting, but it’s being opposed because it has a mandatory “within 48 hours” rule that apparently worries some that it will decrease reports by people who missed the deadline.
The first two… OK, if it makes you happy. I don’t see what difference it would make when looking at past events.
It’s good to see ideas that aren’t simply pointing at scary looking hardware though.
Thank you.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



Add to it the Brady limits, and we would be getting somewhere.






Anonymous



I wouldn’t have believed this headline without links.  Why the heck would anyone want a grenade launcher in the first place?






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Miljana-Mandich/100000344785321                            Miljana Mandich



Every adult head of household in Switzerland  has a gun and how many gun crimes do they have? It is none of your business what kind of weapon i have or want to have.Keep your “solutions” from leaking.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Miljana-Mandich/100000344785321                            Miljana Mandich



None of that applies in this case.He used his mother’s guns.He was 20.






Anonymous



So then keep things the same? Or do you have a solution?






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



they need a price reduction.. seems like only the RICH can afford these.. another example of  widening the gap of rich and poor… you would think the left would be all over this!!






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



Tommy is “right”… its a 2nd Amendment kinda thing.. they can put limits and pressure but cannot actually deny you the right if you jump through their hoops, mentally stable and not a felon.. oh and have the “money”.. 
why do people worry about this when the only ones shooting are unstable? Let’s get that Mental health working again.. just have to get the left to back off the pressure.. but in all honesty, sane people had been held captive for years..in the day.. such webs we weave..






Anonymous



This sick human being not waking up one day deciding to shoot people would have lowered the death count by a lot.






GunTotingLib



NRA members may support them BUT the NRA  does not support them






cws1959



This great Country has all kinds of  “strict”  and “stricter” laws that are suppose (ie failed) to prevent needless and senseless death. All you need is a drivers iicense and you can buy alcohol and thousands die every year from drunk driving and violence involving alcohol. Think how many lives would be save if you had to have a background check and wait 10 days before you bought a beer? Stricter = not good enough, right? In the end, strict laws, like no texting on your phone in your car has not eliminate many needless deaths, “Stricter laws” like raising the legal age to drink to 21 has still continued to contribute to thousands of deaths a year.  Your have a point, if it kills or is a tool that kills it should be banned. I expect you to stop drinking, stop driving your car and stop using your cell phone. They are all killers or a tool of needless and senseless death, right? Its pathetic how you diminish the problem of mental health care and the mentally ill. Its not a minor issue. Your ignorance about mental illness is unfortunate.  Violence and mental illness links have been not fully research (its a needle in the haystack of “substance abuse”) but factors in violence and more research is needed : http://goo.gl/KZLrg. I would hope in your “village” you would want more for those with mental health illness or born with a genetic condition like autism or aspergers. Apparently after reading this all the facts don’t matter. BTW,  It would be great to go back to 19th century I wouldn’t have to read this crap or respond to it, and you would be loading your musket and be part of a militia and you would never question the Founding Fathers and your Constitution, would you?






    http://twitter.com/clayranck                            Clay Ranck



Tommy, it’s obvious you have very little understanding of weapons or gun laws.  The Connecticut law is basically the same as the old federal assault weapons law, so you are in essence saying that the law passed by the Democrats in the 1990′s was ridiculous, and served no purpose…which, of course, is the same thing that Republicans said about it.
You then go on to ask “why any civilian even needs to own a firearm with a detachable clip”, but almost every modern handgun has a detachable magazine (except revolvers, or course, but someone with a semi-auto revolver and speedloaders isn’t going to be all that much slower than a magazine-loaded handgun).  Also, a fixed magazine with a hinged floor and stripper clips loads at about the same speed as a removable magazine, so changing the laws on that won’t really affect anything at all.
You mention grenade launchers, but only in the comment thread do you discuss that these are NFA Destructive Devices, cost thousands a piece, and require filing with ATF, providing a recent photo and fingerprints (which are then sent to the FBI for background check), and obtaining the approval of a local law enforcement official.  Not the kind of attention that someone who is planning a crime wants to draw to themselves.  And besides, do you have any evidence whatsoever that grenades or a grenade launcher were involved in this or any other crime in the past, say 30, years?  If not, then you’re basically using the word “grenade launchers” in the same way that the left has used the term “assault weapons” – as a way to play on people’s emotions and scare them into supporting the policies that you support.
Cute comment on muskets, but wasn’t this basically the best firearm technology at the time?  So the government felt perfectly comfortable giving the same technology they had to individuals…today, we accept that individuals should not have the same level of firearms technology as the government, and yet even that presents a problem for the gun controllers…






Anonymous



All I can say is that our founding fathers NEVER saw this coming.  NEVER.  And if they did have any sense of foresight or the ability to travel through time, one can only wonder if they would have worded the 2nd amendment in a way that provided limitations to the kind of destructive power one person is allowed to wield.  Obviously, our “well armed militia” couldn’t do jack against an oppressive government with nuclear weapons.  And hunting with an assault weapon?  WTF?  We are an inherently violent society who LOVES their guns, so when this sh1t happens, I just don’t understand why this nation acts so shocked.
We reap what we sow.






Anonymous



You are absolutely wrong, The Founding Fathers knew exactly what they were writing, and their intent in the words, definitions and ideals they crafted into the Constitution.
They chose the word carefully for intent, definition, and meaning, that They used in the Constitution, The Constitution was not a document that conferred or granted any Rights, As the Founding Fathers believed that all Right already belong, as a natural state to Freemen, Citizens, and that The Constitution recognized that those right were not granted by the Government, nor that the Government could curtail any of those Rights, and Specifically wrote the Bill Of Right as emphasis of all rights being the domain of the Citizen, a Freeman.
There is no ambiguity in the IX Amendment;
“The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall
not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the
people.”
And there is no ambiguity in the II Amendment;
“A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of
a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be
infringed.”
In both it clearly state these rights belong to the People, In 6 of the Amendments “The People”  is used in plain precise language, In the other 4 The rights of the person are enumerated, No Rights are granted to the Government.
And as to what would the Founding Fathers do if they were alive today?
They went to war with the most powerful nation on the world of their day, Over a penny a pound tax on Tea, What do You think they would do to the Government for the Taxes imposed on the Citizen today?






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



 The Founding Fathers knew exactly what they were writing, and their intent in the words, definitions and ideals they crafted into the Constitution.
<insert URL to Twilight Zone theme here>
<insert get-off-the-crack-pipe comment here>






    http://twowheeledmadwoman.blogspot.com/                            Roberta X



Bought any grenades lately?  Rarely available (possibly even banned in CT) and when they are, they require Federal paperwork, signed by your local Sheriff or Police Chief, and a $200 tax.  A grenade launcher is just a stupid accessory.
     Worry about real things, not silly cosmetic features on firearms.  A crazy man with a machete is a much bigger risk than an AR-15 on a table.






Anonymous



Guns were BANNED at the school.
Murder is BANNED  by law – EVERYWHERE.
What makes liberals think this guy would obey gun laws??
You can buy fully automatic machine guns from illegal aliens that bring  them in from Mexico.  . . . how would gun laws prevent that?






Andy



True..The Militamen carry guns during their period of service after receiving training. And most of the ammo for these guns were required to be returned to the nation.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



And if he had a less lethal weapon the death count would have been lower.






Anonymous



Yes, They did, Now for you;






Anonymous



What if he had a more lethal weapon? What if he bombed the school? What if, what if.
I do know that I would rather the kid not snap and “want” to kill people over giving him a less lethal way to do it.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



since thought policing is still tough (and gun laws are easy) perhaps should stick to reality






Anonymous



I did not say anything about thought police did I? You could point to this kind of violence to be a cultural issue. This kid, if sane, did not value human life, lack of a gun will not change that. he could just as easily used any other instrument. Some would have done more damage. he chose guns, since his mother was not a responsible owner. 
But you cant suggest that the death count is automatically lower without guns.






Anonymous



My state of NY bans will not allow its citizens to carry a concealed gun. Yet people die every day from them. How is this possible when they are banned?






tawster



The the mental health issue -is- the haystack in your example. And your breakdown of the different configurations of a gun that are legal and not legal is a good example of bad regulatory language. So called assault rifles are hunting rifles with ergonomic features and standardized attachments. I.e., they are hunting rifles that -look- militaristic and usually have a lower power round/bullet. Assault rifle bans essentially ban a look and feel, not functionality. And thus, you get this weird twist-a-plot route through what is legal and not legal with a rifle. It’s just silly.
Want to have a real impact? Address the core issue: Mental Health. That doesn’t mean we stop the discussion surrounding regulating firearms, but there is very little attention being given the core problem: untreated sick people.
Fortunately, incidents like what happened in Connecticut are incredibly rare. Hopefully it ends up highlighting mental health issues and not pushing through reactionary symptom-attacking bills.






Anonymous



The guns changed of course but the REASON for allowing us to have them hasn’t so no, the founding fathers knew what they were doing.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



“But you cant suggest that the death count is automatically lower without guns.”
Are you high?
He killed 24 people in 10 minutes.  How else would he have done it, than with a gun that shoots as fast as squeeze the trigger, high magazine capacity?






Anonymous



All great points but i love your musket point. Never thought of that.






Anonymous



explosives, McVeigh did it with fertilizer. The guns were more accessible since his mother did not properly lock them up. he could have set the school on fire. There many things he could have done. 
The point being, it is not the guns fault, it is his.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



you people are retarded
after a mass shooting (with weaponry legally purchased) you start pooping in the bathtub with conjecture that it would be just as easy to blow up the school
He didn’t use bombs.  Stop distracting from the FACT he used a gun.  Same gun that would have been illegal for his idiot mother to buy if the Assault Weapons Ban would not have expired.
But…bombs!  You people make me sick






Anonymous



You people can’t be taken seriously. The 2d Amendment isn’t regulated? Over 20000 gun laws and regulations, yet you say the 2d Amendment isn’t REGULATED?






Anonymous



And Muslim terrorists killed almost 3000 without FIRING A SHOT, moron. Or with your lack of brain power, perhaps you forgot 9/11/01?






Anonymous



largest American school massacre happened in 1927 in Bath, MI. 38 children were killed. At that time fully auto weapons were available. 
Killer blew the school up. 
I know Lanza used guns. i am not detracting from the facts. The fact is, it is HIS fault for the deaths, not the guns. The guns were ILLEGALLY obtained by the killer. They were not his. 
you seem to suggest that if this kid was not able to get the guns, he would have sat on his hands and done nothing.






Anonymous



What do you think YOU people make intelligent people? Yep, YOU idiots make US sick.






Anonymous



Jeeze…..another stupid jerk. The reason they stormed beaches with 8 is because that is all they had, MORON.






Anonymous



Hey brainiac, they aren’t clips, they’re MAGAZINES.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



what the f$%k does 911 have to do with anything?






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



if he didn’t have access to guns (legal guns, spin all you want) he could not as easily have killed 20 people in 10 minutes.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



middle finger raised
your hyperbolic rants are beyond stupid






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



aww sweetie didn’t want to respond to my premise so poop in the bathtub with all caps stoopid
lol






    http://twitter.com/grimcity                            Neal Boyd



Ever pissed off a wild boar?
YOU’LL NEED THAT GRENADE DAWG






Anonymous



so I guess you would be ok with him killing people as long as it not with guns.






Anonymous



From shows I’ve watched, reality type, it’s basically worthless calling 911 hoping to be saved. By the time help arrives, the crime is usually over. Same thing with alarm companies. It’s REALLY worthless expecting cops to save your ass in natural disasters and riots. So, in essence you’re saying to just bend over when gangs of criminals roam around during these disasters. Let them loot, burn, rob and rape, because we want to take away your means of protection. I’m assuming you’re a cop, do you own an AR15? I certainly hope not.






Anonymous



Here’s what I have to offer. STOP treating criminals with kid gloves. STOP worrying more about the rights of the criminal than the rights of the VICTIM. Execute convicted murderers, rapists, drug dealers, kidnappers, within months instead of decades. Allow authorities to be able to force possibly mentally unhinged people into evaluation. Almost every one of these sick individuals showed some  form of mental problems, yet they COULDN’T be forced into a hospital for observation and treatment. Plus, they can’t be made to take any medications to prevent problems. Thank you LIBS and the ACLU.






Anonymous



And you know this how? Are you able to read the minds of the NRA officers?






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



nice straw man
no, idiot
reasonable gun control would have lightened the body count of this tragedy
you know that, which is why you want to talk about everything but the facts, injecting Tim McVeigh and accusing gun control advocates as the same as gun abolishment supporters






W Smith



You’re a disgusting opportunist Christopher. This article doesn’t further ANY discussion worth a grain of salt. This was the work of bad parenting. They BOTH did not address the mental issues before adulthood. Secondly, the mother LEFT *unlocked* GUNS AND AMMUNITION IN ACCESIBLE AREAS. The mother even said she “was losing her son” some weeks before this disaster. Laws can’t stop idiocy.






Chad



And how long would it have taken you to get out this stupid and inacurate of a report with a 1776 printing press or by hollering from a stump.  Idiots.






Anonymous



I gave you a real world example of someone who bombed a school in Michigan which killed more in a faster time frame. Is that not still possible?






Anonymous



they were not legal for him. He broke the law in obtaining them.
That is not spin, it is fact. you are suggesting that more laws would have prevented him from breaking current laws? I don’t think this kid gave a rats ass what any law stated.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



you are talking about a bombing…from 20 years ago as you dont want to talk about a shooting last week
it is tiresome






Anonymous



you are tiresome. you stated that without guns, this kid could not inflict the damage he did. I gave you an example of someone doing more damage in less time with no guns. Try to stay on point here.






    http://italicizedmalice.com/                            ItalicizedMalice



that he could Bruce Lee them to death?
dude take your f$%king meds






Anonymous



wow…just wow…
No I know why we are screwed as a nation. People like you get to vote.






GunTotingLib



Name the last gun regulation the NRA supported






    http://421a.douglasavenue.com                            Erin Winking



I am unsure of the point of this article because that law mirrors the Federal assault weapons ban. So… 
Also enough with the damned musket argument already. The first amendment was written for street corner protests and hand cranked printing presses. Does that mean we shouldn’t have the right to speech on radio, TV and the internet?






Jim Rice



Six of the top ten school mass killings did not occur in the US.  Two of the top ten did not use guns at all.  The #1 US mass school killing which dwarfs this most recent one did not involve guns at all and over 40 were killed.  One of them used an insecticide sprayer converted to spay fire, a homemade lance and spear.  Evil will find a way gun or no gun.  If there had been and armed citizen, principal or police officer stationed there this would not have happened.  When you set the public up with no means to protect themselves, and no personal responsibility to protect themselves or others from evil, this will inevitably happen at some point.  The only answer is a police state and then you are at the mercy of the police or gov’t.  How did that work for the Germans, Soviets, Cambodians, Iraqis, etc…






    http://twitter.com/clayranck                            Clay Ranck



And how many automatic weapons have been used in a crime in recent years?  What we’re ultimately talking about here is really just “scary” (semi-automatic) rifles.  You’re 2x more likely to be killed with a fist in the US than a rifle, or 5x more likely to be killed with a knife.  So where are the calls for banning fists and knives?  Tommy?






    http://games-survival.com                            Justplaythegame



dunno why you are asking me.. I am not for any bans.. was just agree’n (hardly ever) that Tommy was right.. enough money and paper work gets you anything you want in America.. legally and illegally…






Anonymous



This is absurd. Yeah, maybe you can have a grenade launcher, but try getting the grenades for it. It is essentially impossible as regulated by federal law.






Anonymous



LOL! Grenade launcher? Really? The only thing a civilian can get that comes close to a “grenade launcher” is a 37mm flare launcher (REAL grenade launchers are 40mm, extremely expensive, heavily controlled, and each individual ‘grenade’ requires it’s own expensive NFA tax stamp,) which will can not handle any munitions which explode or carry projectiles. In fact, no ordnance is even produced for the 37mm flare launcher. It is only good as a signalling device. More F.U.D.D. from “journalists” who don’t know the first thing about the subjects they write about.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Mark-Sanford/100000119110135                            Mark Sanford



Jesus, if Tommy Christopher is not the single most ignorant writer on the topic of guns, I don’t know who is.  The so-called grenade launchers discussed in the CT law, which were also included in the 1994 Assault weapons ban, refer to slight modifications around the muzzle crown that allow one to launch a grenade from the barrel of the gun, like they did in World War II. They do not refer to modern grenade launchers that are attached to the foreend of modern battle rifles. Furthermore, is there anyone really stupid enough to believe that you can actually walk into a gun store and buy high explosive grenades that can be launched from a modern rifle-mounted grenade launcher?   This entire piece shows how moronic the media is on the issue of guns. The worst part about this is that some uninformed imbecile will read the above piece and say “damn, you can buy grenades and a grenade launcher in CT”.


















 


Most Popular
Most Commented







30 Rock’s 13 Most Hilarious Political And Media Moments




Ronald Reagan’s Childhood Home To Be Bulldozed For Possible Future Home Of Obama Library




Reporter Hilariously Shames Seemingly Drunk Videobomber: ‘How Long Have You Had An STD?’




CNN Airs Video Of Snowmobile Jump That Killed X Games Competitor




Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward


 





Did The Media Blatantly Mischaracterize Video Of Newtown Father Being ‘Heckled’ By ‘Gun Nuts’?          »410






Female Gun Advocate Lays Into Democratic Senator Over Women’s Second Amendment Rights          »398






Hide Your Bibles, Hide Your Kids, Because Muslims Are Coming! Or So Suggests Fox News’ Todd Starnes          »360






Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward          »282






Fox’s The Five Goes After MSNBC For Edited Video Of Sandy Hook Father Being ‘Heckled’          »245



 






Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Pilot Season: ABC Orders Divorce Comedy Based on Israeli Series



• 

Pilot Season: CBS Orders Psychological Thriller From Homeland, CSI Executive Producers



• 

Christina Ricci Engaged to Boyfriend James Heerdegen



• 

Glee Sneak Peek: New Directions Covers a Diva and Tina Gets Called Out!



• 

Was the Iranian Space Monkey Launch a Hoax? 


 

TV Guide Listings









 
 







  Online/Print
»»



Hot:
Barack Obama | Immigration | Rush Limbaugh 







WaPo Fact-Checker Demands Multiple Skeet-Shooting Photos To Clear President Obama Of Lying


by Tommy Christopher | 2:35 pm, Friday

 

» 39 comments






Mark Levin Explodes: ‘The Muslim Brotherhood Has Infiltrated Our Gov’t — It’s Called Barack Obama’


by Andrew Kirell | 1:16 pm, Friday

 

» 176 comments



 



Limbaugh Mocks CNN: They Might Start Black History Month By Nixing Show For ‘Too Ethnic’ Audience


by Meenal Vamburkar | 3:24 pm, Friday

 

» 9 comments






WATCH: San Francisco’s Nudity Ban Off To A Rocky Start


by Matt Wilstein | 9:53 pm, Friday

 

» more inside



 



Winners Of The Week: Hillary, Greta, Cuomo (The TV One), The Next Turner And Meticulous MSNBC


by Joe Concha | 5:31 pm, Friday

 

» 2 comments






Beware The ‘Muffin Macer’: Woman Sprays Man In Face After Intense Convenience Store Argument


by Andrew Kirell | 4:54 pm, Friday

 

» 11 comments



 



Man Defends Horse Rape: ‘I Was Thinking It Would Have A Horseman Baby’


by Noah Rothman | 3:34 pm, Friday

 

» 60 comments






Conservative Former SNL  Star Victoria Jackson Deletes ‘White History Month’ Article


by Tommy Christopher | 6:10 pm, Thursday

 

» 61 comments








Newsletter:

Sign up for the Mediaite newsletter:








More Online/Print:



 
Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus’ NBC News Tenure                                      »3








 
                  Officials Release Photo Of Alabama Hostage Suspect Jimmy Lee Dykes                                  







 
                  Newsweek Trolls The Nation: Hillary Clinton ‘Most Powerful Woman In American History’                                      »16








 
                  Scott Brown Will Not Seek John Kerry’s Empty Senate Seat                                      »19








 
                  Steve Capus Now Officially Out As NBC News President                                      »20








 
                  John Kerry Says Obama Offered Secretary Of State Job Before Susan Rice Withdrew                                      »9








 
                  Conservative Website Falsely Claims Gabby Giffords’ Therapist ‘Gave Her’ Handwritten Testimony                                      »24








 
                  Newtown Votes To Request Armed Police Officers In Elementary Schools                                      »28








 
                  Hillary Clinton Hits Benghazi Critics Who ‘Just Will Not Live In An Evidence-Based World’                                      »81








 
                  Former NYC Mayor Ed Koch Dies At Age 88                                      »8








 
                  New Report Shows Obama Admin Will Have Deported 2 Million By 2014                                      »16








 
New York Times, Wall Street Journal Allege Targeting By Chinese Hackers                                      »2









 



 



click here for advertising opportunities





Last Call: Calm Down, There’s No Chicken Wing Shortage, Just Like There Was No Baconpocalypse
WATCH: Emeril Lagasse Hawks Ritz Crackers As The Taste Of New Orleans







So Ronaiah Tuiasosopo Apparently Was Doing Lennay Kekua’s Voice After All And Oh Come On What The Hell We Give Up With This Crap
“Fenway Parks” Is The Name Of An Actual High School Baseball Player. He’s From Florida.







EOD Roundup: Science Thinks That Men Who Do Chores Aren’t Attractive
10 Things We Would See If Women Ran The Super Bowl







Editors’ Picks 2/1: Field Gambling Chess
Here’s an Entire Hour of Valve’s Gabe Newell on Business, Economics, and Video Games [Video]







NAACP Image Awards Red Carpet Photos!
American Idol Contestant Admits to Lying About Military Accident, Miracle Baby







StyleDish: Of Course Kanye Wore A Straitjacket During His Concert
Bar Refaeli Makes Out With A Go Daddy Geek For Her First Super Bowl Ad







We Can All Quit: Sesame Street Did A Spoof Called Upside Downton Abbey [VIDEO]
Things We Saw Today: The Princess and the Evil Queen from Disney’s Frozen






 





 




© 2013 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
	  			
 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram

















 

X


