Assault Weapons Ban The Wrong Place For Joe Biden To Start Gun Violence Task Force | Mediaite





Mediaite
Gossip Cop
Geekosystem
Styleite
SportsGrid
The Mary Sue
The Jane Dough
The Braiser









WATCH: The Best 2013 Super Bowl Ads All In One Video





Dry-Humping Soccer Fans Videobomb Live Sports Report





The Biggest Cable News Fights Of The Month: January 2013





Stewart Trashes Wayne LaPierre And Female Gun Advocate Over Senate Testimony





Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus' NBC News Tenure










 




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook





 
»» Columnists





Assault Weapons Ban The Wrong Place For Joe Biden To Start Gun Violence Task Force
by Tommy Christopher | 9:36 am, December 21st, 2012

» 150 comments




 
















  

On Wednesday, President Obama placed a heavy burden on Vice President Joe Biden when he announced the formation of a task force to combat gun violence that will have scant weeks to deliver proposals, which the President will then push toward enactment. The shelf life of the political will to do this makes such a deadline necessary, as surely as the danger that gun violence poses to our citizens, but that’s all the more reason for the things the President recommended at that press conference, like a renewed federal assault weapons ban, to disappear in the task force’s rear-view mirror.
Earlier this week, I wrote a column which pointed out that Connecticut’s supposedly “strict” gun laws allow for the purchase and possession of an AR-15 (like the one used in the Sandy Hook Elementary School killings) outfitted with a grenade launcher. The point of that column was not that we should fear a rash of grenade assaults, but that our definition of “strict” gun laws is completely useless. When MSNBC’s Tamron Hall pointed this out to Connecticut Senator-Elect Chris Murphy, he confirmed the provisions of his state’s law, and pointed out that it was based on the federal assault weapons ban that then-Senator Joe Biden helped pass in 1994, and which expired in 2004:

Sen.-Elect Murphy is correct that his state’s assault weapons ban largely mirrors the expired federal ban, which has led many to conclude that since the weapon used in Friday’s massacre, the Bushmaster AR-15, was purchased legally in Connecticut, that the old federal ban would not have mitigated that tragedy, either. That’s not true, however. The federal ban differs from the Connecticut law in two key areas. Both laws specifically ban the Colt AR-15, but the federal law contains language banning any copies or duplicates of specified weapons, whereas the Connecticut law does not. Since the weapon used Friday never had to pass that federal standard, there’s no way to know if it would have fallen within the expired ban. Here’s a picture of both weapons, one banned under Connecticut’s law, one not. Can you tell the difference?

The legal weapon is actually the one at the top, with the giant banana clip. That’s your “strict” Connecticut law.
The expired federal law also banned ammunition magazines with a capacity in excess of 10 rounds. The Newtown shooter used several 30-round clips to carry out his crime, and when shot himself as police closed in, still had plenty to spare.
It’s tough to say exactly how these differences would have affected Friday’s tragedy, but if the anti-regulation’s argument is that the federal law would simply force mass murderers to become more efficient killers, that sounds like a loser. What this tells me is that a 10-round clip is too much, especially if you can carry a sack of them with you and changed them out in seconds. The federal law, along with the supposedly tougher ban proposed by Sen. Dianne Feinstein and endorsed by President Obama, also allows grandfathering of existing high-capacity magazines, which should start the stampede in about yesterday.
Both the expired law and Sen. Feinstein’s nascent revision begin by banning specifically-named firearms, and although Feinstein promises to quintuple the number of models listed, even with language about “copies” or “similar” weapons, gun manufacturers can work around those restrictions, as they did before. Neither law does much about semiautomatic pistols, unless they have two added features like a silencer, or a rifle guard on the barrel. Making a shooter instantaneously reload after 10 shots gives victims more of a chance than they have now, but still not much of a fighting chance.
Sen. Feinstein’s bill would have been a “good start” in 1994, when the political winds that Joe Biden faced made passage of his bill nearly miraculous, and we were still arguably innocent of all the ways it could be circumvented. Since where you start in a negotiation is rarely where you finish, Sen. Feinstein’s bill would probably wind up looking like the 1994 bill by the time it gets passed, if it passes at all.
If we want to end up in a reasonable place today, we need to challenge the fundamental assumptions that Biden’s ban, and Feinsteins, make. For example, what is the purpose of a detachable clip, why does a civilian need that? Most hunters will tell you they don’t need more than a couple of shots at a time, and ten shots at target practice seems like a reasonable interval to reload. Why encourage hoarding by accepting that all existing weapons should be grandfathered? It may be impractical to just round all of those weapons up, but why not prohibit their transfer, enact tough registration laws on them, and regulate where and how they can be stored? Why not require the owners of grandfathered weapons to carry insurance on these weapons?
Similarly, the closing of the “gun show loophole,” which allows firearms to be purchased at gun shows without a background check, is a poor starting point if we want to end up with a reasonable way to restrict who has access to guns. At a minimum, potential gun purchasers should have to pass a drug and alcohol test and a psychological evaluation, and be required to demonstrate competency to safely shoot and store firearms, along with a knowledge of state and federal gun laws.
To be sure, the President didn’t mean for measures like the assault weapons ban to be the end point of our action on gun regulation, but too much of the discussion lately has left the impression that this is the right ballpark, that “common ground” like this is the North Star that we should set our legislative compass to. If we are to mitigate gun violence in any meaningful way, though, we need to start out several galaxies away from that point, and, rather than seek compromise with the party of the NRA, do what is right. 
 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook


 
filed under
assault weapons, Chris Murphy, ct shooting, Dianne Feinstein, Gun Control, Joe Biden, NRA, President Obama







Tyra Banks Without Make-up: Still Think She's Hot?





Is Chritina Applegate Headed for a Mommy Meltdown?





LeAnn Rimes' Humiliating Red Carpet Wardrobe Malfunction 





5 Celebs Who Remarried Their Exes





Kendra's an Olive Garden Waitress?


 







Anonymous



Tommy – just because two guns LOOK the same, does not mean they are anywhere near to being the same.  This is what happens when you have somebody who knows nothing of guns talk about gun control.  “look at that scary gun – it MUST be dangerous!”






Anonymous



Tommy, how about posting a picture of a smart car and a smart car with a body kit to make it look like a ferrari?  Same internals and engine, but one looks “cooler.”  Please stop saying that a gun needs to be banned because it looks “scary.”






freedomrocks4



Do you agree Tommy that people should have to pass a drug and alcohol test and a psychological evalution to exercise their right to free speech? How about freedom of the press? To vote?






SPPP



Sadly, this is what the majority of neolibs think. OMG IT LOOK SCARY! BAN IT! BAN IT!! They’ve never seen guns, they’ve never shot a gun, someone other than them has always been in charge of their security, the list goes on. Yet these “intelligent” neolibs who profess to know how the world SHOULD work are in positions of power, so we have to have these inane conversations with them.






Anonymous



Perhaps if we painted a nuclear weapon pink, it would not be as dangerous?






SPPP



LOL Call it a “human intervention limiting device,” and idiot environmentalists will suddenly support dropping them on large populaces.






Anonymous



Yes, I can, One is a civilian model with a 16 inch barrel, The other is a M-4 military Machine-gun, That is fully regulated under the National Firearms Act of 1934 for Civilian possession, or only available to the Military. Even if the top gun didn’t have the full auto selector switch, It would still be regulated because it has a 14 1/2 barrel making it a short barreled weapon that is controlled under the National Firearms Act of 1934.
Also the bottom gun is not capable of mounting a grenade launcher, the barrel is to thin and does not have the mounting cut outs.






SPPP



Mediaite Staff take note: This guy’s comment is what a verbal evisceration looks like. Please don’t make the absurd mistake of assigning the word “evisceration” to anything Piers Morgan says ever again now that you have this perfect example.






Anonymous



Tommy, something that bothers me is that I’ve seen nobody point out that illegalizing a weapon does not mean confiscating it. 
When the Australian National Firearms Agreement (see Harvard study here: http://hvrd.me/UMEfz8) was created in 1997, there was a 6-month moratorium during which weapons could be traded in to the gun buyback program; at the end of that period the weapons became illegal, but there was no effort at all to trace or find or confiscate anything.
“They’re coming for your guns” seems to be an effective unofficial NRA slogan, but the idea of a door-to-door scouring of the nation is a fantasy. It looks to me like this fantasy is lodged pretty deep in the debate, even though it’s almost always unspoken.
Part of the fantasy for some people could be the thrill of imagining themselves fighting to keep the National Guard off their property or some such nonsense. (They call them “gun nuts” for a reason.) 
It might help to defuse some of the arguments by pointing this out.






Anonymous



Fact, the Holy Water, the Silver Cross, The Garlic, to the Liberal Vampires who wish to suck the life blood out of the Constitution.






SPPP



Kinda like how police let you keep your cocaine, huh?






Anonymous



Well want to guess who didn’t turn in their weapons? It wasn’t the honest law abiding citizens.
Occupied home invasions have skyrocketed in Ozz over the last 14 years, The criminals no long care if You are home or not when they decide to rob you and clean out your house.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Aside from the regulation of certain types and classes of weapons, the most progress in solving Sandy Hook events will be made in regulating ammunition.  Ammunition approved as having a very low probability of lethality (MLA: minimum lethality ammunition) can be used today for providing self-protection and also eliminate the ability of psycho mass murderers to kill in schools and shopping malls.  It is a perfect balance, a win-win.
If killer Lanza had been forced to use MLA, there is absolutely no way he could have killed the number he did within 9-1-1 response time.  It is doubtful he could have killed any at all.
Standard ammunition will still be available in whatever situations where high lethality is wanted:  for soldiers in war time, perhaps for law enforcement if society sees justice more as revenge.  For hunters, they will be issued standard ammo at the entrance of special enclosed areas designated for hunting, and must return the ammo by a certain time.  The mere illegal possession of high lethality ammo would be considered a felony, with hard time in a federal max.  Distribution and manufacture of such ammo illegally would get a very stiff sentence, and possibly life w/o parole.
The solution is to use and continue developing low probability of lethality ammunition.  It does not require the overdue effort to disambiguate the 2nd Amendment or daring to challenge it.
It is time to implement real solutions like MLA, and today.






smileyhappy



Those kids would bee dead with or without the scary looking gun.






Anonymous



Look, Joe Biden is working on the problem.  As we have seen by his efforts before, this “problem” will be solved!
(sarcasm off!)






Anonymous



Are you out of your mind?
How are you going to have a fence built around every rural piece of land and a cop at every gate to hand out ammo? Have you ever been out of the city limits?






bob ross



Like Peas and carrots Nothing go’s together like mental illness and people with assault rifles.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



The hunters will have to turn in the ammo at the end of the day.  Failure to do so will trigger an intense manhunt.  The hunters would have to have already given a great deal of info that is confirmed before they can go on their adventure.
The alternative?  No hunting at least with lethal ammo.  I think hunters and the government will find ways to accommodate with as much reduced risk as possible for the lethal ammo getting into the wrong hands.  Certainly the hunters will be highly motivated.






Anonymous



“On Wednesday, President Obama placed a heavy burden on Vice President Joe Biden”
If Biden can figure out how to get Gov. Christie off of him the Golden Age of Humanity shall commence.  (Mayan calendar fat joke boom)






Anonymous



All of them?






jpvoodoo



That doesn’t stop people from buying MLA ammo and reloading it.






Anonymous



Please describe in detail exactly what the performance and ballistic profile of this mythical magical MLA ammo is.
Ballistic coefficients, Sectional densities, Velocities, Energy  delivery, If a projectile has long enough ballistic coefficient, and a heavy enough sectional density to enter the human body, at 300 feet per second, It is lethal,  just take a little longer as exsanguination take place.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



You can look them up yourself, DimBob, as if you would ever understand them.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



??
I am counting on it.






RoyaleWithCheese



So what happens if a ban is passed? Some nut job goes online and in 5 minutes of searching google, learns how to build a bomb from items he got at a local store, pulls an Oklahoma City in a crowded area, and kills hundreds along with himself. Thank god he didn’t have one of the scary assault weapons too, though, then things really would have gotten out of hand…
The instructions for the bomb were found on the internet though, so maybe we should put heavy restrictions on the first amendment too. Then the problem would be solved and we can all be safe from these maniacs, right?
Oh, and if you’re going to write about a highly debated topic, please at least know what you’re talking about…
BANANA CLIPS, BANANA CLIPS, DUH-HURP-DE-DURP!!! lol






Anonymous



No, Numbnutz, I have 50 + years of ballistic experience in the firearms behind Me, 20 years in the Military, 11E70-RE8-B4, Armored Reconnaissance U.S. Cavalry.
And no such ammunition exist, Except in the Paint Ball Want-a-bee warriors game.
If the Ballistic Coefficient is long enough, or the Sectional Density is heavy enough, That a projectile can enter the body, at 300 feet per second or above, It is lethal, The velocity just determines how long it takes to die from the wound.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Michael-Richardson/1106800782                            Michael Richardson



The only people affected by banning ANYTHING are law-abiding citizens, not criminals. 
They operate outside the law.  That’s why they’re criminals.
I mean, really?






    http://www.facebook.com/chase.wells.581                            Chase Wells



Government weapon confiscation seems pretty real to me… PROOF http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tta1qhQZWSE






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



DimBob, if they just use the standard rubber bullet, that will reduce lethality to a low probability.  The ammunition is not required to be perfectly non-lethal to qualify.
If the manufacture of guns and ammo of all kinds had to pass a 100% quality assurance test, none of it could be sold or distributed.






Anonymous



This is the stupidest thing I’ve heard in a long time. There are people who hunt in their back yards on their property. Who are you or some government bureaucrat or politician to tell them what time and area they can hunt in? Hell, having designated areas for hunters would get hunters killed by friendly fire due to being confined to these areas. You must not be a very deep thinker.






Anonymous



Oh Apostate you are so dumb. By reloading it he means they can reload it to make it lethal you moron. Mass shooter/psycho/crazies can buy your stupid rubber bullets and pack their own powder and projectiles into the casings. This is such an easy process.  They can then go on their mass shooting sprees and your ridiculous idea will have once again only served to neuter law abiding citizens. This is all any of liberals ideas ever do. You must not think things out to well before putting them out for everyone to see. Think deeper.






Anonymous



Tommy got that terminology (banana clips) from listening to ganagsta rap which he does in an attempt to cover his white guilt and prove  he’s “down”.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



This is the stupidest thing I’ve heard in a long time.
Why?  Are you unable to hear yourself speak?  (are you mute? deaf?)
There are people who hunt in their back yards on their property
Not in urban areas.  I suppose if you have a 40-acre “backyard”–which virtually no one does–the government might make an exception for you.  But it will have very stringent measures of accountability, the slightest violation of which would mean prison time.
Hell, having designated areas for hunters would get hunters killed by
friendly fire due to being confined to these areas.
First you are making assumptions about the size of the areas.  Some might be as large as 100 square miles.   As far as hunters encountering each other, hunters should know what real safety is.  You obviously don’t know what hunter safety is,  and your statements reveal you to be an ignoramus.  You show that even under the present circumstances, you are likely to kill a hunter now, and you should therefore not be permitted to hunt.
You must not be a very deep thinker.
The burden of safe and enjoyable hunting will be on the hunters themselves, if they wish to practice an anachronistic (archaic) activity.
Who are you or some government bureaucrat or politician to tell them what time and area they can hunt in?
We are civilized society, you savage gun-loving barbarian.  But we try to accommodate all tastes where we can, when possible.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



You have obviously not given this any thought, gun-loving savage.
The typical mall or school mass murderer have all used ammo and guns obtained legally, you twit.
If you were a determined and skilled mass murderer, why are you going to use legal ammo and guns and not actually obtain weapons and munitions that are far more powerful—but not available because they are completely illegal!??
The reason is because they usually have neither the skills nor determination to make their own munitions, as the legal stuff is already quite powerful.
As for your own purpose in keeping the current ammo, it has absolutely no relation to self-protection and to disabling the criminal.  It more likely is related to some twisted desire in you for gore and bloodbath.
I have absolutely no doubt that you consider the two dozen 5- and 6-year olds in Newtown—their brains spattered all over the classroom walls–to be “acceptable losses” just so long as you can have your guns and ammo.
Only in the USA, cretin.  Only in the USA.






Anonymous



I have seen guns shot guns and even own then, and many of my “neoliberal’ friends who are simply Americans who are in the majority, I have never thought I needed a Bushmaster or high capacity clip certainly not for target shooting or for hunting, oh wait there was one time in the Army in 1967, but of course we were at war, so SPPP I guess you feel that you are at war with your fellow Americans, who will you shoot first, and then maybe their kids, I mean you know nits grow up to be lice.






Tariq Bhatti



This is the most ridiculous thing I’ve read and reflects a shameless ignorance of firearms and the very world you live in.  Pray, tell me where you will find the manpower and budgets to hire police guards for every hunting ground.  Surely you are aware that many people hunt on their own property–should they have a police minder on their land to keep tabs on them?  Or, better yet, where you will find the people and logistical capabilities to launch an “intensive manhunt.”  Good luck selling that to a population who lives in the country: “We need your help tracking down a fugitive who didn’t check in after a hunting trip!”  You’ll likely get a collective middle finger. In short, your dystopian future is terrifying, even for the animals who will be sadistically shot by ammunition designed NOT to kill them.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Matthew-Garrison/1163220434                            Matthew Garrison



The “grenade launcher” referred to is just a short tube of metal on the end of the gun that is completely useless without the completely illegal (and obsolete in military use) rifle grenade.   After a lengthy and elaborate registration process and it is possible to get a 40mm launcher, but in civilian hands it is just an expensive flare gun.  Explosive grenades are not available to members of the public who are not actively involved in research and development of weapons for the military.  These individuals are licensed and heavily monitored by the ATF.






Anonymous



As a typical lib, I can see how you could draw the conclusion that I consider dead children and “acceptable loss”. Your mind is incapable of formulating a rational argument so instead you insert the most bizarre “logic” a person can come up with: I think your idea is dumb because it would only neuter legal gun owners so I must be unconcerned with the well-being of children. This only reinforces the view that you are not a very deep thinker or a very smart person. 
Again you show your incompetence and how uninformed you actually are. It does not take any significant skill to pack your own ammunition. It can be dangerous to do it  (sometimes goes boom in the firearm) but it is relatively easy.  To say a potential killer does not have the “determination” to pack their own ammo is to expose your own naivete. They go through the trouble to plan a massacre and they wouldnt have the determination to pack lethal ammunition? You should start using logic and reason. Your idea sucks and would have no real impact on anything. Criminals, after all, are criminals. By definition they do not obey laws. .






Anonymous



Yes I am a gun loving savage barbarian. Don’t talk to me about hunter safety. As an Army veteran and hunter, I can assure you I am well versed in all types of firearm safety.  Furthermore, what are you going to do to prevent homemade bombs? What are you going to do to prevent stabbings? What are you going to do to prevent car wrecks? What are you going to do to prevent poisonings?
Prevention of mass murders begin in the home. Teaching values, proper discipline, and ensuring mental health is something parents should be doing. I also have no problem with ensuring a clean bill of mental health before a firearm purchase is made. I have no problem with making sure that people enroll in firearms safety and training courses before purchasing, as long as they are offered the same day the person desires to make the purchase. I dont want people who are legitimately afraid for their lives to be prevented from walking home with a weapon due to a drawn out purchase process.






    http://www.facebook.com/chris.dublynn                            Chris Dublynn



The 2nd amendment wasn’t written for hunting… I don’t know where you get off trampling the rights granted in the constitution .. it wasn’t written for shooting heritage either. Quit trying to force your Eric holder style brainwashed tactics on the uninformed public. The .223 is not the largest round out there and semiautos are not in the military nor are citizen models machine guns. Cars kill just as many if not as 3 times more than guns do but your not banning sports cars. I could tag anything with the word assault with it. Assault car: Americans dont need 470hp; ban them. Quit MOLESTING the constitution and the bill of rights.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Yes I am a gun loving savage barbarian. Don’t talk to me about hunter
safety. As an Army veteran and hunter, I can assure you I am well versed
 in all types of firearm safety.  Furthermore, what are you going to do
to prevent homemade bombs? What are you going to do to prevent
stabbings? What are you going to do to prevent car wrecks? What are you
going to do to prevent poisonings?
I want you to add pinhead to your list of qualifications!  What am I going to do about homemade bombs and stabbings???
Focus! FOCUS!  We are dealing with the typical mall and schoolroom mass murderer here!  They wanted to wreak as much death as possible.  If they had a decent skillset, they would have acquired the ability to obtain and re-work munitions for maximum killing effect.  The FACT IS–you pinhead—they did not get terrorist training or bother to fashion new munitions.  They obtained as much means to kill legally, and then went about it.
Stabbings?  In fact, we very much want the mass murderer to take knives and ONLY knives to the crime scene.  Within 9-1-1 response time, he might be lucky to have killed one???  By the way, a would-be mass murderer armed with only a knife went to a school in China recently:  22 people hurt, none dead.  The only reason he probably hurt 22 is because the Chinese police are not as efficient.
Prevention of mass murders begin in the home. Teaching values, proper discipline, and ensuring mental health is something parents should be doing
Finally we agree a slight bit on something.
But whatcha gonna do there?  Are you going to issue certificates of those who can be parents (have children)?  When you and I talk about “values,” I may look at something that you are teaching your kid as a value and tell you, “you shouldn’t be teaching your kid that!”  When you look at something I am teaching my kid, you may say “hey that’s sick!  that’s child endangerment or abuse!”
And what about discipline.  I grew up in one of those homes where spanking was considered a form of “proper discipline.”  When I got married, my wife–who had never grown up in a home where a hand or belt was put on a child—told me she would cut my hand off if I dared such a thing.  My kid is now a university student who has never been slapped or spanked.  I am for laws that forbid any physical discipline of a child and for demanding parents take classes in how to disicpline kids without the physical rough stuff.  But particularly in many parts of the USA, how is my idea not going to meet with resistance.
Right now the right wingers—especially those in the NRA—talk about mental health.  No, actually they talk about better systems for evaluating mental illness for fitness to buy/own a weapon.  (They really do not want to pay the larger bill of creating a mental health support structure–it’s FAR cheaper to have a mental illness evaluation system.)  But a mental illness evaluation system would have probably NEVER taken the guns out of the hands of Loughner, Holmes, Cho, or Lanza.  And trust me:  any evaluation system that takes the guns out of their hands ALSO takes it out of your hands.  In other words, it is far easier to regulate guns—and especially very dangerous ones–than it is to tell people how they should be parents or to decide who is mentally ill (or fit) and who is not.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



To say a potential killer does not have the “determination” to pack their own ammo is to expose your own naivete. 
Here is where you reveal your stupidity.  You have somehow confused the foreign terrorist with a high skillset with the psycho mall or school mass murderer making the news.
In fact if all these mall and school mass murderers were that determined, why didn’t they actually fashion their own munitions for maximum kiling effect???
Because they lack that ability to fashion munitions illegally.  This gun-loving savage society already provides them the means—quite legally—to blow away as many bodies as possible.
Criminals, after all, are criminals. By definition they do not obey laws.
Criminals are criminals:  a brain-dead tautology that advances no argument.  The fact is, the mall or school mass shooter as a criminal with no skillset is highly different than a foreign terrorist inside the country with a very high skillset.  Only idiots contend otherwise.  You seem to have confused these facts.  Criminals vary quite differently.  Few are intelligent, most are opportunistic provided they can figure it out.
In fact, NONE of the mall and school mass murderers were criminals until they shot at their first human target.  The idea is to make them criminals well before they get a chance to shoot at their first target.  That is not your idea however in advocating for the status quo.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Just because you are too intellectually weak to design and enforce a system that will in fact reduce the body count in mall and school mass shootings does not at all mean the idea is unsound, when it is in fact very sound.
I hope you are not in any position of responsibility or authority over large numbers of people.  Their lives are in danger if so.






    http://www.facebook.com/john.a.taylor.568                            John Adam Taylor



What am I going to do about homemade bombs and stabbings???






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



What am I going to do about homemade bombs and stabbings???
You don’t understand the purpose of the gun safety issues dealing with mall and school shooting mass murderers.  Your failure to understand is because you are either an idiot or a right wing nut who is not interested in finding a solution, but furthering the problem.  Of course, right wingers are idiots, so I don’t discount both possibilities.
@ Apostate:  I feel I should point out that both the Aurora shooter and the Colombine shooters both had access to explosives.  Colombine shooters tried to use them but they didn’t go off. 
“Having access…to explosives.”  Why don’t you just go ahead and speculate that all the mass murderers had access to military ordnance like RPG or automatic weapons???  If you are going to be asinine in speculation, then go all the way.
The Columbine home-grown terorrists did have a pipe bomb which they managed to explode, in addition to propane gas tanks they hoped to explode and did not.  However, they did all their killings with legally obtained and possessed weapons, so incompetent they were at actually being terrorists (they had hoped to emulate the OK City bomber).
I should also point out that an assault rifle wasn’t used in this assault.  The weapon was found in the trunk of his moms car, not on his person as he committed the assault.  The attack was committed with
handguns.
Here is the problem with your right-wing gun-loving savages.  You never get your facts right at all.  You have your right-wing idiot news sources that feed you nonsense and then you regurgitate it.  The fact is, Lanza had three weapons, one a Bushmaster .223 rifle.  He left one weapon in the car.
http://abcnews.go.com/International/fullpage/newtown-ct-shooting-timeline-sandy-hook-elementary-school-18014080
Here’s your problem now:  when you get one thing wrong in your list of “facts,” how can anyone believe the rest of the garbage you post?
Side note:  In reference to the MLA ammo.  Its common forum practice, if you can’t link it, it doesn’t exist.  Either link or shut up.
Perhaps you should take some of your own advice.  In fact, I really think you should shut the hell up, inasmuch as you have smeared poo all over yourself in your post.






    http://www.facebook.com/john.a.taylor.568                            John Adam Taylor



You have somehow confused the foreign terrorist with a high skillset
with the psycho mall or school mass murderer making the news.
@ Apostate:  Talk about showing your own stupidity.  Reloading ammo does not require a high skill set.  It requires an ammo press, the ability to read and the ability to follow instructions.  Its ok though, not a lot of people know that.  Video available on youtube. Search for “reloading your own ammo”
I do see your core point in that the shooters just went and bought it instead of making their own.  I just think his point was that the shooters would make their own ammo if it was illegal, not that they make it now.
“The idea is to make them criminals well before they get a chance to shoot at their first target.”    
How do you propose to do this?  And keep in mind just because they’re a criminal before they shoot doesn’t mean they won’t shoot.  Example:  If I plan to commit murder and commit the murder I planned, I’m guilty of Conspiracy to commit murder and the Murder.
Comments on the status quo:
Fact:  Crime is at a 20 year low  (Fbi sats and WSJ)
Fact:  The years 2000-2010 have seen a decrease in mass shootings from the 80s and 90s.  (WSJ, not concrete on this source)
Fact:  15,000 people die a year from guns, Handguns being number 1 and rifles (including assault rifles) are at the bottom. (FBI stats)
Fact:  47% of america are savage barbarians (gun owners)
Now there is always room for improvement, as with everything, but this is not a HORRIBLE status quo






    http://www.facebook.com/john.a.taylor.568                            John Adam Taylor



Ok seriously.  Read my ENTIRE post.  What did I say about the assault weapon?  I said it was in the trunk.  What did you say?  “He left one weapon in the car.”  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SRdWORVgyvo  the assault weapon was in the trunk, which is part of the car. 
I’ve stated nothing asinine.  The aurora shooter had access to explosives. http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-504083_162-57477302-504083/aurora-colo-shooting-explosives-in-suspected-shooters-apt-successfully-deactivated/ 
and you already conceded the fact that the colombine shooters used explosives.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



@ Apostate:  Talk about showing your own stupidity.  Reloading ammo does not require a high skill set.  It requires an ammo press, the ability to read and the ability to follow instructions.  Its ok though, not a lot of people know that.  Video available on youtube. Search for “reloading your own ammo”
Talk about putting the capital “I” in “right-wing idiot”:  we’re talking about illegal munitions, genius.  You brought up the point of making “homemade bombs”:  this is something only a foreign terrorist would do and be good at.  The occasional domestic terrorist (a Christian zealot like Tim McVey or an Eric Rudolph) will also have that skillset.  Not more opportunistic mass murderers who “go postal” and basically have no elaborate plan at what would be distinguished as a terrorist event.
As for Holmes, the Aurora shooter, he showed above-average intelligence (he was more of a serial killer like Ted Kaczynski, who did fashion munitions).  That is not your likely mall or school mass murderer psychological profile.  Moreover, none of the weapons Holmes actually used to kill his victims in the cinema with were illegally obtained or possessed.  That ought to tell you something right there!!!  If a mass murderer is going to be one, you must at least make him work for it– DON’T MAKE IT EASY FOR HIM!!
Do you know the difference between the USA and civilized nations????  We make it EASY for the mass murderer or domestic and foreign terrorist.  The others make it near impossible.  That’s why their murder-by-firearms rate is infinitesimalI compared to ours.
“The idea is to make them criminals well before they get a chance to shoot at their first target.”    
How do you propose to do this?  And keep in mind just because they’re a criminal before they shoot doesn’t mean they won’t shoot
How do the civilized nations do it??  That’s right, they make access to weapons and munitions next to impossible, and they criminalize all attempts to get that access.  It prevents most of the criminals who are not well planned and downright insane, lacking the wherewithal to hatch a plan for murder on a massive scale.
Is it perfect?  Of course not.  On very rare occasions, an Anders Breivik will kill large numbers. Even if everyone had a gun in Norway, Breivik still would have killed more than 70.  He was extremely well-planned, and he took advantage of the fact that humans possess no technology at all to evaluate criminal mental illness or that might have stopped him from progressing even to Stage 1 of his plan to commit mass murder;  by the way, Breivik was a red-stater right-wing nutjob, spouting nonsense not at all different from American red-stater right wing nutjobs.
Criminal mental illness is always assessed after the fact, never before the fact.  And in that case, it is a mere observation of crime and punishment.  That’s why Breivik had to work extremely hard to effect his plot, and why he would not be detected in a system with a perfectly working mental illness evaluation system.
As for you, you can load yourself up with the most defensive sets of arms possible.  But if I am smarter than you (a certainty), and determined to kill you, I will.  We do not have the technology–particularly the mental illness evaluation system—right now to stop someone like me who is very determined to get you.

Fact:  Crime is at…
[rest of meaningless drivel deleted]

What is your point in reciting meaningless facts???  Even the right-wing gun-loving savages like yourself insist there is no correlation or causative basis for strict or lax gun safety laws and the incidence of gun crime!  Are you trying to assert a relationship????  Because if you dare, you will lose, and lose big time!






    http://profile.yahoo.com/I4SFNFP5IJD7GZDQUTU374UEBM                            David



So the 2nd amendment says I can only defend myself against a single person ? No, it doesn’t. Hence, I need a 20-100rd mag in case a group of criminals is my foe. Shove all these bills banning guns, mags, other stuff up your ass congress. The previous law would have been found unconstitutional now, after Heller, McDonald etc






Anonymous



Im happy that John Adam Taylor already put you in your place so I dont need to go in to much detail. I will say this though: you answered your own question (“In fact if all these mall and school mass murderers were that determined, why didn’t they actually fashion their own munitions for maximum kiling effect???”). They did not fashion their own munitions because they did not need to. If they needed to, they could (very simply). The act of owning this ammo would be illegal so the people who obey laws would be the people affected by this ban, not the criminal/potential criminal (conspiracy to commit mass murder)






Anonymous



How will he lose? Everywhere in the USA that gun ownership has increased (legal) violent crime and home invasions have decreased. I have never heard any of us right-wing nut jobs asserting there is no correlation between gun violence and gun ownership. We only assert that the correlation is negative. In fact it would be almost -1.00 (perfect). In every instance where the gun owners rise, the gun violence lessens.






    http://www.facebook.com/NCWitchypoo                            Morgan le Fay



Gun Control: The theory that a woman found dead in an alley, raped and strangled with her own pantyhose is somehow morally superior to a woman explaining to police how her attacker got that fatal bullet wound.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Let’s add insane right-wing gun-loving savage moron to describe your particular group.
http://inmalafide.com/no-correlation-between-gun-control-laws-and-violent-crime-rates/
http://www.captainsjournal.com/2012/07/23/do-gun-bans-reduce-violent-crime-ask-the-aussies-and-brits/
http://www.nber.org/digest/feb01/w7967.html
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2012/07/23/six-facts-about-guns-violence-and-gun-control/
http://www.factcheck.org/2008/03/violent-crimes-and-handgun-ownership/
Schooling you savage morons is just too easy.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Im happy that John Adam Taylor already put you in your place …
It was rather obvious that he was a bigger putz from his posts than you showed yourself to be, but now that you wrote of him somewhat admiringly, the comparison is no longer apt.  The putz you admire did not even know the facts of the Newtown massacre.
 If they needed to, they could (very simply)
A statement completely without proof, the very kind of statement that you insane right-wing gun-loving savage morons like to make obviously.
And again the point goes way over your head!!  The mass murderers are going to commit these crimes, right?  So fashioning their own more powerful (illegal) munitions would kill many and put on a spectacular show (like McVey).  Why didn’t they???  Because they were unskilled and inept!!!  Even the Columbine killers tried to rig propane tanks to blow and could not manage that!!   In the end, all the killers needed to do was to use weapons and ammo that were all legally obtained, legally available, and legally configured to kill large numbers.  Had they been outside of the United States, where likely those weapons and ammo were illegal to obtain or configure, they would have been like that Chinese would-be mass murderer who recently attacked school kids—with ONLY a knife—and leaving NO ONE DEAD and two dozen INJURED.
I am not sure what makes right-wing gun-loving savages more despicable.  The fact they are idiots?  Or that they are liars?






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Jeremy-Jay-Lee-Austin-Skidmore/100002828268937                            Jeremy Jay Lee Austin-Skidmore



¿Do you have ANY concept of what you’re talking about?
“Neither law does much about semiautomatic pistols, unless they have two added
features like a silencer, or a rifle guard on the barrel.” Clearly, not. ¿What
is a “rifle guard”? In 13 years of professional shooting (militry) and 3Ø total
years of shooting, I’ve never heard of a “rifle guard.”
“(M)aking a shooter instantaneously reload after 1Ø shots
gives victims more of a chance than they have now, but still not much of a
fighting chance.” Actually, 1Ø round mags are EASIER to conceal and can be more
easily carried; If anything the BIGGER they are the fewer you can carry, since
they take up much more space and much LESS efficiently. In the same pouch that
allows me to carry as many as 1ØØ mags with only 1Ø rounds each, I can only carry
2, MAYBE 3, mags that carry 3Ø rounds each. That’s 1,ØØØ rounds worth or only
15Ø. Further, whether a good guy with a gun could have stopped all this or not,
locking doors WOULD have stopped it cold to begin with.
Your kind of sensationalism and propaganda harkens back to Kristallnacht,
sir, and we know where that ended. (No, this is not a Moore’s Law incident; One
not be a thing to act like a thing.)






Anonymous



You are so irrational that it hurts my logical brain to argue with you. You don’t even refute any point I make. You repeat the same maniacal dribble over and over. The killers intent is to kill. There is no need to fashion their own munitions to accomplish this since they obtain them legally. Your remedy is to make ammo essentially illegal. My point once again is that they will only need to pack their own ammo if it was not available to buy. Therefore only law abiding citizens would be ultimately affected. You obviously do not have the brain power to comprehend this. You seem to think that because murderers mostly use manufactured ammo they couldn’t use ammo they packed themselves due to some imaginary lack of skill set. This further proves your ignorance. Ammo is relatively easy to pack yourself. There is not any significant skill needed. Please stop responding with the same mindless answers. We already understand you are outmatched intellectually and you have no experience (empirical or otherwise) in this field from which to speak from.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



You don’t even refute any point I make.
Just because you’re too dumb to understand how you are being refuted does not mean you are not being refuted.
There is no need to fashion their own munitions to accomplish this since they obtain them legally.
PRECISELY you pinhead!!!  So the idea is to make guns and ammo ILLEGAL.  Make them hard to get.  We already do this for military ordnance and other weapons.  We virtually NEVER see illegal guns and ammo used in these crimes.  It takes very dedicated and motivated individual to do this, like Tim McVey.  And this RARELY happens.
Your major problem is that you have made the assumption that it is easy and problem-free for someone to make their own munitions.  WRONG!  Those who might want to are mostly likely not potential mass murderers.  And those who are potential mass murderers have neither the skill nor struggle nor motivation.  Law-abiding individuals HAVE NO REASON TO MAKE ILLEGAL AMMO!!!
Now go away, you idiot.  You and I will never agree on the ease of obtaining or manufacturing illegal ammo, and especially of the person likely to commit mass murder.






Anonymous



of course we will never agree. You wouldnt agree with sound reason and logic even if you could comprehend it. People have seen the debate and they can decide for themselves. You still have yet to comprehend the almost NO SKILL it takes to pack your own ammo. This is a very large hole in your fallacy….I mean thinking.,,,(Freudian slip…sorry).






Anonymous



“Banana clip?” Let me guess – everything the author knows about firearms was learned by watching marathon re-runs of Lethal Weapon 3 and Die Hard…. BTW, exactly what use were those 30 round “clips,” since according to the police in Newtown, the AR-15 was recovered from the back of the shooter’s car. IT WAS NEVER USED!






Anonymous



If you look at the data you could see that all it shows is that the states with large urban centers are higher in violent crime. If you had an ounce of depth to your thinking you would understand that these are just static numbers anyways. These do not represent my point. My point is that when armed citizens increase, violent crime decreases. These links only show the static violent crime rates of particular states. This does not show a cause and effect relation between where violent crime rated previous to the more lax gun laws and after the laws were in place. I wouldnt expect you to be able to comprehend what I am saying here. Any other user with an ounce of intellect will understand.
Schooling you intellectually bankrupt liberals is just too easy.






Marshall Webb



Absolutely the most asinine ridiculous fantastical nonsense I’ve ever read.  You obviously have no idea how massive hunting units truly are just here in the state of Colorado, let alone the rest of the Western States. The size and scope of the law enforcement operation that you are describing would not only cost literally hundreds of billions of dollars but would be absolutely unmanageable. And your most mind boggling failure to live in what I like to call reality is that the vast majority of these State’s populations would tell you to get fu****. Like we would ever obey such despotic useless garbage as what you are purporting. Hunters and the outdoor community are not your enemy here in fact their licensing fees and park passes pay for the majority of the environmental and wildlife management implemented in these states. It is actually so laughable that I feel a little sorry for you.






    http://www.facebook.com/mike.benedetti.98                            Mike Benedetti



First of all, the Newtown and Columbine killers obtained their weapons illegally. Second of all, reloading ammunition is a very simple and widely practiced skill. Perhaps you’ve ignored the reports that both Holmes and Lanza were extremely intelligent people. Most hunters reload their own ammunition to custom tune it to their gun and preferences. The Aurora killer was known to have mental issues but his shrink was not obligated to report him under current health laws, and Lanza’s mother wanted to commit him. 
You obviously have no experience or knowledge of firearms, except what you hear on TV. If you did, you would know that the “assault” weapons they want to ban are responsible for roughly 300 deaths in the US per year. Cars are responsible for over 32,000 per year. Cigarette related deaths are over 500,000 per year. Over 2000 people are killed each year by stabbing.
The US Justice Department reports that over 82,500 crimes are stopped or prevented each year by legally armed citizens. The recent mall shooter was prevented from doing further damage because he was confronted by a legally armed citizen. But these stories are seldom told because they do not further the cause of the gun grabbers.
If you prefer China’s laws, please feel free to move there and renounce your citizenship.






    http://www.facebook.com/mike.benedetti.98                            Mike Benedetti



“We virtually NEVER see illegal guns and ammo used in these crimes.” 
You are absolutely wrong on this point. You almost never see legally obtained weapons used in crimes. The vast majority are with guns that were obtained illegally.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Loughner, Holmes, Cho, The Oregon mall shooter, Newtown…point out where those weapons were acquired by the owners illegally.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



First of all, the Newtown and Columbine killers obtained their weapons illegally.
The weapons were owned and in the house of the killer in Newtown.  His mother apparently gave him permission to have access to the weapons inasmuch as she even took him to a shooting range for practice.  One of your lies dismissed.
To obtain a weapon illegally, they would have had to trespass and burglarize another residence or place of business.  That is how reasonable people see the illegal acquisition of weapons.  Not the easy access to guns from family members having the same residence.
Perhaps you’ve ignored the reports that both Holmes and Lanza were extremely intelligent people.
It really all depends on how you define intelligence, and especially the “extremely” kind.  There is not wide agreement on the assessment of intelligence.  The extent of educational achievement is also disputed as an indicator.  I have observed several individuals claiming to have completed more than a few degree programs and they are as dumb as a box of rocks.  I too have completed more than a few degree programs and the right-wing filth here calls me every ad hominem in the book.  All that proves is that reasonable and often very educated people disagree vehemently.  I have also encountered individuals who did not get past the last year of primary school (8th grade) who have far more sense than some idiot right-winger, typically here in a Mediaite forum, claiming to have graduated summa cum laude from his community college.
As for the mental illness status of all the killers.  If we apply any test set for evaluating mental illness for truly determining the fitness to own or possess weapons, you and I would have failed those tests if you had set the criteria such that you would have wanted to make sure that Lanza, Loughner, Holmes, Cho, et al would have been excluded.  It is THAT MUCH bullsh_t guessing and mumbo jumbo for you to have designed tests to rule them out and not also have ruled yourself out.  A parent’s “wanting” to commit (hearsay in the case of Lanza) and some psychotherapist’s notes on a patient—protected from the prying eyes of government!!!—-in no way are near to qualifying as finding who is fit or not.
Cars are responsible for over 32,000 per year. Cigarette related deaths
are over 500,000 per year. Over 2000 people are killed each year by
stabbing
Really??? Seriously???  When are you gun-loving savage twits going to stop using that ridiculous analogy???  The old “123 people drowned in a bucket of water lets ban buckets and water” argument???  Let’s ban heart attacks too?  How many do they kill?  Is that the lameness by which you want to argue?
The cars / kitchen knives / water and other ridiculous analogies fall by the wayside because GUNS serve only one purpose.  They do NOT transport cargo and people.  They do not cut things (food, materials, etc).  They do not provide the most essential biological requirement (dihydrogen monooxide).  When the ONLY, SINGLE, and SOLE purpose of a car or a knife or water becomes killing human beings, let me know, and I will ban them.  As for cigarettes, they should already be illegal, as their only purpose is to kill.  We criminalize cocaine, marijuana, opiates…and we don’t criminalize tobacco.  Look up the word hypocrisy, and not merely in association with right-wing filth.
The US Justice Department reports that over 82,500 crimes are stopped or prevented each year by legally armed citizens.
Let’s assume your gratuitously uncited fact is true, if people are going to be their own police force, why have police and 9-1-1???  If your police and 9-1-1 response system is ineffective in your community such that you really need to have a gun on you to protect yourself—which you are unlikely to do, since 9 in 10 times the criminal knows what he wants to do and already has the drop on you (something right-wing idiots are completely brainless in thinking about)—then you don’t have a problem in being unarmed:  YOU have a problem in being a responsible citizen and making sure you have an effective police force and 9-1-1 system.






    http://twitter.com/antistuff                            Antistuff



Except these nutso mass shooters are NOT operating outside the law. They’re buying their arsenals are Walmart and Bass Pro shops.






    http://twitter.com/antistuff                            Antistuff



You realize Rambo is a fictional movie right?






    http://twitter.com/antistuff                            Antistuff



Nice analogy guns & cars. Except you conveniently ignore that car driving is regulated plenty – you need a license, which requires a test; you need insurance for the vehicle; there are varying speed limits and other traffic laws, police enforcement of said laws, etc. etc. etc.






Jim Bob



You are an idiot.  Let me guess.  Psychology major?  Political Science?  High School drop out?
You live in a world that doesn’t exist.  A white boy with dread locks utopia.






Jim Bob



Your idea of intellectualism is the study of liberal “arts” which include pseudo sciences like psychology and sociology and political science.
Apparently physics, engineering, and chemistry are not your cup of tea.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Fully outta left field non-sequitur ya have there, hilly billy.
My three decades as a published research molecular biologist (biochemist) refutes that excrement-coated wad you posted here.






Anonymous



Maybe more if he used a couple pipe bombs that any moron could make….. ?






Anonymous



LOL, OMFG, I come from South Africa where we lost our rights to gun ownership, I have seen first hand people get shot full on with rubber bullets.
I has secret for you, rubber bullets are meant to be shot into the ground to bounce up on target.
Now in the riots in South Africa, the RIOT police very often shot people head on with rubber bullets.
Yes, those puppys go right on in just like a real lead round, I have seen it first hand, that my friend is fact.
Like one of the last posters said, I dont give a crap what you shoot, if it has enough velocity and force behind it, it is going in….end of story.






    http://www.facebook.com/timothy.asher                            Timothy Asher



Tommy, you are a liberal idiot. You probably do not know the true reason for the second amendment.






    http://twitter.com/StephenCJuliano                            Stephen Juliano



If they do ban these semi-automatic “Assault-style” weapons, that are equally or less powerful than hunting rifles, just join a drug cartel or a rebellion in the middle east. Then, our government will give you the fully-automatic version and be completely silent if you decide to go on a killing spree.






Robert Riversong



The only freedom you exercised was the right to be wrong.
1) Neither the Constitution nor the second amendment ever granted a “right” of insurrection against government and, in fact, both specifically gave the use of the “well-regulated” militias to Congress to suppress insurrections.
2) Hitler liberalized the Wiemar gun laws when he took office – your version is the NRA myth.]
So, speaking of swallowing spoon-fed propaganda…






Robert Riversong



There is a real right of free speech and press (with rational limits), but an imaginary right of individuals to bear arms (in spite of the recent Supreme Court activism which overturned 142 years of precedent).






Robert Riversong



In fact, they are both semi-automatic variations of the AR15 civilian-use gun, and the top gun (which you ignorantly mis-identify as a military M4) is the Bushmaster that Adam Lanza used in Sandy Hook.






Robert Riversong



In fact, everything the NRA and its idiot acolytes spout is fantasy.






Anonymous



Sorry I never identified any rifle that Adam Lanza used at Sandy Hook, as a Military rifle, 20 years in the Military, 2 combat tours, Armored reconnaissance, Unit Armorer, and 50 years of building the AR platforms both for Military use, and Civilian.
Any rifle that has a barrel less than 16 inches falls under the National Fire Arms Act, The only weapons that are not, are those In the Military, and in the military the M-4 is built with a 14.5 inch barrel and the capability of full auto fire, or 3 round burst fire. 
The weapon Lanza used was a 16 inch civilian semi-auto, Clearly identifiable by the picture, Which clearly shows a 16 inch barrel, not a 14.5 inch barrel, So what are you trying to prove?






Robert Riversong



That for all your claimed knowledge and experience you misidentified the top gun, which is the Bushmaster, as an M4.






Robert Riversong



More NRA inventions.
Australia demands NRA retract claims on gun bans
By Rohan Sullivan, March 25, 2000
Associated Press Writer
SYDNEY, Australia (AP) —
Australian officials accused the National Rifle Association of misrepresenting
the country’s crime statistics, and demanded Wednesday that the group pull a
video on Australian gun crimes off its Web site.
The video, presented as a TV
news story, claims that Australia’s gun reform laws backfired and says
gun-related crime rates rose after the country banned semiautomatic rifles,
semiautomatic shotguns and pump-action shotguns.
But Australia’s Federal
Attorney General Daryl Williams said the NRA used inaccurate statistics, and
urged the group to remove “any reference to Australia” from its Web site.
“I find it quite offensive
that the NRA is using the very successful gun reform laws introduced in 1996 as
the basis for promoting ownership of firearms in the United States,” he said.
The NRA did not respond to
attempts to get comment.
Australia’s gun-related
homicide rate was 0.28 per 100,000 people in 1998, compared to 4 per 100,000 in
the United States, Williams wrote in letter sent Wednesday to NRA President
Charlton Heston.
“There are many things that
Australia can learn from the United States,” he wrote. “How to manage firearm
ownership is not one of them.”
Australia adopted the gun
laws after an April 1996 rampage by Martin Bryant, who opened fire with
military-style rifles at the Port Arthur historic site in Melbourne. Bryant, who
killed 35 people and injured 19, is serving a life sentence.
South Australia’s Attorney
General Trevor Griffin — who is seen in the video talking about crime — said he
was not interviewed by the NRA, and that a quote from him was taken from a
previous interview and used out of context.
The video says that, after
gun laws took effect, armed robbery in Australia went up 69 percent, assaults
involving guns rose 28 percent, gun murders increased 19 percent, and home
invasions rose 21 percent. It does not give a source for the data.
Dr. Adam Graycar, director of
the Australian Institute of Criminology, said the statistics were misleading.
The latest annual crime figures, for 1998, showed that assaults had increased,
but that most did not involve guns, he said. Homicides decreased, and were only
rarely committed with guns, he told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio.






Anonymous



“”Dr. Adam Graycar, director of the Australian Institute of Criminology, said the statistics were misleading. The latest annual crime figures, for 1998, showed that assaults had increased, but that most did not involve guns”"
The increase in crime does not involve guns???? Do you understand that statement????
The unspoken word is “Increase” The last part of the statement should read;
—–  “BUT MOST OF THE INCREASE DID NOT INVOLVE GUNS”. —–
The rest in political spin and Government accounting which uses different standards to collect their statistics.






Anonymous



And that licensing and registration has not stopped Drivers armed with their automobiles from killing and wounding more victims every year than Guns.
You do realizes more people are murdered with hands and fist that with rifles, all rifles by 2 to one, The numbers murdered with Military Style so called assault weapons is 10 to 12, vs: 33,808 by auto.






Robert Riversong



Yes, the government uses standard statistical methodologies, while the NRA uses deliberate distortions, evasions and omissions.
For instance, all those screaming about percentage increases in crime in Australia fail to note that the absolute number of crimes, as well as the rate per capita, are so much lower in Australia than in the US that large percentage changes equate with very small numbers of actual crimes.






Anonymous



The government uses spin to support a political agenda.






Anonymous



It is a NFA weapon that is not available to the public with our an extensive background check by BATF and the FBI.
Connecticut allows all NFA firearms other than selective fire machine guns
CGS 53–202
Partial ban (selective fire weapons, some .50 BMG variants, an enumerated list of specific restricted features and certain brands of semi-automatic assault weapons and weapon “types”)
So the weapon on top in the picture, Being a M-4 with the capability to have select fire,(Semi and Full Auto) is not legal in the state of Connecticut. 
It may be legal as a NFA short barreled weapon, But that requires a tax stamp of $200.00, and a full background check by the Sheriff, FBI and BATF, and about a six month wait for approval to take possession of the weapon.  Every step that is being demanded by Gun Bannners already.
Finally, Connecticut statutes contain provision that allow law enforcement officials to pre-emptively seize a person’s firearms without a warrant or court order, when they have probable cause that the person may either be mentally unstable or intends to use the weapons to commit a crime.






spinnsetter



We ARE the well regulated Militia … the American people, you really don’t get it do you.  When you understand the verbage behind that then you understand the cause.  The ban will not pass as it did not in Ill. (1-4-13) and I will keep all of my so called terrible instruments of war including all my AK47s, AR-15s, SCARs, ACRs, FALs, and my Assault Shotguns.  You think how you will “IT IS YOUR RIGHT”, just know that there are people out here that will be ready if tyranny rears its ugly head. – xBURNx 
Patrick Allen Burnett
Training Coordinator / Graphic Artist
Pink Hill, North Carolina






Robert Riversong



Political agendas are for influencing government, such as the $3 million the NRA spends every year in lobbying. Government statisticians are career civil servants with no political agenda.






Robert Riversong



The weapon on the top of the picture is the legal Bushmaster rifle that Adam Lanza used in Sandy Hook. It is not a restricted weapon, and you don’t know what the f*ck you’re talking about.






Robert Riversong



“Spinsetter” is a good name for one who spins the truth to force an agenda on the rest of the nation. You’re about as “regulated” as Timothy McVeigh and about as criminally dangerous to the “domestic tranquility” which the Constitution was intended to ensure.






Robert Riversong



Hitler liberalized the very strict Wiemar gun control laws when he took office, and restricted guns only to Jews. Your knowledge of history (rather than NRA mythology) is about as extensive as your understanding of tyranny and the irrelevance of private arms in the face of the largest and most powerful military in the world.






Robert Riversong



Actually, whenever a hunter fails to return from the woods, an intensive search operation is conducted, led by armed and uniformed police officers, with civilian search-and-rescue specialists, like myself, accompanying them.






Robert Riversong



So what you are suggesting is to allow only paintball enthusiasts into public places with loaded weapons.






Robert Riversong



Then you should stay in your field.






Robert Riversong



Sorry, walking abandoner of common sense, but you’re going way over the hill on this (and I’m one of the most vocal proponents of rational gun controls). You clearly know nothing about guns. Many hunters and other gun enthusiasts load their own ammunition at home. It’s a very simple process requiring minimal tools and skills.






Robert Riversong



Actually, mass shootings experienced a dramatic surge in 2012, with 8 incidents, 72 victim deaths and 70 non-lethal injuries. The average, over the last 32 years, has been 2.5 incidents, 18 deaths and 18 injuries per year.






Robert Riversong



You continue to go way over the top in your polemic. If you truly have high intelligence, then you have very little common sense or even well-researched knowledge of the subject of your screed.
In fact, the typical psychological profile for mass shooters in the US includes a high degree of forethought and planning.






Robert Riversong



Sorry, but that’s NRA propaganda and inconsistent with the data. The states with above average gun law strictness have, on average, 32% fewer gun deaths than the states with less strict laws. And, in homes with guns, the probability of an occupant getting killed or injured is much higher than the use of the gun against a stranger or intruder.






Robert Riversong



As a proponent of rational gun laws, I have to say you’re making the case for the other side.






Robert Riversong



Sorry, but there is no clear correlation with density of gun ownership and a decrease in violent crime, but there is a strong correlation between gun density and gun deaths.






Robert Riversong



I agree that almost all the “facts” on the pro-gun side are fallacious, but you are engaging in the very same disinformation propagation, and exhibiting a profound ignorance of guns and ammunition.






Robert Riversong



There will be no agreement because you’re both using incorrect facts, inappropriate assumptions, and poor logic – but you are leading in all those categories.






Robert Riversong



Of the 62 mass shootings in the last 30 years, 75% were done with legally obtained weapons.






Robert Riversong



Those defensive use of firearms numbers are for 1987-1992, years which had a violent crime rate almost double the current rate. And that is from reported uses of weapons, which is likely higher than actual or justified use.
FBI statistics show that for the five-year period ending in 2010, there
was an average of 213 justifiable homicides per year by firearm. (A justifiable homicide is not necessarily a defensive use, but the vast majority of them fit the description.) 
 In a random selection of 200 defensive gun use (DGU) media stories, at least 69 (34.5%) resulted in the death of an alleged offender. If there are 213 such killings per year, and that represents about a third, then we are left with between 600 and 700 annual DGUs. The website keepandbeararms.com has reported between 200 and 300 per year for the past decade or so.
All other numbers are almost certainly bragging or fabrication.






Robert Riversong



“There is not wide agreement on the assessment of intelligence.”
And yet you are certain that you possess greater intelligence than anyone else here. In fact, the evidence indicates otherwise.






Robert Riversong



I hate to say anything that might seem to support the wandering apostate (from common sense), but all urban police departments carry sub-lethal firearm munitions, including bean bag shot and rubber bullets. There’s well over a dozen different types of such munitions.






Robert Riversong



In fact, you appear as more of a savage than any of the pro-gun people here.






Robert Riversong



You’re asking for trouble if you favor same-day purchases, as that opens the door wide for people in angry, vengeful (or suicidal) moods to act impulsively.






Robert Riversong



Sorry JAT, but you’re using the disinformation that’s been all over the right-wing web. The CT state police and the state medical examiner have long since confirmed that the Bushmaster .223 was used for all the killing, the Glock 10mm for Lanza’s suicide, and the shotgun was in the trunk.






Robert Riversong



States with stricter gun laws also have fewer gun exports which end up in the hands of criminals.






Robert Riversong



1976-2005 FBI statistics of homicide by weapon type:
Handgun – 9,756, Other gun – 2,952, Knife – 3,285, Blunt object – 997, Other weapon – 2,819






Robert Riversong



Neither the Constitution nor the Second Amendment says a single word about self-defense, but addresses only the need of the state for a well-regulated militia to guard against invasion or homegrown insurrection.






Anonymous



Do what? This is already the law in most states. I have never waited for my firearms. I walk out with them the same day I go to buy them. It only takes as long as my background check takes. Im advocating the safety courses be offered twice a day (morning and evening) so that people who wish to purchase the firearm can STILL walk out the same day with it (in case they have an urgent need for protection) but will have the added benefit of a safety course.






Anonymous



Please do not use straw men. I never said the correlation was with a high static density of firearms to decreased violent crime. I said the correlation is with the INCREASED (from a previous point in time) firearm (LEGAL OF COURSE) ownership or relaxation of firearm carry laws (right to carry states) and a DECREASE in violent crime. Its a negative correlation but it is a correlation none the less. These are just facts. 
http://www.justfacts.com/guncontrol.asp
http://www.timesdispatch.com/news/local/central-virginia/gun-related-violent-crimes-drop-as-gun-sales-soar-in/article_54cca13a-35ee-11e2-83f0-0019bb30f31a.html
http://theacru.org/acru/harvard_study_gun_control_is_counterproductive/
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jun/18/gun-ownership-up-crime-down/






Robert Riversong



That it’s now legal doesn’t change the logic. Impulse killings or suicides would be significantly impacted by a 3-day cooling off period.






Anonymous



Maybe. I dont know. I have never seen the statistics on how many guns are used in violent crime the day of purchase. I would need to look at that data before I formed an opinion on it.






Robert Riversong



The straw men are all on your side, and your “objective” sources are all right-wing sites. 
You are guilty of the fallacy of false cause (or non sequitur), which incorrectly assumes one thing is the cause of another, including post hoc ergo propter hoc: believing that temporal succession implies a causal relation, cum hoc ergo propter hoc: believing that correlation implies a causal relation.
You are also guilty of comparing crime statistics across national boundaries, with differing definitions and differing reporting standards, and also ignoring the cultural differences between national populations.
A far better comparison is among the 50 US states. Those states with more stringent gun laws have, on average, 32% fewer gun deaths. No study has ever demonstrated a clear correlation between gun ownership patterns or trends and violent or property crime rates.
Martin Killias, in a 1993 study covering 21 countries, found that there were significant correlations between gun ownership and gun-related suicide and homicide rates. There was also a significant though lesser correlation between gun ownership and total homicide rates (“Gun Ownership, Suicide and Homicide: An International Perspective”).
According to researchers at the Harvard Injury Control Research Center, “a broad array of evidence indicates that gun availability is a risk factor for homicide, both in the United States and across high-income countries” (http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/research/hicrc/firearms-research/guns-and-death/index.html).






Anonymous



I never said correlation is causation. I understand that is not the case. I am not one to cite Switzerland as a model for our laws. Maybe others do. All the info I reference is based on US crime stats. You are the one who told me there was no correlation. I showed you that you were wrong. You respond by telling me that I dont know the difference between correlation and causation. Not all correlation is causation but SOME correlation IS causation. Yes gun availability is a risk factor for homicide. That does not mean guns cause homicide. Homicide is decided on apart from the presence of the gun. People choose to commit murder with the means they have to commit murder. If they did not have a gun, they would use a knife, make a bomb, or some other means. You can not legislate hatred. Also, harsh gun laws do not affect people who would commit murder. Just as laws against murder do not deter people who commit murder.






Robert Riversong



“I showed you that you were wrong.”
No you didn’t. You linked to a variety of sites, none of which show objective data from a broad study of the correlation.
And it’s demonstrably untrue that the availability of firearms has no effect on either the decision to murder or the outcome of that decision. Guns are far more amenable to impulse (i.e. emotionally-driven) decisions which cannot be reversed, and the lethality of guns is far higher than any other method.
For example, the mortality rate for gunshot wounds to the heart is 84%, compared to 30% for people who sustain stab wounds to the heart. The same disparity is found in suicide lethality.
And, as has been well-documented, strict gun laws and less dense gun ownership reduce  the totality of gun deaths – both in the US and in almost every other advanced nation – including homicide, suicide and accidental death.






Anonymous



You forgot these statistics from the FBI Crime report. 
323 murders committed with a rifle but 496 murders committed with hammers and clubs. Personal weapons (hands, fists, feet, etc.)  801 murders
Total murders by hands and feet in 2011 exceed the total number of murders by shotgun and rifle.






Anonymous



It is you who don’t know what the F^uk you are talking about, Read the article, But then I can see reading comprehension and meaning if a foreign concept to your education.
Now after reading the article again, Please quote where any statement is made stating that was the weapon used by Adam Lanza.






Robert Riversong



First, motor vehicle accidents are an irrelevant distraction from this issue, since motor vehicles are intended for a constructive social function and not intended to kill when used as designed. And, if you calculate the number of fatalities per passenger mile driven, it’s very low.
Second, your numbers are off a little. If you actually go to the FBI website, rather than to the dozens of right-wing propaganda sites that have been dittoing this data, the number of “personal weapons” (hands, fists, feet, etc, including pushing onto train tracks) for 2011 is 728 not 801. 
And what you won’t find on the propaganda sites is that all non-handgun firearm homicides for 2011, including rifles, shotguns, other guns, and firearms (type not stated), is 2363. Added to the 6220 hand gun murders, that comes to a total of 8583 firearm murders.
And the rest of your numbers are flawed. All homicides have declined by 49% from the 1991 high, but firearm homicides have declined in that same period by only 33%. And the gross number of guns in private hands is less relevant than the number of households with guns, which has been steadily declining over time, from a high of 54% in 1977 to 32% in 2010, while the average number of guns per owner has increased from 4.1 in 1994 to 6.9 in 2004.
So, as always, the information from the propaganda sites is either unreliable, misused or deliberately distorted.
.






Robert Riversong



Once again, it’s you who has a serious reading comprehension problem, coupled with an abject failure to do background research.
What the article states is “Here’s a picture of both weapons, one banned under Connecticut’s law, one not. Can you tell the difference? The legal weapon is actually the one at the top, with the giant banana clip.”
If you looked up the CT assault weapons ban, you would know that it specifically lists the Colt AR-15 (bottom picture) as banned, but not its copy the Bushmaster AR-15 (top picture). As we all know, Adam Lanza used the legal Bushmaster AR-15, which is the gun in the top of the picture.
So it’s you who doesn’t know what the f*ck you’re talking about.






Anonymous



You still haven’t provided citation that the top weapon pictured is the gun Adam Lanza used in the school shootings.
The top gun is legal only if it does not have semi and full auto ability.
As to the rest, The top weapon falls under the National Fire Arms Act, Federal Regulation as it is a short barreled rifle, And you need a federal tax stamp to own it.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Steve-Gilbert/1450832861                            Steve Gilbert



This article was so informative!
The author points out that most hunters only need a few rounds of ammunition and that target shooters wouldn’t mind changing clips after 10 rounds.
I never knew that we fought the American Revolutionary War for the right to hunt and target shoot.
It’s truly amazing what people will fight and die for.
And I didn’t know that we passed a Constructional amendment just to protect the right to hunt and target shoot.






    http://www.facebook.com/projexcm.shifty                            Projex Cm Shifty



He didnt use the ar to kill those people. He used pistols. Tommy do you have any idea what research is.
Besides there were more than one guy who was involved in the massacre.
Ban all the guns if you clowns want to but you will never get the ones people have.
Take a look at all the gun sales in the past month. And to all you anti gun people please feel free to make a sighn that reads (we dont like guns and they should be banned } hang it  in your front yard so the criminals wont have to worry about getting shot  when you or your family get beaten, raped, or killed. Foof for thought but i will keep my weapons.
Peace






Robert Riversong



The “citation” is in the article, which you obviously haven’t read or haven’t understood.
It states that the top weapon is the Bushmaster AR15 (it has a 16″ barrel), and is legal under both the Federal and CT assault weapons law. 
http://www.bushmaster.com/firearms/XM-15.asp
It’s the same weapon used by both Adam Lanza in Sandy Hook and the DC sniper.






Anonymous



Citation and verifiable proof please, You are a hysterical  lying old fish wife gossip.






Anonymous



Excuse me, Look at the bottom M-4, That is a 16 inch barrel and with the flash suppressor, 17.5 inches long, The top M-4 that you are calling a Bushmaster, Has a 14.5 inch barrel 15.9 inches long with flash suppressor attached.
Do a little google research or actually look at the Bushmaster sight on line, Man you are obtuse.
Any select fire weapon is illegal in this state. You can own fully automatic machine guns provided they are pre ’86 transferable, registered with the ATF and the selector can only go from safe to full auto.
The next part of the ban has to do with feature count. A semi automatic rifle that has the ability to accept a detachable magazine can only have one of the following features
1) pistol grip that protrudes conspicuously below the action
2)flash hider or threaded barrel capable of accepting a flash hider (this counts as one feature even if the weapon has a threaded barrel and a flash hider)
3) Collapsible or folding stock
4) Grenade launcher (not like an M203 but like the one found on an SKS)
5) Bayonet lug
For example an AR15 style rifle such as a bushmaster XM15 is a semi automatic rifle with a detachable magazine and by design it has a pistol grip. The pistol grip is the (1) allowable feature on that particular weapon under CT statute. Therefore that weapon can not have a collapsible or folding stock, bayonet lug, threaded barrel/flash hider or grenade launcher (which it wouldn’t have anyways). If you have any more than (1) of those features on that gun it becomes and illegal assault weapon.






Anonymous



(The “citation” is in the article, which you obviously haven’t read or haven’t understood.)
Again, Provide the exact quote that state that is the rifle that Adam Lanza used in His murders.
Funny thing is the Police and the News have not shown the rifle claimed to have been used by Lanza in His rampage, Now also look up th efact that a detachable magazine weapon to be legal for sale in Connetticute can only have one additional feature beyond the magazine, For the AR-15 family of fire arms, Which includes the M-4 the only other feature that would be useable is the pistole grip, So unless those weaapons were full auto, With no semi auto capability, and no flash hiders, no bayonet lug, no colapsable stock, They are illegal under Conneticute Gun Control Law.






Robert Riversong



What kind of mental disability do you have that prevents you from admitting that you’re wrong?






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Mark-Sanford/100000119110135                            Mark Sanford



Hahahahahahahaha, you just have to laugh at idiots who think a device designed to allow one to launch rifle grenades, something that has not been used by a modern army in 50 years or more,  is the same thing as the grenade launchers mounted to the bottom of modern rifles used by our military.
Seriously, these are the kind of idiots in the media who dictate the parameters of the gun control debate.






Stuff It



I find it funny that the news media showed on film that the police removed from his trunk a long gun….they also said he used two pistols to commit his atrocious crimes. When was lying about the news truth in reporting the news? Seems that truth in reporting has become something of a back pocket pay off!






Stuff It



So I suppose that the high court justice Scalia said we could own anything the military owns is bs huh? Jimmy if you served your country then support the Constitution, dont crap all over it…..






Stuff It



You can’t read too well, read it again, the Constitution insures us freedom of speach, freedom of firearms and freedom of electronic correspondence, get ur nose outa your arse and get up on whats going on in Amerika….This is just another smoke screen so the elite can pass lots more of their rules against us an abusive the Constitution….






Stuff It



why do you keep using that mans name, are you one of the one’s that idolizes him? Can you name any of the kids that died that day? WTF is wrong with you?






Anonymous



No, What kind of mental disability do you have that prevents you from understanding simple language or admitting that you’re wrong?
I have quoted Federal Law and Statute, Connecticut Law and Statute, Not opinion and spun news stories, But Federal Law and Statute, Connecticut Law and Statute.
Which clearly shows that both weapons pictured are not legal for sale in the State of Connecticut, And are not the weapon that Lanza  used to commit His crime.






    http://www.facebook.com/glenn.monson                            Glenn Monson



not true, and then theres Obama who sold guns without tracking them to Mexicos drug cartels which have cause countless murders, You  might also consider Kennesaw GA. http://rense.com/general9/gunlaw.htm






Robert Riversong



Everything I’ve posted is from reputable research and is thoroughly documented, as opposed to the NRA propaganda which is commonly spewed.
“States with the strongest gun laws and lowest percentage of household gun ownership tend to have significantly lower gun death rates and crime gun export rates than other states.” – Legal Community Against Violence
Most guns used in crimes are from disreputable licensed gun dealers, transfers of legally-purchased weapons (often from gun shows), or straw purchasers. – ATF
As for your Kennesaw anecdote, the assumptions of biased city officials in one city don’t equal an objective study of the facts. Crime rates have been dropping in the US for two decades, regardless of the number or density of guns, and no study has shown a correlation between crime and gun ownership, except for the crime of homicide, which is strongly correlated with the number of guns: fewer guns, fewer murders. – National Institute of Justice






    http://www.facebook.com/jakob.stagg                            Jakob Stagg



Laws do not regulate behavior. The effort of trying to prevent violence or gun violence by persecuting or punishing the law abiding is a diversion. The law abiding have done nothing wrong. What else could the government be thinking about? DHS, 1.4 billion personal defense rounds? Expanding FEMA camps? NDAA 2012 & 2013? Expanding FISA to spy more on Americans without a warrant or cause? Take a look at history. “Gun Control was the first step in genocides in the 20th Century that resulted in the murder of 200 million people by their own government. Any questions?
The only thing missing is a politician with a Hitler mustache and the arm shaking in the air.






    http://www.facebook.com/jakob.stagg                            Jakob Stagg



If our government cared at all. They would do things to earn respect rather than contempt. They would allow for protecting children and a means of defending them rather that seeking to punish tens of millions of people who have done nothing wrong and are just as upset over another mindless criminal act. 
You have to identify the threat before you can stop it.






    http://www.facebook.com/jakob.stagg                            Jakob Stagg



A firearm is described by it’s function, not form. That is contrary to the gun grabber mind. If there were anyone involved in this process of persecuting law abiding gun owners who actually knew anything about firearms, this wouldn’t even be a topic of conversation at a coffee break.
I could make an argument against golf clubs. I saw movies once where a guy was murdered by a man wielding a golf club. I was so traumatized I haven’t been able to look at golf clubs or pictures of them for years. Therefore, we need a ban on golf clubs.
The key elements: watch movie, man kills another, I develop a phobia. Now, everybody else should give up golf? It was the golf club not the man with the evil intent. Americans are the most entertained and least informed people on the planet.






    http://www.facebook.com/william.phillips.397                            William Phillips



umm whats the definition of “giant banana clip” and I’m not sure what I rifle guard is.






Sidiki Sumner



uhhh….. no. it boils down to the mentality of the people in the society. you cannot seriously believe restricting ownership by law abiding citizens is going to make things better. law abiding citizens with guns are a deterrent to crime. fewer guns means crime will go up in neighborhoods where there was little to none.if criminals know that many people in a locale are armed, they don’t go there. even they have a bit of sense,this is why they make the other choice.because this was all political, emotional knee jerk reaction you will learn that things will become worse very soon. people are constantly comparing this country to others with no gun policies. well, guess what? the u.s. is many times larger than the countries mentioned and full of people that feel entitled to do whatever they want and by whatever means






Sidiki Sumner



both the weapons displayed in the picture are legal as well. only safe and semi are visible. therefore these are not true assault weapons as these have three position selection (safe, semi and burst for a2′s and a4′s, and safe, semi and full auto for a1′s and a3′s). i don’t know if anyone here has bothered to read through the 122 page document proposed by Feinstein and her bullyboys/girls, but it is a bill for confiscation. for now “assault rifles, pistols and shotguns”, and everything else a couple of years down the road when the majority of folks in the country go back to sleep on the issue and worry about starbucks, panera bread and “reality t.v.”






Sidiki Sumner



Can you imagine one of them having to actually defend themselves or their family? I guarantee you that these folks really believe they could talk down a group of thugs that just broke into their house/apartment. Or better yet, the police will be there in 5 minutes! Of course 5 minutes is too late, but don’t say that to them because they know whats right for you.






Robert Riversong



More Guns = More Deaths
For most contemporary Americans, scientific studies indicate that the health risk of a gun in the home is greater than the benefit. The evidence is overwhelming for the fact that a gun in the home is a risk factor for completed suicide and that gun accidents are most likely to occur in homes with guns. There is compelling evidence that a gun in the home is a risk factor for intimidation and for killing women in their homes. On the benefit side, there are fewer studies, and there is no credible evidence of a deterrent effect of firearms or that a gun in the home reduces the likelihood or severity of injury during an altercation or break-in. – Risks and Benefits of a Gun in the Home, by David Hemenway, PhD, Professor of Health Policy at the Harvard School of Public Health and director of the Harvard Injury Control Research Center and the Harvard Youth Violence Prevention Center. American Journal of Lifestyle Medicine, 2011
Based on a review of the available scientific data, the dangers of having a gun at home far outweigh the safety benefits. Research shows that access to guns greatly increases the risk of death and firearm-related violence. A gun in the home is twelve times more likely to result in the death of a household member or visitor than an intruder. The most common cause of deaths occurring at homes where guns are present, by far, is suicide. Many of these self-inflicted gunshot wounds appear to be impulsive acts by people without previous evidence of mental illness. Guns in the home are also associated with a fivefold increase in the rate of intimate partner homicide, as well as an increased risk of injuries and death to children. – Guns at Home Increase Dangers, Not Safety, by Dr. Lippmann and co-authors, Southern Medical Journal, Feb 2010
After adjustment, individuals in possession of a gun were 4.46 times more likely to be shot in an assault than those not in possession. Among gun assaults where the victim had at least some chance to resist, this adjusted odds ratio increased to 5.45. On average, guns did not protect those who possessed them from being shot in an assault. – Investigating the Link Between Gun Possession and Gun Assault, by Charles C. Branas, PhD, Therese S. Richmond, PhD, CRNP, Dennis P. Culhane, PhD, Thomas R. Ten Have, PhD, MPH, and Douglas J. Wiebe, PhD, American Journal of Public Health, November 2009, Vol. 99, No. 11
Results show that regardless of storage practice, type of gun, or number of firearms in the home, having a gun in the home was associated with an increased risk of firearm homicide and firearm suicide in the home. – Guns in the Home and Risk of a Violent Death in the Home: Findings from a National Study by Linda L. Dahlberg, Robin M. Ikeda and Marcie-jo Kresnow, American Journal of Epidemiology, Volume 160, Issue 10, 2004
The results show strong correlations between the presence of guns in the home and suicide committed with a gun, rates of gun-related homicide that involved female victims, and gun-related assault. – Guns, Violent Crime, and Suicide in 21 Countries, by Martin Killias, John van Kesteren, Martin Rindlisbacher, Canadian Journal of Criminology  Volume:43  Issue:4 October 2001  
Instead of conferring protection, keeping a gun in the home is associated with increased risk of both suicide and homicide of women. – Risk Factors for Violent Death of Women in the Home, by Bailey JE, Kellermann AL, Somes GW, Banton JG, Rivara FP, Rushforth NP, New England Journal of Medicine, 1993 
The present study, based on a sample of eighteen countries, confirms the results of previous work based on the 14 countries surveyed during the first International Crime Survey. Substantial correlations were found between gun ownership and gun-related as well as total suicide and homicide rates. – Gun Ownership, Suicide and Homicide: An International Perspective, by Martin Killias, 1993
Positive correlations were obtained between the rates of household gun ownership and the national rates of homicide and suicide as well as the proportions of homicides and suicides committed with a gun. – International Correlations Between Gun Ownership and Rates Of Homicide And Suicide, by Martin Killias, Dr. iur., Lic. phil., Canadian Medical Association Journal #148 1993
Legislation allowing citizens to carry concealed weapons does not reduce crime. More Guns, More Crime, by Mark Duggan, University of Chicago and National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper No. 7967, October 2000, Journal of Political Economy, 2001, vol. 109, no. 5
My results suggest that shall-issue laws have resulted, if anything, in an increase in adult homicide rates. – Concealed-Gun-Carrying Laws and Violent Crime: Evidence from State Panel Data, by Jens Otto Ludwig, JCPR Working Papers from Northwestern University/University of Chicago Joint Center for Poverty Research, 1998






Robert Riversong



The bill specifically exempts 2,258 guns from the ban (more than 14 times as many as it bans), and also grandfathers all existing legally-owned weapons. There is nothing in the bill which allows confiscation, except in the case of felons or the mentally ill.
You share the fevered fantasy that the NRA has been propagating for 40 years, and which has never – and will never – come to pass.






Anonymous



Why do the bureaucrats keep trying to define what my needs are?
Do we tell them how many words “need” to be in a bill? Why do they “need” a healthcare bill with 2500 pages?


















 


Most Popular
Most Commented







30 Rock’s 13 Most Hilarious Political And Media Moments




Ronald Reagan’s Childhood Home To Be Bulldozed For Possible Future Home Of Obama Library




Reporter Hilariously Shames Seemingly Drunk Videobomber: ‘How Long Have You Had An STD?’




CNN Airs Video Of Snowmobile Jump That Killed X Games Competitor




Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward


 





Did The Media Blatantly Mischaracterize Video Of Newtown Father Being ‘Heckled’ By ‘Gun Nuts’?          »410






Female Gun Advocate Lays Into Democratic Senator Over Women’s Second Amendment Rights          »398






Hide Your Bibles, Hide Your Kids, Because Muslims Are Coming! Or So Suggests Fox News’ Todd Starnes          »360






Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward          »282






Fox’s The Five Goes After MSNBC For Edited Video Of Sandy Hook Father Being ‘Heckled’          »245



 






Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Pilot Season: ABC Orders Divorce Comedy Based on Israeli Series



• 

Pilot Season: CBS Orders Psychological Thriller From Homeland, CSI Executive Producers



• 

Christina Ricci Engaged to Boyfriend James Heerdegen



• 

Glee Sneak Peek: New Directions Covers a Diva and Tina Gets Called Out!



• 

Was the Iranian Space Monkey Launch a Hoax? 


 

TV Guide Listings









 
 







  Online/Print
»»



Hot:
Barack Obama | Immigration | Rush Limbaugh 







WaPo Fact-Checker Demands Multiple Skeet-Shooting Photos To Clear President Obama Of Lying


by Tommy Christopher | 2:35 pm, Friday

 

» 38 comments






Mark Levin Explodes: ‘The Muslim Brotherhood Has Infiltrated Our Gov’t — It’s Called Barack Obama’


by Andrew Kirell | 1:16 pm, Friday

 

» 176 comments



 



Limbaugh Mocks CNN: They Might Start Black History Month By Nixing Show For ‘Too Ethnic’ Audience


by Meenal Vamburkar | 3:24 pm, Friday

 

» 9 comments






Stewart Mocks Obama Skeet Shooting: Why Won’t Black Man Half Of U.S. Fears Release Picture Of Himself Holding Gun?


by Josh Feldman | 11:53 pm, Thursday

 

» 107 comments



 



Winners Of The Week: Hillary, Greta, Cuomo (The TV One), The Next Turner And Meticulous MSNBC


by Joe Concha | 5:31 pm, Friday

 

» 2 comments






Beware The ‘Muffin Macer’: Woman Sprays Man In Face After Intense Convenience Store Argument


by Andrew Kirell | 4:54 pm, Friday

 

» 11 comments



 



Man Defends Horse Rape: ‘I Was Thinking It Would Have A Horseman Baby’


by Noah Rothman | 3:34 pm, Friday

 

» 57 comments






Conservative Former SNL  Star Victoria Jackson Deletes ‘White History Month’ Article


by Tommy Christopher | 6:10 pm, Thursday

 

» 60 comments








Newsletter:

Sign up for the Mediaite newsletter:








More Online/Print:



 
Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus’ NBC News Tenure                                      »3








 
                  Officials Release Photo Of Alabama Hostage Suspect Jimmy Lee Dykes                                  







 
                  Newsweek Trolls The Nation: Hillary Clinton ‘Most Powerful Woman In American History’                                      »14








 
                  Scott Brown Will Not Seek John Kerry’s Empty Senate Seat                                      »19








 
                  Steve Capus Now Officially Out As NBC News President                                      »20








 
                  John Kerry Says Obama Offered Secretary Of State Job Before Susan Rice Withdrew                                      »9








 
                  Conservative Website Falsely Claims Gabby Giffords’ Therapist ‘Gave Her’ Handwritten Testimony                                      »24








 
                  Newtown Votes To Request Armed Police Officers In Elementary Schools                                      »26








 
                  Hillary Clinton Hits Benghazi Critics Who ‘Just Will Not Live In An Evidence-Based World’                                      »81








 
                  Former NYC Mayor Ed Koch Dies At Age 88                                      »8








 
                  New Report Shows Obama Admin Will Have Deported 2 Million By 2014                                      »16








 
New York Times, Wall Street Journal Allege Targeting By Chinese Hackers                                      »2









 



 



click here for advertising opportunities





Last Call: Calm Down, There’s No Chicken Wing Shortage, Just Like There Was No Baconpocalypse
WATCH: Emeril Lagasse Hawks Ritz Crackers As The Taste Of New Orleans







So Ronaiah Tuiasosopo Apparently Was Doing Lennay Kekua’s Voice After All And Oh Come On What The Hell We Give Up With This Crap
“Fenway Parks” Is The Name Of An Actual High School Baseball Player. He’s From Florida.







EOD Roundup: Science Thinks That Men Who Do Chores Aren’t Attractive
10 Things We Would See If Women Ran The Super Bowl







Editors’ Picks 2/1: Field Gambling Chess
Here’s an Entire Hour of Valve’s Gabe Newell on Business, Economics, and Video Games [Video]







NAACP Image Awards Red Carpet Photos!
American Idol Contestant Admits to Lying About Military Accident, Miracle Baby







StyleDish: Of Course Kanye Wore A Straitjacket During His Concert
Bar Refaeli Makes Out With A Go Daddy Geek For Her First Super Bowl Ad







We Can All Quit: Sesame Street Did A Spoof Called Upside Downton Abbey [VIDEO]
Things We Saw Today: The Princess and the Evil Queen from Disney’s Frozen






 





 




© 2013 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
	  			
 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram

















 

X


