Samsung Accused Of ‘Ruining Christmas’ With Ad ‘Sexualizing’ Mr. and Mrs. Claus | Mediaite





Mediaite
Gossip Cop
Geekosystem
Styleite
SportsGrid
The Mary Sue
The Jane Dough
The Braiser









WATCH: The Best 2013 Super Bowl Ads All In One Video





Dry-Humping Soccer Fans Videobomb Live Sports Report





The Biggest Cable News Fights Of The Month: January 2013





Stewart Trashes Wayne LaPierre And Female Gun Advocate Over Senate Testimony





Baltimore Sun TV Critic Tears Apart Outgoing Exec Steve Capus' NBC News Tenure










 




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook





 



Samsung Accused Of ‘Ruining Christmas’ With Ad ‘Sexualizing’ Mr. and Mrs. Claus
by Andrew Kirell | 1:35 pm, December 20th, 2012
video

» 54 comments




 
















  

Chalk it up to another part of the supposed “War on Christmas”™?
A new commercial for the Samsung Galaxy smartphone has drawn the ire of critics who say its overt sexualization of childhood favorites Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus is unnecessarily gratuitous given the lighthearted association most people have with the fictional Christmas characters’ relationship.
The ad in question, a near-word-for-word copy of an older non-Christmas commercial, shows Santa boarding his sleigh to deliver presents, saying goodbye to two male elves who excitedly tell him they’ve made a farewell video for him. With the new smartphone, Mrs. Claus is able to share the video by touching her phone to her husband’s and clicking a button. 
She then gets in close to Santa and tells him, “I also made you a video,” touches phones, then leans in to quietly say, “but you probably shouldn’t watch it on the sleigh,” suggesting the video is a sex tape of some sort.
Conservative media watchdog site complained, via a post titled “Leave Santa Alone, Samsung,” that the “icky” video ruined a popular image for many TV viewers:
Perhaps while Santa was busy making toys, Mrs. Claus has been whiling away the North Pole nights reading “50 Shades of Gray,” or reaching out to a certain former Democratic congressman from New York? 
The ad is one Christmas image viewers could have done without. But using icky sex to sell products is apparently the “new normal” for advertisers.
But they weren’t alone in disliking the commercial. Detroit News‘s pop culture columnist lambasted the ad as the “worst commercial of the year,” writing:
Samsung gets right in our face and forces us to confront the idea of Mrs. Claus, as pure and wholesome symbol of childhood innocence as there is, making a sex tape for Santa. Look, I’m not trying to deny Mr. and Mrs. Claus a healthy sex life. But they’re not real, they’re characters. And there’s no reason to sexualize them.
Another critic conceded that the ad is “pretty funny” but said the ad “will ruin your childhood” and is “a preposterous thing to air as we head into Christmas.”
Watch below and decide for yourself:

– –
>> Follow Andrew Kirell (@AndrewKirell) on Twitter
 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook


 
filed under
Christmas, Controversy, Samsung, Santa Claus, Sex Tape







Remember Lisa Turtle? Wait Til You See Her Now!





Which Celebs Are Barely Recognizable Without Makeup?





Is Shenae Grimes Too Young to be Engaged?





6 Celebrities Who Look Beautiful Without Makeup 





Tyra Banks Without Make-up: Still Think She's Hot?


 







freedomrocks4



Give me a break, lighten up people






Gregory Williams



TRUTH … to many people look for things that are not there and the kids that still believe and that do not watch Fox entertainment offerings will not get the inside joke. BESIDES THAT… it was funny.






Anonymous



Stop quoting newsbusters. It’s an internet porn site run by Brent Bozell.
The ad is cute.






Anonymous



So this guy was whining only this morning on Fox & Friends about the War on Christmas, oh the holiest of holidays etc., meantime he’s making amateur porno movies featuring only God knows what sort of auto-erotic perversions and whatnot?  Hypocrite!






Anonymous



But, but, but aren’t they actually honoring Christmas by showing Santa? Forget that the Santa Claus they are so anxious to defend as symbol of Christianity is actually a marketing element of the Coca-Cola Company in the 1930′s.






freedomrocks4



Fox….lol






Anonymous



Give Santa a break…he only comes once a year.






Orestes Ippeau



Yeah, a little nod to reality is okay; besides, it’s still fictional: the REAL Santa has no “Missus Claus”, he’s up there in the North P…, well, Depth Marker now I guess, all year long day and night just with his li’l elves, working and … doin’ whatever overweight older men in absolute power positions to smaller folk when there aren’t any women around …
Starting to think a lot better about that ad yet?






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



I didn’t see the ad (on account of not being a U.S. resident), but now the skit with Mrs. Claus on the recent Saturday Night Live makes sense to me now.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



Bravo!






Orestes Ippeau



Bozell!
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k9_8YxDQYCo






Firestarterfive



….Rush in the Dominican?






Anonymous



And her pet name for it is ─ “The North Fµcking Pole”!






smileyhappy



I don’t think the ad is appropriate but I have to admit, it was pretty funny.  It doesn’t offend me but I have little ones and I wouldn’t want them to see it.  Santa is sacred to children.






smileyhappy



Kinda like Mediaite for you.






Anonymous



Can anyone guess what tribe might have been involved with this?






Anonymous



Would anyone young enough be called a “little one” really infer that it was a sexy video, or would think just think that’s he’s not supposed to use his phone while “driving” or something equally innocent?  Kids hear that one all the time, after all…






Anonymous



“But using icky sex to sell products is apparently the “new normal” for advertisers.”  Um, I have a few questions here:
1)  What is wrong with this self-professed conservative that they think sex is icky, especially when it’s between a married couple?
2)  What on earth makes this idiot think using sex to sell products is anything new, either in modern advertising or in selling all sorts of goods and services throughout the ages?  (No, seriously, taverns have used pretty girls about which men can fantasize to sell alcohol for centuries, and it’s certainly not limited to one kind of product or one age.)
3)  Where is this person’s sense of humor?  I would understand the outrage if anyone worshipped Santa Claus, but this person likely does not.  There’s no need for hysterical responses like this.
And this?  “Look, I’m not trying to deny Mr. and Mrs. Claus a healthy sex life. But
they’re not real, they’re characters. And there’s no reason to sexualize
 them.”  That is kind of ridiculous, isn’t it?  Human beings are sexual creatures, generally speaking, whether they’re present-day figures, historical figures, mythical or religious figures, or even characters in fiction.  Human beings are, have been, and always will be sexual; if we weren’t, we wouldn’t wouldn’t be here.  It’s silly to call acknowledging that reality “sexualizing” something.  You can’t “sexualize” something that’s inherently sexual.  What the heck?






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



children should also be scared of your misogynistic rhetoric.






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



neil enbob has been banned and mediaite continue to assert bullying will not be tolerated.
”
Andrew Kirell 3:50 PM (13 minutes ago)
to me
This Neil_Enbob character has been banned, fyi”
btw – if someone calls you names because you stood up for someone else who was being bullied – wear it as your red medal of honor. neil enbob has problems and he used someones weight to viciously attack that person.
my question is – where were the rest of you – you all saw the bullying happen – but you did nothing – that is cowardly to the millionth degree.
neil can call me any name he wants – because i will always stand up to the bully, and i will always protect the bullied. and if i catch you bullying i will win.
my work here is finished.
on to the next troll.






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



lol lighten up? coming from the man who easily and causally engages in the worst kind of hyperbole aimed at gays, minorities, women, trayvon martin – it goes on and on – the person who needs a break is you freedom.






Gregory Williams



A few details would be nice like WHAT BULLYING? and how about CONTEXT? And are you sure that Andrew did not just PUNK you? Looks like he made it clear in the end that you were just another troll he was responding to.






freedomrocks4



Hi troll girl, still pregnant and uneducated as the Baltimore PD reports






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



wow really? funny where was the outrage over “i saw momma kissing santa under the mistletoe”?






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



he was attacking one conservative constantly and exclusively – calling him fat in hundreds of comments, saying his wife left him etc
i am a liberal – everyone here knows this – so was neil, and the person he was attacking was a conservative – and no one – i mean no one said anything to any of the hundred of comments.
until i found them – i took him to task -so he turned his bullying towards me -calling me fat etc – except this kind of thing doesnt work for me – and i just make sure he is banned.
which he is
but where were the rest of you? you all come here and talk about apathy and empathy – and you let this happen right under your nose?
everytime i see bullying here from now on – im going to hold those who say nothing just as accountable as the bully.
bullying can never ever be tolerated, it creates victims, it victimizes people who deserve better, it drives violence, it drives suicide, and it is morally abhorred.
one is gone – more will come – and mediaite aims to be a safe place from victimization for commenting.
i support that position and i am resolved to stop it when i see it.






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



lol the baltimore pd? you mean the agency that had to write me an official apology for breaking the law when i was holding them accountable to not shoot an innocent man? a man i managed to create a twitter furor over?
you dont even have your context straight!
your trying to attack me for helping save a mans life? and you think this will help you?
then press on soldier – press on






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



its called projection! and you hit it on the head gregory.






freedomrocks4



Post that apology!… I know you can’t lol






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



oh yes i can, but i dont do anything when directed by a racist, you just have no credibility, and i could care less what you say about it.
you see the problem here is – you have someone who wont tolerate your bigoted rhetoric, and has your number, so you tried to take something you didnt understand and use it against me – except it didnt work because you hadnt done your homework researching the issue.
so now it has backfired on you – and it still doesnt change the fact that you are a bigot, and you are being held accountable for it every day.
but please – continue – call my mental health into question – its your fav reply to any dissent,  prevaricate on the balt. pd, you will always look foolish  and as if you are grasping for something when you do it.
and i will continue to hold you accountable for your rhetoric here at mediaite.
i think you get the idea.






freedomrocks4



Are you going to get me banned? lol   BTW….you care enough to respond to my comments…lol, Hold me accountable….lol






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



nope i am not going to get you banned – i would rather use you as a instrument to show others what vile bigotry looks like and how you nullify it with pragmatic debate and decency.
i have plans for you – and you have been meeting each and every one of my expectations.
i could get you banned for your comments on gays or racists, but i chose not to because i feel this is a much better method of neutralizing your rather incipient message.
and you are nullified – the more time you spend trying ridiculous attacks on me is more time people see you acting ridiculous – so its working.
when you find me using bigotry aimed at minority groups – you are welcome to do the same.






freedomrocks4



lol decency? well you should get educated and stop getting pregnant dumbsh*t…lol






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



Neil_Enbob  Steve0T • 7 hours ago
Gordon can’t help it…he’s still bitter that his wife left him because he couldn’t satisfy her.
The poor tubby dummy…
Neil_Enbob  palmer kiss • 5 hours ago
A fat-ass, are ya?But, that’s ok…lotsa guys like ‘em thick.
Kisses!






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



right because what i have displayed is illiteracy. that is very obvious.
you see this kind of attack has no merit because it is quite obvious i am educated and quite obvious i pushed your buttons so you used an attack that one – isnt based in the truth, and two – you cant use the mental health attack any more.
keep meeting my expectations, and i will keep showing you up as a foolish bigot.
we each have our part to play – and your playing yours perfectly (even if i am the performer and you are the fiddle – in other words – you’re being played and you’re being played beautifully)






freedomrocks4



No, you have displayed delusions and no facts…keep going nutcase






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



uh huh






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



i missed that skit – going to look it up – i am totally down with mrs claus and anything she might get into lol






freedomrocks4



Well you accuse, but never provide the proof, I wonder why?  I know, you are nuts






    http://www.facebook.com/dee.lightner.1                            Dee Lightner



Open letter to the Mayan deity:
Well, maybe it’s about time for the world to end!  Judging from this idiotic story we may have at last reached the level of stupidity that is terminal!
Are these people for real?  It used to be that the biggest gripe about Christmas was that the “real” meaning (the birth of Jesus) was being overshadowed by the crass materialism of it all.  And now we are being told that talking about a MAKE-BELIEVE character and his sexy wife is RUINING CHRISTMAS!!!
GIMME A BREAK.






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



i dont have to provide proof – i could – but i choose not to reproduce your vile comments.
however, it is no secret here at mediaite that you are an agitator of the bigoted variety. i dont post them because one – i am not beholden to anything you direct, and two, everyone who has been here long enough has seen you in action – and that is why you do not have people out here defending you
and if you do find someone to defend you – i guarantee that i will find bigoted comments they have made also.
however, to claim you dont make bigoted, racist, posts is an outright lie. one that you, i, and everyone else here knows is simply incorrect.
so stop lying – either have the cajones to stand up for your bigotry, and stop being such a coward, or repent, and apologize for what you have promoted.
or suffer the consequences – as you are now.
you are on the defensive – exactly where i want you to be.
see my arm – thats me still playing you like a fiddle – so continue to respond to me – if you think your making headway.
:D






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



oh look its everyone favorite nazi apologist. hows that hitler glorification working out for you? have you and freedomrocks gotten together to start a “we love hitler” meetup? if not you should






    http://twitter.com/Konradkern                            Quinn



Love it!






freedomrocks4



I am glad you don’t produce proof…….lol






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



like i told you – in this case – i dont have 2 – your antics are well known here at mediaite – you have a horrific reputation, the only people who defend you are also bigots, and i proved you were a bigot when i answered the original posts when you made those comments.
but keep trying this road – it hasnt helped you one bit – it wont help you and you are still being played like a fiddle.
and even better – you have been neutralized, and i did that to you.
enjoy






freedomrocks4



so nothing….lol






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



nope – i dont take directives from bigots. however – i could play that game and have you prove the lie you made yesterday claiming the bpd called me crazy – which of course is not true – and when you engaged in dishonesty it rendered anything you say suspect.
however, i wont do that because quite simply no one believes you anyway.
and your comments had no effect – because simply – you have no credibility.
you are a racist, you are a bigot, you are by every definition, an indecent person who takes out your anger on those who do not have power.
you attack minorities and others who you feel have no recourse – well now you are reaping what you sowed – and its not based on bigotry, its not based on anger, it is not based on personal attacks – its based on the words that you typed, that you submitted, and it is destroying you in every way.
it is great that you havent realized this yet – because you continue to allow me to play you like a fiddle.






smileyhappy



Fair point.






    http://www.facebook.com/james.hetfield.3511041                            James Hetfield



Oh boy please lighten up you flakes. Good god its just a fun commercial. Conservatives are such prudes.






    http://truth-and-opinion.dyndns-blog.com/                            The Peripatetic Apostate



I believe it was part of Seth Meyers’ “Weekend Update” segment.  I can’t see it on NBC SNL website because they show video only with US-based IP locations.  Did not immediately see it on youtube.com






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



ok thanx :) will see if i can get it on the nbc site :) happy holidays :)






Anonymous



Well if all those posts that neil wrote were to Gordon, then El Gordo deserved each one of them. Gordon use to be a regular on here and wrote a lot of ignorant name calling crap in his time. Gordo tried to be bully of the boards before he slithered away in the face of Obama re-election.






    http://twitter.com/palmerkiss                            palmer kiss



it doesnt matter who gordo is. gordo is notorious – however,  that still does not deserve multiple continuous comments on the mans appearance. criticize gordo for what he says – not how he looks. anything else is way beyond  fair-play.






Obama Zombie Killer



If this bothers you then you probably shouldn’t come out from under the bed.






    http://twitter.com/zipbag4                            Luther Franklin



So?


















 


Most Popular
Most Commented







30 Rock’s 13 Most Hilarious Political And Media Moments




Ronald Reagan’s Childhood Home To Be Bulldozed For Possible Future Home Of Obama Library




Reporter Hilariously Shames Seemingly Drunk Videobomber: ‘How Long Have You Had An STD?’




CNN Airs Video Of Snowmobile Jump That Killed X Games Competitor




Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward


 





Did The Media Blatantly Mischaracterize Video Of Newtown Father Being ‘Heckled’ By ‘Gun Nuts’?          »410






Female Gun Advocate Lays Into Democratic Senator Over Women’s Second Amendment Rights          »398






Hide Your Bibles, Hide Your Kids, Because Muslims Are Coming! Or So Suggests Fox News’ Todd Starnes          »360






Mark Levin To Make Regular Appearances On Fox’s Hannity Going Forward          »282






Fox’s The Five Goes After MSNBC For Edited Video Of Sandy Hook Father Being ‘Heckled’          »245



 






Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Pilot Season: ABC Orders Divorce Comedy Based on Israeli Series



• 

Pilot Season: CBS Orders Psychological Thriller From Homeland, CSI Executive Producers



• 

Christina Ricci Engaged to Boyfriend James Heerdegen



• 

Glee Sneak Peek: New Directions Covers a Diva and Tina Gets Called Out!



• 

Was the Iranian Space Monkey Launch a Hoax? 


 

TV Guide Listings









 
 




click here for advertising opportunities





Last Call: Calm Down, There’s No Chicken Wing Shortage, Just Like There Was No Baconpocalypse
WATCH: Emeril Lagasse Hawks Ritz Crackers As The Taste Of New Orleans







So Ronaiah Tuiasosopo Apparently Was Doing Lennay Kekua’s Voice After All And Oh Come On What The Hell We Give Up With This Crap
“Fenway Parks” Is The Name Of An Actual High School Baseball Player. He’s From Florida.







EOD Roundup: Science Thinks That Men Who Do Chores Aren’t Attractive
10 Things We Would See If Women Ran The Super Bowl







Editors’ Picks 2/1: Field Gambling Chess
Here’s an Entire Hour of Valve’s Gabe Newell on Business, Economics, and Video Games [Video]







NAACP Image Awards Red Carpet Photos!
American Idol Contestant Admits to Lying About Military Accident, Miracle Baby







StyleDish: Of Course Kanye Wore A Straitjacket During His Concert
Bar Refaeli Makes Out With A Go Daddy Geek For Her First Super Bowl Ad







We Can All Quit: Sesame Street Did A Spoof Called Upside Downton Abbey [VIDEO]
Things We Saw Today: The Princess and the Evil Queen from Disney’s Frozen






 





 




© 2013 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
	  			
 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram

















 

X


