BBC News - Japan panel: Fukushima nuclear disaster 'man-made'


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


Asia Business
China
India



















5 July 2012
Last updated at 07:09 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Japan panel: Fukushima nuclear disaster 'man-made'
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























The BBC's Mariko Oi in Tokyo: ''It was a disaster... made in Japan''




Continue reading the main story


Japan quake


Fukushima report: Key points


Fukushima glimpse


How plant was stabilised


What went wrong?



 The crisis at the Fukushima nuclear plant was "a profoundly man-made disaster", a Japanese parliamentary panel has said in a report.  
The disaster "could and should have been foreseen and prevented" and its effects "mitigated by a more effective human response", it said. 
The report catalogued serious deficiencies in both the government and plant operator Tepco's response.
It also blamed cultural conventions and a reluctance to question authority. 

Continue reading the main story Analysis



Mariko Oi
BBC News, Tokyo



While the report is highly critical of all the key parties, it digs even deeper. The panel called the disaster "Made in Japan", because the mindset that allowed the accident to happen can be found across the country. 
It flagged up the bureaucracy's role in both promoting and regulating the nuclear industry, and also cultural factors such as a traditional reluctance to question authority. 
The report was expected to use strong language, but not many thought it would be this harsh. 
The panel also found that there was a possibility that the plant was damaged by the earthquake, contradicting the official position that only the tsunami contributed to the disaster. 
It could put further pressure on the government, which recently authorised the restart of two nuclear reactors in western Japan. They were declared safe in April but the plant also sits on top of a fault line. 

 The six-reactor Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant was badly damaged after the 11 March 2011 earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems to reactors, leading to meltdowns and the release of radioactivity. 
Tens of thousands of residents were evacuated from an exclusion zone around the plant as workers battled to bring reactors under control. Tepco declared the reactors stable in December 2011. 
Members of the Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent Investigation Commission were appointed to examine the handling of the crisis and make recommendations. 
The investigation included 900 hours of hearings and interviews with more than 1,000 people.  
'Insular attitude'
In the panel's final report, its chairman said a multitude of errors and wilful negligence had left the plant unprepared for the earthquake and tsunami.
"Although triggered by these cataclysmic events, the subsequent accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant cannot be regarded as a natural disaster," it said.  

Continue reading the main story KEY FINDINGS



 Collusion and lack of governance by government, regulators and Tepco
 Insufficient knowledge and training within Tepco
 Lack of preparation on part of government, regulators, Tepco, and prime minister's office to allow adequate response to accident of this scope, including mounting effective evacuation
 Laws and regulations based on stopgap measures in response to previous accidents - need comprehensive review



Fukushima report: Key points

 "It was a profoundly man-made disaster - that could and should have been foreseen and prevented."
After six months of investigation, the panel concluded that the disaster "was the result of collusion between the government, the regulators and Tepco" founded in the failure of regulatory systems.
It said that the situation at the plant worsened in the aftermath of the earthquake because government agencies "did not function correctly", with key roles left ambiguous. 
It also highlighted communication failures between Tepco and the office of then Prime Minister Naoto Kan, whose visit to the site in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake "diverted" staff. 
The report said regulators should "go through an essential transformation process" to ensure nuclear safety in Japan.
"Japan's regulators need to shed the insular attitude of ignoring international safety standards and transform themselves into a globally trusted entity," it said.

Continue reading the main story Fukushima disaster



 Reactor cooling systems damaged after 11 March earthquake and tsunami 
 Explosions occurred on 12-15 March at four reactors after gas build-up 
 Tepco engineers injected seawater into reactors for cooling 
 Contaminated waste-water leaked on several occasions 
 Meltdowns later confirmed at three reactors
 Tepco declared 'cold shutdown' - meaning reactors were stable - in December 2011



Fukushima versus Chernobyl?
Loss and recovery in numbers

 The report made several recommendations including: 

 Permanent parliamentary monitoring of the nuclear regulatory body
 Reforming the crisis management system, with more government responsibility for public welfare
 Reforming nuclear energy laws to meet global safety standards
 Monitoring nuclear operators and developing a system for independent investigative bodies
 All of Japan's nuclear plants were shut down in the wake of the disaster. But on Sunday the first reactor was restarted in the town of Ohi in Fukui prefecture.
The restart sparked large protests in Tokyo but Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda urged support for the move, saying a return to nuclear power was essential for the economy.
The government is continuing to assess whether other nuclear plants are safe to be restarted. 

 



More on This Story


Japan quake
	      



Analysis



Fukushima report: Key points




Fukushima glimpse




How plant was stabilised




What went wrong?




Protest as reactor restarts







Nuclear Fears



Nuclear industry scuppered?




Cruise finds Fukushima pollution




Q&A: Health effects of radiation




Fukushima v Chernobyl







On the ground



Images of then and now




Grief of survivors




Loss and recovery in numbers




Signs and stories of hope







Video Reports



Inside crippled Fukushima plant Watch




Inside meltdown reactor Watch











From other news sites


Bangkok Post*  Fukushima 'man-made' disaster 26 mins ago


Reuters UK  UPDATE 2-Japan's atomic disaster caused by "collusion" - panel report 2 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Japan's atomic disaster caused by "collusion" : panel 2 hrs ago


Bangladesh Daily Star  Fukushima nuclear disaster 'man-made' 6 hrs ago


East African Standard  Japan nuclear crisis 'man-made' 7 hrs ago


About these results


* May require registration or subscription





Related Internet links


Official Fukushima report



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 248       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 148.  Wilem  5th July 2012 - 15:43   @132. AqualungCumbria Plutonium has received a 'bad rap' in the press, and it's legend as a terrible poison lives on.  See http://atomicinsights.com/1995/05/how-deadly-plutonium.html for actual information on the deaths due to plutonium exposure over time.  The report at http://www.ead.anl.gov/pub/doc/plutonium.pdf also attempts to address the hazards of plutonium.  But it's a good bogeyman...    Report this comment (Comment number 148) Link to this (Comment number 148)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 147.  Peter_Sym  5th July 2012 - 15:42   How is #141 an editors pick? If the reactor at Fukishima was built below sea level the whole building would have flooded when the wave passed over it. Plus how do you get rid of the warm used cooling water if all the pumps are out? Gravity upwards to the sea? Only if you're Pol-PotA power plant higher than sea level with a big header tank or water tower is MAYBE a slightly better plan.....    Report this comment (Comment number 147) Link to this (Comment number 147)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 146.  Ralphonzo Dinner-Jacket  5th July 2012 - 15:41   Building new power statioins does nothing to address energy security, which depends entirely on fuel supply. Unless those new power stations are renewable.    Report this comment (Comment number 146) Link to this (Comment number 146)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 145.  coram-populo-2010  5th July 2012 - 15:40   In the real world, our UK government must stop prevaricating and get on with building new power stations for UK energy security - new nuclear power station builds are a priority to stop our increasing dependence in imported carbon-based energy that our governments ignore.UK does rely on secure electricity supplies to run everything.  The sooner politicians, of all hues, admit that the better    Report this comment (Comment number 145) Link to this (Comment number 145)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 144.  Yoda  5th July 2012 - 15:35   136. ThankyouandGoodbye Gas could definitely offer be up there along with a few others.  Algeria has oodles of the stuff, if we declare war on them, we'll know why..Shame the Tories and Labour have a nuclear agenda, it's time to try and break that down.  I have a certain understanding of the error risks that engineers must go through - and Japanese are the most efficient at this.    Report this comment (Comment number 144) Link to this (Comment number 144)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 143.  whowrotethis  5th July 2012 - 15:34   The more desperate mankind becomes to sustain its perceived status of existence the more extreme actions it will take. This is exhibited in the collapse of the Western economic model, its health systems and the environment. The further we move away from a model based upon sustainability the more times situations like this will occur and the more extreme will be our response. Insanity.    Report this comment (Comment number 143) Link to this (Comment number 143)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 142.  David Landy  5th July 2012 - 15:32   Wilem, you are assuming the cooling circuits were not damaged beyond repair by the earthquake. A whistleblower from inside the plant reported that the cooling pipes were in bad shape before the disaster, and the earthquake simply shook them apart. That is what really caused the disaster: poor maintenance.    Report this comment (Comment number 142) Link to this (Comment number 142)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 141.  Zorro0009  Comment number 141 is an Editors' Pick 5th July 2012 - 15:29   All nuclear power plants are located adjacent to major bodies of water, yet the engineers continue to design the reactors such that they are above the water level, requiring pumps to cool the reactor core, in an emergency. Shouldn't the designs be modified such that gravity could be used for emergency cooling, by simply opening a valve?    Report this comment (Comment number 141) Link to this (Comment number 141)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 140.  Chorley Lass  5th July 2012 - 15:29   @77 Ralphonzo Dinner-Jacket To suggest that a report which states that the disaster "could and should have been foreseen and prevented" is a whitewash suggests to me and other rationale people that you spend too much time in your dinner jacket drinking and adling your brain!    Report this comment (Comment number 140) Link to this (Comment number 140)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 139.  Peter_Sym  5th July 2012 - 15:29   #132 Do you have a smoke alarm in your home? Thats got a little bit of Am 241 (very similar to plutonium) in it. Keeping that safely contained isn't exactly an engineering miracle. Eat it and you'd be in big trouble. I work with far nastier stuff daily (cancer research scientist) including Chrome 51 and Tritium. Protecting yourself is just basic common sense & a pair of latex gloves.    Report this comment (Comment number 139) Link to this (Comment number 139)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 138.  genie  5th July 2012 - 15:28   @51.Deny NothingErm, when Man "messed" around with sub atomic particles (electrons), it lead to the invention of the computer! (That piece of electronic machinery you typed that comment from).I don't see God reckoning humanity with laptops spontaneously blowing up in peoples faces.    Report this comment (Comment number 138) Link to this (Comment number 138)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 137.  Yoda  5th July 2012 - 15:25   Imagine Cameron or other Tory profiteers getting the unpaid jobless, or the Big society volounteers into the nuclear power stations.  Or at best cost-cutting in the extreme.  If the Japanese with all their engineering brilliance can't so it, what would happen if Call me Dave et al had a go  We've had the wettest summer on record but the private water companies are still moaning about shortages.    Report this comment (Comment number 137) Link to this (Comment number 137)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 136.  ThankyouandGoodbye  5th July 2012 - 15:25   119. Chris888".. It's time to find an alternative."Hi Chris, We have. Gas.  Low carbon CH4, (if that worries you), lots of it, cheap, seismic activity from fracking negligible (equivalent to traffic rumble). What`s not to like?    Report this comment (Comment number 136) Link to this (Comment number 136)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 135.  nrjyuji  5th July 2012 - 15:21   Definitely man-made disaster and No one understand why Nuclear plant can be reactivated. Noda stated that he will take responsibility of the reactivation. However how could he take the responsibility if the disaster happens to the nuclear plant again? No one can take the risk. No one.    Report this comment (Comment number 135) Link to this (Comment number 135)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 134.  Wilem  5th July 2012 - 15:24   Plant operations & design engineers (retired design/construct engineer here) all too often get caught up in details & do not look 'outside the box' for solutions.  That 24 hours were wasted in not getting a fire truck or even a concrete pump truck to the site to provide emergency cooling is a huge disappointment to me as an engineer.  4-8 hours should have been sufficient to avoid the release.    Report this comment (Comment number 134) Link to this (Comment number 134)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 133.  Bootgates  5th July 2012 - 15:23   So the outcome is something we already know & the Japanese are reluctant to do is:....wait for it....wait for it........................................ALWAYS question those in authority or seemingly in the know! ;)    Report this comment (Comment number 133) Link to this (Comment number 133)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 132.  AqualungCumbria  5th July 2012 - 15:22   109.Peter_Sym whilst what you are saying is true if plutonium and many other alpha emitters get inside your protective skin it is highly toxic and extremely difficult/imposssible to remove they dont wear windscale suits for fun.All radioactivity in the wrong place has the ability to do harm, our job is to keep it in the right places.    Report this comment (Comment number 132) Link to this (Comment number 132)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 131.  umacf24  5th July 2012 - 15:21   39.Bill -- There's no prospect of uranium running out. Not that it would matter -- we should move to breeding fuel from thorium or the less active parts of uranium, both hundreds of times more common than the uranium component we use now. Even though we don't need the fuel, we should do it to consume what is otherwise a long-lived waste.    Report this comment (Comment number 131) Link to this (Comment number 131)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 130.  Nuke Man  5th July 2012 - 15:11   All these years the Japanese nuclear industry was closed to outside suppliers. They refused to buy updated equipment based on lessones learned elsewhere, so I am not suprised they are paying a steep price.    Report this comment (Comment number 130) Link to this (Comment number 130)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 129.  Peter_Sym  5th July 2012 - 15:19   #121 Have you never seen this video?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=25vlt7swhCMIts an F4 flying into a nuclear reactor wall at 500mph. Doesn't even chip the surface. An airliner hitting the pentagon (a 1930's office block) barely penetrated the outer wall. Even the Tsunami didn't damage the reactor vessel at Fukishima.#128 not 15,000 more like 100,000. Chernobyl deaths probably under 100.    Report this comment (Comment number 129) Link to this (Comment number 129)         Page 6 of 13    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 ... 13 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Asia stories
RSS




Cameron hosts Afghanistan talks

UK PM David Cameron hosts the Afghan and Pakistani presidents to discuss regional co-operation ahead of Nato's Afghan withdrawal in 2014.



South Korea-US naval drills begin




Cambodia's King Sihanouk cremated












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Charges over US sniper's murder


Cameron hosts Afghanistan talks









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Charges over US sniper's murder



5: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



6: Can testosterone make you live longer?



7: Chris Huhne to resign as an MP



8: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



9: French target Mali rebel bases



10: Where did Richard III go wrong?



Video/Audio




1: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



2: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



3: One-minute World News Watch



4: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



5: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



6: 'Richard III' DNA results revealed Watch



7: Man charged with killing American Sniper writer Watch



8: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch



9: Dutroux asks for early release Watch



10: Following Algeria's team on a scooter Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





