BBC News - Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















21 November 2011
Last updated at 02:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?
 




Continue reading the main story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy


Rebel kaleidoscope


UN under fire


Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels


'Why we defected'



 As the Democratic Republic of Congo prepares for just its second general elections in four decades on 28 November, Congolese affairs analyst Theodore Trefon considers whether this failed state, still recovering from a war which led to an estimated four million deaths, can ever be rebuilt.
People in the Democratic Republic of Congo expect very little from the state, government or civil servants.
In fact, ordinary Congolese often repeat expressions like "the state is dying but not yet dead" or "the state is ever present but completely useless".
It seems they also expect little from the upcoming elections and there can be little argument that DR Congo is indeed a failed state.
Ordinary citizens are poor, hungry and under-informed.
The government is unable to provide decent education or health services.
The country - two-thirds of the size of western Europe - is a battleground.
The citizens of DR Congo pray to be delivered from the brutal militias that still control parts of the eastern provinces, where rape has become so commonplace that one senior UN official called the country "the rape capital of the world".
Continue reading the main story










Inside DR Congo




SIZE
REBELS
MINERAL WEALTH
TRANSPORT
POPULATION
DATA





The Democratic Republic of Congo covers 2,344,858 square km of land in the centre of Africa, making it the 12th largest country in the world.





Eastern DR Congo is awash with a variety of different rebel groups – some have come from neighbouring countries, while others have formed as self-defence groups. Many are taking advantage of the lack of a strong state to seize control of the area's mineral riches.



DR Congo has abundant mineral wealth. It has more than 70% of the world's coltan, used to make vital components of mobile phones, 30% of the planet's diamond reserves and vast deposits of cobalt, copper and bauxite. This wealth however has attracted looters and fuelled the country's civil war.



Despite the country's size, transport infrastructure is very poor. Of 153,497km of roads, only 2,794km are paved. There are around 4,000 km of railways but much is narrow-gauge track and in poor condition. Waterways are vital to transport goods but journeys can take months to complete. Overcrowded boats frequently capsize, while DR Congo has more plane crashes than any other country.



With an estimated population of 71 million, DR Congo is the fourth most populous country in Africa. Some 35% of the population live in cities and the capital Kinshasa is by far the largest, with more than 8 million inhabitants. DR Congo has around 200 ethnic identities with the majority of people belonging to the Kongo, Luba and Mongo groups.



Given its size and resources DR Congo should be a prosperous country, but years of war, corruption and economic mismanagement have left it desperately poor. In 2011 it lags far behind in many key development indicators, with average life expectancy increasing by only 2 years since 1980, after a period when it actually fell during the mid 1990s.



Predators
I asked a university colleague if he thought things could get worse.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Well, there was an eclipse that day”
End Quote
Excuse for missing a meeting

 Andrew Harding: Eastern DR Congo is my favourite place in Africa

 "When you are rock bottom, you can still dig deeper," was his response.
Public administration is in shambles. Civil servants have mutated into predators. 
Ferdinand Munguna is a retired railway worker in Lubumbashi, the mineral capital of DR Congo in the south of the country.
He has to bribe the man working in the pension office who requires "motivation" before processing the old man's file. Mr Munguna complains that his pension is "hardly enough to buy soap".
Starting a business in DR Congo takes 65 days compared to the sub-Saharan African average of 40 days. In neighbouring Rwanda it takes three days. 
And guess which country has one of the worst air safety records worldwide? 
The prestigious Foreign Policy magazine's Failed States Index puts DR Congo in the critically failed category. Only Somalia, Chad and Sudan (when it included South Sudan) have worse rankings.
The recently released UNDP report on human development indicators put the former Belgian colony at the bottom of the 187 countries it surveyed.


DR Congo, Africa's second largest country, has a literacy rate of 67%

On the political front, President Joseph Kabila has shown much more interest in regime consolidation than implementing his five-point development agenda - which most Congolese consider more as a political slogan than a development initiative.
When criticised, Mr Kabila's henchmen resort to the ultimate force of dissuasion.
Take Zoe Kabila, the president's brother, who ordered his Republican Guard escort to beat up two traffic officers because they did not give his 4X4 priority. 
Usually immune to the brutality of the security forces, even people in Kinshasa were shocked by this incident at a busy downtown intersection.
Numerous cases of journalist beatings and killings have also been reported.
Floribert Chebeya, a highly respected human rights activist was murdered, allegedly by members of the president's inner circle.
Unfair Congo bashing
Poor leadership is a major problem for DR Congo.

Continue reading the main story When there's no state...


In the absence of a functioning state or similar, even the best-intended projects can have perverse side effects if they are carried out without comprehensive feasibility studies or efforts to understand local culture and practices.
An international medical NGO provided mosquito nets to a poor village in the Upemba region of Katanga. Many lakeside villages in the mineral-rich province suffer from a high rate of malaria-induced child mortality. Sleeping inside these nets is the best way to avoid mosquito bites and malaria. But this laudable action created a human and ecological catastrophe.
As the mosquito nets were free and abundant, fisherman used them as fishing nets. Given their extremely fine mesh, not only were fish removed from the lake but all other forms of micro-fauna and micro-flora too. The lake gradually became covered with a black scum. Villagers lost their sources of livelihood and food supply.
It took a Belgian priest two years to get the villagers, who believed they had been cursed, to realise what had happened and before the lake was able to regenerate.

 There are few figures on the political landscape with vision, leaders able to bring an end to corrupt government, reduce poverty, solve the country's security problems or improve the well-being of ordinary people.
DR Congo bashing has become a mantra amongst academics, humanitarian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and policy makers.
But I think that this is unfair.
While it is important to maintain pressure on Kinshasa's unabashedly corrupt political establishment, we also have to consider the country's troubled past. 
Few societies have accumulated so many woes.
Those old enough to remember say the whip and chain is what they associate most with Belgian colonialism.
Others however are nostalgic and wish for the Belgians to return to solve the country's problems.
Cold War policies facilitated the maintenance of the brutal dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC Afrique's Arthur Malu Malu Mushi explains the key issues as DR  Congo chooses a new president



 He ruled what was then named Zaire for 32 years, supported by the West because of Cold War strategic interests.
Two wars - the liberation war that toppled Mobutu and "Africa's first world war", from 1997-2002 - are overwhelming obstacles to development, state-building and well-being. 
DR Congo is also victim to what is commonly referred to as "the resource curse". The central government cannot control borders with its nine neighbours.
Much of DR Congo's coltan, a mineral used in computers and mobiles, is illegally exported through Rwanda. Precious tropical hardwoods are siphoned off through Uganda. 
Surreal
DR Congo's financial and technical partners - the so called "international community" - are also to blame. 
They have no master plan for reform. They do not share a common vision and often implement contradictory programmes.
Belgium supported the idea of decentralisation arguing that it could bring government accountability down to the grassroots level. The World Bank blocked the process.


DR Congo's road to development is paved with good intentions

Bank experts have some control of the treasury in Kinshasa but they have absolutely no idea of how resources in the provinces are managed.
Data collection is a surreal concept in DR Congo - many offices do not have electricity, let alone computers.
Absence of national sovereignty is another hallmark of a failed state. 
DR Congo is a country under international trusteeship. Important decisions are taken by World Bank technocrats, UN officials and increasingly by international NGOs.
When the electoral campaign officially opened last month, candidates travelled to Europe and the US to garner support.
The UN mission, Monusco, is playing a key logistical role in the elections by transporting ballot boxes across the vast nation. People would not be able to vote without this kind of support.
Whatever accountability there is in DR Congo is directed towards international backers, not the Congolese people. 
Congolese authorities have abdicated from the development agenda.
Road rehabilitation and bridge building have been delegated to the World Bank and Belgian Technical Cooperation.
Monusco is supposed to look after the security sector. The World Health Organization and medical NGOs try to deal with the public health challenges.
The UK is involved in reinforcing governance programmes, while churches provide primary education. 
The state is an absentee landlord - outside partners do its work.
Dynamic survivors
So DR Congo is on an artificial life-support system. But replacing the state, or acting on its behalf, is not viable in the long-term. It undermines state-building momentum.

Continue reading the main story DR Congo in figures



 Population: 70 million
 UN human development index: Bottom of 187 countries surveyed
 Life expectancy: 48 years 
 Has 70% of the globe's coltan - vital for mobile phones
 Average annual income: $300
 With 13% of the world's hydropower potential, its network of rivers could power much of Africa
 Just 9% of the population has access to electricity
 Sources: Estimated figures from the UN and World Bank

 DR Congo and its partners are clearly confronted by the tragedy of powerlessness.
The system is such that when things do not work, go wrong or do not move forward, it is never really anyone's fault.
There are plenty of good excuses. A colleague told me when asked why he did not show up for an appointment: "Well, there was an eclipse that day."
While DR Congo is clearly a failed state, Congolese society has not failed.
On the contrary it is strong, vibrant, dynamic, tolerant and generous. People have a sense of taking charge of their own destinies. 
Women form rotating credit systems to compensate for the absence of an accessible banking system.
Farmers band together to hire a lorry to get their cassava or charcoal from the central city of Kikwit to market in Kinshasa. 
Bebe, who lives in the Paris suburb of Griney, sends money home to Kasai via Western Union. Some months it contributes to school fees, others it pays for medicines for her ailing mother-in-law.
Her father will spend some of it on Primus, the beer of choice in Kinshasa. 
"Elikia" means hope in Lingala and there is much of it throughout the country.
Hopes for positive change will come from the people, not from the Congolese political establishment, and certainly not from outside interventions.
Theodore Trefon is senior researcher at the Royal Museum for Central Africa and author of the blog Congo Masquerade: The political culture of aid inefficiency and reform failure.
On 25 November, the BBC World Service is broadcasting a special one-hour debate in front of a Kinshasa audience: Is DR Congo a failed state? Tune in at 1900 GMT.

 



More on This Story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy
	      


Goma crisis



Rebel kaleidoscope

Living in the shadow of Congo's armed groups




UN under fire




Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels




'Why we defected'




 Rebel tactics




How rebels make their money




Heaven or hell?




Q&A: DR Congo conflict







Troubled election



No end to the tears




Kabila victory questioned







Background



Explore the depths of DR Congo




Profile: Joseph Kabila




No trains today




Can ICC bring peace?




Rape dilemma




DR Congo: Facts, figures and dates









Related Internet links


Royal Museum for Central Africa


Congo Masquerade blog


Election commission 


UN stabilisation mission 


International Crisis Group


Centre Resolution Conflicts


Joseph Kabila's campaign website


Etienne Tshisekedi's party


Vital Kamerhe's website


Francois Joseph Mobutu's website



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 228       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 88.  David Horton  21st November 2011 - 12:02   81.PJohnston "Now that is something you CAN pin on the west- the syphoning off of workers like Bebe that should be in DRCongo generating local wealth"-How is this the West's fault?And what is your solution?Forced repatriation???Jeez, I thought I was right wing.Although, on reflection, a VERY heavy tax on this sort of money leaving the UK is an EXCELLENT idea.    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 87.  David  21st November 2011 - 12:02   #82 – idiot of the day. The people of Congo aren’t the only ones badly informed. You see no moral imperative but how about self interest? Aid & investment increase our security by minimising failed states e.g. Afghanistan & economic migration. Investment increases their prosperity and ours. People who say the West are wholly to blame are wrong but neither are we devoid of any responsibility.    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 86.  Richard Gledhill  21st November 2011 - 12:00   No they can't recover, not when the disgusting vulture economists are STILL buying up the debts of the DRC for relatively tiny amounts then suing companies whom trade with them for billions thus the DRC's economy can never recover. As reported by BBC news but a few days ago.    Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 85.  Polly8122  21st November 2011 - 12:00   @82 David Horton Stating a few facts is not really self-flagellating nonsense - 3rd world countries have been pinned into debt by their relationships with our banks who lent money to lunatics. That's not the fault of those suffering today.Gave up our empires - or they kicked us out? It was a bit of both.Our culpability? Depends how you look at it.    Report this comment (Comment number 85) Link to this (Comment number 85)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 84.  newsaholic_professor  21st November 2011 - 12:00   Thanks to the BBC for this informative, if shocking, article. Much better than the dumbed-down drivel that our once-great public-service broadcaster normally pumps out these days.    Report this comment (Comment number 84) Link to this (Comment number 84)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 83.  Cosmologic  21st November 2011 - 12:00   27.ulunnirra_121To blame Belgium is like blaming the parents of a 50 year old man for his actions: some cause, but grow up. Plus (mehmetsavas) Belgium no longer even accepts let alone pillages diamonds from DRC##Belgium did their bit earlier on when over 10 MILLION natives were murdered or worked to death to satisfy king Leopold’s quest for rubber.Foundations thus laid for later catastrophes    Report this comment (Comment number 83) Link to this (Comment number 83)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 82.  David Horton  21st November 2011 - 11:49   Ah give it a restAll this self-flagellating nonsense about it being the fault of the rapacious west.Look, the western nations gave up their empires, which I presume all you liberals think was laudible?So we gave the third world its independence.Our culpability ends there and we should cease ALL aid and investment until countries show signs of being able to handle independence    Report this comment (Comment number 82) Link to this (Comment number 82)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 81.  PJohnston  21st November 2011 - 11:46   "..Bebe, who lives in the Paris suburb of Griney, sends money home to Kasai via Western Union.."Now that is something you CAN pin on the west- the syphoning off of workers like Bebe that should be in DRCongo generating local wealth, instead of working for peanuts in France or working in the NHS etc.    Report this comment (Comment number 81) Link to this (Comment number 81)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 80.  4_Better  Comment number 80 is an Editors' Pick 21st November 2011 - 11:43   Of course, DR Congo will recover - and education is the key! I feel that people from outside should stop milking the country of its riches and instead encourage free education for all.    Report this comment (Comment number 80) Link to this (Comment number 80)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 79.  Dave  21st November 2011 - 11:41   78.honestgradgrind Failed State.It always has been since the Belgians left in 1959/1960It was a failed state long before then!    Report this comment (Comment number 79) Link to this (Comment number 79)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 78.  C Turner  21st November 2011 - 11:33   Failed State.It always has been since the Belgians left in 1959/1960.    Report this comment (Comment number 78) Link to this (Comment number 78)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 77.  bankskank  21st November 2011 - 11:31   "More than half of the annual state budget comes from the West (UK's largest bilateral donor)"Clearly "The West" is the one raping and pillaging. Yes mining companies have made profit at the expense of the Congolese but to blame all of Africa's problems on colonization is ridiculous! You can't force prosperity on people they have to create it themselves. Or much easier, blame everyone else.    Report this comment (Comment number 77) Link to this (Comment number 77)     Comment number 76.  Africaisgreat  21st November 2011 - 11:29    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 76) Link to this (Comment number 76)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 75.  A Lester  21st November 2011 - 11:27   70.Both. It's not just the ones at the top who are corrupt.The biggest negative influence the west has today is in the neverending supply of aid that does nothing except generate a dependency culture. A perfect example of this is in Ethiopia and Somalia where the population has quadrupled since the 80s due to aid despite the land clearly not being able to support it. Western guilt is a plague    Report this comment (Comment number 75) Link to this (Comment number 75)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 74.  PCPics  21st November 2011 - 11:26   I rode a motorcycle solo across the DRC three years ago (northern route from Bangui in the CAR to Arua in Uganda, via Gemena, Lisala, Buta, Isiro etc.) and experienced nothing but a welcoming from all people I met on the way. Officials asked for money politely - as they had not recieved their pay for months. This country and it's people truly inspire me. www.paul-close.com/Snakebox_web/index.html    Report this comment (Comment number 74) Link to this (Comment number 74)     Comment number 73.  charité  21st November 2011 - 11:23    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 73) Link to this (Comment number 73)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 72.  Ramistry  21st November 2011 - 11:14   The mess suits non African predators who can get their hands on the minerals without scrutiny.    Report this comment (Comment number 72) Link to this (Comment number 72)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 71.  Tim Deegan  21st November 2011 - 11:12   Western corporations are a major part of problem. Corporate law means they are amoral and answer only to 2 forces- 1)shareholders 2)buyers of their product. This I believe is how the average western joe could help. Moaning about the presumed collection-dish coming round is not helpful, you'd be quite right to avoid it anyway if corruption is that bad which it clearly is.    Report this comment (Comment number 71) Link to this (Comment number 71)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 70.  Alex_the_G  21st November 2011 - 11:11   Which Africans require the blame, the handful of corrupt leader being protected by vested interests through money and weapons? Or the millions of people who have been denied eduacation and other basic public services by their corrupt leaders at the request of their paymasters?If Ivory Coast has a war, cocoa prices go up. Bit short on the hedge fund, let me ring that leader up...    Report this comment (Comment number 70) Link to this (Comment number 70)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 69.  Cosmologic  21st November 2011 - 11:08   27.ulunnirra_121To blame Belgium is like blaming the parents of a 50 year old man for his actions: some cause, but grow up. Plus (mehmetsavas) Belgium no longer even accepts let alone pillages diamonds from DRC#Read genocide scholar Adam Jones comments of king Leopold’s Congo butcheries "The result was one of the most brutal and all-encompassing corvée institutions the world has known . . ."    Report this comment (Comment number 69) Link to this (Comment number 69)         Page 8 of 12    Newer 1 ... 6 7 8 9 10 ... 12 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Protesters confront Egyptian PM




Hosts South Africa knocked out












Top stories



France vows to help rebuild Mali


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


Netanyahu asked to form coalition


French MPs endorse gay marriage









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



4: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



5: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



6: The history of the future in 10 images



7: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: French MPs endorse gay marriage



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



4: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





