BBC News - Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















21 November 2011
Last updated at 02:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?
 




Continue reading the main story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy


Rebel kaleidoscope


UN under fire


Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels


'Why we defected'



 As the Democratic Republic of Congo prepares for just its second general elections in four decades on 28 November, Congolese affairs analyst Theodore Trefon considers whether this failed state, still recovering from a war which led to an estimated four million deaths, can ever be rebuilt.
People in the Democratic Republic of Congo expect very little from the state, government or civil servants.
In fact, ordinary Congolese often repeat expressions like "the state is dying but not yet dead" or "the state is ever present but completely useless".
It seems they also expect little from the upcoming elections and there can be little argument that DR Congo is indeed a failed state.
Ordinary citizens are poor, hungry and under-informed.
The government is unable to provide decent education or health services.
The country - two-thirds of the size of western Europe - is a battleground.
The citizens of DR Congo pray to be delivered from the brutal militias that still control parts of the eastern provinces, where rape has become so commonplace that one senior UN official called the country "the rape capital of the world".
Continue reading the main story










Inside DR Congo




SIZE
REBELS
MINERAL WEALTH
TRANSPORT
POPULATION
DATA





The Democratic Republic of Congo covers 2,344,858 square km of land in the centre of Africa, making it the 12th largest country in the world.





Eastern DR Congo is awash with a variety of different rebel groups – some have come from neighbouring countries, while others have formed as self-defence groups. Many are taking advantage of the lack of a strong state to seize control of the area's mineral riches.



DR Congo has abundant mineral wealth. It has more than 70% of the world's coltan, used to make vital components of mobile phones, 30% of the planet's diamond reserves and vast deposits of cobalt, copper and bauxite. This wealth however has attracted looters and fuelled the country's civil war.



Despite the country's size, transport infrastructure is very poor. Of 153,497km of roads, only 2,794km are paved. There are around 4,000 km of railways but much is narrow-gauge track and in poor condition. Waterways are vital to transport goods but journeys can take months to complete. Overcrowded boats frequently capsize, while DR Congo has more plane crashes than any other country.



With an estimated population of 71 million, DR Congo is the fourth most populous country in Africa. Some 35% of the population live in cities and the capital Kinshasa is by far the largest, with more than 8 million inhabitants. DR Congo has around 200 ethnic identities with the majority of people belonging to the Kongo, Luba and Mongo groups.



Given its size and resources DR Congo should be a prosperous country, but years of war, corruption and economic mismanagement have left it desperately poor. In 2011 it lags far behind in many key development indicators, with average life expectancy increasing by only 2 years since 1980, after a period when it actually fell during the mid 1990s.



Predators
I asked a university colleague if he thought things could get worse.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Well, there was an eclipse that day”
End Quote
Excuse for missing a meeting

 Andrew Harding: Eastern DR Congo is my favourite place in Africa

 "When you are rock bottom, you can still dig deeper," was his response.
Public administration is in shambles. Civil servants have mutated into predators. 
Ferdinand Munguna is a retired railway worker in Lubumbashi, the mineral capital of DR Congo in the south of the country.
He has to bribe the man working in the pension office who requires "motivation" before processing the old man's file. Mr Munguna complains that his pension is "hardly enough to buy soap".
Starting a business in DR Congo takes 65 days compared to the sub-Saharan African average of 40 days. In neighbouring Rwanda it takes three days. 
And guess which country has one of the worst air safety records worldwide? 
The prestigious Foreign Policy magazine's Failed States Index puts DR Congo in the critically failed category. Only Somalia, Chad and Sudan (when it included South Sudan) have worse rankings.
The recently released UNDP report on human development indicators put the former Belgian colony at the bottom of the 187 countries it surveyed.


DR Congo, Africa's second largest country, has a literacy rate of 67%

On the political front, President Joseph Kabila has shown much more interest in regime consolidation than implementing his five-point development agenda - which most Congolese consider more as a political slogan than a development initiative.
When criticised, Mr Kabila's henchmen resort to the ultimate force of dissuasion.
Take Zoe Kabila, the president's brother, who ordered his Republican Guard escort to beat up two traffic officers because they did not give his 4X4 priority. 
Usually immune to the brutality of the security forces, even people in Kinshasa were shocked by this incident at a busy downtown intersection.
Numerous cases of journalist beatings and killings have also been reported.
Floribert Chebeya, a highly respected human rights activist was murdered, allegedly by members of the president's inner circle.
Unfair Congo bashing
Poor leadership is a major problem for DR Congo.

Continue reading the main story When there's no state...


In the absence of a functioning state or similar, even the best-intended projects can have perverse side effects if they are carried out without comprehensive feasibility studies or efforts to understand local culture and practices.
An international medical NGO provided mosquito nets to a poor village in the Upemba region of Katanga. Many lakeside villages in the mineral-rich province suffer from a high rate of malaria-induced child mortality. Sleeping inside these nets is the best way to avoid mosquito bites and malaria. But this laudable action created a human and ecological catastrophe.
As the mosquito nets were free and abundant, fisherman used them as fishing nets. Given their extremely fine mesh, not only were fish removed from the lake but all other forms of micro-fauna and micro-flora too. The lake gradually became covered with a black scum. Villagers lost their sources of livelihood and food supply.
It took a Belgian priest two years to get the villagers, who believed they had been cursed, to realise what had happened and before the lake was able to regenerate.

 There are few figures on the political landscape with vision, leaders able to bring an end to corrupt government, reduce poverty, solve the country's security problems or improve the well-being of ordinary people.
DR Congo bashing has become a mantra amongst academics, humanitarian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and policy makers.
But I think that this is unfair.
While it is important to maintain pressure on Kinshasa's unabashedly corrupt political establishment, we also have to consider the country's troubled past. 
Few societies have accumulated so many woes.
Those old enough to remember say the whip and chain is what they associate most with Belgian colonialism.
Others however are nostalgic and wish for the Belgians to return to solve the country's problems.
Cold War policies facilitated the maintenance of the brutal dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC Afrique's Arthur Malu Malu Mushi explains the key issues as DR  Congo chooses a new president



 He ruled what was then named Zaire for 32 years, supported by the West because of Cold War strategic interests.
Two wars - the liberation war that toppled Mobutu and "Africa's first world war", from 1997-2002 - are overwhelming obstacles to development, state-building and well-being. 
DR Congo is also victim to what is commonly referred to as "the resource curse". The central government cannot control borders with its nine neighbours.
Much of DR Congo's coltan, a mineral used in computers and mobiles, is illegally exported through Rwanda. Precious tropical hardwoods are siphoned off through Uganda. 
Surreal
DR Congo's financial and technical partners - the so called "international community" - are also to blame. 
They have no master plan for reform. They do not share a common vision and often implement contradictory programmes.
Belgium supported the idea of decentralisation arguing that it could bring government accountability down to the grassroots level. The World Bank blocked the process.


DR Congo's road to development is paved with good intentions

Bank experts have some control of the treasury in Kinshasa but they have absolutely no idea of how resources in the provinces are managed.
Data collection is a surreal concept in DR Congo - many offices do not have electricity, let alone computers.
Absence of national sovereignty is another hallmark of a failed state. 
DR Congo is a country under international trusteeship. Important decisions are taken by World Bank technocrats, UN officials and increasingly by international NGOs.
When the electoral campaign officially opened last month, candidates travelled to Europe and the US to garner support.
The UN mission, Monusco, is playing a key logistical role in the elections by transporting ballot boxes across the vast nation. People would not be able to vote without this kind of support.
Whatever accountability there is in DR Congo is directed towards international backers, not the Congolese people. 
Congolese authorities have abdicated from the development agenda.
Road rehabilitation and bridge building have been delegated to the World Bank and Belgian Technical Cooperation.
Monusco is supposed to look after the security sector. The World Health Organization and medical NGOs try to deal with the public health challenges.
The UK is involved in reinforcing governance programmes, while churches provide primary education. 
The state is an absentee landlord - outside partners do its work.
Dynamic survivors
So DR Congo is on an artificial life-support system. But replacing the state, or acting on its behalf, is not viable in the long-term. It undermines state-building momentum.

Continue reading the main story DR Congo in figures



 Population: 70 million
 UN human development index: Bottom of 187 countries surveyed
 Life expectancy: 48 years 
 Has 70% of the globe's coltan - vital for mobile phones
 Average annual income: $300
 With 13% of the world's hydropower potential, its network of rivers could power much of Africa
 Just 9% of the population has access to electricity
 Sources: Estimated figures from the UN and World Bank

 DR Congo and its partners are clearly confronted by the tragedy of powerlessness.
The system is such that when things do not work, go wrong or do not move forward, it is never really anyone's fault.
There are plenty of good excuses. A colleague told me when asked why he did not show up for an appointment: "Well, there was an eclipse that day."
While DR Congo is clearly a failed state, Congolese society has not failed.
On the contrary it is strong, vibrant, dynamic, tolerant and generous. People have a sense of taking charge of their own destinies. 
Women form rotating credit systems to compensate for the absence of an accessible banking system.
Farmers band together to hire a lorry to get their cassava or charcoal from the central city of Kikwit to market in Kinshasa. 
Bebe, who lives in the Paris suburb of Griney, sends money home to Kasai via Western Union. Some months it contributes to school fees, others it pays for medicines for her ailing mother-in-law.
Her father will spend some of it on Primus, the beer of choice in Kinshasa. 
"Elikia" means hope in Lingala and there is much of it throughout the country.
Hopes for positive change will come from the people, not from the Congolese political establishment, and certainly not from outside interventions.
Theodore Trefon is senior researcher at the Royal Museum for Central Africa and author of the blog Congo Masquerade: The political culture of aid inefficiency and reform failure.
On 25 November, the BBC World Service is broadcasting a special one-hour debate in front of a Kinshasa audience: Is DR Congo a failed state? Tune in at 1900 GMT.

 



More on This Story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy
	      


Goma crisis



Rebel kaleidoscope

Living in the shadow of Congo's armed groups




UN under fire




Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels




'Why we defected'




 Rebel tactics




How rebels make their money




Heaven or hell?




Q&A: DR Congo conflict







Troubled election



No end to the tears




Kabila victory questioned







Background



Explore the depths of DR Congo




Profile: Joseph Kabila




No trains today




Can ICC bring peace?




Rape dilemma




DR Congo: Facts, figures and dates









Related Internet links


Royal Museum for Central Africa


Congo Masquerade blog


Election commission 


UN stabilisation mission 


International Crisis Group


Centre Resolution Conflicts


Joseph Kabila's campaign website


Etienne Tshisekedi's party


Vital Kamerhe's website


Francois Joseph Mobutu's website



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 228       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +35      rate this     +35   Comment number 68.  RedGrandslam  Comment number 68 is an Editors' Pick 21st November 2011 - 11:04   Colonialism is part of the reality of history/development of man. To continue to blame the ills of the developing world on a relative shortlived period in human history is pointless. That's just how it was. Man was cruel, ruthless, greedy, lived harshly died harshly and lacked empathy. Modern day liberals may feel pain about the injustices of the past but this is how the modern world came to be.    Report this comment (Comment number 68) Link to this (Comment number 68)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 67.  GrandFalconRailroad  21st November 2011 - 11:00   @ 22 - Do you think I was happy to say that? Unless someone steps in and builds the infrastructure then what on earth will be there for African revolutionaries take over? Jungle, desert and scrub wasteland? If these people want revolution then they should do it themselves - 60 years of decolonisation in some cases is no excuse anymore.    Report this comment (Comment number 67) Link to this (Comment number 67)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 66.  Trina  21st November 2011 - 10:58   I sense the 'give generously' season is upon us from the tone of the article.  Doesn't really shine a light to all those 'good intentions' that made absolutely no difference.    Report this comment (Comment number 66) Link to this (Comment number 66)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 65.  A Lester  21st November 2011 - 10:50   Alex_the_GThere may be some conglomerates who are engaged in corruption. Who are they engaging in this corruption with? That's it, the leaders of the country themselves. Corruption is endemic in all levels of society in Africa. Not one issue is to blame for all their problems but to absolve Africans from any blame for their problems is equally naive.    Report this comment (Comment number 65) Link to this (Comment number 65)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 64.  boils  21st November 2011 - 10:47   There's no doubt Congo's issues are linked to exploitation and resources, The perpetrators change but the reasons are consistent.    Report this comment (Comment number 64) Link to this (Comment number 64)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 63.  Alex_the_G  21st November 2011 - 10:44   @60. "You can imagine my surprise....""....When I found out this was true. To be frank, I don't really care. I've only ever remembered these Africans fighting amongst each other. I was never around before colonialism so don't know how they were then, but they can't be much different now? Apart from the fact they are worth £bn's in today's economy. As far as I know, we never made a penny..."    Report this comment (Comment number 63) Link to this (Comment number 63)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 62.  Alan Walker  21st November 2011 - 10:39   I was always afraid to go to Africa after reading Congo as a kid    Report this comment (Comment number 62) Link to this (Comment number 62)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 61.  farushi  21st November 2011 - 10:33   While this article makes a good job at describing the total failure that resulted from Congo's successive rulers, it fails to understand that an earthquake is taking place with Etienne Tshisekedi to whom the Congolese people now identify. More than thirty years of non violent political struggle have made him known as the "Mandela du Congo".He drives tremendous crowds everywhere he goes !    Report this comment (Comment number 61) Link to this (Comment number 61)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 60.  A Lester  21st November 2011 - 10:33   Ah I see the article spends a good deal of time effectively blaming the west. You can imagine my surprise...    Report this comment (Comment number 60) Link to this (Comment number 60)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 59.  PaulattheRocks  21st November 2011 - 10:32   Anyone going to central Africa should read Conrad's heart of Darkness, or alternatively the story of King Leopold, this will give them the background of mistrust and unlawfulness engendered a hundred years ago by foreigners with the locals with constant pillage and slavery. Previously the Congolese had a perfectly well functioning peaceable village society. Physician heal thyself.    Report this comment (Comment number 59) Link to this (Comment number 59)                 rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 58.  Snowy  21st November 2011 - 10:29   Cleary European colonialism had a significant impact on all African states, but the root of all Africa’s issues?Many other former colonial countries outside of Africa, had borders created by the colonialists, slavery, gained independence +- 50 years ago, have mineral wealth and all doing pretty well.Its not 'all colonialisms fault’, the failed stated thing is clearly an African condition.    Report this comment (Comment number 58) Link to this (Comment number 58)     Comment number 57.  Removed  21st November 2011 - 10:28    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 57) Link to this (Comment number 57)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 56.  Alex_the_G  21st November 2011 - 10:25   I can't beleive that people are so naive to think that Western conglomerates have nothing to do with the rampant corruption in Africa.Wars are created over control of resources (oil, diamonds, cobalt, water) and everyone likes a bargain. Do you honestly think that there are no secret deals for valuable resources via Western power brokers?Five words. Libya. Gaddafi. Tony Blair. BP. Oil.    Report this comment (Comment number 56) Link to this (Comment number 56)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 55.  Alan Walker  21st November 2011 - 10:24   Theres too many men, too many peopleMaking too many problemsAnd there's not much love to go aroundCan't you see this is the land of confusionNow this is the world we live inAnd these are the hands we're givenUse them and lets start tryingTo make this a place worth fighting for    Report this comment (Comment number 55) Link to this (Comment number 55)                 rate this     +11      rate this     +11   Comment number 54.  Lemog  21st November 2011 - 10:24   Oh, here we go again, some third world country is in a mess, therefore it has to be the wests fault. DR Congo may well have been a colony of some western nation(s) but so have lots of other nations who have become prosperous and reasonably safe places to live. If anyone is to blame it is those corrupt goverments in places like DR Congo that enslave and slaughter their own citizens out of greed    Report this comment (Comment number 54) Link to this (Comment number 54)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 53.  persecuted  21st November 2011 - 10:22   3rd World means exactly that, the worst of all aspects of life. If anything, the former colonies introduced the rule of law. Now countries like DR Congo rule by the law of the gun. So, there is not much hope for the people living there.  And David Cameron? Don't get any ideas about sending British troops there. This is a strictly African problem.    Report this comment (Comment number 53) Link to this (Comment number 53)                 rate this     +25      rate this     +25   Comment number 52.  Capey  21st November 2011 - 10:15   50 years of independence and what do you have - nothing. Stop blaming the west and sort yourselves out. Its a disgrace - how much longer can you blame others for your own failings.    Report this comment (Comment number 52) Link to this (Comment number 52)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 51.  lechaise  21st November 2011 - 10:19   It's sad to see how many "good" countries there really are, once you consider freedom of the press, foreign relations, human development index, political freedom and transparency, education levels, access to what we might call 21st century amenities, you're left with perhaps 10 countries or less, and how many of those are at war, a third? Out of approx 200 states, that's a pretty sorry situation.    Report this comment (Comment number 51) Link to this (Comment number 51)     Comment number 50.  Removed  21st November 2011 - 10:18    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 50) Link to this (Comment number 50)                 rate this     +20      rate this     +20   Comment number 49.  jw  21st November 2011 - 10:17   Elections (even if free-and-fair) don't work in Africa, because everyone votes on tribal lines. If the winners give the losers enough to persuade them to accept the result, everything stays calm. If not, the losers take to the bush and appalling violence follows. This is Africa. Democracy doesn't work here.    Report this comment (Comment number 49) Link to this (Comment number 49)         Page 9 of 12    Newer 1 ... 7 8 9 10 11 ... 12 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Protesters confront Egyptian PM




Hosts South Africa knocked out












Top stories



France vows to help rebuild Mali


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


Netanyahu asked to form coalition


French MPs endorse gay marriage









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



4: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



5: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



6: The history of the future in 10 images



7: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: French MPs endorse gay marriage



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



4: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





