BBC News - Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















21 November 2011
Last updated at 02:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?
 




Continue reading the main story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy


Rebel kaleidoscope


UN under fire


Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels


'Why we defected'



 As the Democratic Republic of Congo prepares for just its second general elections in four decades on 28 November, Congolese affairs analyst Theodore Trefon considers whether this failed state, still recovering from a war which led to an estimated four million deaths, can ever be rebuilt.
People in the Democratic Republic of Congo expect very little from the state, government or civil servants.
In fact, ordinary Congolese often repeat expressions like "the state is dying but not yet dead" or "the state is ever present but completely useless".
It seems they also expect little from the upcoming elections and there can be little argument that DR Congo is indeed a failed state.
Ordinary citizens are poor, hungry and under-informed.
The government is unable to provide decent education or health services.
The country - two-thirds of the size of western Europe - is a battleground.
The citizens of DR Congo pray to be delivered from the brutal militias that still control parts of the eastern provinces, where rape has become so commonplace that one senior UN official called the country "the rape capital of the world".
Continue reading the main story










Inside DR Congo




SIZE
REBELS
MINERAL WEALTH
TRANSPORT
POPULATION
DATA





The Democratic Republic of Congo covers 2,344,858 square km of land in the centre of Africa, making it the 12th largest country in the world.





Eastern DR Congo is awash with a variety of different rebel groups – some have come from neighbouring countries, while others have formed as self-defence groups. Many are taking advantage of the lack of a strong state to seize control of the area's mineral riches.



DR Congo has abundant mineral wealth. It has more than 70% of the world's coltan, used to make vital components of mobile phones, 30% of the planet's diamond reserves and vast deposits of cobalt, copper and bauxite. This wealth however has attracted looters and fuelled the country's civil war.



Despite the country's size, transport infrastructure is very poor. Of 153,497km of roads, only 2,794km are paved. There are around 4,000 km of railways but much is narrow-gauge track and in poor condition. Waterways are vital to transport goods but journeys can take months to complete. Overcrowded boats frequently capsize, while DR Congo has more plane crashes than any other country.



With an estimated population of 71 million, DR Congo is the fourth most populous country in Africa. Some 35% of the population live in cities and the capital Kinshasa is by far the largest, with more than 8 million inhabitants. DR Congo has around 200 ethnic identities with the majority of people belonging to the Kongo, Luba and Mongo groups.



Given its size and resources DR Congo should be a prosperous country, but years of war, corruption and economic mismanagement have left it desperately poor. In 2011 it lags far behind in many key development indicators, with average life expectancy increasing by only 2 years since 1980, after a period when it actually fell during the mid 1990s.



Predators
I asked a university colleague if he thought things could get worse.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Well, there was an eclipse that day”
End Quote
Excuse for missing a meeting

 Andrew Harding: Eastern DR Congo is my favourite place in Africa

 "When you are rock bottom, you can still dig deeper," was his response.
Public administration is in shambles. Civil servants have mutated into predators. 
Ferdinand Munguna is a retired railway worker in Lubumbashi, the mineral capital of DR Congo in the south of the country.
He has to bribe the man working in the pension office who requires "motivation" before processing the old man's file. Mr Munguna complains that his pension is "hardly enough to buy soap".
Starting a business in DR Congo takes 65 days compared to the sub-Saharan African average of 40 days. In neighbouring Rwanda it takes three days. 
And guess which country has one of the worst air safety records worldwide? 
The prestigious Foreign Policy magazine's Failed States Index puts DR Congo in the critically failed category. Only Somalia, Chad and Sudan (when it included South Sudan) have worse rankings.
The recently released UNDP report on human development indicators put the former Belgian colony at the bottom of the 187 countries it surveyed.


DR Congo, Africa's second largest country, has a literacy rate of 67%

On the political front, President Joseph Kabila has shown much more interest in regime consolidation than implementing his five-point development agenda - which most Congolese consider more as a political slogan than a development initiative.
When criticised, Mr Kabila's henchmen resort to the ultimate force of dissuasion.
Take Zoe Kabila, the president's brother, who ordered his Republican Guard escort to beat up two traffic officers because they did not give his 4X4 priority. 
Usually immune to the brutality of the security forces, even people in Kinshasa were shocked by this incident at a busy downtown intersection.
Numerous cases of journalist beatings and killings have also been reported.
Floribert Chebeya, a highly respected human rights activist was murdered, allegedly by members of the president's inner circle.
Unfair Congo bashing
Poor leadership is a major problem for DR Congo.

Continue reading the main story When there's no state...


In the absence of a functioning state or similar, even the best-intended projects can have perverse side effects if they are carried out without comprehensive feasibility studies or efforts to understand local culture and practices.
An international medical NGO provided mosquito nets to a poor village in the Upemba region of Katanga. Many lakeside villages in the mineral-rich province suffer from a high rate of malaria-induced child mortality. Sleeping inside these nets is the best way to avoid mosquito bites and malaria. But this laudable action created a human and ecological catastrophe.
As the mosquito nets were free and abundant, fisherman used them as fishing nets. Given their extremely fine mesh, not only were fish removed from the lake but all other forms of micro-fauna and micro-flora too. The lake gradually became covered with a black scum. Villagers lost their sources of livelihood and food supply.
It took a Belgian priest two years to get the villagers, who believed they had been cursed, to realise what had happened and before the lake was able to regenerate.

 There are few figures on the political landscape with vision, leaders able to bring an end to corrupt government, reduce poverty, solve the country's security problems or improve the well-being of ordinary people.
DR Congo bashing has become a mantra amongst academics, humanitarian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and policy makers.
But I think that this is unfair.
While it is important to maintain pressure on Kinshasa's unabashedly corrupt political establishment, we also have to consider the country's troubled past. 
Few societies have accumulated so many woes.
Those old enough to remember say the whip and chain is what they associate most with Belgian colonialism.
Others however are nostalgic and wish for the Belgians to return to solve the country's problems.
Cold War policies facilitated the maintenance of the brutal dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC Afrique's Arthur Malu Malu Mushi explains the key issues as DR  Congo chooses a new president



 He ruled what was then named Zaire for 32 years, supported by the West because of Cold War strategic interests.
Two wars - the liberation war that toppled Mobutu and "Africa's first world war", from 1997-2002 - are overwhelming obstacles to development, state-building and well-being. 
DR Congo is also victim to what is commonly referred to as "the resource curse". The central government cannot control borders with its nine neighbours.
Much of DR Congo's coltan, a mineral used in computers and mobiles, is illegally exported through Rwanda. Precious tropical hardwoods are siphoned off through Uganda. 
Surreal
DR Congo's financial and technical partners - the so called "international community" - are also to blame. 
They have no master plan for reform. They do not share a common vision and often implement contradictory programmes.
Belgium supported the idea of decentralisation arguing that it could bring government accountability down to the grassroots level. The World Bank blocked the process.


DR Congo's road to development is paved with good intentions

Bank experts have some control of the treasury in Kinshasa but they have absolutely no idea of how resources in the provinces are managed.
Data collection is a surreal concept in DR Congo - many offices do not have electricity, let alone computers.
Absence of national sovereignty is another hallmark of a failed state. 
DR Congo is a country under international trusteeship. Important decisions are taken by World Bank technocrats, UN officials and increasingly by international NGOs.
When the electoral campaign officially opened last month, candidates travelled to Europe and the US to garner support.
The UN mission, Monusco, is playing a key logistical role in the elections by transporting ballot boxes across the vast nation. People would not be able to vote without this kind of support.
Whatever accountability there is in DR Congo is directed towards international backers, not the Congolese people. 
Congolese authorities have abdicated from the development agenda.
Road rehabilitation and bridge building have been delegated to the World Bank and Belgian Technical Cooperation.
Monusco is supposed to look after the security sector. The World Health Organization and medical NGOs try to deal with the public health challenges.
The UK is involved in reinforcing governance programmes, while churches provide primary education. 
The state is an absentee landlord - outside partners do its work.
Dynamic survivors
So DR Congo is on an artificial life-support system. But replacing the state, or acting on its behalf, is not viable in the long-term. It undermines state-building momentum.

Continue reading the main story DR Congo in figures



 Population: 70 million
 UN human development index: Bottom of 187 countries surveyed
 Life expectancy: 48 years 
 Has 70% of the globe's coltan - vital for mobile phones
 Average annual income: $300
 With 13% of the world's hydropower potential, its network of rivers could power much of Africa
 Just 9% of the population has access to electricity
 Sources: Estimated figures from the UN and World Bank

 DR Congo and its partners are clearly confronted by the tragedy of powerlessness.
The system is such that when things do not work, go wrong or do not move forward, it is never really anyone's fault.
There are plenty of good excuses. A colleague told me when asked why he did not show up for an appointment: "Well, there was an eclipse that day."
While DR Congo is clearly a failed state, Congolese society has not failed.
On the contrary it is strong, vibrant, dynamic, tolerant and generous. People have a sense of taking charge of their own destinies. 
Women form rotating credit systems to compensate for the absence of an accessible banking system.
Farmers band together to hire a lorry to get their cassava or charcoal from the central city of Kikwit to market in Kinshasa. 
Bebe, who lives in the Paris suburb of Griney, sends money home to Kasai via Western Union. Some months it contributes to school fees, others it pays for medicines for her ailing mother-in-law.
Her father will spend some of it on Primus, the beer of choice in Kinshasa. 
"Elikia" means hope in Lingala and there is much of it throughout the country.
Hopes for positive change will come from the people, not from the Congolese political establishment, and certainly not from outside interventions.
Theodore Trefon is senior researcher at the Royal Museum for Central Africa and author of the blog Congo Masquerade: The political culture of aid inefficiency and reform failure.
On 25 November, the BBC World Service is broadcasting a special one-hour debate in front of a Kinshasa audience: Is DR Congo a failed state? Tune in at 1900 GMT.

 



More on This Story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy
	      


Goma crisis



Rebel kaleidoscope

Living in the shadow of Congo's armed groups




UN under fire




Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels




'Why we defected'




 Rebel tactics




How rebels make their money




Heaven or hell?




Q&A: DR Congo conflict







Troubled election



No end to the tears




Kabila victory questioned







Background



Explore the depths of DR Congo




Profile: Joseph Kabila




No trains today




Can ICC bring peace?




Rape dilemma




DR Congo: Facts, figures and dates









Related Internet links


Royal Museum for Central Africa


Congo Masquerade blog


Election commission 


UN stabilisation mission 


International Crisis Group


Centre Resolution Conflicts


Joseph Kabila's campaign website


Etienne Tshisekedi's party


Vital Kamerhe's website


Francois Joseph Mobutu's website



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 228       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 168.  H3000  21st November 2011 - 17:22   @CymruLondoner #68Congo was a Belgian colony until as recently as 1960. If the actions of Belgium share at least a significant part of the blame for the present problems (many would argue the majority of the blame) then this is not something to be fecklessly chalked off as 'the reality of history' - it is recent and highly relevant, and Belgium is now, rightly, trying to do something about it.    Report this comment (Comment number 168) Link to this (Comment number 168)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 167.  nafahamu  Comment number 167 is an Editors' Pick 21st November 2011 - 17:20   DR Congo's problems have as much to do with it's sheer size and mismanagement as it has to do with it's past leaders and occupiers. Can we stop blaming the west for everything, it's getting a little dull... I don't blame my great great grandparents for my short comings and neither should you.    Report this comment (Comment number 167) Link to this (Comment number 167)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 166.  H3000  21st November 2011 - 17:07   ulunnirra_121'To blame Belgium is like blaming the parents of a 50 year old man for his actions'If the 50-year-old man has serious ongoing problems that can be directly traced back to the permanently-crippling actions of his parents then it would be entirely relevant to blame them, while, of course, continuing to try to work with the man to find some ways of remedying these problems.    Report this comment (Comment number 166) Link to this (Comment number 166)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 165.  omniblackspider  21st November 2011 - 16:58   Partitioning of Africa by colonialists led to the unstable countries of today. The amalgamation of strange bedfellows into one country is a tinderbox waiting to go off-just look at the old Yugoslavia. It is easy for outsiders to blame Africans for causing their own woes,but tell me, how would any country in the West fare if it had the level of ethnic/ tribal diversity most African countries have?    Report this comment (Comment number 165) Link to this (Comment number 165)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 164.  Laatab  21st November 2011 - 16:44   Is it not true that nearly all the despots of recent history were created and supported by foreign interests? When these despots stop playing ball these same foreign interests sponsore war against them until they are replaced by a more co-operative regime. We see this cycle repeated over and over. It's this evil practice that keeps the DRC and other places in a state of chaos. Are you BLIND!    Report this comment (Comment number 164) Link to this (Comment number 164)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 163.  Morphius Bane  21st November 2011 - 16:22   The question is why Africans? I mean child sacrifice still occurs, as some believe it will bring them prosperity (some strange Deity presumably rewards the mutilation of infants...?). If there weren't a lot of rich Africans willing to pay for this then it wouldn't occur. And if they pay for it they believe it works. Any wonder the state then fails?    Report this comment (Comment number 163) Link to this (Comment number 163)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 162.  Peter_Sym  21st November 2011 - 16:19   156. RTFishall Tell me honestly, wasn't Africa more stable and better fed when it was under colonial control? Also, name me a truely demorcratic African country.(The jury is out on Soiuth Africa)--The Congo wasn't! It was the personal property of King Leopold of Belgium and was run like a nazi death camp. Ghana & Mauritius (if you count that as Africa) are both good democracies: both ex-Brit    Report this comment (Comment number 162) Link to this (Comment number 162)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 161.  Alasdair Campbell  21st November 2011 - 16:17   No doubt all the blame for this will be laid at 'white colonialism' when now it has every bit as much to do with the blatant greed and corruption of tyrannical black African leaders and their associated tribal rivalries (that pre-date the colonial era). Like the Middle East, countries have been artificially created in Africa and so boundaries must now be redrawn more in line with tribal borders.    Report this comment (Comment number 161) Link to this (Comment number 161)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 160.  thefrogstar  21st November 2011 - 16:02   "The rape capital of the world." Yet the UNDP is an organisation that brings us seminars titled: "Women's leadership and gender equality: drivers of sustainability and resilience to climate change" from a speaker with a "Master's degree in Socioeconomic Development and a Bachelor's in Theater and English Literature". I don't need 400 characters to tell you what I think about that.    Report this comment (Comment number 160) Link to this (Comment number 160)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 159.  Lemog  21st November 2011 - 15:58   posters are still going on about colonisation and some have dragged in slavery and exploitation, this has nothing to do with problems in parts of Africa. The Romans used slavery throughout their empire, as did the persians, Greeks and others. England was colonised by the French and Danes and others. African countries need to stop blaming others and sort their problems out    Report this comment (Comment number 159) Link to this (Comment number 159)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 158.  JohnGammon  21st November 2011 - 15:52   Thanks for the article. The only thing I knew previously about the Congo is that they drink a lot of UmBongo.    Report this comment (Comment number 158) Link to this (Comment number 158)     Comment number 157.  ManZim  21st November 2011 - 15:48    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 157) Link to this (Comment number 157)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 156.  RTFishall  21st November 2011 - 15:36   Tell me honestly, wasn't Africa more stable and better fed when it was under colonial control?  Also, name me a truely demorcratic African country.(The jury is out on Soiuth Africa)I rest my case!    Report this comment (Comment number 156) Link to this (Comment number 156)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 155.  Dan  21st November 2011 - 15:34   DR Congo is a victim of Colonism, Cold war politics and war in general. Would it be best to dwell on the things that have made a country as bad as it is, or look to see what can be done to change it. DR Congo has for the first time in a long while the oppurtunity to decide its own path, its depressing that human greed and corruption is leading it nowhere. All the west can do is help and watch...    Report this comment (Comment number 155) Link to this (Comment number 155)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 154.  Notrocketscience1  21st November 2011 - 15:28   145 LolTheir are a few good examples, Ghana, Gabon, Togo, Morrocco etc etc. The "obvious" as you state it is actually the "non-existent" Europe and Africa are very alike, countless more wars and genocides have occured in european history. Imagine if during the 100yrs war the rest of the world was supplying europe with automatic weapons do you really think the situation would not be identical.    Report this comment (Comment number 154) Link to this (Comment number 154)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 153.  RedGrandslam  21st November 2011 - 15:27   My friends sister is after sponsorship for her gapyear building something or other. I'm sure her recent media studies degree is in much demand in central Africa. Effectively my sponsorship will be another £20 to add to the trillions wasted by the charitable agents of virtue. Maybe she'll get something out her gapyear not so sure that Malawi will...    Report this comment (Comment number 153) Link to this (Comment number 153)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 152.  makar - thread killer  21st November 2011 - 15:27   I don't understand why people are so sure that The West are responsible for a lot of bad things in the world (illegal wars etc.) but are still convinced that they have nothing to do with the problems in Africa, (despite the colonisation, slave trade, child labour, exploitation) presumably because they have had a handful of allegedly corrupt leaders, it must be their fault instead.    Report this comment (Comment number 152) Link to this (Comment number 152)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 151.  Gavin  21st November 2011 - 15:20   now that the Chinese have started to exploit DRC on a large basis, the only thing that will be left will be eroded soils and permanently broken dreams.    Report this comment (Comment number 151) Link to this (Comment number 151)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 150.  RedGrandslam  21st November 2011 - 15:17   Getting into conversations about intelligence levels is just banal, missing the point and plain wrong. I remember watching newsreels of bright, smily, studious african children from 30 years ago. Now those kids have grown up and much of sub-saharan Africa is still as poor and pitiful as ever. Why? Corruption, corruption and more corruption...    Report this comment (Comment number 150) Link to this (Comment number 150)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 149.  Harry papa  21st November 2011 - 15:05   The DR congo is the 11th largest country in the world, not the 12th.    Report this comment (Comment number 149) Link to this (Comment number 149)         Page 4 of 12    Newer 1 ... 2 3 4 5 6 ... 12 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Protesters confront Egyptian PM




Hosts South Africa knocked out












Top stories



France vows to help rebuild Mali


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


Netanyahu asked to form coalition


French MPs endorse gay marriage









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



6: The history of the future in 10 images



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: France vows to help rebuild Mali



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



4: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





