BBC News - Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















21 November 2011
Last updated at 02:43 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Failed state: Can DR Congo recover?
 




Continue reading the main story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy


Rebel kaleidoscope


UN under fire


Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels


'Why we defected'



 As the Democratic Republic of Congo prepares for just its second general elections in four decades on 28 November, Congolese affairs analyst Theodore Trefon considers whether this failed state, still recovering from a war which led to an estimated four million deaths, can ever be rebuilt.
People in the Democratic Republic of Congo expect very little from the state, government or civil servants.
In fact, ordinary Congolese often repeat expressions like "the state is dying but not yet dead" or "the state is ever present but completely useless".
It seems they also expect little from the upcoming elections and there can be little argument that DR Congo is indeed a failed state.
Ordinary citizens are poor, hungry and under-informed.
The government is unable to provide decent education or health services.
The country - two-thirds of the size of western Europe - is a battleground.
The citizens of DR Congo pray to be delivered from the brutal militias that still control parts of the eastern provinces, where rape has become so commonplace that one senior UN official called the country "the rape capital of the world".
Continue reading the main story










Inside DR Congo




SIZE
REBELS
MINERAL WEALTH
TRANSPORT
POPULATION
DATA





The Democratic Republic of Congo covers 2,344,858 square km of land in the centre of Africa, making it the 12th largest country in the world.





Eastern DR Congo is awash with a variety of different rebel groups – some have come from neighbouring countries, while others have formed as self-defence groups. Many are taking advantage of the lack of a strong state to seize control of the area's mineral riches.



DR Congo has abundant mineral wealth. It has more than 70% of the world's coltan, used to make vital components of mobile phones, 30% of the planet's diamond reserves and vast deposits of cobalt, copper and bauxite. This wealth however has attracted looters and fuelled the country's civil war.



Despite the country's size, transport infrastructure is very poor. Of 153,497km of roads, only 2,794km are paved. There are around 4,000 km of railways but much is narrow-gauge track and in poor condition. Waterways are vital to transport goods but journeys can take months to complete. Overcrowded boats frequently capsize, while DR Congo has more plane crashes than any other country.



With an estimated population of 71 million, DR Congo is the fourth most populous country in Africa. Some 35% of the population live in cities and the capital Kinshasa is by far the largest, with more than 8 million inhabitants. DR Congo has around 200 ethnic identities with the majority of people belonging to the Kongo, Luba and Mongo groups.



Given its size and resources DR Congo should be a prosperous country, but years of war, corruption and economic mismanagement have left it desperately poor. In 2011 it lags far behind in many key development indicators, with average life expectancy increasing by only 2 years since 1980, after a period when it actually fell during the mid 1990s.



Predators
I asked a university colleague if he thought things could get worse.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Well, there was an eclipse that day”
End Quote
Excuse for missing a meeting

 Andrew Harding: Eastern DR Congo is my favourite place in Africa

 "When you are rock bottom, you can still dig deeper," was his response.
Public administration is in shambles. Civil servants have mutated into predators. 
Ferdinand Munguna is a retired railway worker in Lubumbashi, the mineral capital of DR Congo in the south of the country.
He has to bribe the man working in the pension office who requires "motivation" before processing the old man's file. Mr Munguna complains that his pension is "hardly enough to buy soap".
Starting a business in DR Congo takes 65 days compared to the sub-Saharan African average of 40 days. In neighbouring Rwanda it takes three days. 
And guess which country has one of the worst air safety records worldwide? 
The prestigious Foreign Policy magazine's Failed States Index puts DR Congo in the critically failed category. Only Somalia, Chad and Sudan (when it included South Sudan) have worse rankings.
The recently released UNDP report on human development indicators put the former Belgian colony at the bottom of the 187 countries it surveyed.


DR Congo, Africa's second largest country, has a literacy rate of 67%

On the political front, President Joseph Kabila has shown much more interest in regime consolidation than implementing his five-point development agenda - which most Congolese consider more as a political slogan than a development initiative.
When criticised, Mr Kabila's henchmen resort to the ultimate force of dissuasion.
Take Zoe Kabila, the president's brother, who ordered his Republican Guard escort to beat up two traffic officers because they did not give his 4X4 priority. 
Usually immune to the brutality of the security forces, even people in Kinshasa were shocked by this incident at a busy downtown intersection.
Numerous cases of journalist beatings and killings have also been reported.
Floribert Chebeya, a highly respected human rights activist was murdered, allegedly by members of the president's inner circle.
Unfair Congo bashing
Poor leadership is a major problem for DR Congo.

Continue reading the main story When there's no state...


In the absence of a functioning state or similar, even the best-intended projects can have perverse side effects if they are carried out without comprehensive feasibility studies or efforts to understand local culture and practices.
An international medical NGO provided mosquito nets to a poor village in the Upemba region of Katanga. Many lakeside villages in the mineral-rich province suffer from a high rate of malaria-induced child mortality. Sleeping inside these nets is the best way to avoid mosquito bites and malaria. But this laudable action created a human and ecological catastrophe.
As the mosquito nets were free and abundant, fisherman used them as fishing nets. Given their extremely fine mesh, not only were fish removed from the lake but all other forms of micro-fauna and micro-flora too. The lake gradually became covered with a black scum. Villagers lost their sources of livelihood and food supply.
It took a Belgian priest two years to get the villagers, who believed they had been cursed, to realise what had happened and before the lake was able to regenerate.

 There are few figures on the political landscape with vision, leaders able to bring an end to corrupt government, reduce poverty, solve the country's security problems or improve the well-being of ordinary people.
DR Congo bashing has become a mantra amongst academics, humanitarian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and policy makers.
But I think that this is unfair.
While it is important to maintain pressure on Kinshasa's unabashedly corrupt political establishment, we also have to consider the country's troubled past. 
Few societies have accumulated so many woes.
Those old enough to remember say the whip and chain is what they associate most with Belgian colonialism.
Others however are nostalgic and wish for the Belgians to return to solve the country's problems.
Cold War policies facilitated the maintenance of the brutal dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC Afrique's Arthur Malu Malu Mushi explains the key issues as DR  Congo chooses a new president



 He ruled what was then named Zaire for 32 years, supported by the West because of Cold War strategic interests.
Two wars - the liberation war that toppled Mobutu and "Africa's first world war", from 1997-2002 - are overwhelming obstacles to development, state-building and well-being. 
DR Congo is also victim to what is commonly referred to as "the resource curse". The central government cannot control borders with its nine neighbours.
Much of DR Congo's coltan, a mineral used in computers and mobiles, is illegally exported through Rwanda. Precious tropical hardwoods are siphoned off through Uganda. 
Surreal
DR Congo's financial and technical partners - the so called "international community" - are also to blame. 
They have no master plan for reform. They do not share a common vision and often implement contradictory programmes.
Belgium supported the idea of decentralisation arguing that it could bring government accountability down to the grassroots level. The World Bank blocked the process.


DR Congo's road to development is paved with good intentions

Bank experts have some control of the treasury in Kinshasa but they have absolutely no idea of how resources in the provinces are managed.
Data collection is a surreal concept in DR Congo - many offices do not have electricity, let alone computers.
Absence of national sovereignty is another hallmark of a failed state. 
DR Congo is a country under international trusteeship. Important decisions are taken by World Bank technocrats, UN officials and increasingly by international NGOs.
When the electoral campaign officially opened last month, candidates travelled to Europe and the US to garner support.
The UN mission, Monusco, is playing a key logistical role in the elections by transporting ballot boxes across the vast nation. People would not be able to vote without this kind of support.
Whatever accountability there is in DR Congo is directed towards international backers, not the Congolese people. 
Congolese authorities have abdicated from the development agenda.
Road rehabilitation and bridge building have been delegated to the World Bank and Belgian Technical Cooperation.
Monusco is supposed to look after the security sector. The World Health Organization and medical NGOs try to deal with the public health challenges.
The UK is involved in reinforcing governance programmes, while churches provide primary education. 
The state is an absentee landlord - outside partners do its work.
Dynamic survivors
So DR Congo is on an artificial life-support system. But replacing the state, or acting on its behalf, is not viable in the long-term. It undermines state-building momentum.

Continue reading the main story DR Congo in figures



 Population: 70 million
 UN human development index: Bottom of 187 countries surveyed
 Life expectancy: 48 years 
 Has 70% of the globe's coltan - vital for mobile phones
 Average annual income: $300
 With 13% of the world's hydropower potential, its network of rivers could power much of Africa
 Just 9% of the population has access to electricity
 Sources: Estimated figures from the UN and World Bank

 DR Congo and its partners are clearly confronted by the tragedy of powerlessness.
The system is such that when things do not work, go wrong or do not move forward, it is never really anyone's fault.
There are plenty of good excuses. A colleague told me when asked why he did not show up for an appointment: "Well, there was an eclipse that day."
While DR Congo is clearly a failed state, Congolese society has not failed.
On the contrary it is strong, vibrant, dynamic, tolerant and generous. People have a sense of taking charge of their own destinies. 
Women form rotating credit systems to compensate for the absence of an accessible banking system.
Farmers band together to hire a lorry to get their cassava or charcoal from the central city of Kikwit to market in Kinshasa. 
Bebe, who lives in the Paris suburb of Griney, sends money home to Kasai via Western Union. Some months it contributes to school fees, others it pays for medicines for her ailing mother-in-law.
Her father will spend some of it on Primus, the beer of choice in Kinshasa. 
"Elikia" means hope in Lingala and there is much of it throughout the country.
Hopes for positive change will come from the people, not from the Congolese political establishment, and certainly not from outside interventions.
Theodore Trefon is senior researcher at the Royal Museum for Central Africa and author of the blog Congo Masquerade: The political culture of aid inefficiency and reform failure.
On 25 November, the BBC World Service is broadcasting a special one-hour debate in front of a Kinshasa audience: Is DR Congo a failed state? Tune in at 1900 GMT.

 



More on This Story


DR Congo Seeks Democracy
	      


Goma crisis



Rebel kaleidoscope

Living in the shadow of Congo's armed groups




UN under fire




Q&A: DR Congo's M23 rebels




'Why we defected'




 Rebel tactics




How rebels make their money




Heaven or hell?




Q&A: DR Congo conflict







Troubled election



No end to the tears




Kabila victory questioned







Background



Explore the depths of DR Congo




Profile: Joseph Kabila




No trains today




Can ICC bring peace?




Rape dilemma




DR Congo: Facts, figures and dates









Related Internet links


Royal Museum for Central Africa


Congo Masquerade blog


Election commission 


UN stabilisation mission 


International Crisis Group


Centre Resolution Conflicts


Joseph Kabila's campaign website


Etienne Tshisekedi's party


Vital Kamerhe's website


Francois Joseph Mobutu's website



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 228       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 228.  scorpion7  22nd November 2011 - 21:57   I think writing an article about blaming people is not helping. Instead the focus should be on helping African countries to rebuild themselves up. In my opinion the DRC is among those countries There are roads,infrastructures being built in that country We need to give hope to the Congolese people. Mr.Kabila is not perfect but at least he's trying to rebuild that country and need to be encouraged.    Report this comment (Comment number 228) Link to this (Comment number 228)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 227.  paul trought  22nd November 2011 - 17:45   the congo currently contains over two hundred and fifty languages, over three hundred tribes and cultures. this is the very definition of a artificial country. and all the nations in africa, in size and shape have been created by europeans. but, have been accepted by african elite leaders. change the boarders, allow each region to be independant,and you have the chance for real democracy.    Report this comment (Comment number 227) Link to this (Comment number 227)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 226.  Smiffie  22nd November 2011 - 13:07   It is the African way.    Report this comment (Comment number 226) Link to this (Comment number 226)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 225.  Notrocketscience1  22nd November 2011 - 8:54   195.doug "some peoples are not capable of running a country."What rubbishCould our govt do better? In a country with the UK's population, with 10 times its size, less than 1% of its roads, less than 20% literacy, no unifying language, over 200 ethnic groups, several religions, high mortality rates, no border control and international groups trading guns for resources.no chance mate    Report this comment (Comment number 225) Link to this (Comment number 225)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 224.  Dave  22nd November 2011 - 7:42   195.doug We have to realize some peoples are not capable of running a country.I agree Doug.....we had 13 years of that recently! Pity we still have incompetants in charge.    Report this comment (Comment number 224) Link to this (Comment number 224)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 223.  djince  22nd November 2011 - 4:59   @Lemog Well in Asia the most prosperous countries include ones that never saw colonialism: Japan and Thailand.@ulunnirra_121 Countries age a lot slower than people you know. Anyway nowadays there are many (85 by the OECD's count) multinational corporations that are illegally exploiting the natural resources of DR Congo, especially logging and mining.    Report this comment (Comment number 223) Link to this (Comment number 223)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 222.  djince  22nd November 2011 - 4:48   @GreenFuture: Africa is not all the same. Some countries such as Mali and Botswana are stable democracies.The same goes for slavery (@Cantab): It wasn't about Africans enslaving Africans but Asantes selling non-Asantes (see Dr. Akurang-Parry). And it wasn't as bad as other slavery. But there are some parts, like western South Africa, where there wasn't even that.    Report this comment (Comment number 222) Link to this (Comment number 222)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 221.  Suboran  22nd November 2011 - 0:39   If these countries were still colonies, they would not have all this trouble.    Report this comment (Comment number 221) Link to this (Comment number 221)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 220.  ajustman  Comment number 220 is an Editors' Pick 21st November 2011 - 23:46   Mineral wealth and continued foreign interventions to secure it by both neighbouring African and industrialised western states (and now far eastern, too) have conspired to leave DRC without the political, legal or infrastructural strength to benefit from its economic potential. Whether these interventions are under the guise of colonialism, democracy building, or economic liberalism is irrelevant.    Report this comment (Comment number 220) Link to this (Comment number 220)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 219.  Notrocketscience1  21st November 2011 - 23:45   212 Cambodia!!Two words, khmer rouge!!This is confirmation bias at its best.Many here seem to think Africans are less capable and spout off pseudo proof to support this uninformed misconception.  Lack of opportunity is not lack of ability, lack of education is not lack of intelligence, being embroiled in civil wars doesn't mean your incapable of peace. Just look at european history!    Report this comment (Comment number 219) Link to this (Comment number 219)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 218.  Barry Hamilton  21st November 2011 - 23:35   Africa also suffers from very poorly-drawn borders, much more so than any other part of the world where colonialism took place (although South America is a close second and has had its share of suffering).  Cambodia, Vietnam and Korea were all pretty culturally homogenous in comparison to Africa.  We haven't solved ethnic tensions in the West so it's no surprise that Africa hasn't either.    Report this comment (Comment number 218) Link to this (Comment number 218)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 217.  CrewTocksTheBear  21st November 2011 - 23:32   Colonialism left behind an Africa that saw ethnic populations divided so a starting point of states based on homogeneity was impossible.Non-African countries struggled too with the aftermath of decolonisation. India had to go through partition, which turned out to be a terrible process. Indians, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, had at least that option...they got their own countries...eventually...    Report this comment (Comment number 217) Link to this (Comment number 217)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 216.  Las  21st November 2011 - 23:27   Dare I risk saying that Mobutu at least kept that country more or less in order in an African sort of way that suited it? Zaire even had some weight then in African politics and culture. But I remember how we celebrated "Kabila the democrat". Is he still better than Mobutu? DR Congo is the most misappropriately named country. "Congo-bashing"?? Can you imagine Westminster democracy there?    Report this comment (Comment number 216) Link to this (Comment number 216)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 215.  Notrocketscience1  21st November 2011 - 23:24   On colonial successThis should be self evident but I will try to explain anyway, different colonies were established for differing periods of time, some had time to adapt to the european way of life others didnt, in some effort was made to empower citizens, in others it was discouraged, racist ideology also encouraged a lax attitude to education in African colonies, voila!!    Report this comment (Comment number 215) Link to this (Comment number 215)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 214.  Kennys_Heroes  21st November 2011 - 23:23   "Women form rotating credit systems to compensate for the absence of an accessible banking system."You know, I think they might be onto something!    Report this comment (Comment number 214) Link to this (Comment number 214)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 213.  Barry Hamilton  Comment number 213 is an Editors' Pick 21st November 2011 - 23:15   The area was under a series of brutal regimes both foreign and homegrown for many decades that made Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union look like kindly benefactors to Western and Eastern Europe respectively.  Brutality was ingrained into the DRC, and it's going to take decades to change that.  Blame is irrelevant at this point.  Why is that such a difficult concept for people to grasp?    Report this comment (Comment number 213) Link to this (Comment number 213)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 212.  happytravelling  21st November 2011 - 23:15   209.Polly8122You missed out Zim and others. I hate to be harsh but Cambodia, Vietnam, all countries with colonial histories have managed it. Botswana, Tanzania too. We can all continue to make excuses for why we don't achieve. But when others in similar situations do so, you have to stop proposing excuses.For 50 yrs we've said if Africa used its resources effectively it could be a powerhouse.    Report this comment (Comment number 212) Link to this (Comment number 212)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 211.  Notrocketscience1  21st November 2011 - 23:13   Saying that countries were better off under colonialism is like saying the slaves in America preferred being slaves to being free. Its the corrupt African leaders that ask for Western money. Most Africans aren't beggars and don't want anything from the west, they dont care about colonialism. So stop attacking them like they want something from you.    Report this comment (Comment number 211) Link to this (Comment number 211)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 210.  pinkysegun  21st November 2011 - 23:10   arent we africans bord of blamin europeans 4 our demise, d europeans colonial mastr are much bettr than the present  colonial mastr we have, atleast they gave us infrastructure and a country, d present leaders just escalate ethnic..i.e zimbabwe was way off when it was a colony than now, anyways all u who blame europeans are nothing but big foolsi hope africans wake up 1 day n realise hesr problem    Report this comment (Comment number 210) Link to this (Comment number 210)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 209.  Polly8122  21st November 2011 - 23:07   @206 happytravelling. Yes DRC has suffered from Uganda and Rwanda fighting wars there but one could argue they had no choice but to sort out Hutu extremists. 2 generations is not a long time given the depth of colonial influence - they can't shrug it off yet. It's not their fault'20 Cent "political correctness" that's an anachronism mate. I agree more time would have helped. No easy answers!    Report this comment (Comment number 209) Link to this (Comment number 209)         Page 1 of 12    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 12 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




France vows to help rebuild Mali

French President Francois Hollande promises to help rebuild Mali, after launching an offensive against Islamists who seized the north of the country.



Protesters confront Egyptian PM




Hosts South Africa knocked out












Top stories



France vows to help rebuild Mali


Two Philippines hostages released


Obama shooting picture released


Netanyahu asked to form coalition


French MPs endorse gay marriage









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Obama shooting picture released



2: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



3: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Unhappy childhood heart risk link



6: The history of the future in 10 images



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



9: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



10: France vows to help rebuild Mali



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter on TV Watch



3: Is boy, 6, the next Tom Daley? Watch



4: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



5: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



6: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: Mali welcomes French president  Watch



9: US rejects Iran captures drone claim Watch



10: A fruity guide to American football Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Tourism with a tech twist

The South African entrepreneur bringing the latest innovations to the country's travel market















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





