BBC News - Hillary Clinton defends handling of Benghazi attack


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















23 January 2013
Last updated at 17:15 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Hillary Clinton defends handling of Benghazi attack
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Hillary Clinton: "What difference, at this point, does it make?"



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Kerry named for top Obama post


Report condemns Benghazi failings


Clinton discharged from hospital



Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has angrily defended her handling of the raid on a US consulate in Libya, in back-to-back hearings on Capitol Hill.
Mrs Clinton lashed out at a senator who accused the Obama administration of misleading the public.
She took responsibility for security failures that led to the 11 September attack but said she had not seen requests for more security beforehand.
It was her last appearance at Congress as America's top diplomat.
"Nobody is more committed to getting this right," Mrs Clinton told the Senate foreign relations committee.
"I am determined to leave the state department and our country safer, stronger and more secure," she added.
Emotional testimony
She was questioned about the raid on 11 September last year on the US consulate in Benghazi that left the US envoy to Libya, Christopher Stevens, and three other officials dead.

Continue reading the main story At the scene



Kim Ghattas
BBC state department correspondent



Four months after the attack on Benghazi, Mrs Clinton has finally testified in an open hearing in Congress about what happened, how her department and the administration handed it, and how to move forward. 
She will hope her long-awaited appearance before Congress will defuse some of the political acrimony that has engulfed the debate about Benghazi. Much was at stake in this hearing, not just for Mr Obama's foreign policy in his second term and how Republicans will interact with his administration, but also for Mrs Clinton herself. This is her last high-profile public appearance before she steps down in a couple of weeks.  

 The ambassador died of smoke inhalation when he was trapped in the burning consulate building, after armed men stormed the compound.
The assault triggered a major political row over who knew what and when.
The incident became an issue in the presidential campaign, and outrage in Congress led the US ambassador to the UN, Susan Rice, to withdraw from the race to succeed Mrs Clinton.
Last November, Ms Rice admitted releasing incorrect information after the Benghazi attack - she said on a Sunday chat show on 16 September that the attack had stemmed from an anti-US protest.
Ms Rice later said there had been no attempt to mislead the public, but Republicans were unconvinced.
At Wednesday's Senate hearing, Senator Ron Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, said: "We were misled that there were supposedly protests and then something sprang out of that, an assault sprang out of that."
Mrs Clinton replied with a raised voice: "But with all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans - was it because of a protest, or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd go kill some Americans."
Thumping the table four times, she added: "What difference, at this point, does it make? It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, senator."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Hillary Clinton said the US needed to 'figure out how to support emerging democracies in North Africa'



 In another tense moment, Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, said Mrs Clinton's acknowledgement that she had not read the cables from Libya seeking additional security ahead of the attack was "inexcusable".
"Had I been president at the time and I found that you did not read the cables," he said, "I would have relieved you of your post."
Mrs Clinton told the senators her department was implementing - as well as going above and beyond - 29 recommendations by an independent panel that investigated the incident.
Earlier, Mrs Clinton's voice cracked with emotion as she described the moment she and President Barack Obama welcomed home the coffins of those killed in the Benghazi attacks. 
"I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, the sisters and brothers, the sons and daughters, and the wives left alone to raise their children," she said.
Mrs Clinton testified in the afternoon before the House foreign affairs committee, where Republican members pressed her on why cables and other memos about security deficiencies in Benghazi seemed to have been ignored.
"The dots here were connected ahead of time. The state department saw this was coming," said Representative Ed Royce, a Republican and the chairman of the panel. "The state department didn't act."
Four state department employees have been put on administrative leave over the Benghazi attack.
Mrs Clinton, who is stepping down from her post in two weeks, has spent a month recuperating from a series of ailments in December, which delayed her testimony.
She is considered a strong candidate for the Democratic nomination for president should she run in 2016.
Mr Obama has nominated Democratic Senator John Kerry to replace her as Secretary of State.

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Kerry named for top Obama post

21 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA



Report condemns Benghazi failings

19 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA



Clinton discharged from hospital

02 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                US & CANADA



US acts over Benghazi failings

20 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 144       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 24.  Jennifer  23rd January 2013 - 18:08   BBC, your journalists should know how to fact check or at least Google by this point. Rand Paul is a senator from the Commonwealth of Kentucky, not Tennessee. It's bad enough Reuters can't get a fact right to save their life, but that's American media, we've given up hope on them. We still have hope for you.    Report this comment (Comment number 24) Link to this (Comment number 24)     Comment number 23.  Removed  23rd January 2013 - 18:07    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 23) Link to this (Comment number 23)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 22.  Jadwiga_McKay  23rd January 2013 - 17:58   Clinton has been instrumental in rebuilding the US government's image across the world as well as domestically. Yes, the Obama administration has not gone far enough as of yet. What matters most is implementing measures that prevent another Benghazi. She has served her office well.    Report this comment (Comment number 22) Link to this (Comment number 22)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 21.  DavidinUSA  23rd January 2013 - 18:03   A sad end to a long and distinguished career.Hillary, it seems to me, was compromised by Obama's policies.  She reportedly hesitated before serving in his cabinet - now it seems that she would have been better off staying out, to avoid being embroiled in weak policies and media cover-ups that originated beyond her control.    Report this comment (Comment number 21) Link to this (Comment number 21)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 20.  jockbug  23rd January 2013 - 18:03   The real mistake was facilitating the brutal overthrow of Ghaddafi.  The Islamists are running riot throughout the region and now we are making the same mistake in Syria.  Will we ever learn?    Report this comment (Comment number 20) Link to this (Comment number 20)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 19.  Pancha Chandra  23rd January 2013 - 18:02   Here is a lady of conviction who knows her brief thoroughly. Mrs Clinton deserves high praise for her handling of world affairs. The Republicans are only interested in placing banana skins to gain political capital. But Hillary is no push over as she has her her facts at her finger-tips. With her at the helm, the Democrats were able to charter a clear foreign policy. Kerry is the apt replacement.    Report this comment (Comment number 19) Link to this (Comment number 19)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 18.  WhitewaterOregon  23rd January 2013 - 18:02   Pointless recriminations from the extremist Republican Party, which doesn't blush at cutting appropriations for our embassy safety, and then swarms like vultures whenever something goes badly with a Democrat in office. The reality is many more died at American embassies and consulates under Bush, and they raised nary a peep. Clearly not a winning strategy at the polls.    Report this comment (Comment number 18) Link to this (Comment number 18)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 17.  tucanofulano  23rd January 2013 - 17:58   So, why do Obama and Clinton want to release the "Blind Sheik" ?  That would be akin to wwOne Germany infecting Russia by shipping Lenin there. Millions upon millions dead as a result. Obama is so clueless and arrogant he'll likely do it. What a fool !    Report this comment (Comment number 17) Link to this (Comment number 17)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 16.  Mac  23rd January 2013 - 17:57   whilst you lot argue it out, I will wait for concrete evidence on what exactly happened instead of tagging along with which story sounds best. Its the least that can be done for those who died before serving the appropriate punishment for all deserving who took advantage in any way of this event.    Report this comment (Comment number 16) Link to this (Comment number 16)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 15.  robin pearson  23rd January 2013 - 17:56   The bigoted Republicans are like a dog with a bone with this whole episode, they will not let go, especially whilst they have Fox News daily stoking the fire. Sadly this is all a domestic Cold War we are watching and it will carry on throughout the second term of this Democratic Administration. This woman will make a good, even great President, I only hope that she runs for office.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 14.  geoff rawlinson  23rd January 2013 - 17:55   Shame,It is such a shame that Senator Rand Paul would attack a person who could be his opponent in the next presidential election,assuming of course that both are endorsed by their parties. He did it for political gain with little or no thought about the truth seeking process he was engaged in. The man is a coward. America doesn't need a coeard in the white house.    Report this comment (Comment number 14) Link to this (Comment number 14)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 13.  mscracker  23rd January 2013 - 17:53   It's not like the Clintons have ever obscured the truth before a panel before...We seem to have short memories.    Report this comment (Comment number 13) Link to this (Comment number 13)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 12.  Lorcan  23rd January 2013 - 17:48   She is nothing but a puppet for the administration, perpetuating the lie they conceived in order to avoid offending the muslim community when they knew full well that this was a coordinated attack on the US Ambassador. She is disgusting in the way she is dragging the families and their grief into this. Typical Clinton behaviour, blame the others and dodge all punishment for your own behaviour.    Report this comment (Comment number 12) Link to this (Comment number 12)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 11.  Duncan  23rd January 2013 - 17:51   With respect Ms Clinton, you are a total irrelevance to the world, except of course to those such as the author of Trans Formation of America.    Report this comment (Comment number 11) Link to this (Comment number 11)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 10.  V Siva  23rd January 2013 - 17:50   Shame on these leaders including Obama and Hillary and failed to stand firm on principles based on democracy, freedom, human rights, transparency, rule of law, Justice and equality.    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 9.  brynababy  23rd January 2013 - 17:42   Thank you, Hilary.  I am sad to see you go, but glad you're giving it back to those obstructionist Republicans, better than you get!!    Report this comment (Comment number 9) Link to this (Comment number 9)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 8.  BrainDamaged  23rd January 2013 - 17:47   Ms. Clinton you have my vote if you ever decide to run for President.    Report this comment (Comment number 8) Link to this (Comment number 8)                 rate this     +17      rate this     +17   Comment number 7.  robert thomas  23rd January 2013 - 17:46   The reality is that :The greatest military Power on the planet" cannot control and manipulate all of the worlds' events, particularly when events unfold at a rapid and unpredictable pace.  By the way, 9/11 seemed a much more horrific breach of security by the previous pathetic and lying administration than Benghazi.    Report this comment (Comment number 7) Link to this (Comment number 7)                 rate this     +15      rate this     +15   Comment number 6.  james  23rd January 2013 - 17:46   #1. How about the fact that the Republicans have consistently held up money for further security  of the embassies. It is just typical of the Republicans to do one thing and then blame someone else for the consequences.    Report this comment (Comment number 6) Link to this (Comment number 6)                 rate this     +17      rate this     +17   Comment number 5.  helenahandbasket  23rd January 2013 - 17:46   She's right. Who cares if it was a protest or not? The point is figuring out what went wrong and learning from it. The right-wingers are trying to turn this into something it isn't, and no one except them is interested.    Report this comment (Comment number 5) Link to this (Comment number 5)         Page 7 of 8    Newer 1 ... 4 5 6 7 8 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest ever US sniper killed

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



3: Mars rover hammers down into rock



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



9: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



10: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: The art looking death in the face Watch



6: A fruity guide to American football Watch



7: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



8: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



9: Acid attack on Bolshoi director  Watch



10: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





