BBC News - Call for soft drink sugar tax in Budget


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Health







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















28 January 2013
Last updated at 19:46 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Call for soft drink sugar tax in Budget
 

By Michelle Roberts
Health editor, BBC News online



Excess sugar raises the risk of obesity


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


How addictive is sugar?


Coca-Cola launches 'obesity ad'


Sugar tax needed, say US experts



Leading medical bodies are calling for a 20p-per-litre levy on soft drinks to be included in this year's Budget.
More than 60 organisations, including the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, are backing the recommendation by food and farming charity Sustain.
They say it would raise £1bn a year in duty to fund free fruit and meals in schools to improve children's health.
The soft drinks industry says raising taxation is unnecessary.
The British Soft Drink Association (BSDA) says companies are already playing their part in the fight against obesity.
The BSDA's director general Gavin Partington said 61% of soft drinks "now contain no added sugar and we have seen soft drinks companies lead the way in committing to further, voluntary action as part of the government's Responsibility Deal calorie-reduction pledge."
He said 10p from every 60p can of drink already goes to the government in tax.  
"Putting up taxes even further will put pressure on people's purses at a time when they can ill afford it," he said.

Continue reading the main story Sugary drinks



 Sugary foods and drinks can only make us gain weight if overall we eat more calories than we use for energy
 Sugary drinks are potentially hazardous because they do not fill us up, meaning we can easily consume too much
 A 330-millilitres (half-pint) sugary drink typically provides 35g (0.17oz), or nine lumps of sugar
 The British Dietetic Association says some research suggests sugary drinks may be contributing to obesity in children
 In the UK, one in four adults is classified as obese and one in three children is already obese or overweight before they finish primary school
 If you want to cut down, try switching to drinking pure juice diluted with fizzy water, diet fizzy drinks, milk, no-added-sugar squash or water


 But Sustain says the tax is a simple measure that would help save lives by reducing sugar in our diets and raising money to protect children's health.
It says the UK consumes more than 5,727 million litres of sugary soft drinks a year. Adding a 20p tax for every litre sold would raise more than £1.1bn.
Mike Rayner, of the department of public health at Oxford University and chairman of Sustain, said: "Just as we use fiscal measures to discourage drinking and smoking and help prevent people from dying early, there is now lots of evidence that the same approach would work for food.  
"This modest proposal goes some way towards making the price of food reflect its true costs to society.  Our obesity epidemic causes debilitating illness, life threatening diseases and misery for millions of people.  It is high time government did something effective about this problem."
A Department of Health spokeswoman said:  "Our primary responsibility is to help the nation to be healthier. 
"We keep all international evidence under review. But we believe the voluntary action we have put in place is delivering results."
Shadow Health Secretary Andy Burnham disagrees and says it is clear that a voluntary approach is not working.
He said: "Labour is consulting on whether new limits on sugar, salt and fat content in food aimed at children would be a better way forward. This would help parents protect their children from foods which contain excessive levels of sugar, salt and fat in a way that a tax wouldn't."
Over the past 10 years, the consumption of soft drinks containing added sugar has fallen by 9% while the incidence of obesity has increased by 15%.

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



How addictive is sugar?

19 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                HEALTH



Coca-Cola launches 'obesity ad'

14 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                US & CANADA



Sugar tax needed, say US experts

01 FEBRUARY 2012,    
                                                HEALTH



Is supersize soda a civil rights issue?

25 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                MAGAZINE











Related Internet links


Sustain - the alliance for better food and farming


Change 4 Life 


British Soft Drink Association



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites




       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1003       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 83.  yewlodge  29th January 2013 - 9:31   Its total calories consumed that that leads to obesity and taxing one element of the shopping basket will do little to alter this or improve portion or calorie control in the total diet. Its quantity that matters.Besides drinks vary in sugar content from 2 to 20%, should they all be taxed the same? And by the way milk is nearly 5%, should this be taxed too?Another illogical knee jerk tax grab!    Report this comment (Comment number 83) Link to this (Comment number 83)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 82.  Cheddy  29th January 2013 - 9:31   Tax is only ever going to raise prices - the companies will just pass it on.What I don't get is the government/activists stance on these issues, tax sugar, tax drinks, tax smoke. If they care so much, why not ban/restrict the contents?If it's just about the money, there's no need to lie about the "caring for the public" bit, you are punishing everyone!    Report this comment (Comment number 82) Link to this (Comment number 82)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 81.  Macawdor  29th January 2013 - 9:31   So, if they manage to implement this ridiculous tax, and, let's just assume, after 2 or 3 years, it's shown to've had absolutely no impact whatsoever on the national obesity 'epidemic'.. Can I assume it will be scrapped and we'll all get a nice sugary tax rebate..!?    Report this comment (Comment number 81) Link to this (Comment number 81)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 80.  chinkinthearmour  29th January 2013 - 9:31   As usual a simplistic overview to a social issue involving highly complex chemicals. That's before going anywhere near financial & legal challenges from corporations.The summary advising diet drinks is particularly objectionable.Different types of sugar, artificial sweeteners, psychology of diet soda, combination of food intake, exercise regime etc.Its easy: just don't drink that rubbish.    Report this comment (Comment number 80) Link to this (Comment number 80)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 79.  Jack Griffin  29th January 2013 - 9:30   "The British Soft Drink Association (BSDA) says companies are already playing their part in the fight against obesity."Ha ha ha ha ha ha!    Report this comment (Comment number 79) Link to this (Comment number 79)                 rate this     +27      rate this     +27   Comment number 78.  Jon  Comment number 78 is an Editors' Pick 29th January 2013 - 9:30   Sounds OK as long as every single penny raised is ring-fenced and spent on providing fruit in schools and other worthwhile causes.What would actually happen is that the money raised will drop into the ocean of tax revenues and be irresponsibly squandered.    Report this comment (Comment number 78) Link to this (Comment number 78)                 rate this     -12      rate this     -12   Comment number 77.  tiredallthetime  29th January 2013 - 9:30   23, not all people become overweight due to food some have serious hormonal problems which will make you overweight, doctors know about this.  Everyone who works pays Income tax and n.i so they are entitled to use the NHS which is not free to tax payers. Sugar damages health but even worse are the artificial additives which will cause real harm.  Moderation Is the key.    Report this comment (Comment number 77) Link to this (Comment number 77)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 76.  Andy  29th January 2013 - 9:30   #SPEEDTHRILLSJust because you can afford to run a high-polluting car does not mean that you should.  As for your food and sugary drinks, yes it's your choice but this tax is aimed at the people who consume litres of sugary drinks per week    Report this comment (Comment number 76) Link to this (Comment number 76)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 75.  Megan  29th January 2013 - 9:30   As a fervent opponent of the misuse of taxation for social engineering, I have to say a resounding NO to this suggestion, even though I happen to detest 'pop' as being far too sweet for my taste!Those who seek to modify people's behaviour may do so by presenting their case for any such change. If they are incapable of putting up a convincing argument that is their problem!    Report this comment (Comment number 75) Link to this (Comment number 75)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 74.  dave  29th January 2013 - 9:30   sweets make you fat do we tax them as well why should we all pay because a few drink to much pop    Report this comment (Comment number 74) Link to this (Comment number 74)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 73.  Realist  29th January 2013 - 9:29   Calls next for a fresh air tax, it is harmfull to health in this country.    Report this comment (Comment number 73) Link to this (Comment number 73)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 72.  Joel  29th January 2013 - 9:29   A vodka and cokes going to be like the new veuve clicquot or crystal    Report this comment (Comment number 72) Link to this (Comment number 72)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 71.  Johannes686  29th January 2013 - 9:29   This is a stupid idea. Fizzy soft drinks in themselves don't harm people, it's the quantity and doing no exercise alongside them that causes harm. I do triathlons, and coca cola - probably the most sugary of all of these drinks - is excellent for providing an energy boost when racing. Why should I be taxed for this? Instead, ban these sugary drinks in schools.    Report this comment (Comment number 71) Link to this (Comment number 71)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 70.  karen dark  29th January 2013 - 9:29   Many drinks have "no added sugar" but they often have that poison called aspartame, as an artificial sweetener, to compensate. Even some fruit squashes have it, so you're cornered whichever way you turn. Whatever an ingredient is, if someone decided it's "bad" for you then they'll find a way of lobbying government to create a new tax.    Report this comment (Comment number 70) Link to this (Comment number 70)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 69.  Bovver Boy  29th January 2013 - 9:29   Pop on tax on pop to make us healthier? Hmm, nothing to do with additional revenue from the overtaxed and allegedly overweight  i I am sure. Will it be the lovers of chocolate who will called on to help the government with its finances next?There is always the air we breathe to tax for our own good.    Report this comment (Comment number 69) Link to this (Comment number 69)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 68.  Manipulated Nation  29th January 2013 - 9:29   23. Cornelius "Why should I pay for the fatties"? Because you are a tolerant human being who recognizes that not everyone is as wholly virtuous as you and society is not governed solely by money and does not consist of exemplary people who are perfectly formed to represent one soulless paradigm.    Report this comment (Comment number 68) Link to this (Comment number 68)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 67.  Jacep  29th January 2013 - 9:29   I thought this tax already existed, It's called paying for your own dental care these days.    Report this comment (Comment number 67) Link to this (Comment number 67)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 66.  go figure  29th January 2013 - 9:29   Eventually, we'l be taxed into cold, dark houses, living on bread and water. Will we say "Enough of this nonsense" then?Be careful where you put that next cross folks.    Report this comment (Comment number 66) Link to this (Comment number 66)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 65.  Grumpy_Haggis  29th January 2013 - 9:29   Wrong approach - give us better information on sugar levels so we can make our own minds up. I despair at the number of brands that proudly claim to be low fat but obstinately refuse to provide clear information on the high levels of sugar they contain - health bars being a prime villain.    Report this comment (Comment number 65) Link to this (Comment number 65)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 64.  Rob  29th January 2013 - 9:28   Have a look at the sugar content and calorific value in Concentrated Friut Juices. Same as Coke. Consumption of Fruit Juice in Pre-school age children is up above soft drinks. Picking easy targets that are percieved to be bad for you is just too easy, These Health bodies should start doing some hard work and look at the whole picture, not a blinkered one.    Report this comment (Comment number 64) Link to this (Comment number 64)         Page 47 of 51    Newer 1 ... 45 46 47 48 49 ... 51 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Health stories
RSS




Unhappy childhood heart risk link

Emotional behaviour in childhood may be linked with heart disease in middle age, especially in women, research suggests.



Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed




Older mums should be induced early












Top stories



'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Two Philippines hostages released


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


UK to host Afghan-Pakistani talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Inconvenience store Watch

A Manhattan neighbourhood fights to keep 7-Eleven at bay 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Proof of purity 

Why one remote Indian temple is issuing certificates 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park dug up around parked car



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: A fruity guide to American football



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Obama shooting picture released



Read




1: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



2: Iran unveils 'stealth' fighter



3: US tourist 'found dead' in Turkey



4: Dozens dead in Iraq police attack



5: Why did men stop wearing high heels?



6: Twitter account hack affects 250,000



7: French MPs endorse gay marriage



8: Ryder Cup volunteers hit 9,000



9: Ryder Cup plan 'unacceptable'



10: Spread of hepatitis C pinpointed



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: The art looking death in the face Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: Inside town on fire for 50 years Watch



5: The internet 'brain' of Latin America Watch



6: How Swedish 'serial killer' faked it Watch



7: Can California afford bullet trains? Watch



8: How small towns breed Olympic athletes Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: Russell Brand on Savile scandal Watch













BBC Future





The killer on your couch
The week’s best science and tech stories Read more...












Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





