BBC News - Profiles of Chile's trapped miners


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Latin America & Caribbean







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















13 October 2010
Last updated at 16:36 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Jubilation as Chile mine rescue ends




Latest


The winners


In pictures


Ascent


Profiles


Diary


Timeline


Drilling operation
















































Alex Vega Salazar

Age: 31 Job: Heavy machinery mechanic
Tenth miner to be rescued. He embraced his wife Jessica after leaving the capsule. She said her husband had been worried about his debts while trapped in the mine. "I have told him not to worry, that I have already cancelled them. I told him that I love him." El Pais reported her as saying.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Ariel Ticona

Age: 29 Job: Miner
Thirty second, and penultimate, miner to be rescued. His wife Elizabeth Segovia gave birth to a baby girl on 14 September - 40 days into the miners' ordeal. Ariel Ticona asked his wife to name their daughter Esperanza - the Spanish for Hope.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Carlos Bugueno

Job: 27 Job: Miner
Twenty-third miner to be rescued. He was one of the palomeros in his group - the miners taking it in turns to look after sending and receiving packages nicknamed "palomas" or "doves" sent via the supply pipes. He is a childhood friend of fellow trapped miner Pedro Cortez, who joined mine at same time.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Carlos Barrios

Job: 27 Job: Miner
Thirteenth miner to be rescued. Shift leader of Grupo Rampa. His mother Gricelda Godoy told La Tercera newspaper her son had said he did not want any more to do with the psychologist who has been working with the miners.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Carlos Mamani

Age: 24 Job: Heavy machinery operator
Fourth miner to be rescued. Only Bolivian in the group, had been working in the mine only five days before accident. His father-in-law told reporters that Mr Manami had been shocked and traumatised by what had happened and would not work in a mine again.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Claudio Acuna

Age: 35 Job: Miner
Twenty sixth miner to reach the surface. He had been working in the mine for three days when the accident happened. He was one of the palomeros for Grupo Rampa. His wife sent him a signed t-shirt from his favourite football team Colo Colo for his birthday.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Claudio Yanez

Age: 34 Job: Drill operator
Eighth miner to be rescued. His long term partner, Cristina Nunez, proposed to him in a letter sent down to the miners. He says they'll get married as soon as he is out. The couple have two daughters.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Daniel Herrera

Age: 27 Job: Lorry driver
Sixteenth miner to be rescued. Had role of paramedic's assistant while underground. In a letter to relatives he said the miners were unhappy with the psychologist, La Tercera reports: "Don't ask me any more about how I am feeling, because in the letter that I read... it felt like you were advising me via this 'doc'."

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Dario Segovia

Age: 48 Job: Drill Operator
Twentieth miner to be rescued. Dario's sister, Maria, has been dubbed La Alcaldesa - the Mayoress - for the leading role she has taken at Camp Hope. His elderly father, Dario Snr started taking his son down the mine when he was eight.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Edison Pena

Age: 34 Job: Miner
Twelfth miner to be rescued. A keen runner while he was down in the mine. He was a member of the Grupo Refugio. He had openly expressed his desperation in letters and videos to his girlfriend. In one he said: "I want to be free, I want to see the sun."

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Esteban Rojas

Age: 44 Job: In charge of maintenance
Eighteenth miner to be rescued. He had told his girlfriend of 25 years: "When I get out of here we'll buy you a wedding dress and get married in church."

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Florencio Avalos

Age: 31 Job: Driver
First miner to be rescued. He emerged from the capsule and hugged his seven-year-old son, his wife Monica then the Chilean president. Member of Grupo 105. He filmed videos to be sent up to rescuers. His brother Renan was also trapped.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Franklin Lobos

Age: 52 Job: Driver
Twenty seventh miner to be rescued. Member of Grupo Refugio. He is a former footballer in a local league. He received one of two signed t-shirts sent to the mine by Barcelona player David Villa, whose father and grandfather were miners.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Jimmy Sanchez

Age: 19 Job: Miner
Fifth miner to be rescued. He is the youngest of the 33 miners and had only worked as a miner for five months before the accident. Member of Grupo Rampa. He had role of checking the temperature and humidity in the mine. 
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Jorge Galleguillos

Age: 56 Job: Miner
Eleventh miner to be rescued. He was on medication for hypertension and said in one video he had been feeling unwell.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Jose Ojeda

Age: 48 Job: Master driller
Seventh miner to be rescued. He was greeted by his stepdaughter. Mr Ojeda received medication for diabetes while trapped. He wrote the message that alerted rescuers: "Estamos bien en el refugio los 33 - All 33 of us are safe in the shelter."
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Jose Henriquez

Age: 56 Job: Drill Master
Twenty fourth miner to reach the surface. Member of Grupo 105. He is an evangelical preacher and had the role of keeping spirits up. He has worked in mines for 33 years.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Juan Illanes

Age: 52 Job: Miner
Third miner to be rescued. Asked how his trip in the rescue capsule was, he replied: "Like a cruise!" Member of Grupo 105. Former corporal in Beagle border conflict between Chile and Argentina.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Juan Aguilar

Age: 49 Job: Supervisor
Twenty ninth miner to be rescued. He was greeted by his wife and two children as he left the rescue capsule. Member of Grupo 105. He is from the mining town of Los Lagos.




Luis Urzua

Age: 54 Job: Leader of shift - topographer
Thirty third and final miner to be rescued. Known as Don Lucho among miners on his shift. He organised the men into shifts and drew up plans of the area of the mine where they were trapped to help rescuers.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Mario Gomez

Age: 64 Job: Miner
Ninth miner to be brought out. He knelt in prayer and quietly said: "I have come back to life." Later, he said: "Sometimes you need something to happen in your life to really reflect and understand that we only have one life. I changed, I am a different person." He is the oldest of the group and has worked in mines since he was 12.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Mario Sepulveda

Age: 40 Job: Electrical specialist
Second miner to be rescued. He was heard shouting to his wife Elvira from inside the shaft. He told rescuers: "I was with God and

with the devil - and God took me." He added that he wanted to be treated as a miner, not as a celebrity. Mr Sepulveda had become a familiar personality on the miners' videos.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Omar Reygadas

Age: 56 Job: Bulldozer operator
Seventeenth miner to be rescued. After leaving the capsule, he  knelt on the ground clutching a bible. "He wants to have a meal of heart of veal with avocado and watch a lot of television," his family has told BBC Mundo. He was leader of the Grupo Refugio.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Osman Araya

Age: 30 Job: Miner
Sixth miner to be rescued. Hugged his wife Angelica as he left the capsule. He said: "Thankyou all to you have been helping us in this ordeal in the past few days." In one message from the mine, he said: "I will fight to the end to be with you." His role was one of palomeros for Grupo 105.
Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Pablo Rojas

Age: 45 Job: Miner
Nineteenth miner to be rescued. One of the palomeros for Grupo Refugio. He has worked in the mine for six months.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Pedro Cortez

Age: 26 Job: Miner
Thirty first miner to be rescued. He was member of Grupo Refugio. He reached the surface hours a few hours after childhood friend  Carlos Bugueno, who joined mine at same time.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Raul Bustos

Age: 40 Job: Hydraulics engineer
Thirtieth miner to be rescued. Left Talcahuano after earthquake to work in mine. After accident he was given job of setting up water supply system. He told his mother he was hungry and wanted to eat her seafood empanadas.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Renan Avalos

Age: 29 Job: Miner
Twenty fifth miner to be rescued. He was one of the palomeros for Grupo 105. Four months ago decided to come to work in the San Jose mine with his brother Florencio Avalos Silva - who was also trapped.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Richard Villarroel

Age: 26 Job: Mechanic
Twenty eighth miner to be rescued. He has worked in San Jose mine for two years. He is due to become a father in November.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Samuel Avalos

Age: 43 Job: Miner
Twenty-second miner to be rescued. Member of Grupo Rampa. He had role of checking air quality in the area where the miners were living. He had worked in the mine for five months.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Victor Segovia

Age: 48 Job: Electrician
Fifteenth miner to be rescued. Member of Grupo Rampa. He had role of giving daily report to rescuers. In letter to family said: "This hell is killing me. I try to be strong but when I sleep suddenly I dream we are in an oven and when I wake I find myself in this eternal darkness, that wears you down day by day."

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Victor Zamora

Age: 33 Job: Vehicle mechanic
Fourteenth miner to be rescued. One of palomeros for Grupo Rampa. Not normally in the mine but went inside on day of accident to repair a vehicle. He joked to his mother that he was happy in the hole because there was no-one to tell him to have a wash.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)


Yonni Barrios

Age: 50 Job: The "Doctor"
Twenty-first miner to be rescued. Member of Grupo Rampa. Knowledge of first aid from helping diabetic mother as a child means he was given responsibility for monitoring health of colleagues. In his letter to his wife he said he felt like he was in hell in first days after cave-in.

Watch his rescue (you will leave this page)







Continue reading the main story


Chile's Trapped Miners


As it happened


Graphics: Guide to rescue


New ordeal for miners? 


The winners



 The 33 miners - all Chileans except one miner from Bolivia - have a range of ages, experience and health conditions.
The men's health on the day of the rescue has been one of the key considerations for rescuers. First, they wanted the fittest with the most technical know-how, then the weakest, to be followed by the strongest characters who could cope with watching their colleagues leave the mine first.
Florencio Avalos was brought out first. Jimmy Sanchez, who had been showing signs of anxiety, was brought out fifth. He was the youngest miner at 19 and the father of a four-month-old baby.
The oldest of the group is Mario Gomez, 64, who has worked in the mines since the age of 12 and was thinking of retiring in November. He was the ninth to be brought out.
During their time underground, the miners split into three groups - Grupo Refugio, Grupo Rampa and Grupo 105, or the Refuge group, Ramp group and Group 105 - named after the shelter, the ramp and Level 105 sections of the 1km tunnel where they are trapped. 



Each group had a leader and they worked in shifts, as they did before the accident on 5 August. Meals were delivered by the supply bore holes in packages called "palomas" or doves. 
The  "palomas" have also carried medication, technical supplies, camp bed parts and messages to and from loved ones waiting on the surface.







More on This Story


Chile's Trapped Miners
	      



Features and analysis



As it happened

Coverage as it happened from the rescue of 33 trapped miners at the San Jose mine in Copiapo, Chile.




Graphics: Guide to rescue




New ordeal for miners? 




The winners




No job, little money




A 69-day shift from hell




In pictures: First rescues




Writing the miners' story




Family's diary







Background



Mine rescue timeline




Mental battle facing miners




Six steps to survival




Canny media operation at Chile mine







Audio and video



Three-three tearful reunions Watch




Passionate president's praise Watch







Have your say



Reaction from around the world









Around the BBC


Special report: Chile mine rescue



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Latin America & Caribbean stories
RSS




California bus crash kills eight

At least eight people are killed and dozens wounded after a tour bus, reportedly carrying passengers from Tijuana in Mexico, crashes in southern California.



Memorials for Brazil fire victims




Fidel Castro votes in election












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Charges over US sniper's murder


Cameron hosts Afghanistan talks









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Deadliest US sniper is shot dead



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: The twisted bones of Richard III



3: Can testosterone make you live longer?



4: Charges over US sniper's murder



5: Chris Huhne to resign as an MP



6: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



7: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



8: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



9: French target Mali rebel bases



10: Minecraft game nets £57m profit



Video/Audio




1: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



2: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



3: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



4: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch



5: Malala: 'I am getting better' Watch



6: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



7: Dutroux asks for early release Watch



8: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



9: Scores assemble at atheist church Watch



10: Cambodian king to be cremated Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





