BBC News - President Barack Obama defeats Romney to win re-election


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















7 November 2012
Last updated at 08:10 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





President Barack Obama defeats Romney to win re-election
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Barack Obama: "I have never been more hopeful"




Continue reading the main story


US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 President Barack Obama has been re-elected to a second term, defeating Republican challenger Mitt Romney.
America's first black president secured more than the 270 votes in the electoral college needed to win.
In his victory speech before supporters in Chicago, Mr Obama said he would talk to Mr Romney about "where we can work together to move this country forward".
Mr Obama prevailed despite lingering dissatisfaction with the economy and a hard-fought challenge by Mr Romney.
His Democrats also retained their majority in the Senate, which they have held since 2007.
Continue reading the main story








332

Barack Obama



206

Mitt Romney





                                California 55
                            

                                Colorado 9
                            

                                Connecticut 7
                            

                                District of Colombria 3
                            

                                Delaware 3
                            

                                Florida 29
                            

                                Hawaii 4
                            

                                Iowa 6
                            

                                Illinois 20
                            

                                Massachusetts 11
                            

                                Maryland 10
                            

                                Maine 4
                            

                                Michigan 16
                            

                                Minnesota 10
                            

                                Nebraska 0
                            

                                New Hampshire 4
                            

                                New Jersey 14
                            

                                New Mexico 5
                            

                                Nevada 6
                            

                                New York 29
                            

                                Ohio 18
                            

                                Oregon 7
                            

                                Pennsylvania 20
                            

                                Rhode Island 4
                            

                                Virginia 13
                            

                                Vermont 3
                            

                                Washington 12
                            

                                Wisconsin 10
                            


Alaska 3
Alabama 9
Arkansas 6
Arizona 11
Georgia 16
Idaho 4
Indiana 11
Kansas 6
Kentucky 8
Louisiana 8
Maine 0
Missouri 10
Mississippi 6
Montana 3
North Carolina 15
North Dakota 3
Nebraska 5
Oklahoma 7
South Carolina 9
South Dakota 3
Tennessee 11
Texas 38
Utah 6
West Virginia 5
Wyoming 3




Results in full

 The Republicans kept control of the House of Representatives, which analysts say will likely result in more of the gridlock that characterised Mr Obama's first term, with the House and the president at loggerheads on most legislation.
In his address, the president challenged his opponents, asking them to work with him.
With only Florida's 29 electoral votes still undecided, Mr Obama won 303 electoral votes to Mr Romney's 206.
The popular vote, which is symbolically and politically important but not decisive in the race, remains very close.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
Both candidates said this was a choice of two visions - America has chosen ”
End Quote



Mark Mardell North America editor





Read more from Mark

'One nation' speech
Mr Obama congratulated Mr Romney and Republican vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan on their hard-fought campaign.
"We have picked ourselves up, we have fought our way back and we know in our hearts that for the United States of America the best is yet to come," he said.
Mr Obama said he was returning to the White House "more determined, and more inspired than ever about the work there is to do, and the future that lies ahead".
He pledged to work with Republican leaders in Congress to reduce the government's budget deficit, fix the tax code and reform the immigration system.
"We are an American family and we rise and fall together as one nation," he said.
In Boston, where his campaign was based, Mr Romney congratulated the president and said he and Mr Ryan had "left everything on the field" and had given their all in the campaign.

Continue reading the main story US media reaction


Thomas L Friedman of the New York Times writes: "No one can know for sure what complex emotional chemistry tipped this election Obama's way… it came down to a majority of Americans believing that whatever his faults, Obama was trying his hardest to fix what ails the country."
Dan Balz of the Washington Post says: "Tuesday's election produced an uncertain mandate, although Obama will attempt to claim one. Obama offered a plan, but not one that deals directly with some of the problems he will have to confront immediately."
A Wall Street Journal opinion piece read: "[Obama] said little during the campaign about his first term and even less about his plans for a second. Instead his strategy was to portray Mitt Romney as a plutocrat… it worked with brutal efficiency - the definition of winning ugly."
Doyle McManus of the Los Angeles Times writes: "If we're lucky, we will find that we elected a different Obama from the one who won four years ago - not just a grayer Obama but a wiser one too."

 Referring to the struggling economy, Mr Romney said now was not the time for "partisan bickering and political posturing", and that Republicans and Democrats must "put people before politics".
"I so wish that I had been able to fulfil your hopes to lead the country in a different direction but the nation chose another leader and so I join with you to earnestly pray for [Mr Obama] and for this great nation," he said.
Under the US constitution, each state is given a number of electoral votes in rough proportion to its population. The candidate who wins 270 electoral votes - by prevailing in the mostly winner-takes-all state contests - becomes president.
On Tuesday, the president held the White House by assembling solid Democratic states and a number of important swing states such as Colorado, Iowa, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Minnesota, Virginia and Wisconsin. His narrow victory in Ohio, a critical Mid-Western swing state, sealed the victory.
In other key ballots:

 Referendums in Maine, Maryland and Washington state approved same-sex marriage, while a measure in Minnesota to block gay unions failed
 Colorado and Washington state voted to legalise recreational use of marijuana
 California voters rejected a proposal to abolish the death penalty
 In a referendum, Puerto Ricans voted in favour of becoming the 51st US state, if Congress approves the move. 
Billions spent
Mr Romney won North Carolina and Indiana, both of which Mr Obama won in 2008, as well as the solid Republican states. 

Continue reading the main story Reaction to the result


Analysis: A vote for the status quo
Peston: Does US election matter to us?
What Obama's win means for the world
World reaction to Obama's re-election
In pictures: US elects a president
Clash over 'fiscal cliff' looms

 But he was unable to win in Ohio or other states needed to breach the 270 threshold.
Also on Tuesday's ballot were 11 state governorships, a third of the seats in the 100-member US Senate and all 435 seats in the House of Representatives.
Mr Obama's victory came despite lingering high unemployment - 7.9% on election day - and tepid economic growth.
But voters gave him credit for his 2009 rescue of the US car industry among other policy accomplishments, and rewarded him for ordering the commando mission that killed Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan last year.
He and Mr Romney, as well as their respective allies, have spent more than $2bn (£1.25bn) - largely on adverts in swing states.

 



More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 890       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +9      rate this     +9   Comment number 150.  Binky  7th November 2012 - 9:54   126.Shaunie Babes 11 Minutes ago Ninety Three percent of Black voters voted for Obama.He was re-elected due to racism///////Exactly how much is left of the bottom of that barrel you're scraping from?    Report this comment (Comment number 150) Link to this (Comment number 150)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 149.  Adam  7th November 2012 - 9:54   This election had 2 very good candidates and I congratulate Mr Obama. But as a long time GOP supporter I think we have to ask the question; Where do the GOP go from here?Will they be able to tap into the Hispanic/African American vote in 2016, or is American heading for socialism and decades of Democrat rule? America 2 decades from now could be vastly different from what it is today.    Report this comment (Comment number 149) Link to this (Comment number 149)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 148.  Bastiat  7th November 2012 - 9:53   @133. ukblahWow. You're insinuating that Romney represents a policy of hate. That is alarming. I don't like Romney, or Obama, but I don't think Obama is much better than Romney.As for Obama's equality. Well, he has stated he is against gay marriage, but hey, as you said: "Obama = Equality AKA a fair chance for all to have the right to be equal".U wrote unequal but I think you mean equal?    Report this comment (Comment number 148) Link to this (Comment number 148)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 147.  paulthebadger  7th November 2012 - 9:53   It was either the idiot or the other one.They got the other one!    Report this comment (Comment number 147) Link to this (Comment number 147)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 146.  Shaunie Babes  7th November 2012 - 9:52   The last thing Obama  didn't deserve to win was a Nobel Peace prize    Report this comment (Comment number 146) Link to this (Comment number 146)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 145.  RYGnotB  7th November 2012 - 9:50   Congratulations Obama, and congratulations America for keeping a president who actually cares for his people.    Report this comment (Comment number 145) Link to this (Comment number 145)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 144.  Concerned  7th November 2012 - 9:50   I think as many do, that today is a good day for the world. Well done President Obama.    Report this comment (Comment number 144) Link to this (Comment number 144)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 143.  europhile  7th November 2012 - 9:49   Rejoice, celebrate, sing, dance, jump up and down, open Champagne, smoke a BIG cigar, have a party!Wonderful result, the world has been saved from another "Bushy"    Report this comment (Comment number 143) Link to this (Comment number 143)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 142.  slouching_towards_Bethlehem  7th November 2012 - 9:49   What a relief!The conservatives have done everything they can to obstruct Obama's agenda for moving America forward. Big business and the banks have failed to put America first. They should listen to the wisest thing that Romney said in his conceding speech, that big business should do the right thing and invest in America. They haven't earned the tax breaks or deregulation they are waiting for.    Report this comment (Comment number 142) Link to this (Comment number 142)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 141.  Alan  7th November 2012 - 9:48   So, he's been given a second chance. Good for America. You cannot expect someone to take office and solve all the wrongs in one fell swoop - a second chance is best.Congratulations to Obama and the Plucky loser, Mitt.    Report this comment (Comment number 141) Link to this (Comment number 141)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 140.  Vboulderer  7th November 2012 - 9:48   103.Andy_Pandy1968 Says it all!?!?!?!?Medicare for all, killing the worlds most wanted man (something the 'War president' couldn't manage), unemployment rates at a 44 month low, exit strategies from several wars (started by reps).Now that does say it all..............    Report this comment (Comment number 140) Link to this (Comment number 140)                 rate this     +64      rate this     +64   Comment number 139.  Avalon  Comment number 139 is an Editors' Pick 7th November 2012 - 9:47   I actually like Obama, and hes had a very trying time, and the current figures show that growth is starting to occur with the jobless numbers dropping month on month, which means companies are starting to hire.  hes also pushing through the social healthcare bill, which most of the western world has, maybe America is finally starting to grow up.    Report this comment (Comment number 139) Link to this (Comment number 139)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 138.  Tolvir  7th November 2012 - 9:47   It is amasing to me that a country can reflect such contrasting tendencies. They re-elect Obama, the right man for the job for a second term and earn the admiration of the world for their sound decision making.....and yet they still voted in GWB TWICE!!!!!!! Go figure.    Report this comment (Comment number 138) Link to this (Comment number 138)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 137.  sledger10  7th November 2012 - 9:47   Cameron's comments are idiotic!"Together we can kick start the world economy" - exactly who are YOU kidding Mr Cameron!!- You can't even kick start THIS ONE.Does Cameron think Obama is going to take anything he says seriously?! Nice try Dave, but you'll be GONE long before Barack me thinks! (and hopes!).    Report this comment (Comment number 137) Link to this (Comment number 137)                 rate this     +27      rate this     +27   Comment number 136.  Guzzie  Comment number 136 is an Editors' Pick 7th November 2012 - 9:47   Problem with USA elections is candidates can never be honest - the public don't want to hear the truth that the economy is crippled by massive debt run up by the previous generation and it needs paying down.The whole country has it's head in the sand on this.    Report this comment (Comment number 136) Link to this (Comment number 136)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 135.  Nick Ebrell  7th November 2012 - 9:47   Four more years to eradicate the world of nukes. Good luck!    Report this comment (Comment number 135) Link to this (Comment number 135)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 134.  JB  7th November 2012 - 9:44   Congratulations and a VICTORY for world peace. So what next now for the 50 shades of Mr Romney? The Republican Party has to re-energise itself, re-focus on things that matter to the electorate and get rid of the 'angry men with outdated views' that dominate the party. The demographics of the US has changed in the last 15 yrs hence the party has to reflect the population of the country.    Report this comment (Comment number 134) Link to this (Comment number 134)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 133.  ukblahblahblacksheep  7th November 2012 - 9:44   Obama = Equality AKA a fair chance for all to have the right to be unequalRomney= Accept the reality of CapitalismTrying to create a level playing field in a system that REQUIRES inequality to operate properly is a waste of time.Having said that... you have to start somewhere and Obama represents a more general hope which is at least better than hate.    Report this comment (Comment number 133) Link to this (Comment number 133)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 132.  HugeCanoe  7th November 2012 - 9:43   Expect a strong easterly wind as 70m Iranians have breathed a sigh of relief.While I have my reservations about Obama (and some of his remarks regarding the UK), he is clearly the best choice.    Report this comment (Comment number 132) Link to this (Comment number 132)                 rate this     +18      rate this     +18   Comment number 131.  PGB Addick  7th November 2012 - 9:42   It's different in the states. I'm a Liberal (conservative) voter in Australia, but the Republican party in the US have moved way to the right and are frankly a bunch of gun toting evangelistic nutjobs.The world has breathed a sigh of relief.    Report this comment (Comment number 131) Link to this (Comment number 131)         Page 38 of 45    Newer 1 ... 36 37 38 39 40 ... 45 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest US sniper is shot dead

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Malala recovering after operation



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



9: Car park dug up around parked car



10: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: The art looking death in the face Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



5: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



6: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



7: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: Corner shops get a makeover Watch



10: Timbuktu retaken 'without single shot' Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





