BBC News - Obama victorious, but not yet the master politician


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 19:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Mark Mardell

North America editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



Obama victorious, but not yet the master politician




Latest


What next?


Obama


Romney


Exit polls


Analysis


In pictures


Middle East





 






US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 Barack Obama has been re-elected president of the United States, defeating his Republican rival Mitt Romney. But the last four years have been a rocky ride for him, and a test of his leadership qualities.
It was the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico where I first really questioned Obama's political skills. 
Heading out in a speed-boat to see the oil spill, I felt exhilarated in the hot sun - the wind blowing spray in my face. 
I felt as excited as a little boy as I waded ashore a tiny island looking for tell-tale signs of rusty-red liquid among the puddles and reeds. 
I was pleased to find a restaurant owner, standing over a steaming vat of crawfish, explaining how the catastrophe threatened her business. 

“Start Quote
A politician needs to be able to go door-to-door with their wares”
End Quote
 There it is. It's not pretty, but I love my job - and sometimes it means covering situations that are dreadful for other people. 
Of course I wish they hadn't happened, but for me, they are an opportunity and - frankly - a thrill.
Some politicians feel the same. Those who get called "great", are the ones who seize whatever moment comes their way, make it their own, impose their will on it - indeed shape it - to make it better for their people. 
In the Gulf, Obama seemed curiously detached from the people. A president making a speech from the Oval Office is a big moment, and I watched it from a house on the shore, with the concerned owner, who was in the tourism business. 



It wasn't a bad speech - the president had said sensible things. But he hadn't wrought the phrases that make a nation lean forward on the sofa, or bring strong Americans to the point of tears. It was a bit ordinary. 
Until then, I had resisted the conclusion that he wasn't all that he was cracked up to be. The criticism seemed premature, and missing the point - he was elected to be different. 
So many of the attacks, then and now, are the puerile work of fantasists - that he was born in Kenya, is a communist revolutionary, or secretly a convert to Islam. 
They are attacks on an icon for daring to exist, and they make it easier to be over-generous in overlooking the flaws of the real man. 
He was accused of dithering before deciding what to do over Afghanistan. Much of the world might be relieved that he thought before acting. 









332

Barack Obama



206

Mitt Romney





                                California 55
                            

                                Colorado 9
                            

                                Connecticut 7
                            

                                District of Colombria 3
                            

                                Delaware 3
                            

                                Florida 29
                            

                                Hawaii 4
                            

                                Iowa 6
                            

                                Illinois 20
                            

                                Massachusetts 11
                            

                                Maryland 10
                            

                                Maine 4
                            

                                Michigan 16
                            

                                Minnesota 10
                            

                                Nebraska 0
                            

                                New Hampshire 4
                            

                                New Jersey 14
                            

                                New Mexico 5
                            

                                Nevada 6
                            

                                New York 29
                            

                                Ohio 18
                            

                                Oregon 7
                            

                                Pennsylvania 20
                            

                                Rhode Island 4
                            

                                Virginia 13
                            

                                Vermont 3
                            

                                Washington 12
                            

                                Wisconsin 10
                            


Alaska 3
Alabama 9
Arkansas 6
Arizona 11
Georgia 16
Idaho 4
Indiana 11
Kansas 6
Kentucky 8
Louisiana 8
Maine 0
Missouri 10
Mississippi 6
Montana 3
North Carolina 15
North Dakota 3
Nebraska 5
Oklahoma 7
South Carolina 9
South Dakota 3
Tennessee 11
Texas 38
Utah 6
West Virginia 5
Wyoming 3




Results in full

 Some expressed surprise that he tackled healthcare at the same time as the economic crisis - but if he was going to do something big, he had to start it in that first year. 
But it was clumsy in execution. The deal-making was grubby, Obama didn't impose his will with that false bonhomie, back-slapping and elbow-grabbing that is the heart of the dark art of handling Congress. 
It is curiously easy for someone with real power to awe these wily vain old men. Obama couldn't stoop. He barely conquered, and what emerged was an obscure compromise, hard to sell in a 10-second sound bite. 
On the anniversary of his victory, I sat around the kitchen table in student digs to hear the complaints of young people who had celebrated that night in Grant Park.
They were worried that he was too keen to use the troops, hadn't moved ahead on gay rights, or immigration. Fair enough. A leader of the left will often disappoint the left. 



During the mid-term elections, I travelled across the country, clutching that famous poster of hope, asking people if they still had any. Despite the state of the economy, many did. 
But it did not stop Obama getting what he called a "shellacking". Rarely have I seen a politicians so exposed, so bewildered, so raw. 
In a news conference he seemed, like Prince Hamlet, to rove the stage soliloquising on his failure. Hamlet surely was Shakespeare musing on what happened when a modern renaissance man ended up in an old-fashioned revenge tragedy. 
Thinking too precisely on the event, Obama concluded he had lost hold of the narrative. For a man who first intended to be a novelist - the only politician to create his own narrative even before he sought office - it was a sobering analysis, but accurate. 

“Start Quote
Perhaps he has found his groove. Perhaps I've just got used to his style”
End Quote
 Take the stimulus money. He wanted a "moonshot" - a symbolic high profile project, that would make America proud of the whole policy. Their step to the stars? 
Green energy. Immersed in detail, he forgot the big picture. 
Obama now dismissively calls Romney "a salesman". But a politician needs to be able to go door-to-door with their wares. 
This is why the first debate was such a defining moment. Rarely does a single event loom so large in an election. If Obama had lost, those 90 minutes would have been blamed.
It mattered, not because Obama lost and Romney won - as if it was some arm-wrestling contest - but because of what it seemed to show. 
But more than that - even supporters saw in Obama a lack they had long feared. He was hardly present, let alone presidential. He was dully dutiful, devoid of zest, zeal or zing.  


That was then: four years ago on the night of Obama's inauguration

His book, subtitled "reclaiming the American dream", was called The Audacity of Hope. And "audacity" means - according to my dictionary - intrepid, daring, adventurous, recklessly bold, marked by originality and verve.
Were the president of that debate to a write a book, it might be entitled The Aloofness of Lowered Expectations.
But there has been another vital moment in this election campaign - the moment Obama came off the trails to deal with the ravages of the great storm. 
It could be seen as the moment he won the election. A president in a raincoat, rather alone, coming down the steps of Air Force One, walking tall through the lashing rain. 
By stopping campaigning, he killed Romney's momentum and looked like a chief in command. Perhaps he has found his groove. Perhaps I've just got used to his style.  



For somebody who can be an amazing orator, Obama can also be a really dull one.
For the last few days of campaigning, he really pulled out all the stops and his victory rally was a classic. 

“Start Quote
I often feel that Obama is in office out of a burdensome sense of duty, not a selfish zest for the job”
End Quote
 When he takes on the cadences of a black preacher you know he is fired up and ready to go. But at other times he can be as unpersuasive and uninspired as a  long-winded professor in love with the sound of his own voice.
I'm tempted to say he can be lazy, but I doubt that it is that simple. Perhaps he just gets tired of the rather forced passion play that is the lot of a democratic leader, and believes too much in the force of rational argument. 
Here's the problem. Whether it's Sandy, or the Gulf, or the economy, in a complex modern world acting as a co-ordinator, allowing experts to do their job, may be the most grown-up and effective way of dealing with problems. 
I often feel that Obama is in office out of a burdensome sense of duty, not a selfish zest for the job. He is self-confident, which is not unusual in a senior politician. 
But he's also self-contained and balanced. He's the polar opposite of Bill Clinton.
He lacks the driving need to be loved, the craving to excel, the desperation for the warmth of human contact that compels Clinton to be a far better practitioner of the art of politics. 
Many Americans like to see the guy in the saddle, riding herd on a crisis, corralling it into some sort of shape and sense. 
People learn. Sometimes they learn just in time.

 





Article written by Mark Mardell
Mark Mardell

North America editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



@BBCMarkMardell via Twitter
BBC announces new programme presented by John Simpson "The Editors" asking - and answering - some big questions   http://t.co/blvHiCdX







More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 997       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -19      rate this     -19   Comment number 15.  MGary  8th November 2012 - 1:52   I have read Mark Mardell before. He seems like a typical fan of Barac Obama: out of touch, entrenched social/political views, and confused feelings.    Report this comment (Comment number 15) Link to this (Comment number 15)                 rate this     -16      rate this     -16   Comment number 10.   MagicKirin  8th November 2012 - 1:43   It is too bad you and Jonny along with the U.S Media never reported his failure, lack of resume or reporter the lies that the Obama campaign sold to the voting public.Marc you never came out and said Romney did pay his taxes, Bain was a good company that created jobs or that the U.S media was in the tank for Obama and refused to report Benhgazi or Fast and Furious    Report this comment (Comment number 10) Link to this (Comment number 10)                 rate this     -13      rate this     -13   Comment number 25.  MGary  8th November 2012 - 2:23   22. HungeryWalleye:"I agree with Christopher Hitchens, the chief problem of humans is insufficiently developed frontal lobes."Oh. Where did you find this? So barac obama fan like.    Report this comment (Comment number 25) Link to this (Comment number 25)                 rate this     -13      rate this     -13   Comment number 211.  AndreaNY  8th November 2012 - 10:45   155. Magic I read the NYT times and it contiues the false narrative of the war on woman and minorities. **The greatest damage done by the Obama campaign team was to carve Americans into factions (ex., women, Hispanics, etc.) and pit them against white males, Catholic Church, etc.He had to shatter the country into pieces to win. Like a kind of democratic tribalism, warring against outsiders.    Report this comment (Comment number 211) Link to this (Comment number 211)                 rate this     -11      rate this     -11   Comment number 290.  nilbymouth  8th November 2012 - 12:14   World's least intelligent electorate elects world's least intelligent presidents. Fortunately, this time 2nd least intelligent got in. Lived beyond their means for 40 years, totally reliant on foreign bond purchasers just like us in the UK. Structural deficit has to be addressed sooner or later. Gay marriage, abortion; issues only rich countries can afford to indulge. And they ain't rich anymore.    Report this comment (Comment number 290) Link to this (Comment number 290)         Comments 5 of 997    Show more       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Malala recovering after operation



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



9: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



10: Man charged with Sasha's murder



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: The art looking death in the face Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



8: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





