BBC News - Obama victorious, but not yet the master politician


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















7 November 2012
Last updated at 19:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Mark Mardell

North America editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



Obama victorious, but not yet the master politician




Latest


What next?


Obama


Romney


Exit polls


Analysis


In pictures


Middle East





 






US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 Barack Obama has been re-elected president of the United States, defeating his Republican rival Mitt Romney. But the last four years have been a rocky ride for him, and a test of his leadership qualities.
It was the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico where I first really questioned Obama's political skills. 
Heading out in a speed-boat to see the oil spill, I felt exhilarated in the hot sun - the wind blowing spray in my face. 
I felt as excited as a little boy as I waded ashore a tiny island looking for tell-tale signs of rusty-red liquid among the puddles and reeds. 
I was pleased to find a restaurant owner, standing over a steaming vat of crawfish, explaining how the catastrophe threatened her business. 

“Start Quote
A politician needs to be able to go door-to-door with their wares”
End Quote
 There it is. It's not pretty, but I love my job - and sometimes it means covering situations that are dreadful for other people. 
Of course I wish they hadn't happened, but for me, they are an opportunity and - frankly - a thrill.
Some politicians feel the same. Those who get called "great", are the ones who seize whatever moment comes their way, make it their own, impose their will on it - indeed shape it - to make it better for their people. 
In the Gulf, Obama seemed curiously detached from the people. A president making a speech from the Oval Office is a big moment, and I watched it from a house on the shore, with the concerned owner, who was in the tourism business. 



It wasn't a bad speech - the president had said sensible things. But he hadn't wrought the phrases that make a nation lean forward on the sofa, or bring strong Americans to the point of tears. It was a bit ordinary. 
Until then, I had resisted the conclusion that he wasn't all that he was cracked up to be. The criticism seemed premature, and missing the point - he was elected to be different. 
So many of the attacks, then and now, are the puerile work of fantasists - that he was born in Kenya, is a communist revolutionary, or secretly a convert to Islam. 
They are attacks on an icon for daring to exist, and they make it easier to be over-generous in overlooking the flaws of the real man. 
He was accused of dithering before deciding what to do over Afghanistan. Much of the world might be relieved that he thought before acting. 









332

Barack Obama



206

Mitt Romney





                                California 55
                            

                                Colorado 9
                            

                                Connecticut 7
                            

                                District of Colombria 3
                            

                                Delaware 3
                            

                                Florida 29
                            

                                Hawaii 4
                            

                                Iowa 6
                            

                                Illinois 20
                            

                                Massachusetts 11
                            

                                Maryland 10
                            

                                Maine 4
                            

                                Michigan 16
                            

                                Minnesota 10
                            

                                Nebraska 0
                            

                                New Hampshire 4
                            

                                New Jersey 14
                            

                                New Mexico 5
                            

                                Nevada 6
                            

                                New York 29
                            

                                Ohio 18
                            

                                Oregon 7
                            

                                Pennsylvania 20
                            

                                Rhode Island 4
                            

                                Virginia 13
                            

                                Vermont 3
                            

                                Washington 12
                            

                                Wisconsin 10
                            


Alaska 3
Alabama 9
Arkansas 6
Arizona 11
Georgia 16
Idaho 4
Indiana 11
Kansas 6
Kentucky 8
Louisiana 8
Maine 0
Missouri 10
Mississippi 6
Montana 3
North Carolina 15
North Dakota 3
Nebraska 5
Oklahoma 7
South Carolina 9
South Dakota 3
Tennessee 11
Texas 38
Utah 6
West Virginia 5
Wyoming 3




Results in full

 Some expressed surprise that he tackled healthcare at the same time as the economic crisis - but if he was going to do something big, he had to start it in that first year. 
But it was clumsy in execution. The deal-making was grubby, Obama didn't impose his will with that false bonhomie, back-slapping and elbow-grabbing that is the heart of the dark art of handling Congress. 
It is curiously easy for someone with real power to awe these wily vain old men. Obama couldn't stoop. He barely conquered, and what emerged was an obscure compromise, hard to sell in a 10-second sound bite. 
On the anniversary of his victory, I sat around the kitchen table in student digs to hear the complaints of young people who had celebrated that night in Grant Park.
They were worried that he was too keen to use the troops, hadn't moved ahead on gay rights, or immigration. Fair enough. A leader of the left will often disappoint the left. 



During the mid-term elections, I travelled across the country, clutching that famous poster of hope, asking people if they still had any. Despite the state of the economy, many did. 
But it did not stop Obama getting what he called a "shellacking". Rarely have I seen a politicians so exposed, so bewildered, so raw. 
In a news conference he seemed, like Prince Hamlet, to rove the stage soliloquising on his failure. Hamlet surely was Shakespeare musing on what happened when a modern renaissance man ended up in an old-fashioned revenge tragedy. 
Thinking too precisely on the event, Obama concluded he had lost hold of the narrative. For a man who first intended to be a novelist - the only politician to create his own narrative even before he sought office - it was a sobering analysis, but accurate. 

“Start Quote
Perhaps he has found his groove. Perhaps I've just got used to his style”
End Quote
 Take the stimulus money. He wanted a "moonshot" - a symbolic high profile project, that would make America proud of the whole policy. Their step to the stars? 
Green energy. Immersed in detail, he forgot the big picture. 
Obama now dismissively calls Romney "a salesman". But a politician needs to be able to go door-to-door with their wares. 
This is why the first debate was such a defining moment. Rarely does a single event loom so large in an election. If Obama had lost, those 90 minutes would have been blamed.
It mattered, not because Obama lost and Romney won - as if it was some arm-wrestling contest - but because of what it seemed to show. 
But more than that - even supporters saw in Obama a lack they had long feared. He was hardly present, let alone presidential. He was dully dutiful, devoid of zest, zeal or zing.  


That was then: four years ago on the night of Obama's inauguration

His book, subtitled "reclaiming the American dream", was called The Audacity of Hope. And "audacity" means - according to my dictionary - intrepid, daring, adventurous, recklessly bold, marked by originality and verve.
Were the president of that debate to a write a book, it might be entitled The Aloofness of Lowered Expectations.
But there has been another vital moment in this election campaign - the moment Obama came off the trails to deal with the ravages of the great storm. 
It could be seen as the moment he won the election. A president in a raincoat, rather alone, coming down the steps of Air Force One, walking tall through the lashing rain. 
By stopping campaigning, he killed Romney's momentum and looked like a chief in command. Perhaps he has found his groove. Perhaps I've just got used to his style.  



For somebody who can be an amazing orator, Obama can also be a really dull one.
For the last few days of campaigning, he really pulled out all the stops and his victory rally was a classic. 

“Start Quote
I often feel that Obama is in office out of a burdensome sense of duty, not a selfish zest for the job”
End Quote
 When he takes on the cadences of a black preacher you know he is fired up and ready to go. But at other times he can be as unpersuasive and uninspired as a  long-winded professor in love with the sound of his own voice.
I'm tempted to say he can be lazy, but I doubt that it is that simple. Perhaps he just gets tired of the rather forced passion play that is the lot of a democratic leader, and believes too much in the force of rational argument. 
Here's the problem. Whether it's Sandy, or the Gulf, or the economy, in a complex modern world acting as a co-ordinator, allowing experts to do their job, may be the most grown-up and effective way of dealing with problems. 
I often feel that Obama is in office out of a burdensome sense of duty, not a selfish zest for the job. He is self-confident, which is not unusual in a senior politician. 
But he's also self-contained and balanced. He's the polar opposite of Bill Clinton.
He lacks the driving need to be loved, the craving to excel, the desperation for the warmth of human contact that compels Clinton to be a far better practitioner of the art of politics. 
Many Americans like to see the guy in the saddle, riding herd on a crisis, corralling it into some sort of shape and sense. 
People learn. Sometimes they learn just in time.

 





Article written by Mark Mardell
Mark Mardell

North America editor

More from Mark
Follow Mark on Twitter



@BBCMarkMardell via Twitter
BBC announces new programme presented by John Simpson "The Editors" asking - and answering - some big questions   http://t.co/blvHiCdX







More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch













       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 997       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 997.  John_From_Dublin  9th November 2012 - 21:41   992 AndreaNY ‘Why people keep expecting O to change when it comes to fiscal responsibility is beyond me. Structural economic problems are beyond his capabilities’That's it Andrea.  You just keep on campaigning for your hero, Mittens. One day soon the electorate will realise the error of their ways and see you were right all along. Romney/Ryan in 2016! And when they lose again – 2020!    Report this comment (Comment number 997) Link to this (Comment number 997)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 996.  All for All  9th November 2012 - 21:16   MagicKirin@993All could belongProperty law 2-edgedDon't think public servants push-oversBest settleSome kids 'above study', work 'enough to take-over from Dad'Non-business families, able head for profession, science, art, life-times of study, teaching, serviceThose who went for commerce, less able, some rise, most 'bump along', laughing in booms, grumbling in bustsPlayers, ALL needed    Report this comment (Comment number 996) Link to this (Comment number 996)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 995.  Curt Carpenter  9th November 2012 - 21:08   AndreaNY@992"End of story."If that's true Andrea, why continue to get so worked up about it?   Are you going to spend the next 4 years with churning bowels and non-stop bitterness?Why not get to work and help bring some constructive common sense back to the GOP?  Better that than what you're doing.  We already know who -- and what -- you are.  Time for you to grow a little, isn't it?    Report this comment (Comment number 995) Link to this (Comment number 995)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 994.  DavidinUSA  9th November 2012 - 20:42   Over-taxing the rich is biting the hand that feeds you.The Trumps & Kennedys won’t be worried – super-rich can afford good tax lawyers.  The extra taxes will hit local restaurant owners, family doctors, dentists & other supposedly “evil rich people”.  Obama peddles the politics of envy, without funds to bail out those to whom he owes big political debts.  It will all end in tears.    Report this comment (Comment number 994) Link to this (Comment number 994)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 993.   MagicKirin  9th November 2012 - 20:40   ref #957Simple math. More tax revenue means less need to cut entitlements. Rich pay more, as they can afford to, so poor are not totally in the weeds____Lets look at CA where they have just passed  a question which will raise taxes to pay for the goverment. Why don't goverment workers take a major cut to pay their fair share.    Report this comment (Comment number 993) Link to this (Comment number 993)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 992.  AndreaNY  9th November 2012 - 20:38   988. DavidinUSA Humour is the only way to survive Obama's rhetoric. ***Which sounds remarkably the same.  Analysts expecting something new and big from him were quite disappointed.  Why people keep expecting O to change when it comes to fiscal responsibility is beyond me.  Structural economic problems are beyond his capabilities.    Tax the rich. Birth control coverage.  End of story.    Report this comment (Comment number 992) Link to this (Comment number 992)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 991.  All for All  9th November 2012 - 20:32   DavidinUSA @974When serious?Was the plight of parents @974 part of "humour", along with Santa?And the plight of a graduate with no job also "funny"?Are you amongst US patriot-geniuses just waiting for a Rep President to unleash your ideas, to win investment, to help your countrymen?Now too obsessive to risk for yourself a larger slice - in percentage poorer - of a larger healthier cake?    Report this comment (Comment number 991) Link to this (Comment number 991)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 990.  AndreaNY  9th November 2012 - 20:27   987. DenverGuest Recession is not the time to cut spending. ***Sure, and deficits don't matter.  Still pretty much dem silly season on spending.  I shudder to think when you would actually find it the "right" time. Please define the "right time". What measures would indicate it's the "right time"?(God, I miss Romney.)    Report this comment (Comment number 990) Link to this (Comment number 990)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 989.   MagicKirin  9th November 2012 - 20:20   ref #985How this higher taxes on the $250K net earners not small businessmajor cuts in spending eliminations of PLAs on all goverment levals and ending of all goverment pensions for non essentials for the next 10 years    Report this comment (Comment number 989) Link to this (Comment number 989)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 988.  DavidinUSA  9th November 2012 - 20:19   #982 AndreaNY “Santa's North Pole was closed down for lack of funds. All the elves have been laid off...now receiving food stamps.”Well said, Andrea.   Humour is the only way to survive Obama's rhetoric. To all the jobless, Obama-voting 20-and 30- somethings watching Scooby in their parents’ basements – let’s hope there’s a new round of “Occupy” protests soon.    Report this comment (Comment number 988) Link to this (Comment number 988)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 987.  DenverGuest  9th November 2012 - 20:17   983.DavidinUSA Recession is not the time to cut spending. Look at the example of WWII and the end of the Great Depression. It took the war and massive gov't spending to lift us up out of the Depression. We tackle the debt when everything is more stable.    Report this comment (Comment number 987) Link to this (Comment number 987)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 986.  AndreaNY  9th November 2012 - 20:17   970. Magic ref #897I am not sure what the Repubs could have done to convince some of the electorate including posters like Kingsley who refuse to consider a Repub. ***Obama spent trillions to get re-elected.  He will be now president without money to burn.  Let nature run its course.The problem for Obama has always been when the money runs out.    Report this comment (Comment number 986) Link to this (Comment number 986)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 985.  mscracker  9th November 2012 - 20:16   @944.beammeup,Thank you for your comments.Hope you have a great weekend ahead.    Report this comment (Comment number 985) Link to this (Comment number 985)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 984.  All for All  9th November 2012 - 20:08   MagicKirin@976Still thinking!GoodBut reach across aisle!Not wrong to imply that 'legal pensions' (& salary scales), public & private, are fraudulent - whether grotesquely 'guaranteed', or grotesquely 'back-of-the-queue market-fluctuation-based'As a pensioner I would gladly settle for lower, given secure equality for all. Reps have to come half-way, for equality, to end dysfunctional see-saw    Report this comment (Comment number 984) Link to this (Comment number 984)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 983.  DavidinUSA  9th November 2012 - 20:07   #977.DenverGuest "You sound like one of the 47% asking Santa for a handout"Santa Obama promises to bail out America.  Great intentions, but the money to do so isn't there. Even to tread water, with a crumbling infrastructure & mass homeless on urban streets, the US is overspending by trillions.  When fiat currency eventually meets reality, it'll be lights out for Obama & the Dems.    Report this comment (Comment number 983) Link to this (Comment number 983)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 982.  AndreaNY  9th November 2012 - 20:07   974. DavidinUSA Can you help, Santa?**Santa's North Pole was closed down for lack of funds.  All the elves have been laid off.  They are now receiving food stamps.  Santa's waiting until Christmas morning to tell the kids.It's now Christmas morning.    Report this comment (Comment number 982) Link to this (Comment number 982)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 981.   MagicKirin  9th November 2012 - 20:00   ref #975How about if the taxes are raised on the so called rich, Union leaders are asked to forgo their salaries and be paid what their members make.  Let all goverment employees take a cut in their pay.  And let well off people like Sandra Fluke pay for her own birth control pills    Report this comment (Comment number 981) Link to this (Comment number 981)     Comment number 980.  Removed  9th November 2012 - 19:58    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 980) Link to this (Comment number 980)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 979.  All for All  9th November 2012 - 19:58   DavidinUSA @974Sorry to read plightForget past intentions, those who laid foundations, your parents who helped build, and you after 28 years given to study, SHOULD have the security of belonging: minimum being 'social security' & 'health cover', like US military, the best - no middle-men corrupting careYou write well. Think better of fellow-citizens, and together you will fly    Report this comment (Comment number 979) Link to this (Comment number 979)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 978.  meister  9th November 2012 - 19:54   sometimes a good leader must be characterized by the behind the scene tactical display of control. it may seem americans are used to the opposite. americans are simply used to leaders coming on TV and showing some absurd display of control of the situation rather than being realistic.it's no wonder Obama suddenly seem odd to people.    Report this comment (Comment number 978) Link to this (Comment number 978)         Page 1 of 50    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 50 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Mars rover hammers down into rock



6: Malala recovering after operation



7: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



8: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



9: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



10: Man charged with Sasha's murder



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: The art looking death in the face Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



6: Apology over police beating footage Watch



7: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



8: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



9: Last orders for snake soup? Watch



10: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





