BBC News - President Barack Obama defeats Romney to win re-election


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















7 November 2012
Last updated at 08:10 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





President Barack Obama defeats Romney to win re-election
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Barack Obama: "I have never been more hopeful"




Continue reading the main story


US Presidential Election 2012


Five challenges facing the president


Exit polls explain Obama win


What Obama must do next


What next for US Republicans?



 President Barack Obama has been re-elected to a second term, defeating Republican challenger Mitt Romney.
America's first black president secured more than the 270 votes in the electoral college needed to win.
In his victory speech before supporters in Chicago, Mr Obama said he would talk to Mr Romney about "where we can work together to move this country forward".
Mr Obama prevailed despite lingering dissatisfaction with the economy and a hard-fought challenge by Mr Romney.
His Democrats also retained their majority in the Senate, which they have held since 2007.
Continue reading the main story








332

Barack Obama



206

Mitt Romney





                                California 55
                            

                                Colorado 9
                            

                                Connecticut 7
                            

                                District of Colombria 3
                            

                                Delaware 3
                            

                                Florida 29
                            

                                Hawaii 4
                            

                                Iowa 6
                            

                                Illinois 20
                            

                                Massachusetts 11
                            

                                Maryland 10
                            

                                Maine 4
                            

                                Michigan 16
                            

                                Minnesota 10
                            

                                Nebraska 0
                            

                                New Hampshire 4
                            

                                New Jersey 14
                            

                                New Mexico 5
                            

                                Nevada 6
                            

                                New York 29
                            

                                Ohio 18
                            

                                Oregon 7
                            

                                Pennsylvania 20
                            

                                Rhode Island 4
                            

                                Virginia 13
                            

                                Vermont 3
                            

                                Washington 12
                            

                                Wisconsin 10
                            


Alaska 3
Alabama 9
Arkansas 6
Arizona 11
Georgia 16
Idaho 4
Indiana 11
Kansas 6
Kentucky 8
Louisiana 8
Maine 0
Missouri 10
Mississippi 6
Montana 3
North Carolina 15
North Dakota 3
Nebraska 5
Oklahoma 7
South Carolina 9
South Dakota 3
Tennessee 11
Texas 38
Utah 6
West Virginia 5
Wyoming 3




Results in full

 The Republicans kept control of the House of Representatives, which analysts say will likely result in more of the gridlock that characterised Mr Obama's first term, with the House and the president at loggerheads on most legislation.
In his address, the president challenged his opponents, asking them to work with him.
With only Florida's 29 electoral votes still undecided, Mr Obama won 303 electoral votes to Mr Romney's 206.
The popular vote, which is symbolically and politically important but not decisive in the race, remains very close.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
Both candidates said this was a choice of two visions - America has chosen ”
End Quote



Mark Mardell North America editor





Read more from Mark

'One nation' speech
Mr Obama congratulated Mr Romney and Republican vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan on their hard-fought campaign.
"We have picked ourselves up, we have fought our way back and we know in our hearts that for the United States of America the best is yet to come," he said.
Mr Obama said he was returning to the White House "more determined, and more inspired than ever about the work there is to do, and the future that lies ahead".
He pledged to work with Republican leaders in Congress to reduce the government's budget deficit, fix the tax code and reform the immigration system.
"We are an American family and we rise and fall together as one nation," he said.
In Boston, where his campaign was based, Mr Romney congratulated the president and said he and Mr Ryan had "left everything on the field" and had given their all in the campaign.

Continue reading the main story US media reaction


Thomas L Friedman of the New York Times writes: "No one can know for sure what complex emotional chemistry tipped this election Obama's way… it came down to a majority of Americans believing that whatever his faults, Obama was trying his hardest to fix what ails the country."
Dan Balz of the Washington Post says: "Tuesday's election produced an uncertain mandate, although Obama will attempt to claim one. Obama offered a plan, but not one that deals directly with some of the problems he will have to confront immediately."
A Wall Street Journal opinion piece read: "[Obama] said little during the campaign about his first term and even less about his plans for a second. Instead his strategy was to portray Mitt Romney as a plutocrat… it worked with brutal efficiency - the definition of winning ugly."
Doyle McManus of the Los Angeles Times writes: "If we're lucky, we will find that we elected a different Obama from the one who won four years ago - not just a grayer Obama but a wiser one too."

 Referring to the struggling economy, Mr Romney said now was not the time for "partisan bickering and political posturing", and that Republicans and Democrats must "put people before politics".
"I so wish that I had been able to fulfil your hopes to lead the country in a different direction but the nation chose another leader and so I join with you to earnestly pray for [Mr Obama] and for this great nation," he said.
Under the US constitution, each state is given a number of electoral votes in rough proportion to its population. The candidate who wins 270 electoral votes - by prevailing in the mostly winner-takes-all state contests - becomes president.
On Tuesday, the president held the White House by assembling solid Democratic states and a number of important swing states such as Colorado, Iowa, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Minnesota, Virginia and Wisconsin. His narrow victory in Ohio, a critical Mid-Western swing state, sealed the victory.
In other key ballots:

 Referendums in Maine, Maryland and Washington state approved same-sex marriage, while a measure in Minnesota to block gay unions failed
 Colorado and Washington state voted to legalise recreational use of marijuana
 California voters rejected a proposal to abolish the death penalty
 In a referendum, Puerto Ricans voted in favour of becoming the 51st US state, if Congress approves the move. 
Billions spent
Mr Romney won North Carolina and Indiana, both of which Mr Obama won in 2008, as well as the solid Republican states. 

Continue reading the main story Reaction to the result


Analysis: A vote for the status quo
Peston: Does US election matter to us?
What Obama's win means for the world
World reaction to Obama's re-election
In pictures: US elects a president
Clash over 'fiscal cliff' looms

 But he was unable to win in Ohio or other states needed to breach the 270 threshold.
Also on Tuesday's ballot were 11 state governorships, a third of the seats in the 100-member US Senate and all 435 seats in the House of Representatives.
Mr Obama's victory came despite lingering high unemployment - 7.9% on election day - and tepid economic growth.
But voters gave him credit for his 2009 rescue of the US car industry among other policy accomplishments, and rewarded him for ordering the commando mission that killed Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan last year.
He and Mr Romney, as well as their respective allies, have spent more than $2bn (£1.25bn) - largely on adverts in swing states.

 



More on This Story


US Presidential Election 2012
	      






Five challenges facing the president

Now that the election has passed, what are top five challenges in the president's in-tray?




Exit polls explain Obama win




What Obama must do next




What next for US Republicans?




Women are the new majority







Background



Obama profile




Romney profile




Meet the Veeps




Candidates' lives in pictures




The power of the Latino vote 




Levittown: A suburb at 60







Mark Mardell



Republicans hector 'turncoat' Hagel







Jonny Dymond



Obama seeks gun reform solution







Video



Moment Obama won Watch




Romney admits electoral defeat Watch




Crowds celebrate as Obama re-elected Watch




Millions of Americans turn out to vote Watch

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 890       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 130.  Chris London  7th November 2012 - 9:42   103.Andy_Pandy1968 Unfortunatley that is all American voters are at present,Interesting interview with one of Obama's campaign people, when asked what achievement they were most proud of during his first term, couldn't come up with anything...... awkward silence....... "his re-election"Says it all.....    Report this comment (Comment number 130) Link to this (Comment number 130)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 129.  Thejumble  7th November 2012 - 9:37   @20...oh and Mitt Romney loves the UK does he? Obama was the only intelligent choice, MR is a complete fool and a dangerous person to have in the White House...it would be like having Bush again    Report this comment (Comment number 129) Link to this (Comment number 129)                 rate this     -17      rate this     -17   Comment number 128.  Bastiat  7th November 2012 - 9:42   More Obama = more of the same:War, Borrowing, Spending, Nationalisation, QE Printing Money.Watch the US plunge further into the economic abyss.*I'm not saying Romney would have been any better, but Obama is a devil we definitely know.    Report this comment (Comment number 128) Link to this (Comment number 128)                 rate this     -7      rate this     -7   Comment number 127.  hudsonmohicaine  7th November 2012 - 9:42   Congratulations Mr.Puppet, you won with panache over the competing Mr.Puppet. Please nobody fool themselves, this changes nothing.    Report this comment (Comment number 127) Link to this (Comment number 127)     Comment number 126.  Shaunie Babes  7th November 2012 - 9:41    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 126) Link to this (Comment number 126)                 rate this     +12      rate this     +12   Comment number 125.  Confuciousfred  7th November 2012 - 9:41   Thank goodness for this win by Obama, the USA and the World. Obama has achieved so much in 4 years, it would have been sheer folly to choose otherwise. He has rescued the economy from the brink of collapse, brought the boys back from Iraq and is about to do the same in Afghanistan, not to mention catching Bin Laden.    Report this comment (Comment number 125) Link to this (Comment number 125)                 rate this     -35      rate this     -35   Comment number 124.  regjay  7th November 2012 - 9:40   Now Mr Obama should produce his birth certificate to quash all the rumours that he is NOT an American. Meantime, nuffin will change in America who ever became President.China should start buying up chunks of the USA.    Report this comment (Comment number 124) Link to this (Comment number 124)                 rate this     -24      rate this     -24   Comment number 123.  Mike  7th November 2012 - 9:39   Now the election is over - perhaps now we can get the truth about Libya.Obama managed to stir up trouble across the middle east - where is he going to try next.When is he going to get off the fence and take action to unite the country instead of carrying out the present disasterouse policies.    Report this comment (Comment number 123) Link to this (Comment number 123)                 rate this     -5      rate this     -5   Comment number 122.  Wilberfalse  7th November 2012 - 9:38   Does it  make the slightest difference who they (or we) elect?The rich get richer and the poor poorer, while the planet goes down the drain in an orgy of human, self-destruction.. . .    Report this comment (Comment number 122) Link to this (Comment number 122)                 rate this     +44      rate this     +44   Comment number 121.  Andy_Pandy1968  7th November 2012 - 9:38   As a Brit abroad, I heard the news on the radio through a p.a system in a supermarket in Australia about 4am GMT. 'Yes' I yelped, almost like I'd won something, and almost like an emotional American! The man further down the aisle smiled at me and said, 'that's a relief'.That kind of sums it up to me!    Report this comment (Comment number 121) Link to this (Comment number 121)     Comment number 120.  cv  7th November 2012 - 9:38    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 120) Link to this (Comment number 120)                 rate this     +17      rate this     +17   Comment number 119.  KalOverseas  7th November 2012 - 9:38   Thanks to Romney for a courteous concession speech.Thanks to the Republican gathering for a gracious reaction to the speech.Above all, thanks to every person that voted Democrat to allow Obama to steer the USA in a direction that is derived using intelligence based on facts.    Report this comment (Comment number 119) Link to this (Comment number 119)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 118.  sledger10  7th November 2012 - 9:36   Brilliant!!Watched it all up to 4.20 when Ohio was won and Obama home and dry.However some may say that Romney did badly - he did! Not one of the swing states has gone his way - including Florida which is all but called for Obama (Jeb Bush tweeted Romney had lost Florida, as good as).Obama now has the chance to get tough and aggressive in his second term! Do it my man!    Report this comment (Comment number 118) Link to this (Comment number 118)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 117.  Chris Brown  7th November 2012 - 9:36   "Obama, we copy you in the White House. You got a bunch of guys about to turn blue.   We're breathing again. Thanks a lot."Tranquillity, compared to the other possibility.    Report this comment (Comment number 117) Link to this (Comment number 117)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 116.  sannudayiki  7th November 2012 - 9:35   Thank goodness, the lunatics haven't taken over the asylum after all.  And now for our own lunatics... there must be some way we can bring the next election forward before they do any more damage.    Report this comment (Comment number 116) Link to this (Comment number 116)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 115.  Perpetual Sigh  7th November 2012 - 9:35   71. UKStinks "Makes me laugh all these comments that actually believe the president is the one that makes the decisions in the US. He is just a puppet like the UK Prim Minister Cameron. Just a front man for the decisions made by the policy makers."Obama has more power than you think. Private central banks can only decide how much money there is, not what it's spent on. Obama does that.    Report this comment (Comment number 115) Link to this (Comment number 115)                 rate this     +7      rate this     +7   Comment number 114.  Sir-Clop  7th November 2012 - 9:34   It's amazes me how the Republicans still manage to attract all the knuckle draggers, thank god for Obama.    Report this comment (Comment number 114) Link to this (Comment number 114)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 113.  shillo  7th November 2012 - 9:34   One Republican analyst stated on TV this am that the Republicans had underestimated the possible effect of Hispanic and African American turnout on the outcome.Just goes to show that the analysts are as out of touch with 'ordinary Americans' as Mitt and his wife appeared.At least now the Romney's can concentrate on getting the Welsh Cake recipe right.    Report this comment (Comment number 113) Link to this (Comment number 113)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 112.  laughingdevil  7th November 2012 - 9:34   What can you say, other than the lesser of the 2 evils won? Obama has not done a great job, or even a good one. But Romney was a disaster waiting to happen, or waiting for his chance to make a disaster W style! Obama now deserves his peace price simply for keeping Romneys Fingers away from "the button"!    Report this comment (Comment number 112) Link to this (Comment number 112)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 111.  Chris London  7th November 2012 - 9:32   88.Milton Keynes You have to be fare in a resent poll most people recognised Edd Miliband - they thought he was the comedian who plays Everyone loves Raymond.Well they were 50% coorect.    Report this comment (Comment number 111) Link to this (Comment number 111)         Page 39 of 45    Newer 1 ... 37 38 39 40 41 ... 45 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest US sniper is shot dead

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Malala recovering after surgery


Deadliest US sniper is shot dead


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Car park dug up around parked car



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: French jets bomb northern Mali 



3: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



4: Mars rover hammers down into rock



5: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



6: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



9: Malala recovering after operation



10: Man charged with Sasha's murder



Video/Audio




1: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



2: The art looking death in the face Watch



3: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



4: Pencil drawings amaze art critics Watch



5: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



6: Acid attack victim recalls ordeal Watch



7: Thousands gather for Groundhog Day Watch



8: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



9: Corner shops get a makeover Watch



10: Timbuktu retaken 'without single shot' Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





