BBC News - Hillary Clinton defends handling of Benghazi attack


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















23 January 2013
Last updated at 17:15 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Hillary Clinton defends handling of Benghazi attack
 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Hillary Clinton: "What difference, at this point, does it make?"



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Kerry named for top Obama post


Report condemns Benghazi failings


Clinton discharged from hospital



Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has angrily defended her handling of the raid on a US consulate in Libya, in back-to-back hearings on Capitol Hill.
Mrs Clinton lashed out at a senator who accused the Obama administration of misleading the public.
She took responsibility for security failures that led to the 11 September attack but said she had not seen requests for more security beforehand.
It was her last appearance at Congress as America's top diplomat.
"Nobody is more committed to getting this right," Mrs Clinton told the Senate foreign relations committee.
"I am determined to leave the state department and our country safer, stronger and more secure," she added.
Emotional testimony
She was questioned about the raid on 11 September last year on the US consulate in Benghazi that left the US envoy to Libya, Christopher Stevens, and three other officials dead.

Continue reading the main story At the scene



Kim Ghattas
BBC state department correspondent



Four months after the attack on Benghazi, Mrs Clinton has finally testified in an open hearing in Congress about what happened, how her department and the administration handed it, and how to move forward. 
She will hope her long-awaited appearance before Congress will defuse some of the political acrimony that has engulfed the debate about Benghazi. Much was at stake in this hearing, not just for Mr Obama's foreign policy in his second term and how Republicans will interact with his administration, but also for Mrs Clinton herself. This is her last high-profile public appearance before she steps down in a couple of weeks.  

 The ambassador died of smoke inhalation when he was trapped in the burning consulate building, after armed men stormed the compound.
The assault triggered a major political row over who knew what and when.
The incident became an issue in the presidential campaign, and outrage in Congress led the US ambassador to the UN, Susan Rice, to withdraw from the race to succeed Mrs Clinton.
Last November, Ms Rice admitted releasing incorrect information after the Benghazi attack - she said on a Sunday chat show on 16 September that the attack had stemmed from an anti-US protest.
Ms Rice later said there had been no attempt to mislead the public, but Republicans were unconvinced.
At Wednesday's Senate hearing, Senator Ron Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, said: "We were misled that there were supposedly protests and then something sprang out of that, an assault sprang out of that."
Mrs Clinton replied with a raised voice: "But with all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans - was it because of a protest, or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd go kill some Americans."
Thumping the table four times, she added: "What difference, at this point, does it make? It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, senator."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Hillary Clinton said the US needed to 'figure out how to support emerging democracies in North Africa'



 In another tense moment, Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, said Mrs Clinton's acknowledgement that she had not read the cables from Libya seeking additional security ahead of the attack was "inexcusable".
"Had I been president at the time and I found that you did not read the cables," he said, "I would have relieved you of your post."
Mrs Clinton told the senators her department was implementing - as well as going above and beyond - 29 recommendations by an independent panel that investigated the incident.
Earlier, Mrs Clinton's voice cracked with emotion as she described the moment she and President Barack Obama welcomed home the coffins of those killed in the Benghazi attacks. 
"I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, the sisters and brothers, the sons and daughters, and the wives left alone to raise their children," she said.
Mrs Clinton testified in the afternoon before the House foreign affairs committee, where Republican members pressed her on why cables and other memos about security deficiencies in Benghazi seemed to have been ignored.
"The dots here were connected ahead of time. The state department saw this was coming," said Representative Ed Royce, a Republican and the chairman of the panel. "The state department didn't act."
Four state department employees have been put on administrative leave over the Benghazi attack.
Mrs Clinton, who is stepping down from her post in two weeks, has spent a month recuperating from a series of ailments in December, which delayed her testimony.
She is considered a strong candidate for the Democratic nomination for president should she run in 2016.
Mr Obama has nominated Democratic Senator John Kerry to replace her as Secretary of State.

 



More on This Story


Related Stories



Kerry named for top Obama post

21 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA



Report condemns Benghazi failings

19 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA



Clinton discharged from hospital

02 JANUARY 2013,    
                                                US & CANADA



US acts over Benghazi failings

20 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                US & CANADA














       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    All Comments 144       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 104.  C2theD  23rd January 2013 - 20:19   #99The internet is only allowed 2 exist so the unwashed can get bogged down in arguing with each other while the status quo remains untouched. There's so much information that truth disappears in it.That said, I am sick of nations using death of innocents as propoganda to further strategies they already planned to implement. It's almost as if they knew they were going to happen...    Report this comment (Comment number 104) Link to this (Comment number 104)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 103.  readwriteandblue  23rd January 2013 - 20:17   @97. -Nick-The bottom line now though is that she is done She isn't going to run in 2016 because if she won, she would have an almost impossible job of winning in 2020. Leaving her current post essentially ends her career, unless she decides to go back to the senate for 1 last turn.She was a force in politics and despite how this has gone down i think she was/is an important voice in the US    Report this comment (Comment number 103) Link to this (Comment number 103)                 rate this     +6      rate this     +6   Comment number 102.  gingerexpat  23rd January 2013 - 20:14   "Had I been president at the time and I found that you did not read the cables, I would have relieved you of your post."Incredible arrogance from somebody trying to make personal political gain out of a tragic occurrence    Report this comment (Comment number 102) Link to this (Comment number 102)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 101.  Leo  23rd January 2013 - 20:12   97. -Nick-What actions of Clinton resulted in the deaths at the Benghazi Consulate?Was that Consulate even considered more 'at risk' than it's security at the time warranted? If so, it was the failure of the State Dept. Clinton has accepted that 'buck stops with her', as SoS she will carry the can. But I think to accuse her of being personally responsible is going too far.    Report this comment (Comment number 101) Link to this (Comment number 101)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 100.  LUFC_FR  23rd January 2013 - 20:12   Clinton, both of them.There isn't a punishment to fit the crime.    Report this comment (Comment number 100) Link to this (Comment number 100)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 99.  Semisatanic  23rd January 2013 - 20:00   Is there any chance that the BBC might hold open HYS issues that are important to us long enough that people who work can Have A Say?Everyday is the same!If you work and commute till 7 oclock the HYS door is slammed shut!How many people on the Rock n Roll buy a TV licence?This is workers discrimination!    Report this comment (Comment number 99) Link to this (Comment number 99)     Comment number 98.  Removed  23rd January 2013 - 20:05    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 98) Link to this (Comment number 98)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 97.  -Nick-  23rd January 2013 - 19:57   I would like to know when incompetence became acceptable with regard to positions of immense power such as SOS?  This was an emergency situation and she failed. People lost their lives, in large part due to her actions & decisions. She seemed to do good work up to this point so if it ends up being considered incompetence then it would be nice if she'd serve as an adviser but not decision maker.    Report this comment (Comment number 97) Link to this (Comment number 97)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 96.  orfevre  23rd January 2013 - 19:54   What a waist of time, energy and focus. Looking further into this is not going to change the course of events, yes we can take further measures to avoid future attacks and return home safe. It is a shame that this bickering between republicans and democrats is going to lead the country into a bitter and major socio-economic crisis. Both parties need to learn about tolerance and respect.    Report this comment (Comment number 96) Link to this (Comment number 96)     Comment number 95.  Removed  23rd January 2013 - 19:55    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 95) Link to this (Comment number 95)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 94.  Nigel USA  23rd January 2013 - 19:53   What I have not heard mention or explained is if Benghazi was so dangerous, and the situation had been like that for a while, then why was the US Ambassador there in the first place and with such light protection?    Report this comment (Comment number 94) Link to this (Comment number 94)                 rate this     +3      rate this     +3   Comment number 93.  Bengalman  23rd January 2013 - 19:53   85.Dabbler273 Two killed were ex-SEAL, CIA operatives. There was a drone in the air broadcasting real time images. The ex-SEALs even had a laser designator. They were using it to paint the position the attackers were firing mortar shells from. This is ALL public knowledge.  There were US Navy ships on station in the Mediterranean with the ability to fire missiles.    Report this comment (Comment number 93) Link to this (Comment number 93)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 92.  PeteMac  23rd January 2013 - 19:48   Chain of events1. Terrorists kill civilians for Political & Media attention2. Shock & revulsion or Cheering depending where on the planet you were born3.Politicians start to blame everybody and everything, none of them accepting somethings are simply unforeseeable.4.Await next outrage 5. Go back to No 1What a sad world it can be.    Report this comment (Comment number 92) Link to this (Comment number 92)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 91.  SeniorMoment  23rd January 2013 - 19:47   The cabinet Secretaries are very busy people and the House and Senate committee should not be allowed to call any of them for testimony, since it is the subordinates who actually do the work and have the most accurate information.    Report this comment (Comment number 91) Link to this (Comment number 91)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 90.  DavidinUSA  23rd January 2013 - 19:47   Clinton, it seems, never forgave Obama for defeat in the primaries.  She was tempted to stand aloof from his administration.  Now I'm sure she wish she did - the shambles that is Obama's administration has put her neck on the block & stained an otherwise solid career.  No wonder she's angry.  She's forced to hit out at the questioners, not at the commander-in-chief who has left her out to dry.    Report this comment (Comment number 90) Link to this (Comment number 90)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 89.  cyrunic62  23rd January 2013 - 19:41   I think what gets me is the lack of investigation when American troops consistently shoot their allies or bomb their allies because they're so poorly trained & paranoid about everyone.  When is the US government going to look at those incidents back to WW2?A widely used phrase used in all wars involving US troops, "never get in front of the Yanks, they'll kill you as soon as the enemy".    Report this comment (Comment number 89) Link to this (Comment number 89)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 88.  Yaw Asante  23rd January 2013 - 19:43   There's nothing new under the sun. HRC should be given the benefit of the doubt and let posterity judge her statements on the Benghazi incident. We all wait to get to know the absolute truth and nothing less.Posterity will not forgive liars for their wanton disregard for absolute truth.    Report this comment (Comment number 88) Link to this (Comment number 88)                 rate this     +2      rate this     +2   Comment number 87.  Mr W  23rd January 2013 - 19:42   The analysis of the event in Benghazi by republicans is strange , I dont seem to remember the same attacks on Bush during security cock ups when he was in power . It is almost impossible to foresee every event and provide 100% security particularly in a world of suicide bombers . Too much is being made of the events in Benghazi .    Report this comment (Comment number 87) Link to this (Comment number 87)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 86.  Liz  23rd January 2013 - 19:41   Glad that America is standing on my watch. Bitterness stems from tha fact that Europeans know how much US has taken on for us and, yes, for them    Report this comment (Comment number 86) Link to this (Comment number 86)                 rate this     +5      rate this     +5   Comment number 85.  Dabbler273  23rd January 2013 - 19:36   It strikes me that the timing of the attack combined with demonstrations elsewhere easily led to a mistaken association of the two with one another. Indeed all the early news reports stated this was so. That is misleading, but importantly it is not deliberate misleading. The Republicans seem to desperately want it to be the latter, but provide no rationale for why this should be so.    Report this comment (Comment number 85) Link to this (Comment number 85)         Page 3 of 8    Newer 1 2 3 4 5 ... 8 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




Deadliest ever US sniper killed

Chris Kyle, a former US Navy seal and Iraq veteran known as the deadliest sniper in US history, is shot dead on a Texas shooting range, police say.



Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks




Affleck wins Directors Guild award












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


'Many die' in Iraq police attack


Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker


Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks


Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86









Features & Analysis




Power of GIF Watch

Animated video clips inspire digital artists 	
				  




Tweets of the week

Space monkey, Hagel and Koch in 140 characters or fewer  	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



5: Stallone joins gun control debate



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Bolshoi director 'knows' attacker



3: Mars rover hammers down into rock



4: Google boss labels China 'IT menace'



5: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



6: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



7: Car park dug up around parked car



8: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



9: Iran seeks 'authentic' US talks



10: 'Sorry' Japan starlet shaves head



Video/Audio




1: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



2: Stallone joins gun control debate Watch



3: Fifth day for Alabama hostage case Watch



4: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



5: The art looking death in the face Watch



6: A fruity guide to American football Watch



7: Japanese pop star's teary apology  Watch



8: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



9: Acid attack on Bolshoi director  Watch



10: Blair warns of 'huge' EU problem Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





