BBC News - Israel and Gaza violence: Your stories


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Middle East







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















17 November 2012
Last updated at 00:54 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Israel and Gaza violence: Your stories

Continue reading the main story


Middle East crisis


Q&A: UN bid


New Palestinian powers?


Conflict's legality


Palestinian territories



  Violence has continued in Israel and Gaza, with Hamas militants launching a rocket towards Jerusalem - the first time the holy city has been targeted from Gaza. It follows Israel's killing of Hamas's military chief on Wednesday.
At least 30 Palestinians and three Israelis have been killed. Egypt's leader has vowed to back Gaza in the face of "blatant aggression". US President Barack Obama reiterated his country's support for Israel's "right to defend itself".
People in the region have been describing how the violence has affected them.
Saturday 07:30 IST (05:30GMT) Gaza
The BBC's correspondent in Gaza, Jon Donnison, says the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) is reporting it has hit more than 180 separate targets across Gaza overnight.
Iman Sourani tweets: 5 massive bombs targeted the Palestinian Minister's Council #GazaUnderFire
Mariam Abu-amer tweets: There's no safe place to hide in #Gaza.
Rana tweets: I can feel the drones in my head. Extremely low altitudes. #Gaza
Friday 19:50 IST (17:50 GMT) Gaza
BBC correspondent in Gaza, Jon Donnison, says the sound of airstrikes is continuing in Gaza.
Deema Meshal tweets: HUGE EXPLOSION CLOSE TO MY HOME #GAZAUNDERATTACK FOR THE GOD SAKE THIS IS LOOKS LIKE AN EARTHQUAKE
Rana tweets: Sequence of explosions right now. Intensified presence of Israeli drones all over #Gaza.
Nalan Al Sarraj tweets: 3 explosions been heard right now #gaza
Iman Sourani tweets: Explosions are getting louder and louder and violently louder #GazaUnderAttack
Friday 18:30 IST (16:30 GMT) Jerusalem, Israel

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
 In my 16 years of living in Jerusalem I have never experienced an air-raid until now”
End Quote
 Lucy Cohen: I am originally from London but have lived in Jerusalem for 15 to 16 years. I am married to an Israeli but I still consider myself British. In my 16 years of living in Jerusalem I have never experienced an air-raid until now.
I knew air-raid sirens had been going off but I never expected it to happen here, we are so close to the West Bank where Palestinians live, I can't believe they fired missiles here.
We were at home when they went off. My two-year-old twin boys were asleep, so I had to wake them up and grab my five-year-old daughter. We went and took shelter in the stairwell of our building. 
We do have a shelter in the building but my neighbours who have experienced an air-raid before said the stairwell is sufficient as it is concrete and considered a safe zone.
We are supposed to wait for at least 10 minutes after the siren has sounded so we did. I am so surprised this has happened - all my neighbours are too.
We didn't actually hear anything hit and there isn't any damage near us but we have seen damage elsewhere on the TV.
Friday 18:23 IST (16:23 GMT) Deema, Gaza City, Gaza









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Medical student and Gaza resident Deema Meshal: "I have no life here"




Friday 17:45 IST (15:45 GMT) Jerusalem, Israel
Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip say they have launched a rocket on Jerusalem - the first time the holy city has been targeted from Gaza. 
Amit Mansharof, emails: Alarm in Jerusalem! We are all at the shelter, we still don't know what is happening.
Catherine Weibel tweets: People in shock in #Jerusalem - no one thought the city, half of which is populated by Palestinians, would be targeted from #Gaza.
Cate Pedersen tweets: Was on phone with #Jerusalem friend when missile alert siren started - neither of us understood what was going on at first. #Israel
Grace Pilet tweets: A missile just hit 5 kilometers north of me here in Jerusalem. And for the last hour I've heard gunshots from the West Bank. #jordanplease
Friday 17:30 IST (15:30 GMT) Jaffa, Israel


Leehee Rothschild says about 200 people were protesting against the attacks on Friday in Bilin

Coalition of Women for Peace activist, Leehee Rothschild: I heard one blast at about 13:30 today in Tel Aviv but before that they have been going off regularly.
I am Israeli but have been at a demonstration today in the village of Bilin in the West Bank against the attacks on Gaza. 
We protest every Friday about the occupation of Gaza - lots of Israelis, Palestinians and international people come and protest together peacefully. 
However, because of what has been happening at the moment more people came to today's protest.
About 200 people were protesting against the attacks. The Israeli army always try to shut down our protests - today the army used teargas against us and rubber bullets but we refuse to listen to illegal orders telling us to leave.
I am staying in Jaffa for now and will stay here and see what happens.
Friday 16:15 IST (14:15 GMT) Tel Aviv
Cecilia: We clearly heard the rocket exploding today in the center of Tel Aviv, people were terrified and crying inside the restaurant.
I am an analyst and a Middle East expert here to conduct research on Hamas and I fear that other rockets will come due to shabbat which is the sacred day for Jewish people.
Friday 16:00 IST (14:00 GMT) Gaza 
Majed Abusalama tweets: is going to the Funeral of my Friend Father who was martyred yesterday when he was walking, he is a #UNRWA Teacher, Visting other injured
Mariam Abu-amer ‏tweets: Everytime I heard a bomb I scream silently, to not scare the children around me #Gaza
Nalan Al Sarraj tweets: Huge explosions #gaza now. The house was shaking!
Friday 14:00 IST (12:00 GMT) Gaza City, Gaza

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
Every two minutes a bomb goes off here so we are not leaving the house”
End Quote
 Karmel, aged 17: There are loud bangs going off today. The local hospital is asking for people to give blood because so many people have been injured by the attacks. Last night I could hear people screaming and crying. So many civilians and children have been killed by the Israeli attacks.
I have to tell my younger brother that the noises are fireworks. I don't want to worry him.
Palestinians are being told by Israel to leave their homes. My grandmother got a text on her phone saying if you know any members of Hamas you must move away from them. 
These people also ring you, so Palestinians are talking to each other comparing what numbers these are so that if they call you should ignore them. 
Every two minutes a bomb goes off here so we are not leaving the house. We have stocked up on enough food for a month so we don't have to leave.
Friday 13:40 IST (11:40 GMT)  Tel Aviv, Israel
There are reports that air raid sirens have been heard in the Israeli city of Tel Aviv. People in the city have been publishing tweets on this: 
Shlomit Shapira tweets: The siren just went off in #telaviv 2 minutes ago!
David Sheen tweets:  Just heard & felt the rocket hit. I'm okay.#gaza #israel
Noam Mantel tweets: And again, missile alert and then a loud boom. #IsraelUnderFire #telaviv
Hadas Parush tweets: Opened my big mouth. Siren sounds in#telaviv. Residents wait in stairwell until impact was heard
Friday 13:00 IST (11:00 GMT) Near Tel Aviv, Israel


Ilana Bergsagel: 'Everything has shut down and my university classes have been cancelled'

Ilana Bergsagel: I moved to Israel three years ago. My mother is Israeli but I'm originally from London. I am 26-years-old studying an MA in Be'er Sheva at the moment. 
Except that right now I'm at my boyfriend's parent's house just outside of Tel Aviv. 
Normally we stay in Be'er Sheva when there are missiles (every few months), but on Wednesday night at midnight we decided to leave. 
Normally when there are rocket attacks we just go to the stairwell to take cover and hope for the best. They are usually over pretty quick but this time it was different.
It was so dangerous, not safe enough for us to stay. Now every few minutes an explosion goes off, it is insane, I've never known it like this.
I want to go back as soon as possible but will see how it goes. I feel guilty leaving our neighbours there. Many of my friends have been called up to reserve duty. 
Everything has shut down and my university classes have been cancelled. I work in a café part time but that had to close due to the attacks. On the drive up here we saw at least 10 missiles in the space of half an hour. They look a bit like fireworks. 
Last night I could hear the air-raid sirens going off in Tel-Aviv. We heard lots of big booms and bangs but we are not sure where the rockets or missiles landed.
Friday 01:30 IST (03:30 GMT) Tel Aviv, Israel
Ashley Hall: I've been in Israel for a week on business, and was due to fly back to England today.
Watching the news unfold has been troubling. 
I seem to recall hearing two loud thumps around 16:00 local time yesterday - were these the two rockets falling into the sea?
My return flight is stopping at Larnaca as KLM are no longer allowing their staff to stay in Tel Aviv overnight. 
Thursday 15 November 


There was a fire in Beersheba, in southern Israel caused by a missile

Sophie Rogers, near Kiryat Malachi, Israel 
I have had to go to our safe room seven times this morning in a space of two hours.
The noise the sirens make is similar to the ones in World War II. 
It goes on for 10 or 12 seconds, then you hear the rocket and then there is hopefully the sound of a big bang of the interception. 

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
I have total sympathy for the people of Gaza and the people of Israel - it is the extremists who are responsible for the escalation of violence on both sides”
End Quote
 But today the rockets were some of the loudest I have ever heard. 
I spotted a crack in my wall that I never noticed before which was probably caused by the vibration of the rockets.
I have total sympathy for the people of Gaza and the people of Israel - it is the extremists who are responsible for the escalation of violence on both sides. 
I have lived here for three years now with my Israeli husband and cannot see any solution to this issue. 
After just a couple of weeks of moving here, there have been regular rocket attacks. There may be a break of about six months or so but usually there are at least a couple of siren alerts a day.
People have the impression that the rocket attacks are not that frequent.
But Sderot, which is a big town near Gaza, gets rockets every single day but this goes largely unreported as it's mainly desert.
I don't get panicked about the rocket attacks now, but some of my friends with young children in Beersheba are hysterical - they are finding it difficult to handle the situation and are taking anti-depressants because of the constant anxiety.
No-one in power is willing to make the necessary sacrifices for their people. 
This is a terribly sad situation for everyone involved and I hope that no-one else loses their life today.
Najla, Gaza City, Gaza









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.




























Three people have been killed as rockets fired from Gaza struck the town of Kiryat Malachi in southern Israel.




Muhammad Abu Shaban, Gaza City, Gaza 
Israeli air strikes and shooting haven't stopped since yesterday. Last night the sky was red because of the constant explosions. 

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
I haven't been out of the house - that would be too dangerous”
End Quote
 I live in the middle of Gaza City, close to the Islamic university. Gaza is a small place - nothing is far away and you hear everything. 
When the F16s fly low, and they do that when they are about to fire at a target, they make such a noise, it's like a monster chasing its victim - it's terrifying. 
I haven't been out of the house - that would be too dangerous. I only climbed on the roof of our building this morning to see what has been happening. There was lots of smoke. 
A friend of mine was collecting his children from school yesterday when a car was hit 100m away from them. They were in the car at the time, the car was shattered from the flying stones and he and his two kids were lightly injured. 
We had no electricity last night, it only came back for a couple of hours today. We don't have much water and we only have food for two or three days. 
Israel is attacking and killing us with huge rockets and bombs because we were throwing stones on them, asking for our rights. Don't believe what they tell you that we are firing rockets at them. 
Hen Kinan, Beersheba, Israel 



It is scary in Israel. I live in Beersheba and over 130 missiles were fired on my city during the last few days.
Now it is quiet, but three times an hour we have to run to shelters and people are screaming. Through the night we were in the stairwells of our buildings.
Every hour we have to get the children out of their beds. Now when the missiles come there are about four or five, but through the night they came 10 at a time. 
At one in the morning, two in the morning, three in the morning, four in the morning there were missile attacks. It was terrifying for my nieces and nephews.
Today it is like a ghost town, it is not normal. No-one can go to work and I can't get to university. The Gaza Strip is terror, pure terror.

Are you in the region? If you are willing to be interviewed by the BBC please fill in the form below.

Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk  or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (International). If you have a large file you can upload here.
Read the terms and conditions






(Required)  Name




(Required)  Your E-mail address




(Required)  Town & Country




(Required)  Your telephone number






(Required)  Comments





If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Clear






More on This Story


Middle East crisis
	      






Q&A: UN bid

Guide to what the UN General Assembly vote to upgrade the Palestinians' status to that of a "non-member observer state" means.




New Palestinian powers?




Conflict's legality




Palestinian territories




Inside Gaza




Reaction to ceasefire




Israel's Iron Dome




Test for Egypt




Q&A: Israel-Gaza violence




As it happened: Gaza-Israel ceasefire




Gaza fears for the future




Tel Aviv in range




Dangerous times for Middle East




Levels of support




Rocket threat




Israel's 'forgotten' Jewish refugees




Gaza tunnel trade squeezed







Guides



Talks: Where they stand




History of peace talks




Eased Gaza blockade









Related Stories



Egypt PM decries Gaza 'disaster'

16 NOVEMBER 2012,    
                                                MIDDLE EAST



Gaza rocket fire kills Israelis

15 NOVEMBER 2012,    
                                                MIDDLE EAST










Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Middle East stories
RSS




New bomb attack in Iraq kills 19

At least 19 people are killed in a suicide bomb attack in central Iraq aimed at pro-government militia, officials say.



Hamas arrests across West Bank  




Assad: Israel destabilising Syria












Top stories



French target Mali rebel bases


Ravens edge 49ers in Super Bowl


Car park skeleton is Richard III


Charges over US sniper's murder


Cameron hosts Afghanistan talks









Features & Analysis




Big Chief parade Watch

'Indians' of New Orleans prepare their costumes for Mardi Gras 	
				  




Cycle of deceit

Do readers of Lance Armstrong's autobiographies deserve a refund? 	
				  




Richard III found

An interactive guide to the evidence that identified him 	
				  




Turkey's top captive

The imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader who holds the key to peace 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Richard III dig skull image shown



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: France guards Niger uranium mine



Read




1: Car park skeleton is Richard III



2: Charges over US sniper's murder



3: The twisted bones of Richard III



4: Can testosterone make you live longer?



5: Beyonce wows at Super Bowl show



6: Chris Huhne to resign as an MP



7: Swiss love affair with rail turns sour



8: French target Mali rebel bases



9: Where did Richard III go wrong?



10: Google searches 'expose racial bias'



Video/Audio




1: 'The individual is Richard III' Watch



2: Dutroux asks for early release Watch



3: Castro appearance at Cuba vote Watch



4: American Sniper author shot dead Watch



5: Assad 'delusional and dangerous' Watch



6: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: New Orleans Indians prepare for Mardi Gras Watch



9: From cancer survivor to pop star Watch



10: Can testosterone make you live longer? Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



A body for life

Can testosterone make you live longer?















Programmes



Click

Online piracy – how Mega and other digital lockers are tackling illegal file sharing




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





