BBC News - As it happened: Gaza-Israel violence 19 November 


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Middle East







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video

















19 November 2012
Last updated at 17:05 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





As it happened: Gaza-Israel violence 19 November 



Latest


Day's events


Analysis


In pictures


Voices



















Key Points

Hamas-run health ministry officials say the number of Palestinians killed in six days has risen to more than 100 since Wednesday. Three Israelis have been killed by rockets fired by Gaza militants.
 The Israeli cabinet has been considering a ceasefire plan put forward by Egypt.  Officials in Cairo say a deal is close.
Islamic Jihad, a Palestinian faction in Gaza, confirms a senior commander in its armed wing, the al-Quds Brigades, is killed in a strike on a media building in Gaza City. All times in GMT.

















Report
Reporters:
	    David Gritten, Penny Spiller and Yaroslav Lukov
      









 

07:30:


Welcome to the BBC's live coverage of the sixth day of violence between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip. Israeli forces say they targeted around 80 sites overnight, including militant-owned buildings, weapons storage facilities and police stations. Hamas officials say 18 Palestinians were killed. There was a marked reduction in rocket fire towards Israel - only one has been fired overnight, Israel says. Since Wednesday when the hostilities began, 86 Palestinians and three Israelis have been killed. 


 

0737:

Richard Galpin
BBC News, Jerusalem



Gaza rocket fire has resumed - but only a handful have been launched and there are no reports of casualties or damage. 


 

0739:

Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



says: For the last two nights there has been very little fire from Gaza into Israel. Is Hamas running out of hardware? 


 

0743:


The Israel Defense Forces say they have targeted a total of 1,350 sites since Wednesday. Militants have launched 848 rockets - 546 rockets have hit Israel, 302 have been intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defence system. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Diggers are clearing up the rubble from the Dalou family home hit in #Gaza yesterday. #Israeli media reporting IDF bombed the wrong house 


 

0749:


Here is a round-up of images from Sunday - the bloodiest day so far. 


 

0752:


Gilad Sharon, son of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, said on Sunday that entire neighbourhoods in Gaza ought to be flattened. 


 

0754:


The BBC has a special report on the conflict - the latest analyses pieces are to be found there. 


 

0759:


Israel's Haaretz newspaper quotes the Israel Defense Forces as saying 40 smuggling tunnels between Gaza and Rafah were bombed overnight. Gaza stadium used for launching rockets also attacked. It says 95 Palestinians have been killed since the beginning of the operation. 


 

0808:


The BBC's Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen says these situations always end up with a ceasefire - but, as an Israeli official put it, "it may need to get worse before it gets better". But both sides are making demands that are not practical. 


 

0814:


Professor Manuel Hassassian, Palestinian Ambassador to the UK, tells BBC Radio 5 Live that Israel must end F-16 warplane strikes on Gaza before rocket attacks against Israel can be stopped. 


 


British Foreign Secretary William Hague



tweets: #Gaza, #Syria and Mali will be top of the agenda in my talks with EU Foreign Ministers in Brussels today.  


 


Michael in Tel Aviv



emails: In the past few days we witnessed escalation of violence from both sides with one difference, as a former IDF soldier I can tell you that the IDF does its best and more to avoid civilian casualties. Many times we don't strike at targets because they're too close to uninvolved civilians. I wish I could say the same regarding the Palestinians. Over the past five days they fired more then 700 rockets aiming at cities (including my city of Tel Aviv) and hoping to hurt as much Israelis as they can. War is chaos and when fighting there is the risk of civilian causualties but it's the exception and not the rule. I hope the crossfire will cease soon and we can go on with our lives peacefully. 


 

0818:


"We are currently at a decision-making junction.  Either this goes towards a lull, or towards a significant  expansion," says Israel's Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Something very sad about watching possessions which yesterday were cherished by their owners, today being scooped up and dumped in a skip. 


 


Israeli newspaper Haaretz



tweets: Rocket warning sirens sound again in western Negev http://htz.li/QootOd   


 


Trudy Segal from Rishon Letzyon Israel



emails: So the world won't tolerate an operation in Gaza - yet the world WILL tolerate Gaza bombing us year after year. This smacks of something very nasty, yet unsurprising. It doesn't seem to matter what atrocities are being conducted Arab on Arab or in all the other countries in the world, it seems that we alone must sit on our hands. 60 years have passed and you guys still haven't got the message. We want to enjoy a normal life without violence, but to wait to have our throats cut, well sorry guys, that's just not happening!! 


 

0822:


Professor Fawaz Gerges from the London School of Economics, referring to efforts to find a ceasefire in the Egyptian capital, Cairo, tells the BBC: "What we have to do is to deal with the structural causes, Hamas must stop firing missiles against Israeli civilian towns. Israel must lift the seige of almost 1.6 million Palestinians." 


 


BBC Radio 5 Live



tweets: Palestinian Ambassador to UK accuses Israel of having a 'war agenda' - and calls on international community to act to protect people of Gaza  


 

0835:


There is an interesting article in the New York Times about Hamas's military wing, the Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigades. International Crisis Group analyst Nathan Thrall is quoted as saying: "Almost by any definition they have become more institutionalized... They more or less have been keeping a calm in Gaza. A very imperfect calm, and one that has escalations every three or four or five months, but they are the party that Egypt has gone to to ensure that things don't get out of control." 


 

0838:


Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Hua Chunying has urged all parties involved in the conflict "in particular Israel, to exercise maximum restraint", according to the AFP news agency. "China supports Arab countries' just position on the Israeli-Arab issue." 


 

0843:


Hundreds of thousands of children are trapped in houses in the Gaza Strip facing prolonged power cuts and depleting supplies of food and water, according to Save the Children. "With so many children already malnourished and suffering from anaemia, the impact on children's health is potentially devastating," said Osama Damo, part of charity's team in Gaza. "There is no clean water so children are going to have to start drinking the polluted tap water soon which is going to cause more severe health problems. When they fall ill their parents can't take them to hospital." 


 


Uri from Rehovot, Israel



emails: A friend of mine was killed by a rocket fired from Gaza a few years ago - his crime, he'd gone down to the local supermarket to get some milk for his sister. What does Israel have to do to live in peace? 


 


Lyse Doucet
Chief International Correspondent, BBC News



tweets: Sirens again southern #israel. Iron dome in action. Could see four missiles interecepted in sky  


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Health Ministry in #Gaza says 90 now killed here since Wednesday 


 

0858:


Gigi Ibrahim writes on Twitter that a convoy of about 400 Egyptian activists have entered the Gaza Strip to show solidarity with its people. "The conditions in Gaza are v tough! At night everyone is under decoy, dark everywhere yet very high in revolutionary spirit while rockets fall," she tweets. "As soon as we reached Rafah border on Palestine side, a rocket hit close enough to shake us, the impact almost made me fall to the ground." 


 

0904:


A group of 38 aid and development agencies have urged world leaders to take swift action to enforce a ceasefire in order to protect civilian lives and infrastructure, and to prevent another widespread humanitarian disaster. "World leaders cannot sit by while civilian casualties in Gaza and Israel continue to mount," said Nishant Pandey of Oxfam. "We urgently need to enforce a ceasefire. The present conflict threatens to perpetuate and worsen the humanitarian impact on Palestinian civilians in Gaza of over five years of Israeli blockade and the 2008-2009 Israeli military operation 'Cast Lead'." 


 


Ste in Liverpool



emails: In response to Trudy, we do not expect you to sit on your hands, I wish that everyone could live in peace, but that is sadly not an option it would seem. If Hamas do not stop, then what other choice do you have? The loss of life on both sides would be catastrophic, this is what we do not want. Stay safe... 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Just been at the central #Gaza police HQ it was totally wrecked in an #Israeli air strike last... The building is completely trashed. Driving around #Gaza today, lots of craters & we've seen so far one funeral though more expected later.


 


 


Jeremy Bowen
BBC Middle East editor



tweets: With gaggle of journalists crossing into #Gaza. Unlike last time 08/09 #israel letting us in. Recognition borders don't stop news anymore 


 

0913:


Senior Palestinian official Nabil Shaath says some progress was made at ceasefire talks in Cairo over the weekend, but that an end to hostilities is not imminent. It was "not likely to take effect in the coming days because Israel is trying to impose its own stipulations ignoring the demands of Hamas and other Palestinian factions," Mr Shaath told the Palestinian news agency Maan after being briefed by Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Just seen two rockets fired out of #Gaza just now 


 


Jeremy Bowen
BBC Middle East editor



tweets: Fairly distant explosion rattles windows at Erez checkpoint. Israeli security guards beckon to local staff to take cover #Gaza #Israel 


 

0928:


The Jerusalem Post reports that four rockets were fired at the southern Israeli town of Ashkelon earlier on Monday. Three were intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defence system; the fourth hit a school car park. No injuries were reported. The rockets brought the total number of rockets fired so far on Monday to 17. 


 

0935:


The al-Misriyun news website reports that Egyptian President Mohammed Mursi has rejected an Iran's request to allow Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi to enter Gaza through the Egyptian-controlled Rafar border crossing, according to BBC Monitoring. Al-Misriyun quotes officials as saying an Iranian delegation would "instigate violence and attempt to politically use the issue at the expense of the Palestinian people". 


 


Salomon from Beersheba, Israel



emails: The world needs to understand that Israel is being the target for missiles and mortars for several years, without any reason. Gaza is not occupied by Israel and the Arabs had not any reason to bomb us all the time, they need to recognise that Israel has the right to exist, this is the only thing that prevents peace in the Middle East. 


 


Samah Saleh, Palestinian doctor living in Jabalia refugee camp



tweets: Since early morning, #Israel been targeting civilian cars, motorcycles, houses, &locations eg: Palestine Stadium. What does that tell you? #Gaza  


 

0940:


The SodaStream factory story in Ashkelon, which produces syrups that are sold in 45 countries worldwide, is currently under missile attack, a statement from an Israeli PR firm says. The workers are attempting to keep the routine of work and are very determined to maintain "business as usual", it adds. 


 


Lyse Doucet
Chief International Correspondent, BBC News



tweets: At Erez crossing sounds of mortars and rockets landing - fire going both ways. #israel #gaza  


 

0944:


Senior Palestinian official Nabil Shaath tells the BBC that history is repeating itself. "Last night and today were really the worst. At least 50 people were killed during the last 24 hours, including many, many women and children. Two families lost 10 members of their families each, which includes seven children in one and five children in the other," he says. "The bombardment is everywhere, the Israelis are gradually going back to the 2009 aggressive tactics against civilians," he adds, referring to the last ground offensive on Gaza. 


 

0950:


Jakarta-based TV One says an Israeli rocket has damaged an Indonesian hospital in Gaza, according to BBC Monitoring. TV One quotes Mer-C, a Muslim charity building the hospital, as saying that the 28 Indonesian volunteers working in Gaza were not hurt. 


 


Abdul-Rahman from Milan, Italy



emails: I'm an Arab, my Israeli friend and I can only hope for a ceasefire. The loss of human life on both sides is deplorable. It is frustrating and painful to see how politics supersedes humanity yet again, and civilians regarded as pawns in this crisis. Most disturbing of all is seeing how comments can dismiss the opposing side as less valuable, as if the child on the other side of the border is not worth protecting. 


 

0954:


Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu will visit the Gaza Strip on Tuesday, officials tell the AFP news agency. He will join an Arab League delegation led by Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi. Mr Davutoglu has denounced the Israeli offensive as a "crime against humanity". 


 


Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Spokesperson



tweets: A short while ago, a rocket fired from #Gaza hit a school in the Israeli city of Ashkelon. School was cancelled in morning. #IsraelUnderFire 


 

0959:

Jonathan Marcus
BBC Diplomatic Correspondent



A turning point has been reached in the Gaza conflict. Israel was given a window within which to act by its key allies in the US and Europe who largely held Hamas responsible for this upsurge in fighting. But now that window is closing. If Israel continues with its air operations, the civilian death toll will only mount further and the diplomatic support for Israel will melt away. A weekend of frantic diplomatic activity involving Egypt, Turkey and Qatar has so far produced little. But the common goal now is to try to halt this conflict before Israel unleashes a ground operation which will only push the casualty toll ever higher. In truth there is little enthusiasm in Israel for a ground incursion. But in the absence of a settlement, with Israeli forces massed and ready to roll, a ground phase cannot be ruled out. Any de facto deal to end this crisis will be informal - Israel and Hamas are not going to sit down and sign a piece of paper. Both want to emerge with something to show from this crisis. But one of the reasons that diplomacy has so far been unable to halt the fighting is that the diplomatic wiring in the region has changed dramatically. The lack of close ties between Israel and Turkey is one factor. But even more crucial is the change of government in Egypt - now more sympathetic in some ways to the Palestinians and certainly more suspicious of Israel. 


 

1002:


The Israeli government has approved the calling up of 75,000 army reservists. Some 31,000 have already been summoned. Several infantry and armoured brigades have already been deployed in the Negev desert, near the Gaza Strip. Veteran Israeli commanders say about 30,000 troops reportedly took part in the 2006 Lebanon war and 20,000 in Operation Cast Lead.


Israeli tanks near the Gaza Strip
 


 


Jeremy Bowen
BBC Middle East editor



tweets: As I walk into #gaza sounds of Israeli drones overhead, heated speech coming from mosque loudspeakers in village nearby and some explosions 


 


Wyre Davies
BBC Middle East correspondent, Gaza City



tweets: #Israeli Air Force hitting #Gaza again today. A house in Jabaliya and other targets in Sudeniyeh bombed in the last few minutes. 


 

1024:


At least two men were killed and a child was seriously wounded earlier on Monday in the Muin area of Khan Younis, Palestinian medics say, bringing the death toll to 90. An Israeli missile is said to have hit a motorbike travelling through the town. It is not clear if the two men were riding the motorbike or were bystanders. An earlier strike on the nearby area of Qarara killed two farmers, Palestinian medics said. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Hamas Al Aqsa TV in #Gaza saying Hamas fired 32 rockets this morning. Showing images of launches. 


 


Crispian Balmer, Reuters bureau chief for Israel and the Palestinian Territories



tweets: Re #Gaza: Italian foreign minister in Brussels says "I believe there are the conditions to quickly reach a ceasefire in the next few hours" 


 

1041:


Egypt's foreign minister is also now heading to Gaza on Tuesday with the Arab League delegation to "express solidarity" with the Palestinian people, a ministry spokesman says, according to the Reuters news agency. 


 


Jeremy Bowen
BBC Middle East editor



tweets: Two loud explosions about 400 yds away as we wait for Hamas guys to check passports. Must be from drones overhead #Gaza 


 

1052:


The Israeli military's spokesperson tweets that goods and gas are still being transferred to Gaza by the Israeli authorities during Operation Pillar of Defence. As of Sunday, 64 lorryloads of food and 16 lorryloads of medical supplies had been transferred, while 26 patients in need of medical care had entered Israel from Gaza, the spokesperson says. Israel tightened its blockade of the coastal territory after Hamas came to power in June 2007. In the week before the offensive, 1,472 lorryloads of goods, medicines and construction material were transferred. 


 


Alex Thompson, Channel 4 News



tweets: #c4news #gaza Oxfam: "World leaders cannot sit by while civilian casualties in Gaza and Israel continue to mount." But they can. 


 

1102:


Funerals are being held for the victims of an Israeli air strike on a house in the Nasser district of Gaza City on Sunday that killed at least 10 members of the same family, including several children. The Israeli military says it is investigating reports that it may have hit the wrong house. The Haaretz newspaper cited a military report as saying "the source of the error was either the failure to paint the target of the attack on the correct site or that one of the munitions in the strike misfired".


The BBC's Paul Danahar posted a photo of the aftermath of the air strike on the Dalou family's home
 


 


Lyse Doucet
Chief International Correspondent, BBC News



tweets: Driving through largely deserted #gaza streets. Shops shuttered. Few cars on road, the odd horse +cart, or bicycle... Center #Gaza City small groups men & young boys in street. At 1 main intersection large building flattened 


 

1112:


The Israeli military is reporting that 32 missiles have been fired into Israel from Gaza since midnight. Four were intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defence system and no casualties were reported, it adds. The Israeli bombardment of Gaza is now in its sixth day, with the military saying more than 80 locations have been hit since midnight.


An Iron Dome battery fires a missile near Ashkelon
 


 

1117:


UK Foreign Secretary William Hague tells reporters in Brussels that he would be supporting calls for an immediate ceasefire. "Of course, part of any ceasefire has to be a cessation of rocket attacks against Israel. But everyone has responsibilities, Israel has responsibilities too, to take every opportunity to de-escalate the violence." 


 

1118:


Israel is ready for a ground invasion in the Gaza Strip but prefers a diplomatic solution, a senior official close to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has told the Reuters news agency. "We would prefer to see a diplomatic solution that would guarantee the peace for Israel's population in the south. If that is possible, then a ground operation would no longer be required," the official said. "But if diplomacy fails, we may well have no alternative but to send in ground forces." 


 


Katya Adler
BBC News, Tel Aviv



tweets: Am sheltering inside a walk-in fridge in Ashkelon #Israel in restaurant. Shelter too far away. Rocket from #Gaza now landed close by  


 

1125:


Mohammed al-Katatni, the leader of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, has arrived in Gaza at the head of a delegation of Egyptian officials, Hamas-run al-Quds TV reports, according to BBC Monitoring. 


 

1131:


The BBC News website has published a gallery of the latest pictures from the sixth day of the conflict. 


 


Muhammad Abu Shaban in Gaza City



emails: Attacks are taking place 24 hours a day. Last night was the worst night for air strikes so far. There were huge explosions all night so close that you couldn't sleep. They are still attacking buildings all around us... The power has been out for four days. We are relying on a generator for electricity, which we just switch on briefly at night. We are also running out of water. We are now preparing for a ground invasion, which is not going to be a good situation for us. Attacks are already increasing as it is, with civilian areas being hit repeatedly. Many people are being killed. I am not optimistic at all. 


 

1140:

Frank Gardner
BBC security correspondent



Retired Brig-Gen Michael Herzog, who was the Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak's chief of staff during Operation Cast Lead in Gaza in 2008-9, says Israel is nearing a decision point between a ceasefire and a ground invasion. He says Israel's aim is to degrade both the capability and motivation for groups in Gaza from firing rockets, not to destroy or topple Hamas itself. Gen Herzog says mediation can only be led by Egypt, and that the main reason for the current escalation is that jihadist groups have proliferated in Gaza and Hamas "would not fully control them". 


 


Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Spokesperson



tweets: A short while ago, a rocket fired from #Gaza hit a house in the Israeli city of Ashkelon. #IsraelUnderFire 


 


Joel Salkin in Ashkelon, Israel



emails: The women and children here are terrified. Although I'm terrified too, I can't show it. The air-raid sirens sounded 10 or 11 times yesterday and twice so far today. I live on the sixth floor of my building and every time they sound we have to go into the stairwell on the fifth floor. One rocket hit a house about 1km away yesterday. It damaged the building, but thankfully there was no-one home at the time. I keep looking in the direction of Gaza to see what's coming next. I can't see any end to it, with both sides saying we'll only stop if they stop. 


 

1145:


The representative of the Middle East Quartet, Tony Blair, has said he would like to see a sustained ceasefire for the sake of both Israelis and Palestinians. "I very much hope that over the coming days we can achieve cessation on a basis that is sustainable, on a basis that stops the threat of missiles coming from Gaza targeted at Israeli civilians and also then relieves the people of Gaza who also suffered of course," Mr Blair said after meeting Israeli President Shimon Peres. 


 


Sheera Frenkel of NPR and The Times



tweets: Just spoke to #IDF soldiers pulling back from #Gaza border. They say "state of readiness" has been called down. 


 

1154:


Six days into the offensive on Gaza, 84% of the Israeli public supports Operation Pillar of Defence, with 12% opposing it, according to a Haaretz-Dialog poll taken on Sunday. The poll surveyed proportional samples of Jews and Arabs. At the same time, however, only 30% of the Israeli public supports a ground offensive in Gaza, according to the results. 


 

1159:


Nabil Shaath, a senior official from the Fatah-run Palestinian National Authority, has arrived in Gaza, Beirut-based Filastin al-Yawm TV reports, according to BBC Monitoring. Hamas, which won parliamentary elections in 2006, ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in Gaza during clashes in 2007 and set up a rival government. 


 

1201:


The Israeli military has now told the BBC that it intended to hit a house in Gaza on Sunday in an air strike which killed 10 members of the Dalou family, including four children. A spokesperson said it believed a senior Hamas militant, Yahia Rabiya, was hiding there. But the Israeli military said it did not know if Mr Rabiya was actually in the house when it was bombed. 


 

1210:


The patriarch of the Dalou family, Jamal, has rejected Israel's claim that a senior militant was hiding in the house. "The international public opinion witnessed the facts. This does not require my words," he told the Associated Press. Earlier, funerals for Mr Dalou's children and other family members took place in Gaza City.


 


 


Anderson Cooper, CNN



tweets: Rocket from #Gaza City fired just minutes ago while I was live on @cnn. Smoke trail clearly visible behind me. 6th rocket we've seen today 


 

1222:


The Palestinian news agency Maan reports that Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal, Islamic Jihad leader Ramadan Shallah and Egyptian intelligence officials are meeting in Cairo in an effort to reach an agreement on a ceasefire in Gaza. According to Egyptian media reports, Egyptian intelligence chief Gen Mohammed Raafat Shehata presented Israel's response to Hamas's demands. 


 


Karmel in Gaza City



emails: I just heard that my cousin has died. I don't know what happened, don't have any details yet. I live with my uncle, my grandmother and seven little brothers and cousins. My uncle says we have no connection with Hamas whatsoever, so we should be safe. We haven't left the house at all. It's too dangerous to go out. My uncle, who lived through the war a few years ago, knew from experience that he had to get lots of supplies, so we have food, for now. I am not taking any sides in this conflict - I think both sides are wrong. I feel strongly against what Hamas is doing - firing rockets at Israel provokes them to fire back at us. This is why we found ourselves on the receiving end now. They should stop doing that at once!  


 

1232:


Hamas-run health ministry officials say the death toll in the Gaza Strip since Wednesday has risen to 94. At least 740 people have been injured. Twenty-five people have been killed so far on Monday, including three children and an old man, the officials add. 


 

1235:


Israel's Haaretz newspaper meanwhile reports that in the past hour rockets have exploded in Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gan Yavne, and near Beersheba. 


 


Freelance journalist Jesse Rosenfeld



tweets: Israel says rocket fire must stop before a cease fire. Yet this side of the border was quiet last night while bombardment of #Gaza continued  


 


Shane from London



emails: In response to Uri (0843): If Israelis want to live in peace, the solution is staring you in the face: agree to a two state solution based on 1967 borders, stop the illegal annexation of Palestinian land/settlement building and stop the illegal blockade of Gaza to enable the Palestinians to live a normal life. Having been to Gaza myself and seen first-hand how Israelis treat their neighbours, treat them with some dignity and you'll be amazed at how they'll reciprocate. 


 


Joel Salkin in Ashkelon, Israel



emails: Hamas seems to be winning the propaganda war, but the rest of the world should appreciate that a civilian population cannot live under the constant threat of incoming rockets. I have seen for myself the effect that this has on people and it cannot continue. Although I consider myself a moderate, I cannot see any solution to this problem without this threat being removed by any means possible 


 

1245:


Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil tells the Reuters news agency that efforts to negotiate a truce between Israel and Palestinians in Gaza are "going on as we speak". "I hope we will reach something soon that will stop this violence and counter violence," he adds. "I think we are close, but the nature of this kind of negotiation, [means] it is very difficult to predict." 


 


Kate Benyon-Tinker
BBC Global News Producer



Just arrived in #Gaza. Incoming & outgoing fire. Smoke rising above the city. pic.twitter.com/TYOMMMc9


 


 

1256:


A senior Egyptian official has told the BBC there are encouraging signs from discussions taking place in Cairo about a possible Gaza ceasefire. He said he hoped an announcement would be made either today or on Tuesday. 


 

1306:


One person has been killed and several injured in an Israeli attack on a car in Jabaliya, in the northern Gaza Strip, Hamas-run al-Aqsa TV reports, according to BBC Monitoring. It is not clear if the fatality was among the latest announced by health officials just over 30 minutes ago. 


 


Antony in Israel



emails: For Karmel in Gaza (1222) - so very sorry to hear the news of your cousin. I respect you for acknowledging that the Hamas are at the root cause of this evil. The media too often tells us about how "ordinary Gazans are behind Hamas and want Israel destroyed". If you and your people would be able to help us overthrow them, there is no doubt that we could look forward to a bright future together. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Casualty figures in #Israel since Wed: 3 killed, 78 light injured, 4 severely injured, 4 moderately injured, 118 suffer from stress. 


 


Shimon Peres
President of Israel



tweets: The attempt by President #Morsi is appreciated.#Egypt is a significant player in the Middle East. #israelunderfire #pillarofdefense 


 

1322:


More on the ceasefire negotiations in Cairo: Citing Egyptian media, Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth reports that the Israeli government put forward six key demands: A lull in hostilities for a period of more than 15 years; an immediate cessation of arms smuggling and the transfer of weapons to Gaza; cessation of rocket-fire on the part of all armed Palestinian factions and an end to attacks on Israeli soldiers near the Gaza border; Israel has the right to "hunt down terrorists" in the event of an attack or if it obtains information on an imminent attack; the Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt will remain open, but the crossings on the Gaza-Israel border will remain closed; Egypt's political leaders will be the guarantors of any ceasefire agreement. 


 

1323:


Hamas' demands for a ceasefire reportedly include the lifting of the naval blockade of Gaza, international community guarantees for the cessation of targeted killings, an end to cross-border raids by the Israeli military and the cessation of attacks on fishermen off the coast, according to Yedioth Ahronoth. 


 

1330:


The head of the disaster management unit of the Red Crescent in Gaza, Dr Khalil Abu Foul, has told the BBC about the injuries medics are seeing in Gaza. "Most of the cases have multiple trauma and severe injuries - amputations, sprains and chest and abdomen so it's multiple, severe trauma," he said. 


 

1331:


Dr Abu Foul said most of the casualties in Gaza were not militants. "Most of what we see are civilians because even since [Sunday], they are targeting many houses all over [the] Gaza Strip, and also there are problems as most of the attack with very heavy rockets from F16 or from tanks. This usually makes severe indirect damage for the houses around the area where they are attacked. So you have direct aggressive attacks and you have indirect impact on the people. And you know Gaza Strip is very small and overcrowded with civilians." 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Israeli airstrikes just hit central gaza city. heard missiles whistle past. Looks like Sharouk building houses journalists may have been hit... Missiles hit less 500 metres from where we are based. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Sound of ambulances racing across #Gaza city... Looks like third floor of Sharouk building housing journalists in #Gaza hit. Most journalists likley evacuated from building already... Sharouk buildings seems to have been hit 3 times just now. Houses Hamas's Al Aqsa TV. #Gaza 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Missile hit the first floor above the entrance. A fire is coming from inside and smoke is rising up the building in #Gaza 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Sharouk building in #Gaza houses Al Arabiya, Sky news Arabiya, Al Aqsa TV, likley most journos werent there after it was struck yesterday. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Reports seven injured in latest strike on Sharouk building in centre of #Gaza city. 


 

1341:


Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal is addressing a news conference in Cairo 


 

1343:


Mr Meshaal says: "This is a difficult time, but it is a glorious time in the history of the Palestinian people." 


 

1347:


Mr Meshaal says Gaza is "standing steadfast in the face of Israel's machines of destruction". "We are people of a just cause. We are not aggressors against anyone. Whoever attacks Palestine will be killed and buried," he adds. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: The last strike on this media building in # Gaza was called 'precision' by IDF. This one is not. It's hit the lower floor leaving people... 


 

1351:


Back to Khaled Meshaal, the political leader of Hamas, who is speaking to reporters in Cairo. He says he is "proud of the people of Gaza" and that he grieves for the families who have lost loved ones. Mr Meshaal insists he has confidence in Hamas's military leadership following the assassination of top commander Ahmed Jabari on Wednesday. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Thick black smoke wrapping itself around media building in #Gaza hit by Israel strike. It's engulfing building but unclear if fire spreading 


 

1356:


Mr Meshaal states that "morale on the ground in Gaza is high" and that "the resistance is at the forefront", presumably a reference to the military wings of Hamas and other Palestinian groups. He says the morale of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been shaken. "The enemy, which is armed with all weapons of mass destruction, has been defeated because it has been surprised by what it has been confronted with," he adds. 


 


Rushdi Abualouf
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: At least 2 killed 4 injured in #Israeli bombing at al Shouroq building housing local, Arab and internationals media office in #Gaza 


 

1414:


More from the news conference given by Hamas's political leader in Cairo. Khaled Meshaal says Hamas does not want an escalation of violence, or to draw Israel into a land incursion, but if Israel wants a truce it must initiate a ceasefire because it "started the war", Reuters news agency reports. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



 Fire Engines have now put out the fire in the #Gaza media tower. Firemen have gone in looking for survivors  


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: We saw one man come out of #Gaza media tower completely burned from head to foot  


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Others seemed to be lightly injured  


 

1424:


Israel denies an assertion made by Khaled Meshaal, Hamas's political leader, that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has requested a truce, Reuters reports 


 


Paul Danahar, BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: This is what #Gaza media tower looked minutes after strike


 


 


Jeremy Bowen
BBC Middle East editor



tweets: At the house destroyed Sunday in #Gaza killing 12. Men digging for body of a missing girl. Lines of mourners offering condolences. 


 

1436:


Islamic Jihad, a Palestinian militant faction in Gaza, says Israel's strike on the media building in Gaza has killed one of its leaders 


 

1444:


BBC correspondents report hearing another large explosion in Gaza city 


 


Oxfam International



tweets: World leaders cannot sit by while civilian casualties mount. A #ceasefire must be enforced now http://oxf.am/3p7  #Gaza #Israel  


 

1456:


The UN's relief and works agency (UNRWA) is continuing to try to operate in Gaza, keeping most health centres open and delivering food aid to more than 12,000 people on Sunday alone, its director Robert Turner says. 


 

1457:


With 245 UNRWA schools forced to close, the agency is using its distance learning initiative to broadcast 12 hours of lessons a day to reach the 225,000 students affected, the agency's director in Gaza, Robert Turner, also said. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: Understand man killed in media tower air strike in #Gaza was Ramez Harb, the Head of Media for Saraya El Quds armed wing of Islamic Jihad 


 

1458:


But UNRWA's Robert Turner called for both sides to end the violence. "I deplore the tragic loss of life that we are witnessing, and condemn - as all people of conscience must - the death of civilians," he said. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



adds: just now another air strike in central #Gaza 


 

1504:


Khaled Meshaal, Hamas' political leader, has been answering reporters' questions in Cairo. He told the BBC's Jon Leyne: "Israel is the one who started this when they assassinated [the commander of Hamas' military wing] Ahmed Jabari. Hamas didn't start the issue."  


 

1518:


Israeli cabinet minister Uzi Landau tells the BBC that Israel is doing its best to target "terrorist infrastructure" only in Gaza, but says the country has been forced into a "war" because of ongoing rocket attacks on its civilian population. 


 


Wyre Davies
BBC Middle East correspondent, Gaza City



tweets: #Israel says the head of media for the armed wing of Islamic Jihad was targeted and killed at the press centre in #Gaza City.  


 

1530:


Lebanese security sources say two Katyusha rockets aimed at Israel have been found in south Lebanon. An official told the Associated Press that the rockets were placed about 4km (2.5 miles) away from the Israeli border and were equipped with timers. They have been dismantled. 


 


Grant Crankshaw in Kfar Saba, Israel



emails: Most Israelis I know are horrified at the number of innocent victims in Gaza, but it is simply not avoidable when your enemy infiltrates the civilian population. The people of Gaza are in a hopeless situation, being threatened into submission by Hamas and used as pawns in a tragic game of 'cat and mouse'.  


 

1533:


Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal has hinted at his group's demands for a ceasefire with Israel. "We are not against calm... but there must be specific demands... in summary that the Israeli thuggery and aggression stop... and the siege on Gaza be lifted," he is quoted as saying by the Reuters news agency. 


 

1539:


The Israeli military says it wounded three other Islamic Jihad militants in the strike that killed the head of media for the group's military wing, the al-Quds Brigades, Israel's Haaretz newspaper reports. 


 


Jim Brotton in Cambridge, UK



emails: The elephant in the room is why Hamas was sending all of the rockets into Israel in the first place. I suggest looking at the conditions Gaza was having to survive under, and the continuing building on the west bank contrary to UN rulings. These are reasons not excuses. If you have no power and extremely limited resources, how can you respond to 'bullying'? 


 


Borzou Daragahi
Middle East correspondent, Financial Times



tweets: Fascinating to watch Arab, Turkish officials sincerely struggle to find formula to stop Gaza fighting. Contrast w West's criminal negligence 


 


Lyse Doucet
Chief International Correspondent, BBC News



tweets: Islamic Jihad confirms Ramez Harb head Media Office of their armed wing Saraya al Quds killed in #Israel attack #Gaza media tower today  


 


CNN's Kevin Flower



tweets: 57% of Americans think Israel justified in Gaza operation and 59% say their sympathies are more with Israelis than Palestinians - CNN poll  


 


Sonny from London



emails: Salomon from Beer Sheva in Israel needs to realise the reason Israel is being targeted is because the Palestinians have been the victims of continuous oppression and suffering at the hands of Israel. Regardless of that nobody can justify taking an innocent life.  


 


ShahdAbusalama, Palestinian blogger in Gaza



tweets: I'm desperate for one-hour nap without drones and warplanes in the sky buzzing or bombings. I'm about to faint #GazaUnderAttack  


 


Freelance journalist Sheera Frenkel in Jerusalem



tweets: #Palestinian officials in Cairo say part of ceasefire agreement has to include #Israel lifting blockade on Gaza.  


 

1614:

Richard Galpin
BBC News, Jerusalem



Israeli officials have told the BBC that Israel wants the following conditions to be met for a ceasefire: no hostile fire of any kind to come from Gaza into Israel, including small arms fire at Israeli troops near the border; Hamas fighters must be stopped from travelling to the Sinai to carry out attacks against Israel at the Sinai/Israel border; Hamas must not be able to rearm; the ceasefire must not simply be a "time-out" for Hamas, it must be an extended period of quiet for Southern Israel. 


 

1616:


Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has reportedly described Israel as a "terrorist state" for its offensive in the Gaza Strip. "Those who associate Islam with terrorism close their eyes in the face of mass killings of Muslims, turn their heads from the massacre of children in Gaza. For this reason, I say that Israel is a terrorist state, and its acts are terrorist acts," he reportedly told a conference of the Eurasian Islamic Council in Istanbul.  


 


Rael in Jerusalem



emails: Working as a waiter with a Palestinian Arab collegue on Friday night when the air raid siren went off. He asked does that mean that the sabbath has commenced? I responded no its a rocket from Gaza. He continued to curse Hamas in Arabic as we both ran to the bomb shelter. His claim being that if Hamas exists there won't be peace. He entered an Israeli bomb shelter and stayed there with us. No one questioned whether to let him in or not. He's a human being. 


 


Amir Eloush



tweets: How many more men, women and children need to die in #Gaza before the intl community intervene and end this barbaric seige? @BBC_HaveYourSay  


 

1621:


More from the Israeli military on the strike on the Sharouk media building in Gaza City, which killed the media chief of Islamic Jihad's military wing, the al-Quds Brigades. A spokesperson tweets: "The senior Palestinian Islamic Jihad cadre was operating in a media building. They weren't there to be interviewed. They were using reporters as human shields... We targeted only the 2nd floor, which is where the senior terrorists were. The rest of the building was unharmed. Direct hit confirmed." 


 


Hugh Naylor
Middle East correspondent, The National



tweets: Bizarre Gaza scenes: Israeli drones flying overhead, punctuated by periodic explosions. And pack of wild dogs on beach. If you're interested 


 


Yolande Knell
BBC News, Jerusalem



tweets: Protests in West Bank continue over #Gaza. Even now, small groups out. Hear demo planned Manger Sq, Bethlehem tomorrow 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Israeli ceasefire terms... are ones I dont think Hamas can meet. Not sure it can stop all groups in #Gaza from firing for long... what is Israel offering in return? 


 


Ati in Jerusalem



emails: It is most upsetting to see such devastation in Gaza. However I don't think it's fair to blame Israel. Israel is trying to protect its people and the militants are hidden among the civilians. Israel doesn't have anything against the civilians in Gaza but it is inevitable that they will get hurt if they are used as shields for the militants. The people of southern Israel (my family and friends) have been living with rocket fire for 12 years. Amazingly the world sits quietly and watches this.  


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



Just about the only light moment in #Gaza of last few days. Cameraman takes getting a good top to the extreme


 


 


Wisam Zbede in Romania



tweets to @BBC_HaveYourSay: Blood in Gaza is very cheap. I just can't understand how the world can keep on being silent AGAIN!  


 

1654:


The number of Palestinians killed in Gaza has now reached 100 since the violence began six days ago, officials there say. 


 


Israel Dalvern in Emanuel, Israel



emails: Jon Donnison asks what is Israel offering in return for Hamas stopping their attacks on Israel. The answer is obvious. Peace and an end to isolation. Is that what they want or do they want Jihad and more Jihad? If the latter, do they really deserve the unreserved support of the British Press? 


 

1717:


UN chief Ban Ki-moon arrives in the Egyptian capital Cairo in a bid to help bring about a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza, AFP reports. He is due to visit Israel and the West Bank in coming days. 


 


Al-Qassam Brigades, armed wing of Hamas



tweet: Al Qassam Brigades shelling Beer Sheva with 5 Grad missiles. #Gaza #GazaUnderAttack #Hamas #Palestine #Israel #ShaleStones #Egypt #Freedom 


 


Israel Defense Forces spokesperson



tweets: 3 days ago, Palestinian terrorists used a stadium to fire rockets to Tel Aviv & Jerusalem. We targeted site this morn. 


 


Iyad Tah in Gaza



tweets: I lost balance because of the last explosion, it was very massive that it affected my internal ear #Gaza 


 


Paul Stevens in Reading, UK



emails: If Hamas want to be accepted as a member of the international community then they have to play by the rules. No country will or should put up with its citizens being fired upon. All this will stop if Hamas permanently ceases fire and opens a dialogue. 


 


Al-Qassam Brigades, armed wing of Hamas



tweet: Al Qassam Brigades shelling Israeli intelligence site with 2 Grad missiles. #Gaza #GazaUnderAttack #Hamas #Palestine #Israel #ShaleStones 


 


Ian Wright in Leeds, UK



emails: The IRA bombed UK and Northern Ireland for many years however the UK never stooped to bombing innocent people. I respect those that show restraint against provocation rather than stoop to the "terrorists" level and begin killing civilian men, women and children. 


 



Residents in the Israeli town of Nitzan shelter in a large concrete pipe during a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip.


 


 

1815:


If you're just joining us, welcome to the BBC's live coverage of the sixth day of violence between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip. We're bringing you the latest updates from our correspondents, expert analysis and your reaction from around the world. You can contact us via email, text or twitter. We'll publish what we can. 


 


John Goodwin from Huddersfield, UK



emails: To all those who are asking what Israel needs to do to live in peace - how about doing something to prevent the illegal occupation of the West Bank by settlers, rather than protecting them? This is the main barrier to the peace process and doesn't get reported on nearly enough. 


 

1830:


"Honest broker: Egypt's role on path to peace in Gaza" - the Guardian's Middle East editor Ian Black is assessing the role Egypt has been playing in trying to mediate between Israel and the Palestinians. 


 

1833:


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is to visit Jerusalem and the West Bank this week for talks with Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, Mr Ban's spokesman is quoted as saying by Reuters. 


 


The Times of Israel



tweets: As Gaza offensive continues, West Bank Palestinians become restless http://dlvr.it/2Vyxk0   


 

1841:


In the West Bank, clashes continued between Palestinian protesters and Israeli troops at the Qalandia checkpoint:


 


 

1847:


Another flashpoint in the West Bank. Voice of Israel radio says Palestinian youths have clashed with Israeli troops near Bet Hadassah in Hebron, where dozens of Palestinians hurled stones and petrol bombs at IDF forces. One Palestinian was shot in the leg after approaching the soldiers, the radio says. 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: The 'Zeenana's' are back. That's the name the people of #Gaza have given the #Israeli drones. In Arabic it means 'whining child' 


 

1858:


Recent opinion polls show that Israelis are strongly backing air strikes on Gaza, but a possible ground invasion is not as popular, writes the Jerusalem Post. 


 


Leehee Rothschild in Tel Aviv



tweets: More and more dead. I can't handle it. I can't. 


 

1911:


Middle East peace envoy Tony Blair has just finished talks with senior Israeli politicians in Tel Aviv. He told the BBC: "The most important thing is to get a ceasefire in place. We need to get the situation de-escalated." 


 

1919:


The Israeli cabinet is now discussing Egyptian proposals for ending the conflict, Israeli media report. No further details have been released so far. 


 


Borzou Daragahi, FT Middle East and North Africa correspondent



tweets: Visit by Turkish and Arab ministers' to Gaza may force Israel to agree on cease-fire, via @TodaysZamanCom http://bit.ly/T6WRZP  


 


Cara Swift
BBC Middle East producer



tweets: Islamic Jihad official tells Al-Alam TV "should things go as we plan, we are hours away from signing a comprehensive deal for a truce" #Gaza  


 

1931:


A number of Israelis, like on this picture, have visited government soldiers stationed near the Gaza border in a show of support for the ongoing air strikes:



  


 

1937:


More from Tony Blair (see 1911 entry). The former British PM says: "One is to make sure that there aren't further armaments coming into Gaza, because that is what is giving rise to the current situation, and secondly to try an bring about some normality in the lives of Gazan people. And the present situation is utterly tragic, there are innocent civilians dying." 


 

1939:


Reports from Israel say the government is now demanding that Hamas stop firing for at least one or two days in order to settle both sides' mutual demands. Voice of Israel radio cites senior sources as saying that Israel is looking into the Hamas demand to ease the closure on Gaza. 


 

1944:


A 22-year-old Palestinian is shot dead by Israeli troops in the West Bank city of Hebron, local medics and police tell the AFP news agency. 


 


Israel Defense Forces



tweets: Today 67 rockets fired from #Gaza hit #Israel. Overall, more than 650 rockets hit Israel in the last six days.  


 

2009:


European Union governments call for an "urgent de-escalation and cessation of hostilities", and say they support "the efforts of Egypt and other actors to mediate for a rapid ceasefire", Reuters reports. 


 



Watch Tony Blair, the former British Prime Minister and now international envoy to the Middle east, give his view on what must be done to bring an end to the violence between Israel and Hamas in Gaza. 


 


Jon Donnison
BBC News, Gaza City



tweets: Oh dear first big explosion for a few hours. #Gaza 


 


Paul Danahar
BBC Middle East bureau chief, Gaza City



tweets: First bombing of the night has just taken place but I can hear the #Israeli planes & drones in the air so doubt it'll be last in #Gaza 


 

2051:


Hamas TV (Al-Aqsa) reports in an urgent caption at 2014 GMT: "[Operation] Clay Stone: The Al-Qassam Brigades are shelling Beersheba with 5 GRAD rockets." From BBC Monitoring. 


 

2107:


At 20:00 GMT the firing of rockets from Gaza resumed after a break of more than two hours, the Voice of Israel radio reports. Approximately one hour ago, two rockets exploded in the Eshkol region. One of them hit a building, but there were no injuries," it says. 


 

2108:


The Voice of Israel adds that "the red alert siren" has now been activated in Beersheba. 


 


Samah Saleh in Gaza



tweets: booms continue to be heard in north #Gaza I'm emotionally exhausted and my energy stores are nearly depleted.. 


 

2123:


Elinor Tubul, a Tel Aviv resident, tells the BBC: "For 20 years I lived in one of the settlements in the northern Gaza Strip, until the disengagement plan in 2005. It was hard to leave the only home I have ever known, but if it meant bringing peace for both sides then so be it. But nothing has changed. Since the evacuation my family and I live under the constant fear of missiles." 


 

2137:


Ban Ki-moon has been holding talks with senior Egyptian officials in Cairo (picture). The UN secretary general is due to visit Jerusalem and the West Bank in the coming days, but is not expected to go to Gaza.


 


 


YiddishNews



tweets: Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah criticized Arab countries for sending military equipment to Syria, but not helping Gaza "with one bullet"  


 


Rushdi Abualouf, BBC reporter in Gaza



tweets: Health ministry said a father and 2 of his boys age 2 , 4 killed by #Israeli air strike in Jabalya north #GAZA , toll now 105  


 


World Jewish Daily



tweets: Much talk, but Day 6 of Gaza operation ends with no game changer  


 

2200:


We are now ending our live coverage of the sixth day of violence between Israel and Hamas militants in Gaza. Remember you can check back on the BBC News website for the latest information throughout the night and with our correspondents on the ground in Gaza and Israel on Twitter. 








Join the discussion



                                                 Send us an SMS to +44 7624 800 100


Twitter: @BBC_HaveYourSay






Comment here






(Required) 
 Name




(Required) 
 Your E-mail address




(Required) 
 Town & Country




 Your telephone number





(Required) 
Comments





Send
Clear
The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide.
Terms and conditions





















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





