BBC News - Diamond Jubilee: Flypast brings celebrations to an end


       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education



















5 June 2012
Last updated at 11:31 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Diamond Jubilee: Flypast brings celebrations to an end
 







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























World War II aircraft and the Red Arrows conducted a flypast over Buckingham Palace




Continue reading the main story


The Diamond Jubilee


Royals end Australia Jubilee trip


Camilla's hug with orphaned joey


Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea


Duchess makes first speech abroad



 Four days of Diamond Jubilee events have culminated in an appearance by the Queen on the Buckingham Palace balcony in front of huge crowds.
There was also a flypast by World War II aircraft and the Red Arrows. 
The Queen had earlier attended a service at St Paul's Cathedral where the Archbishop of Canterbury praised her "lifelong dedication". 
But her consort, Prince Philip, has been absent from her side as he remains in hospital with a bladder infection. 
The Earl and Countess of Wessex visited the Duke of Edinburgh on Tuesday afternoon.
Afterwards, Prince Edward said: "He's feeling better." The countess added: "He's in good spirits; he's on good form."
The Queen has recorded a two-minute message of thanks to the nation which will be broadcast at 1800 BST on radio and television in the UK and across the Commonwealth.   
'God save the Queen'
Crowds built up from early morning outside St Paul's and Buckingham Palace.


The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge joined the Queen on the palace balcony

There was a fanfare as Her Majesty, wearing a mint green outfit of fine silk tulle, embroidered with tiny star-shaped flowers, arrived at St Paul's for the service at 10:30 BST and the crowds chanted "God save the Queen".
Prime Minister David Cameron, who gave a reading, led the large representation from the government, military personnel and members of the royal household, at St Paul's alongside diplomats and foreign leaders.  
Following the service at St Paul's, the Queen attended a reception at nearby Mansion House - the official residence of the Lord Mayor of London. 
The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry were at a similar event at the Guildhall. 
All of the senior royals then moved on through crowd-lined streets to a lunch at Westminster Hall where they dined on salmon, followed by Welsh lamb, grilled Isle of Wight asparagus, Jersey Royal potatoes and chocolate delice, bread and butter pudding and berry compote with apple sauce.
60-gun salute
The Queen travelled in an open-topped coach with the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall back to Buckingham Palace.
Princes William and Harry and the Duchess of Cambridge followed in a second coach.







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Queen's procession in open-top carriage procession



 They were led along The Mall by soldiers from the Household Cavalry Mounted Regiment, and the King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery, then fired a 60-gun salute.   
The day culminated with an appearance by the Queen and other senior royals on the balcony for the flypast, which had been in doubt due to the threat of bad weather.   
The BBC's Gerry Holt, on The Mall, said the deafening sound of the flypast drowned out the crowd's cheers. She said that after the Red Arrows had passed overhead there were cries from youngsters of "The sky's turned red, white and blue!" 
BBC royal correspondent Peter Hunt said the choice to have only six members of the Royal Family - the Queen, Prince Charles, the Duchess of Cornwall, Princes William and Harry and the Duchess of Cambridge - sent a message demonstrating both continuity and restraint at a time of austerity.
Among other Jubilee news: 

 The Archbishop of Canterbury praised the Queen for dedicating herself to the service of her nation and the Commonwealth. He said the Queen had put aside "selfish goals" and dedicated herself to public service, honouring countless communities and individuals and referred to Prince Philip, saying "our prayers and thoughts are very much with him"
 US President Barack Obama also paid tribute to the Queen, calling her "a steadfast ally, loyal friend and tireless leader". He said that throughout her "60 extraordinary years" she had been "a loyal witness" to the unique alliance between his country and the UK "and the chief source of its resilience"
 Ministers are being urged to look into reports that unemployed people hired as unpaid stewards for the Diamond Jubilee pageant ended up having to sleep outside and change in the rain
 Southampton is hosting a Diamond Jubilee celebration involving Cunard cruise ships the Queen Mary 2, Queen Elizabeth and Queen Victoria but a display from the Red Arrows has been cancelled as a result of poor weather
 Other highlights of the Jubilee weekend included a star-studded concert outside Buckingham Palace on Monday night.
At the show, Prince Charles paid tribute to his mother, describing her as "mummy" and a "very special person" but said there was  disappointing edge to the night because his father could not be there. 
Afterwards the Queen came on to the stage to press a diamond-shaped crystal into a pod, igniting a beacon in The Mall to mark her 60 years on the throne. It was one of more than 4,000 lit across the UK and the Commonwealth. 
See all the latest Diamond Jubilee news and features at bbc.co.uk/diamondjubilee

 



More on This Story


The Diamond Jubilee
	      



Latest news



Royals end Australia Jubilee trip




Camilla's hug with orphaned joey




Royal pair tour Papua New Guinea




Duchess makes first speech abroad




Prince wishes for 'two children'




Charles and Camilla visit Jersey







In pictures and video



In Pictures: Royal diamonds




McGuinness used 'bloodstained hand' Watch




Queen's 1953 NI visit in colour Watch




God Save the Queen sung Watch




In pictures: Jubilee concert




See how the UK celebrated







Features



NI jubilee: 1977 versus now




A final flourish




A day at the pageant




In pictures: Millennium artists at the Jubilee pageant




Diamond Jubilee: Avoiding the hype




France switches on to Jubilee

















       Comments   This entry is now closed for comments  Jump to comments pagination    Editors' Picks All Comments 1076       Order by: Latest First Highest Rated Lowest Rated                rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 516.  markthesensible  5th June 2012 - 14:18   ...ibwaThey practically are funded by royalists. 80% of us want a monarchy....markdoncasterit's not just in London. The Queen now sets off on regional tours to continue the Jubilee celebrations.No single person or body contributes more than the Queen and the Royal family. Now it is out turn to say thank you.Queen Elizabeth II , thank god you exist, long may you reign    Report this comment (Comment number 516) Link to this (Comment number 516)                 rate this     +1      rate this     +1   Comment number 515.  bobloblaw14  5th June 2012 - 14:17   http://www.zerohedge.com/news/guest-post-uk-about-engage-stealth-defaultMore money wasted on the jubilee.It doesnt really matter anyway because your government and central bank can do absolutely nothing to stop the economic disaster that is coming.What you are seeing is them dragging it out for as long as they can.They have lost control of the fiat money and its going to change your life.    Report this comment (Comment number 515) Link to this (Comment number 515)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 514.  Baron Brick  5th June 2012 - 14:17   Well I'm glad the old dole-waller and her tragic family have had a good time at the expense of their cash-strapped servants. Can we now have the TV and news back? I'm sick of the sight of the lot of them.    Report this comment (Comment number 514) Link to this (Comment number 514)     Comment number 513.  fuzzy  5th June 2012 - 14:17    This comment was removed because the moderators found it broke the house rules. Explain.      Report this comment (Comment number 513) Link to this (Comment number 513)                 rate this     0      rate this     0   Comment number 512.  Mr Rabioza  5th June 2012 - 14:16   Sycophants posting, telling us how they love the Queen, how great she is, how we all live in a democracy and in the next breath reminding us how the left wing nasties let in all the foreigners and ruined the country. Then there's the people on the streets of London dressed in union jack suits, waving even more flags and singing 'God Save the Queen' like crazed nationalists. How stupid do you look?    Report this comment (Comment number 512) Link to this (Comment number 512)                 rate this     -1      rate this     -1   Comment number 511.  paulmerhaba  5th June 2012 - 14:16   500. Freethinker 4 MINUTES AGOHilarious how monarchists try to defend the monarchy, an undemocratic and unmeritocratic institution, by the principle of democracy ( the thing Republicans are arguing for ....---Do you defend the politicians elected by democratic means?    Report this comment (Comment number 511) Link to this (Comment number 511)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 510.  L_CM  5th June 2012 - 14:16   The British public at least need to demand a higher transparency on the Monarch's finance matter!  It's completely unfair and they played the citizens as if they were fools.  Yes, the celebration should be much more low key!!  I feel sad for British people!    Report this comment (Comment number 510) Link to this (Comment number 510)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 509.  Noel Blakes Own Goals  5th June 2012 - 14:16   Further to my point 482:Let's not forget that the BBC is the official State broadcaster.The veneer shown is of an impartial public service, whereas in truth it's position as State broadcaster shows where it's allegiance/responsibility truly lies....    Report this comment (Comment number 509) Link to this (Comment number 509)                 rate this     +8      rate this     +8   Comment number 508.  Puzzled  Comment number 508 is an Editors' Pick 5th June 2012 - 14:09   I think the whole Jubilee event has been inspiring, and I specially appreciated the Archbishop's sermon.  I feel so sad about those who despise the monarchy - who would make a good president of a British Republic?  God save us from that, and God save the Queen.    Report this comment (Comment number 508) Link to this (Comment number 508)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 507.  Geoff  5th June 2012 - 14:14   492.So whilst the jubilee was happening the world carried onWhat, really? I saw no evidence whatsoever to back this statement up (at least from the BBC)    Report this comment (Comment number 507) Link to this (Comment number 507)     Comment number 506.  Removed  5th June 2012 - 14:14    All this user's posts have been removed.Why?     Report this comment (Comment number 506) Link to this (Comment number 506)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 505.  ibwa  5th June 2012 - 14:13   Which god and why does this queen need saving?Where are the people that make up Britain in this anthem every royalist loves to quote.    Report this comment (Comment number 505) Link to this (Comment number 505)                 rate this     -20      rate this     -20   Comment number 504.  BootRap  5th June 2012 - 14:13   Got no money to build affordable housing for our own but can afford this. Got no money and have to have austerity for the poor but can afford the olympics. The lies disgusts me.    Report this comment (Comment number 504) Link to this (Comment number 504)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 503.  thinker1214  Comment number 503 is an Editors' Pick 5th June 2012 - 14:12   i would just like the monarchy to have a real voice, was the queen happy for us to go to war or not? is the queen happy we are protecting the bankers or not? the queen appears reads out the GOVs agenda waves and leaves us to it. i dont want her to have the final say but i would like the head of the nation to voice her opinion even if to raise more debate before action is taken    Report this comment (Comment number 503) Link to this (Comment number 503)                 rate this     -4      rate this     -4   Comment number 502.  TenpennyBit  5th June 2012 - 14:11   http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-18329526So much energy put into the "celebrations" by so much of the populace, but you can bet your life that this story about the shabby treatment of jobless people will be met with general apathy and indifference.    Report this comment (Comment number 502) Link to this (Comment number 502)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 501.  Son of Maggie and Norman  5th June 2012 - 14:11   Would all the republican and anti royalists please crawl back under the stones you came from – alternatively leave the country and find yourselves a republic to live in.There is very little left in this country we can be proud of but the Queen is one thing we can.    Report this comment (Comment number 501) Link to this (Comment number 501)                 rate this     -2      rate this     -2   Comment number 500.  Freethinker  5th June 2012 - 14:10   Hilarious how monarchists try to defend the monarchy, an undemocratic and unmeritocratic  institution, by the principle of democracy ( the thing Republicans are arguing for )  by  siting the crowds who came to watch a free show or two versus the number of protesters brave enough to risk arrest (again) or violent assault. We need a fair referendum preceded by free debate and media coverage.    Report this comment (Comment number 500) Link to this (Comment number 500)                 rate this     +4      rate this     +4   Comment number 499.  Martin Docherty  5th June 2012 - 14:10   441. No, i'll leave cancelling all workers rights to the tories and their supporters thanks. Bank holidays are a right as a worker in the EU, I enjoy and often find them necessary to spend time with my family. Adding two additional holidays whilst the country 'can't afford' to keep  the 'lazy poor people' is a contradiction of the highest order. I would work extra to keep others fed, would you?    Report this comment (Comment number 499) Link to this (Comment number 499)                 rate this     -6      rate this     -6   Comment number 498.  JR  5th June 2012 - 14:10   The concert last night was good fun - and nice to watch on TV. The flotilla on the other hand was a mess, and just boring at best. The weather didn't help, but it meant there were less people out to be disappointed by the lack of spectacle. It's also brought home how inaccessible the river is and how much of it is reserved for 'private' groups.    Report this comment (Comment number 498) Link to this (Comment number 498)                 rate this     -3      rate this     -3   Comment number 497.  Mr Max  5th June 2012 - 14:10   489. ravenmorpheus2k Check the "who owns the CE".As I said - independent body."-Here's some actual quotes from your link: "The Crown Estate belongs to the reigning monarch" and "The Government also does not own The Crown Estate".Quite how you missed those is beyond me. Not sure you read it, they're some of the first lines.It's ADMINISTERED by an independent body, not owned.    Report this comment (Comment number 497) Link to this (Comment number 497)         Page 29 of 54    Newer 1 ... 27 28 29 30 31 ... 54 Older       Add your comment    Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments     All posts are reactively-moderated  and must obey the house rules.      


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Tory chairs urge gay marriage delay

Senior local Conservatives are urging the prime minister to delay any Parliamentary decision on gay marriage until after the next election.



Police 'used IDs of dead children'




Man charged with Sasha's murder












Top stories



Assad: Israel destabilising Syria


French jets bomb northern Mali 


Naked beaten Egyptian blames police


Malala recovering after surgery


Memorials for Brazil fire victims









Features & Analysis




Staying alive Watch

The legendary Phantom's comic strip appeal 	
				  




Mashed potato rows

Kathy Etchingham remembers life as Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady' 	
				  




Miles from home

Has Hillary’s journey ended, or is more to come? 	
				  




Set for the Super Bowl

Photographer Stephen McLaren's explores New Orleans 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Etch A Sketch inventor dies at 86



3: Car park dug up around parked car



4: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



5: Malala recovering after operation



Read




1: US sniper book author shot dead



2: Assad: Israel destabilising Syria



3: French jets bomb northern Mali 



4: Malala recovering after operation



5: Dolphins 'saved' by distress call



6: Mars rover hammers down into rock



7: Being Jimi Hendrix's 'Foxy Lady'



8: Car park dug up around parked car



9: Where did Richard III go wrong?



10: Taser used near Buckingham Palace



Video/Audio




1: The art looking death in the face Watch



2: Syria airs 'Israeli strike' footage Watch



3: Iran unveils 'stealth fighter' plane Watch



4: US child still hostage in bunker Watch



5: Knives man Tasered outside palace Watch



6: 'Maybe no one can save Gascoigne' Watch



7: One-minute World News Watch



8: The World's Newsroom: An introduction Watch



9: Footage shows quake shake Japan Watch



10: Apology over police beating footage Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Coast stories

BBC Travel discovers why the island of Mauritius is much more than just a fly-and-flop destination















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Look death in the face with objects that chart how we try to make peace with the end of life




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





