
	Texas Forest Service











THREE ES OF WILDFIRE PREVENTION









[ Print | 

 ]



The Three "Es" of Wildfire PreventionWildfires arise from many causes. While some occur from natural causes such as lightning or trees and/or tree branches falling on power lines, most result from people and their actions. Activities to prevent life-threatening fires from getting started generally can be categorized under three areas: education, engineering and enforcement – the three “Es” of fire prevention.EDUCATION: Wildfire prevention efforts target a wide variety of audiences using a broad mix of messages, publications, activities and programs. Smokey Bear, the national symbol for wildfire prevention, has reached millions of children, youth and adults with his wildfire safety message: “Only you can prevent wildfires.” The Smokey Bear wildfire prevention campaign remains one of the most successful public service programs ever undertaken by the National Advertising Council.Using materials and presentations appropriate for different audiences, fire prevention educators take wildfire safety programs to schools and youth groups, civic clubs, landowner associations and other targeted groups. Fire safety professionals also enlist the help of the news media to educate the public about wildfire danger, fire prevention and home fire safety practices, and weather events likely to increase the risk of wildfires. Fire risk assessment personnel help keep governmental leaders informed on wildfire activity and current and predicted danger levels to enable these officials to make informed decisions about possible outdoor fire restrictions and fire use.ENGINEERING: Proper equipment maintenance can help prevent many wildfires, e.g. keeping mufflers and spark arresters on outdoor power equipment in proper working order. Modifications on equipment and/or the environment in which equipment is being used also can prevent wildfires. Examples include removing vegetation from the area in which welding operations will be conducted and physically shielding potential ignition sources from dry vegetation.\ENFORCEMENT: The enforcement side of wildfire prevention involves activities that encourage compliance with restrictions on outdoor fire use, usually based on penalties for noncompliance with state or county regulations. In Texas, enforcement efforts most commonly involve citations for negligence with outdoor burning, violations of county burning bans and restrictions on the sale of certain aerial fireworks. Violations involving these areas are usually Class C misdemeanors carrying a possible fine of up to $500. Incendiary, or arson, fires carry a much higher penalty, though, as these are felony offenses. Individuals convicted of wildland arson offenses face fines up to $10,000 and prison terms from two to 99 years.When used in tandem with each other, the three “Es” of wildfire prevention can prevent significant numbers of wildfires from occurring. None of these, however, lessen the need for individuals to take personal responsibility for keeping wildfires from occurring. To repeat Smokey’s advice, “Only you can prevent wildfires.” 








