
	Texas Forest Service











PEST CO-OP LIST









[ Print | 

 ]






FOREST PEST MANAGEMENT COOPERATIVEformerly theWestern Gulf Forest Pest Management Cooperative Established 1996Working in Partnership to Manage Forest Pests

INTRODUCTIONInsects, diseases, and weeds commonly reduce growth and survival of trees and forests throughout the United States. Damage and mortality in southern forests in 2000 due to insect pests alone have been conservatively estimated at nearly $487 million.In the past, forest pest problems have been addressed largely by the research and pest management branches of the USDA Forest Service (USFS). Changes in forest policy on federal land and personnel within the USFS have shifted the objectives of public land management largely away from commercial timber production.Goals for public land, and priorities for federally-funded research, are being directed more toward ecosystem management, maintenance of biodiversity, wilderness, wildlife management, recreation, and protection of endangered species. Forest management on federal lands in the future will emphasize natural regeneration, longer rotations, diversity of tree species, and uneven-aged management.Forest industry, in contrast, is focusing increasing efforts on intensively-managed, short-rotation pine and hardwood plantations as a means to meet current and future demands for forest products. As the intensity of forest management increases, greater insect and disease problems are likely to be encountered. Reduced growth and tree mortality due to various pests, often tolerated in natural stands, can not be ignored in high-value plantations.In light of these changing trends and to address the continued need for forest pest research and technology development, the Forest Pest Management Cooperative (FPMC, formerly the Western Gulf Forest Pest Management Cooperative) was established in 1996. As of 2008, six forest industries, three timber investment management organizations, the Texas Forest Service, and the USDA Forest Service, Forest Health Protection have joined the FPMC.SERVICES TO MEMBERSMember participation in setting research and technology development priorities.On-site evaluation of specific pest problems.Evaluation and demonstration of new pest management technology.Assistance in determining the impact of forest pests.Training in the identification, prevention, detection, evaluation, and suppression of forest pests.Copies of FPMC annual reports, newsletters, and related publications.Immediate access to new pest management technology and information.MEMBERSHIP IN THE FPMCMembership in the Forest Pest Management Cooperative is open to all forest industries, agencies, or private landowners (the main focus has been in the Southern U.S.). Membership dues are dependent on full or partial participation. For more information, contact Dr. Don Grosman (Coordinator) by phone: 936-639-8170; fax: 936-639-8175; or e-mail: dgrosman@tfs.tamu.edu. Official website can be found at http://www.fpmcoop.com/CURRENT FPMC MEMBERSHIPFull Membership The Campbell GroupForest Investment AssociatesHancock Forest Management, Inc.Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc.RayonierTexas Forest ServiceU.S.D.A. Forest Service / FHP (R8)Weyerhaeuser Co.Associate Membership Anthony Forest Products Co.ArborGen 

 
 








