
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE HEADS HURRICANE FOREST RECOVERY EFFORTS









[ Print | 

 ]



Task force created to address issues
Texas Forest Service and the Texas Forestry Association (TFA) convened a special meeting Wednesday (10/5) of East Texas forestry leaders and legislators to address landowner and forest industry concerns regarding the recovery from the $833 million damage the forest sustained from Hurricane Rita.
The task force has been created to address issues of logging, forest landowner affairs, wood utilization, communications, governmental affairs, forest health and regeneration and biomass issues.  Burl Carraway, assistant department head of the Texas Forest Service Forest Sustainability and Economic Development Department, will collect the data from the task forces, and Texas Forest Service will act as a clearing house to report the findings.
In an effort to best serve landowners, Texas Forest Service created a “Hurricane Rita Forest Recovery” web page, accessible from their main site at http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu, to inform the public of the timber damage assessment and provide links to articles, lists and other agencies that might be of interest to those salvaging timber or landscape trees. A special link is included on that page to a “Landowners Request for Assistance,” which, once filled out, will be forwarded to the appropriate Texas Forest Service office in East Texas for a response.
Approximately fifty landowners, loggers, mill owners, consulting foresters and agency representatives attended the packed meeting at TFA headquarters in Lufkin. Texas House of Representatives member Jim McReynolds was also in attendance, with representatives from the offices of Texas State Senator Todd Staples and US Congressman Kevin Brady sitting in on the meeting.
The major concerns included diesel fuel availability both for vehicles and machinery; extension past the Oct. 31 deadline of the Motor Carrier Waiver, which allows trucks to be above the previous guides for weights if they are involved in relief efforts; workers compensation issues for loggers having to use hand tools instead of mechanized methods; wet-decking, which allows logs to be stored either under water or under water spray for six months to a year; emergency funding for salvaging and reforestation; and the incidence of blue stain, which occurs on wood that is on the ground for a long period of time before being salvaged and does not hurt the integrity of the wood, rather the aesthetic value.  Another concern included maintaining the state’s highly regarded Best Management Practices (BMPs) credibility.  BMPs are practices determined to be an effective and practicable means of preventing or reducing the amount of water generated by non-point sources.
Agencies represented at the meeting included the USDA Forest Service, Texas Department of Transportation and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.








