
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH





    ADVISORIES


Current Fire Situation


Wildfire Information


Fire Danger/Advisories


Burn Bans


    MEDIA RESOURCES


Events Calendar


Subscribe to TFS News


Communications Team


Open Records Requests

DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry





TFS Newsroom



LANDOWNERS

ELIGIBLE FOR DISASTER AID URGED TO APPLY:  TEXAS FOREST SERVICE FORESTERS TO ACT IN TECHNICAL ADVISORY ROLE








[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




July 18, 2006 -- COLLEGE STATION, Texas – Texas landowners may now apply for a share of $504 million in federal aid to help in the restoration and replanting of forestland damaged by the hurricanes that occurred last year.  Landowners in counties receiving presidential or secretarial primary disaster designations will be in competition with those in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and North Carolina for the Emergency Forestry Conservation Reserve program (EFCRP) that the USDA is promoting to help hurricane victims.  
The list of declared counties in Texas includes Angelina, Brazoria, Chambers, Cherokee, Fort Bend, Galveston, Gregg, Hardin, Harris, Harrison, Houston, Jasper, Jefferson, Liberty, Marion, Montgomery, Nacogdoches, Newton, Orange, Panola, Polk, Rusk, Sabine, San Augustine, San Jacinto, Shelby, Trinity, Tyler and Walker.
Landowners are required to go to their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) to sign up for the program.  Individual, non-industrial private landowners who suffered a loss of at least 35% of the value of their timberland may be eligible to apply.  In addition, the area damaged on individual tracts by Hurricane Rita must be at least ten acres in size. 
Local FSA offices will accept land enrollment offers from producers through Oct. 20.  The sign-up is divided into three selection periods for top-ranked offers: July 17 through August 25; August 28 through Sept. 22; and Sept. 25 through Oct. 20. Eligible offers not selected during the first or second period will rollover to subsequent selection period(s). All acceptable EFCRP offers must have conservation plans developed and approved by Dec. 31.
Texas Forest Service personnel will provide technical assistance to landowners in damage assessment, as well as mitigation and recovery practices.  The FSA will take informational tract surveys completed by Texas Forest Service and rank the requests according to established criteria.  If the landowner’s evaluation is accepted, Texas Forest Service foresters will work with the landowner to develop a conservation plan. 
The EFCRP participants will remain under contract for 10 years and will be eligible to receive pre-determined annual rental payments over the contract period or a one-time, discounted lump sum payment.  In addition, forest landowners may also qualify for 50 percent cost-share assistance to offset reforestation and/or rehabilitation expenses.  The FSA will provide a list of restrictions that will have to be followed during the contract period.
For more information about the EFCRP and a list of FSA offices in the counties listed as eligible can be found on the Farm Service Agency web site at http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/.
-30-
Contact:
Bill Oates
Chief Regional Forester
936-875-4400
boates@tfs.tamu.edu
Pat Schaub
Communications & Marketing Specialist
979-458-7349
pschaub@tfs.tamu.edu
More TFS info available at:
http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu 






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



