
	Texas Forest Service











USE CAUTION WITH STORM DAMAGED TREES









[ Print | 

 ]



In the aftermath of Hurricane Rita, do not be hasty about removing damaged trees that might be saved. Trees are resilient, and what may look like mortal wounds at first glance are not necessarily fatal to a tree, according to Texas Forest Service.
Safety should be the first concern. Take caution when pruning, and leave the heavy chainsaw work to professionals. Look up for damaged limbs that may fall, and look down to avoid fallen power, phone or cable lines.
Moderate and major tree damage, and any damage around power lines, should be left to professional arborists. They have the equipment and knowledge needed and are usually listed in the telephone book under “Tree Service.”  You may also want to check with your city or county officials to see if they are providing assistance with disposal of tree debris from private property.
If the offered services include tree topping, beware. Tree topping is one of the worst treatments for trees because it reduces the amount of foliage, which trees need for food and nourishment during regrowth.
Be cautious of arborists soliciting door to door. A qualified tree-care specialist should have workers’ compensation, liability insurance, and experience in the tree care industry. Homeowners using someone without insurance could be liable for accidents occurring on their property.  If possible, it is best to hire only an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture.
Homeowners need to be careful with damaged trees if removal is necessary. Trunks and branches are heavy and should be considered potentially dangerous until they can be brought to the ground. Limbs as small as two inches in diameter can cause injury if they fall on someone.
In addition, according to Dr. Linda Wang, Texas Forest Service economist and tax analyst, if you do have damaged landscape trees, you may qualify for a tax deduction under “casualty loss deductions.”   This deduction is available for damaged trees and shrubs on residences, business or investment property.
There are some guidelines — for residential areas, the loss deduction is limited, and if you do not claim itemized deductions, you will not be able to deduct the casualty loss.
For business or rental property, the entire casualty loss is deductible.  It is not subject to any floor limitations. And, unlike for residential property, trees and shrubs must be appraised separately from land and building for business property.
A few of the tips that Wang suggests for tax records for proof are: take photos as quickly as possible after the casualty; log the date, location and photographer; gather newspapers articles about the hurricane; gather escrow papers from the title company or the bank; and gather insurance policy (that may have insurance coverage for trees and property base value).
For more information on tree pruning and removal after a storm, visit http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu, click on Urban Forestry for articles on Storms and Trees, or “Find a Certified Arborist in the ISA Database” under Technical Assistance.  For further information on claiming casualty losses for landscape trees and more tips for tax purposes, the complete article can be found here.








