
	Texas Forest Service











BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES NEED TO BE APPLIED WHEN SALVAGING TIMBER DAMAGED BY HURRICANE RITA









[ Print | 

 ]



The destruction caused by Hurricane Rita in southeast Texas left many forest landowners searching for answers about what to do with all the broken and damaged timber.  Salvaging this timber and starting over may be the only option for many.  When conducting these operations, best management practices (BMPs) should be applied as if it were a normal harvest.
Forestry BMPs are voluntary practices that are designed to be an effective and practical means of preventing or reducing erosion and the amount of water pollution generated by forestry activities.  A report recently released by the Texas Forest Service documents the positive results the forestry community has achieved in protecting water quality through the implementation of BMPs.  
However, in cases where there is a sense of urgency to harvest the timber, as in a salvage operation, we must still remember the long term benefits of using BMPs.  BMPs help protect soil and water, two key elements necessary for growing a productive forest.  Here are some things to keep in mind when harvesting or salvaging timber:


Make sure the ground is stable enough for heavy equipment.  Hurricane Rita dumped over 10 inches of rain in some areas.  While most of East Texas was extremely dry before Rita, some areas may now be saturated.  Operating heavy equipment during wet conditions can cause excessive rutting, leading to losses in the site’s productivity and causing impairments to water quality. 
Pay close attention to Streamside Management Zones (SMZs) during salvage operations.  Over 400,000 acres of timber were damaged by Hurricane Rita.  Among the hardest hit areas were SMZs (50 foot buffer strips that aid in protecting water quality).  Spotting the boundaries of these zones now may be impossible for the salvage contractor.  Remarking or flagging these boundaries can increase their visibility.
Special care should be taken when operating in the SMZ.  These zones act as the final filter before any sediment or debris reaches the stream.  Haul roads, skid trails, and landings should be located outside of these areas.
Every effort should be made to protect and leave trees not severely damaged.  This is critical when operating inside the SMZ to prevent destroying the filtering and stream shading effects of this zone.  A residual density of 50 square feet of basal area per acre should be left where possible. 
Trees and tops should not be felled across or pushed into streams.  Hurricane Rita undoubtedly caused a lot of debris to enter East Texas streams, potentially negatively impacting water quality.  Though this was due to a natural occurrence, any additional debris that enters the stream as a result of the salvage operation should be removed.  Failure to do so could result in reduced stream flow and impaired water quality. 
Use dispersed skidding or cable retrieval when removing felled timber from the SMZ.  Utilizing this method will allow the forest floor to remain virtually undisturbed, maintaining the filtering capacity of the SMZ. 


When conducting hurricane salvage operations, landowners, loggers, and foresters should continue to practice sustainable forestry.  Following the state’s recommended BMPs is one way to ensure this. You can get a copy of the Texas Forestry Best Management Practices (Bluebook) at your local Texas Forest Service office or at http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu.
 








