
	Texas Forest Service











HURRICANE RITA LANDSCAPE TREE LOSS









[ Print | 

 ]



For tax purposes, landscape trees damaged by Hurricane Rita may qualify for a tax deduction under “casualty loss deduction.”  This deduction is available for damaged trees and shrubs on personal use (residence), business or investment property. 
For residential area

The casualty loss deduction is limited.  The deduction, aggregating with all casualty deductions for one’s home, is first reduced by $100 and then by an additional 10% of your “adjusted gross income” on Form 4684.  Because of the 10% floor, you may be unable to deduct a casualty loss unless it is quite substantial.  Also, if your income is high, your deduction is limited or eliminated.  
The casualty loss is also limited to your adjusted basis in the trees or shrubs.  The adjusted basis is the cost for establishing the landscape in most cases. For example, one might spend $1000 to establish trees, and after several years, they grow to be worth $1700.  The amount of loss for you is limited to $1000, not the $1700  if they’re totally destroyed.
If you don’t itemize you deduction, you will not be able to deduct casualty loss.
Appraisal fees and the cost of taking photos are not part of the casualty loss deduction.  They are part of deductible expenses claimed on itemized deduction (subject to 2% AGI limitation).
Generally, using a professional appraisal is generally necessary for establishing the Fair Market Value prior to and after the hurricane.  The smaller of the decrease in FMV of the trees and its adjusted basis is the amount of the loss prior to the deduction limitation ($100 and 10% floors).  These professionals can be found through the web site of the American Society of Consulting Arborist.  “Variations of Cost Approach and the Market Approach more closely follow the IRS criteria and standards,” according to the Guide for Plant Appraisal 9th edition, page 104.  This guide is the rulebook for professional arborists.
In some cases, you may have a gain to where you may need to pay taxes on these trees.  This is certainly not the news an owner expects.  For example, if you planted these trees years ago with relatively little costs and you managed to conduct a salvage sale of the trees, if the sale proceeds exceed your adjusted basis, you have a taxable gain.  You may defer the tax by replacing or repairing the property. 

For business or rental property

The entire casualty loss is deductible.  It is not subject to any floor limitations 
Unlike for residential property, trees and shrubs must be appraised separately from land and buildings for business property 
The amount of loss is the smaller of the decrease in FMV and the adjusted basis, and then reduced by the insurance compensation, if any
Report the loss on Form 4684 and Form 4797 generally
A taxable gain is realized when the sale proceeds exceeds adjusted gross income; but the tax can be deferred by replacing property        

For investment property

Report in Form 4684 and then Schedule A “Other Miscellaneous Deductions.”
 This deduction is not subject to any limitation on itemized deductions (2% AGI floor or 3% reduction rule) 
  

Tips for tax records for proof

Take photos as quickly as possible after the casualty
Log the date, location and photographer  
Gather newspaper articles about the hurricane
Gather escrow papers from the title company or the bank
Insurance policy (that may have insurance coverage for trees and property base value)
Tree purchase and service records from landscape contractors
Photos of your landscape trees taken prior to the hurricane by owner, family member, and friends 
Tax assessor’s record (appraised value and purchase date) if no other records are available
Court papers or legal documents particularly useful for inherited and estate property
Record for hired appraisal and salvage sale if any

The tax impact of taking a casualty loss is a reduction of the adjusted basis of the property by that amount.
Contact Dr. Linda Wang with Texas Forest Service for further information on claiming casualty loss for landscape trees.   
 








