Fosters.com - Dover NH,  Rochester NH, Portsmouth NH, Laconia NH, Sanford ME

Check out your forecast






Fosters.com
Foster's Daily Democrat
Rochester Times
Sanford News












NH Towns

 Regions
Dover
Great Bay
Portsmouth
Rochester
 Towns
Barrington
Dover
Durham
Exeter
Farmington
Greenland
Lee
Madbury
Middleton 
Milton
New Castle
New Durham  
Newington
Newmarket
Northwood  
Portsmouth
Rochester  
Rollinsford
Rye
Somersworth
Strafford  
Stratham
Wakefield  
All Towns


ME Towns

 Regions
Southern Maine
 Towns
Berwick
Eliot
Kittery
North Berwick
South Berwick
York
All Towns


News

 Newspaper
Foster's Daily Democrat

Rochester Times
Sanford News
 Subject
Regional News Tweets
History
Primary Destination NH
In Case You Missed It
Lottery
Nation/World
Oddly Enough
Weather
Weather Tweets
New Hampshire
Maine
Massachusetts
Columnists
Most Viewed
All Regional News


Obits

Community

Submit your news
Graduations & Proms
Bus Routes
Schools
Honor Rolls
Newspapers in Education

Weddings/Anniversaries
Births
Obituaries
Police Logs
Churches
Columnists
Most Viewed
All Community
Crime Roundup


Op/Ed

Submit Letter to the Editor
All Opinion


Sports



Videos
Youth Sports
Local Leagues
High School
UNH/College
Bruins/NHL
Celtics/NBA
Patriots/NFL
Red Sox/MLB
Photo Galleries
Columnists
Most Viewed
All Sports


Business

Dover Chamber Awards Video
National Business News
Stocks of Local Interest
Columnists
Most Viewed
All Business


Entertainment

Showcase
Movies
TV
Event Calendar


Music
Most Viewed
All Entertainment


Lifestyle

Home & Garden
Science and Technology
Pets
Family

Food

Books
Travel
Tourism
Health
Columnists
Most Viewed
All Lifestyles


Site Tools

Past 30 days
Photo Galleries
Today's Photos
Prints for sale
Special Request Reprints
Local Video
Dover Webcam

Advertise
Rate Card
Commercial Print
Legal Notices
Contact
Email Headlines
Home Delivery
News Feeds
Place a Classified Ad
Site Map
Submit Wedding
Submit Engagement

Toolbar
Site Search


Classifieds

Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Marketplace/Classifieds

Place a Classified Ad
Foster's Special Sections
Best Read Guide
Going Green
Local Experts












SITE SEARCH  



 


















 Print

 Email   





Go Mobile: http://mobile.fosters.com
Huntsman discusses economy with La Festa patrons

	By MIKE GREEARmgreear@fosters.com

	Sunday, August 14, 2011







EJ Hersom/Staff photographer
Gov. Jon Huntsman, front, speaks to his presidential campaign supporters Saturday in Dover. From back are David Thompson, Randal Heller, and Huntsman. 
Click here to view Foster's prints for sale








DOVER — Seacoast republicans were greeted with handshakes and pizza on Saturday afternoon as presidential hopeful Jon Huntsman paid a visit to La Festa Brick and Brew in downtown Dover.For many of the nearly a dozen people that attended the 1 p.m. event to meet him, it was their first chance at getting close to the former Utah governor. "I'm on a fact-finding mission," said Dover resident Randy Heller while enjoying some of La Festa's pizza before Huntsman arrived.Heller, a retired Navy commander who currently teaches middle school children in Dover, belongs to the Dover Republican Party and has already met republican candidates Herman Cain, Ron Paul and Michele Bachmann. He said he was attending the event to learn more about Huntsman.Dover resident David Thompson said that he was attending the event because he was pleased with Huntsman's view that politicians from both sides should compromise to work out the country's debt problems."I was impressed with his statement that both Democrats and Republicans should work to get the debt ceiling squared away," Thompson said.When Huntsman arrived, he greeted and shook hands with La Festa patrons before sitting down with a table of curious members of the public to outline his platform.He began by stating his concerns about the "cancer" of debt that the county will be leaving behind for future generations, and spoke of his support for a balanced-budget amendment to make it unconstitutional.Huntsman also said that neither party should have "sacred cows," when it comes to cutting things from the budget, and that "entitlements must be on the table." "We don't want to have a lost decade like they did in Japan," Huntsman said.He said that he believes the country needs an economic revolution through meaningful, competitive tax reform and that it needs to kick its "heroine-like" addiction to foreign oil.Huntsman's final point before taking questions was that the U.S. should avoid nation building. He said that he sees no definable goal in Libya and that the war on terror should be fought with counterterrorism and intelligence rather than troops."If our core isn't rebuilt, we're of no value to the rest of the world," Huntsman said. He then fielded questions from local citizens, at which time Heller asked what Huntsman thought of using the American military, specifically the National Guard, as a world police force."I'd rather use the national guard to secure the border," Huntsman said.Heller also asked Huntsman if he supported the movement to audit the Federal Reserve."I do," Huntsman said, which pleased Heller.Thompson later asked the former U.S. Ambassador to China what vehicle he might use to break the impasse between the two major parties in Washington. Huntsman said that combining good ideas on how America can "clean up our act financially" with getting the "stamp of approval" from the people during the 2012 election will motivate congress.Huntsman also replied to questions about "Obamacare," which he is in favor of repealing and letting the marketplace among various states decide how to fix health care.When the event ended, Heller said that he admired Huntsman's views on national defense and his economic approach. He said that while he still preferred Ron Paul, it wasn't a definite choice."I can easily switch," Heller said.After thanking the event's attendees, Huntsman made a short walk down Central Avenue to Central Paint & Coatings to shake hands and speak with Parker Humphrey, the store's owner. The two talked about how people aren't spending as much money anymore, and their hope that things will turn around economically for the country."Keep up the good work, I respect what you're trying to do," Huntsman said.








EJ Hersom/Staff photographer
Gov. Jon Huntsman walks in downtown Dover during a presidential campaign stop. 
Click here to view Foster's prints for sale










EJ Hersom/Staff photographer 
Reporters from national and local news agencies watch Gov. Jon Huntsman, front left, speak to his supporters in Dover Saturday. 
Click here to view Foster's prints for sale














Reader Services






Advertise

Email Headlines

Buy Photos

Tool Bar

Home Delivery





























Today's Featured Jobs





Notable Passings


John J. Kelley
Nick Ashford
Jerry Leiber
View All Local Obituaries



ADS BY GOOGLE













Copyright © 2011 Geo. J. Foster Company.    Site Design: Harbour Light Strategic Marketing.
Internet Services: BayRing Communications.






