Cain’s Plan For Securing The Border: Build The Great Wall Of China, Fill A Moat With Alligators | ThinkProgress











TRENDING:
IslamophobiaRick PerryElection 2012Mitt RomneyMichele Bachmann






 


ThinkProgress



Economy
Green
Health
Justice
LGBT
Security


Alyssa
Joe Romm
Yglesias






 10 Women Who Are More Important Than Phyllis Schlafly


 Romney's Economic Plan Features $6.6 Trillion Giveaway To Rich


 10 Things The Right Won’t Mention About Ronald Reagan’s Record



Cain’s Plan For Securing The Border: Build The Great Wall Of China, Fill A Moat With Alligators

By Marie Diamond  on Jun 8, 2011 at 3:35 pm

ThinkProgress filed this report from Pella, Iowa.
Great Wall of China
As ThinkProgress has documented this week, Herman Cain is a man of many unusual ideas. The GOP presidential candidate and conservative favorite had several big applause lines during his address to the Iowa Family Leader audience on Monday. But the crowd’s most enthusiastic response was inspired by Cain’s novel ideas about how to secure the border.
Cain dismissed naysayers who think it’s impractical to build a tall fence along the entire length of the U.S.–Mexico border, which is nearly 2,000 miles long. He compared the effort to the Great Wall of China and called for the U.S. to build its own Great Wall, saying, “I think we can build one if we want to!” Cain also endorsed an idea President Obama made jokingly during a recent trip to Texas — building a moat along the border. Echoing Rep. Joe Walsh (R-IL), Cain added, “And I would put those alligators in that moat”:
CAIN: I just got back from China. Ever heard of the Great Wall of China? It looks pretty sturdy. And that sucker is real high. I think we can build one if we want to! We have put a man on the moon, we can build a fence! Now, my fence might be part Great Wall and part electrical technology…It will be a twenty foot wall, barbed wire, electrified on the top, and on this side of the fence, I’ll have that moat that President Obama talked about. And I would put those alligators in that moat!
Watch it:
The idea of erecting a massive fence along the U.S.–Mexico border has long been a favorite of conservatives, despite the fact that several experts have condemned the notion as foolhardy and ineffective. As Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano once said, “You show me a 50-foot wall and I’ll show you a 51-foot ladder.” It’s perhaps surprising that Iowa voters would be so moved by the issue of illegal immigration in a state that’s so distant from the heart of the problem. But Cain took his cues from the audience early on when they cheered any brief mention of cracking down on immigrants. Cain expanded on border security as one of at least seven “crises” he laid out during his speech.

  
Tags:

Border WallHerman CainImmigration 


  Previous in TP Politics  Next in TP Politics  



By clicking and submitting a comment I acknowledge the ThinkProgress Privacy Policy and agree to the ThinkProgress Terms of Use.  I understand that my comments are also being governed by Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 

 
















()






Get ThinkProgress email alerts


 




 






Top Posts on Facebook

Contrary To GOP Claims, Small Businesses Say Taxes And Regulation Aren’t Holding Back Hiring
REPORT: The American Middle Class Was Built By Unions And It Will Decline Without Them
In Same District Where Rep. Gabrielle Giffords Was Shot, GOP Auctioning Off A Glock .45 At Fundraiser
Florida Republicans Fight To Keep ‘Cohabitation’ Of Unmarried Couples Illegal
Michigan Gov. Snyder Slashes Low-Income Benefits, Will Leave Nearly 30,000 Children Without Aid On Oct. 1


 



Get the daily Progress Report







Got a Hot Tip?
Have a hot news tip? We'd love to hear from you. Use the form below to send us the latest.

Name: 
Email: 
Tip: (required)


 
Think Progress Archives
June 2011


S
M
T
W
T
F
S




« May
 
Jul »




   123456789101112131415161718192021222324252627282930   



About Think Progress |
Contact Us |
Donate










 

About Think Progress | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy (off-site) | RSS | Donate | Mobile
© 2005-2011 Center for American Progress Action Fund

 












