Tell the Truth about National Security | Newt Gingrich 2012



Newt Gingrich 2012



Email: *



Zip Code	: *








 Donate
Get Involved
Meet Newt
Solutions
States
News

Home › Solutions › Tell the Truth about National Security 


 




 


Meet Callista
Newt and I are very excited about this journey and look forward to sharing and hearing from you.

Charity of the Month: Reading is Fundamental
Newt and Callista Gingrich Screen Documentary at Taste of Polonia Festival
Gingrich Criticizes Obama During Chicago Visit
Georgia GOP Fish Fry
For Her He Became a Catholic
Asian-American Discussions in Los Angeles, California
A City Upon A Hill and Nine Days that Changed the World in Southern California
A City Upon a Hill at the Nixon Library
Nine Days that Changed the World at World Youth Day
Iowa State Fair, Presidential Debate, and Ames Straw Poll
View More>>


Meet Callista


 


Tell the Truth about National Security



“We need an honest national dialogue and a determination to be candid about our opponents, honest about the problems, and passionately committed to the survival of America as a free country.” – Newt Gingrich

 
Keeping Americans safe is the most important duty of government.  That is why the confusion and incoherence of the Obama Administration’s response to the threats facing America is so troubling.  Newt advocates sound policies to keep Americans safe based on timeless American principles. 
 
Sound policies to keep Americans safe
 

Understand our enemies and tell the truth about them. We are engaged in a long war against radical Islamism, a belief system adhered to by a small minority of Muslims but nonetheless a powerful and organized ideology within Islamic thought that is totally incompatible with the modern world.
Think big. America currently lacks a unified grand strategy for defeating radical Islamism.  The result is that we currently view Iraq, Afghanistan, and the many other danger spots of the globe as if they are isolated, independent situations.  Only a grand strategy for marginalizing, isolating, and defeating radical Islamists across the world will lead to victory.
Know our values. America’s foreign policy must begin by understanding who we are as a country.  We are, as Ronald Reagan said, the world’s “abiding alternative to tyranny.” Therefore, America’s foreign policy must be to ensure our own survival and protect those who share our values.
Military force must be used judiciously and with clear, obtainable objectives understood by Congress. 
Implement an American Energy Plan to reduce the world’s dependence on oil from dangerous and unstable countries, especially in the Middle East.
Secure the border to prevent terrorist organizations from sneaking agents and weapons into the United States.
Incentivize math and science education in America to ensure the men and women of our Armed Forces always have the most advanced and powerful weapons in the world at their disposal. 

﻿
Video
 
 
 












 
&amp;lt;div style="display:inline;"&amp;gt; &amp;lt;img height="1" width="1" style="border-style:none;" alt="" src="http://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/972486906/?label=NZaiCMalswIQ-vHbzwM&amp;amp;amp;guid=ON&amp;amp;amp;script=0"/&amp;gt; &amp;lt;/div&amp;gt;


Donate
Get Involved
Meet Newt
Solutions
States
News


Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Mobile Site






Newt Gingrich 2012 Presidential Election Candidate Headquarters Phone: (678) 973-2306

 
Copyright © 2011 Newt 2012. All rights reserved.
Paid for by Newt 2012



