Romney’s immigration speech - Right Turn - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Mike DeBonis | Washington’s ‘securicrats’
Campus Overload | Outreach for international students
The Buzz | Fairfax dance team on ‘America’s Got Talent’
D.C. Sports Bog | An answer for critics of Strasburg handling









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
Make us your start page

















Personalize




The Washington Post












All Opinions
PostPartisan
Left-Leaning
Right-Leaning
Toles
				Cartoons
			

				Telnaes
				Animations
Local
Columnist Index






In the News


Reese Witherspoon


Droid Bionic


GOP debate


Delhi


Russia jet crash

























???initialComments:true! pubdate:09/04/2011 08:45 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:9/7/11 8:45 EDT! currentDate:9/8/11 12:23 EDT! allowComments:false! displayComments:true!




 




















Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity







The Post Most: OpinionsMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

Who won the GOP debate? Does it matter?
Rick Perry fails to impress in GOP debate
Time to leave 9/11 behind
A 9/11 event that embraces the future
Huddling together on Sept. 11





Top Videos

Rescue teams arrive at Russia jet crash
Highlights from the GOP debate
Gaddafi home videos show softer side of dictator
Crane collapses at National Cathedral
Candidates come out swinging at GOP debate





Top Galleries

Conflict and chaos in Libya
Washington National Cathedral damaged in earthquake
Russian jet carrying Lokomotiv KHL hockey team crashes; at least 43 dead
Oscar hosts through the years
High school sweethearts and a daughter reunited





Connect with PostOpinions




























Facebook: Become a fan of Washington Post Opinions





Facebook: Become a fan of Washington Post Opinions



Twitter: Follow us on Twitter



RSS: Subscribe to our RSS feeds



Alerts: Sign up for news alerts



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 
Today's Opinions Poll




PostOpinions E-letters
Sign-up for e-mail newsletters and alerts and get the news you need delivered directly to your inbox.
 




Behind the Government Showdown
Sunday Agenda & Roundup




Today's Opinions








See all Washington Post Newsletters



Join a Discussion
Weekly schedule, past shows
















Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>






























About Jennifer Rubin | 

	 On Twitter | 
		
	 On Facebook | 


	 RSS Feed | 
	E-mail Jennifer








About Jennifer Rubin




										Jennifer Rubin writes the Right Turn blog for The Post, offering reported opinion from a conservative perspective. Read more















Post political blogs









PostPartisan

The Plum Line

Ezra Klein

The Fix

44









Search This Blog



	  





























Subscribe






Select ...



RSS Feed





















Close










Recent Posts





Karl Rove and Dick Cheney win GOP debate
Rick Perry fails to impress in GOP debate
Ten things you won’t hear at the GOP debate
Perry begins to show his hand on Social Security
The Tea Party and the GOP primary electorate




Entries By Category


2012 campaign


American Jews


Budget


Conservative movement


Culture


Economy


Friday question


Governors


Human Rights


Immigration


Iran


Israel


Joe Lieberman


Media


Morning Bits


National Security


Obama White House


Obamacare


President Obama


Senate Democrats


Senate Republicans


Taxes


foreign policy


law







Stories By Date

Full Monthly Archive






















Posted at  08:45 AM ET, 09/04/2011
Romney’s immigration speech
By  Jennifer Rubin


Mitt Romney tried to thread the needle in a speech on Friday to the Republican Hispanic National Assembly. On one hand, he wants to appeal to Hispanic voters, who are an increasingly critical part of the electorate. On the other hand, he wants to exploit his chief opponent’s record on illegal immigration, which is a sore point with the conservative base. So how did he do?
In reaching out to Hispanic voters, Romney made clear that he is a proponent of legal immigration, a point rarely made by GOP contenders in 2008:

I am a great proponent of legal immigration. Many of you are living proof of the unique strength of America that is constantly renewed by new Americans. The promise of America has brought some of the world’s best and brightest to our shores. It’s what brought Mel Martinez, the first Cuban American U.S. senator here. And it brought to America the parents of Marco Rubio, who is one of America’s great leaders today.
And while Romney’s own family doesn’t have an immigrant story to tell, he did stress the theme of upward mobility, which echoes the experience of  those who come to America seeking better opportunities for themselves and their families:

I believe in that America. I know you believe in that America. It is an America of freedom and opportunity. A nation where innovation and hard work propel the most powerful economy in the world. A land that is secured by the greatest military the world has ever seen.  . . .
My father never graduated from college. He apprenticed, as a lath and plaster carpenter, and he was darn good at it. He learned how to put a handful of nails in his mouth and spit them out, point forward. On their honeymoon, he and Mom drove across the country. Dad sold aluminum paint along the way, to pay for gas and hotels.
There were a lot reasons my father could have given up or set his sights lower. But Dad always believed in America; and in that America, a lath and plaster man could work his way up to running a little car company called American Motors and end up governor of a state where he had once sold aluminum paint.
For my Dad, America was the land of opportunity, where the circumstances of birth are no barrier to achieving one’s dreams. Small business and entrepreneurs were encouraged, and respected, and a good worker could almost always find a good job.
And for good measure he made an economic appeal.(“Hispanics have been hit terribly hard, with an unemployment rate that is higher than the national one”) and took a swipe at the Western Hemisphere’s dictators. (“We can’t lead the world by hoping our enemies — like the rogue regimes in Havana and Caracas — will hate us less.”)
But then, without mentioning Perry, Romney laid out the differences in their records:

I also believe that we must address illegal immigration in a way that is civil but resolute. 
Our country must do a better job of securing its borders and as president, I will. That means completing construction of a high-tech fence and investing in adequate manpower and resources.
We must also get tough on employers who hire illegal immigrants. That means putting in place an employment verification system that is both reliable and secure.
Finally, we must stop providing the incentives that promote illegal immigration. As governor, I vetoed legislation that would have provided in-state tuition rates to illegal immigrants, and I strengthened the authority our state troopers had to enforce existing immigration laws.
It’s not clear that immigration is still the lightning-rod issue for Republicans that is was in 2008 or that this will be sufficient to pry a significant chunk of the base away from Perry. Those for whom illegal immigration is a vital issue, I would suggest, are likely skeptical about Romney’s conservative bona fides on other issues. 
That said, if the name of the game is to throw as many darts as possible at Perry and split up the core conservative base, this strategy may pay off in the primary. (Romney would be happy to see some staunch immigration opponents abandon Perry for Bachmann, thereby carving up votes of staunch conservative.)
But what about in the general election? There, it would seem that Perry’s approach is far more likely to appeal to Hispanic voters and help put together a winning coalition. John McCormack reported on Friday:

“There are places along the border that strategic fencing worked, particularly in the metropolitan areas,” Perry said. “The idea that we’re going to build a wall from El Paso to Brownsville doesn’t make sense ’cause the fact of the matter is you know, number one, you’d never get it built, and it’d cost billions of dollars . . . by the time you go from Tijuana to Brownsville.” Perry said that he does support putting “boots on the ground” and using “aviation assets” (i.e. aerial drones) to secure the border.
When asked about Texas’s law allowing in-state college tuition for illegal immigrants, Perry said: “I don’t believe these individuals should be punished for a decision their parents made through no fault of their own.” Perry explained that in-state tuition is allowed to any resident who has lived in Texas for three years, graduated from a Texas high school and is on a path to citizenship.
Asked if he’d support a similar law at the federal level known as the Dream Act, Perry said “absolutely not  . . . it ought to be a state by state issue.”
 Perry also has logic on his side regarding the Dream Act: Do we really think immigrants come across the border because if they have kids and those kids grow up in Texas they’ll get a break on college tuition? (The idea about leaving it to the states also gives conservatives the prospect that they can block these measures on a state-by-state basis.)
Perhaps Perry’s stance is a bridge too far for the base of the Republican Party. It may be that not only Romney, but Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) who can capi­tal­ize on this issue. But should Perry secure the nomination, there will be a significant opportunity for Republicans to reset their stance on illegal immigration. It took Richard Nixon to go to China; maybe it will take Rick Perry to pass comprehensive immigration reform.


													By	 Jennifer Rubin
														 | 
														 08:45 AM ET, 09/04/2011




  
Categories: 
2012 campaign,
			Immigration















Tumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious
LinkedIn














Previous: 
State Department’s Libyan shenanigans

Next: 
Morning Bits












Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE





















   

RSS Feed
Subscribe to The Post






© 2011 The Washington Post Company
					





















Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















