
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH




FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY




Arbor Day Poster ContestTree TalkProject Learning TreeStudentsTeachersMission
Conservation Education




Economic Development


Ecosystem Services






Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program
Forest Genetics




Forest Inventory and Analysis


Forest Legacy


Forest Taxation






Jones Forest Conservation CenterHeritage Forests
Forest Conservation








InsectsDiseases & Invasive PlantsMiscellaneousPest Coop
Pest Management




Reforestation


Seedling Nursery






AwardsProgramsWildlife Management
Stewardship




Timber Price Trends






Arbor DayBig Tree RegistryCommunity Forestry AwardsCommunity Inventory and ReportsPartnership Grants
Urban Forestry




Water Resources


Wood Technology


DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry





Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry



FOREST

INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS






[ Overview
 | 
Staff
 | 
Publications
 | 
FAQs
 | 
Links ]




[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




What is Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA)? 
FIA is the Nation's forest census.  FIA reports on status and trends in forest area and location; in the species, size, and health of trees; in total tree growth, mortality, and removals by harvest;  in wood production and utilization rates by various products; and in forest land ownership.  The enhanced FIA program will include information relating to tree crown condition, lichen community composition, soils, ozone indicator plants, complete vegetative diversity, and coarse woody debris.  The program is managed nationally by the Research and Development organization within the USDA Forest Service in cooperation with State and Private Forestry and National Forest Systems.  FIA has been in operation under various names (Forest Survey, Forest Inventory and Analysis) for some 70 years.  The program covers forests on all forest lands within the US.  The program is implemented in Texas in cooperation with Texas Forest Service, which conducts data collection, and private landowners who grant access to their lands for data collection purposes.

Why is FIA important?  
FIA provides objective and scientifically credible information on key forest ecosystem processes:  how much forest there is, what it looks like, whether the forest area is increasing or decreasing, whether we are gaining or losing species, how quickly trees are growing, dying, and being harvested, and how the forest ecosystem is changing over time with respect to the soil and other vegetative community attributes.  Such information has many important uses including:

Helping policy makers at the federal and state level to formulate good forest policy, and to assess the sustainability of current and past policy;
Enabling land managers to devise better management plans and to assess the effects of current and past management practices on the land;
Serving as a starting point for scientific investigations in a variety of areas which involve changes in forest ecosystems over time;
Formulating business plans which will be both economically and ecologically sustainable over time;
Keeping the public informed about the health and sustainability of the Nation's forests;
Improving the effectiveness of wildfire protection due to increased knowledge and understanding of available fuels;
Identifying harmful invasive species, which can lead to development of adequate control programs;
Providing accurate models for land managers to use to project species change over time;
Identifying changes to wildlife habitat over time;

FIA is the only program which provides consistent, credible, and periodic forest data for all forest lands (public and private) within the United States.  FIA covers all forest lands of the U.S. including those of the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and U.S. Pacific territories.

What constitutes forested lands? 
Land is considered forested if it is at least 1 acre in size and has 10% crown cover or 60 seedlings per acre in the eastern part of Texas or 5% crown cover or 40 seedlings per acre in the western and central part of the state.  These criteria are standardized at the national level to be consistent between states.

Will FIA personnel access my property without permission?   
No.  Our agency believes strongly that private landowners are the leading force behind the protection and sustainability of natural resources in the state through their land management practices and we will not participate in any actions that might jeopardize the trust between private landowners and the Texas Forest Service.

Will any information regarding endangered species be recorded? 
Nowhere in the survey will any information regarding endangered species be recorded. Data is reported on a county, regional and statewide basis, ensuring the confidentiality of individual landowner information. All tallied species are found commonly throughout the state.

How will data be released? 
Data will be published by the U.S. Forest Service in 5 year reports.  Data will always be reported at county, regional or statewide levels to ensure confidentiality of individual landowner information. 

How was my property selected as a plot location? 
Plot location is determined by the U.S. Forest Service and is on approximately a 3 mile by 3 mile grid.  Ownership is not taken into consideration when determining plot locations. Plots occur on government, corporate and private lands.

 






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



