(Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 (+ Photos)                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 (+ Photos)    Buenos Aires :  Argentina
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Surya Gaire             8 0      
Views: 166
          At least nine people were killed and other 212 were injured in a rush-hour crash on Tuesday. Authorities say that train slammed into a bus trying to beat it across the railroad tracks.  The bus driver was also killed in the accident. Many passengers are seriously injured and they're being treated at hospitals around Buenos Aires. First, the train hit the bus and the diverted front part of the train again hit the next train in its opposite direction. The video displays that the bus driving around a partially lowered barrier despite flashing lights that warned of the oncoming train. Police were engaged in retrieving the body of a train and bus crash victim in Buenos Aires. Accident occurred at 6:15 a.m. (5:15 a.m. EDT; 0915 GMT) local time. The time was exactly when the passengers use local transportation and many parents taking their children to school.  Helicopters were used to carry the victims to the different hospitals within the country. Children were also reported of being injured.         1 of 59        
Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 in Argentina
     
Surya Gaire is based in Kathmandu, Kathmandu, Nepal,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (63.0%) India (8.9%) Germany (7.4%) Portugal (4.4%) 9 other countries (11.9%)           READ MORE: Argentina, Bus-Train Crash, Injures 212, Photos, bus, train crash, accident, crash, bus crash, collision, Flores, Argentine, Train   More News From: Buenos Aires :  Argentina      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By       vutrongphu20
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Intelligently written, well done job rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
great news to sharethanks,rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       atifji75
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Well Written And Nice sharing. Must be Rated Up.Please visit my section.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Of course this is a very sad news. Anyway Rated up.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       crown62
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Surya Gaire,thanks for sharing this sad news report.Rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       nielica_01
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well written thanks for sharing good job!rate up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       HumTum
|
23 minutes
ago
  
very sad,thanks for sharing,rated up
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Seven dead, 80 injured in southern India train crash By: karasiwo      At least seven people were killed Tuesday in a crash of two trains in southern India, officials said.A passenger train crashed into the caboose of another train that was stopped for a signal.Several carriages derailed.The accident occurred fifty miles from the port city of Chennai.The Indian rail system is the main form of long distance ...  about 8 hours ago     Argentina bus and trains crash, killing at least nine By: aniskhan26      At least nine people have
died in Argentina after a train slammed into a bus crossing the tracks
and then hit a second train coming into a station.
More than 160 people were injured, some seriously, a police spokesman said.
The crash happened during the morning rush hour as hundreds
of commuters were waiting at the station in Flores, a ...  about 14 hours ago     Bus and two trains collide in Argentina's capital ,9 dead, 212 hurt By: karasiwo      Accident leaves nine dead and 162 wounded in the southwest of the capital, Buenos Aires ,A collision involving two trains and a bus on Tuesday left at least nine dead and 212 wounded in the southwest of Buenos Aires, Argentina. The accident happened in the neighborhood of Flores around 7 am .Of the nine killed, two were taken to the hospital ...  about 16 hours ago     9 killed, 165 wounded in train-bus collision in Argentina  By: hkbadal      At least nine people were killed and 165 others were injured in bus-train collision in Argentina on Tuesday.
Officials said a train slammed into a bus crossing the tracks and then hit another train coming into a station in Flores, a Buenos Aires suburb.
The accident took place at about 06:00 local time (09:00 GMT) during the morning rush hour ...  about 16 hours ago     The train hit the bus, 7 dead, 162 injured  By: lethibichlan       At least seven people have died in Argentina after a passenger train slammed into a bus that runs across the runway and then crashed to the train station No. 2 is entered. More than 160 people were wounded, including a number of serious injuries, according to a police spokesman. The accident happened during morning rush hour as ...  about 18 hours ago     Bus and passenger trains involved in deadly rush-hour crash By: sweetsana      At least seven people were killed and more than 100 injured in Buenos Aires early on Tuesday when a passenger train crashed into a bus whose driver ignored the security barriers and warning bells and tried to cross the tracks.  about 18 hours ago     Two trains and a bus collided  By: tahirbubak      
7 people died in the accident and rescue work continues specified
Two trains and a bus crash in Argentina in Buenos Aires, the number of accident deaths was 7. Rescue teams, 7 people died in the accident stated, has announced that the rescue operations continue. the accident, that took place at noon in Buenos Aires Sarmiento line ...  about 18 hours ago     Collision of two trains and a bus kills 7 in Argentina By: abdelfattah      Collision of two trains and a bus kills 7 in Argentina At least seven people were killed in the collision of two trains and a bus in the neighborhood of Flores in Buenos Aires on Tuesday. The accident, which happened in rush hour traffic in the morning, left about 100 people injured, police said. According to Argentine media, firefighters went to ...  about 19 hours ago     9 dead in a collision of trains and a bus in Argentina By: Vicky247       
In a video that has reported the television Argentina C5 N, shows the moment of impact. The level crossing barrier was 45 degrees , but the red warning lights inthe vicinity of the train.
They are estimated to 167 the number of people injured. Argentina Federal Police warned t  about 19 hours ago     Bus-train collision in Argentina – 7 killed, 160 injured By: prabirghose      
 A
collision between one bus and two trains in Buenos Aires has resulted in the death
of at least 7 persons and injuries to another 160 odd. The crash occurred during
morning rush hour time when people were assembled in the station and waiting at
Flores in the suburb of Buenos Aires. Reports indicate that one train hit the
bus as ...  about 20 hours ago     Train Crash in Buenos Aires left several dead and dozens injured By: kingston23      In Buenos Aires, a train crashed into a passenger bus, leaving six people dead and at least 100 wounded. In the incident a second train was affected. Fire crews perform work to rescue trapped people, local media reported. The incident occurred at the height of the season Flores Sarmiento railway line.  about 21 hours ago     PHOTOS: At Least 7 Dead, More Than 100 Injured in Bus-Train Collision ... By: madn3wz      
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina
(Sept. 13) – According to police sources; the clash between bus and two
trains Tuesday left at least 7 dead and more than 100 injured outside Argentine
capital. Several injured, especially children, are in critical condition,
hospital sources said.
According to details; the crash occurred in Flores, a ...  about 21 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Argentina: 7 dead, 162 injured in bus-train crash  
Arizona Republic
 At least seven people were killed in a rush-hour crash Tuesday involving two passenger trains and a bus whose driver drove around barriers in an attempt to beat them across the tracks, Argentine authorities said. Police said 162 people were injured,...    Bus, trains collide in Argentina - 7 dead  
News 24
 Seven people were confirmed dead and more than 160 were injured early Tuesday in Buenos Aires, as a public transport bus crashed into two trains. The bus driver apparently ignored a low gate at a level crossing. The vehicle was hit by a train, which...    Argentina bus and trains collide  
BBC
 Argentine bus and two trains crash, injuring 100 At least 100 people have been injured, several seriously, in the collision of a bus and two trains near the Argentine capital, Buenos Aires, police say. According to reports, one train and the bus...    11 dead after bus hit by trains while trying to cross tracks in Buenos ...  
Toronto Star
 Argentinian authorities say a train slammed into a bus trying to beat it across the railroad tracks during rush hour, then striking another locomotive head-on. A bus driver gambled and tried to rush across railroad tracks Tuesday despite a barrier,...    Six die, 100 injured in Argentina crash  
The Age
 Sarmiento train line which runs from Once, in the city centre, to the heavily populated western suburbs.    7 Dead, 100 Hurt in Bus-Train Collision  
KSAZ
 A train slammed into a bus and then was struck by another train Tuesday in a massive rush-hour collision at a station in Argentina's capital that left at least seven people dead and 100 injured. Firefighters worked frantically to pull people out of...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Argentina Bus-Train Crash    Argentina Bus-Train Crash Image Source: allvoices Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 in Argentina        Train crash with bus     Train crash with bus  Image Source: allvoices Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 in Argentina        Police taking out the victim    Police taking out the victim Image Source: allvoices Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 in Argentina        Victim being withdrawn    Victim being withdrawn Image Source: allvoices Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 in Argentina        A firefighter works at the ...    A firefighter works at the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A firefighter works at the site of a train derailment, after two suburban ...        The site of a train derailment ...    The site of a train derailment ... Image Source: www.reuters.com The site of a train derailment is seen after two suburban commuter trains ...      More Related Images    More From Buenos Aires          Horrific Bus-Train Crash Kills 11, Injured 212        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 (+ Photos)        Train accident in Argentina: Nine dead, 212 injured        (In Pictures) 11 Killed, 212 Injured after Bus and Train Crashes in Argentina          Argentina: 11 dead and at least 228 injured in the collision between a bus and two trains        7 killed in Argentina bus-train wreck        Hernan spoke the Great, the alleged affair of Zaira Nara         At least 11 people were killed, 212 wounded in the capital of Argentina           Argentina beat Brazil         Serie A: Inter beat Palermo a great 4-3, Gasperini nightmare debut         Diego Forlan debuts today with the Inter shirt        Argentine Basketball gold and revenge against Brazil          Disabled only Colombian who climbed Everest visited Barrancabermeja                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10329069          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 59       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10329069), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10329069 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10329069 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “(Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures 212 (+ Photos)” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10329069-update-argentina-bustrain-crash-kills-9-injures-212-photos.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         