Texas wildfires destroy at least 500 homes - latimes.com










Subscribe/Manage Account


Place Ad


LAT Store


Jobs


Cars


Real Estate


Rentals


Classifieds


Custom Publishing





 





NATION





HOME


Breaking


Hoy


Crime


Obituaries


Community


Weather


Traffic


Crosswords


Comics


Data Desk


Apps




Local


L.A. Now


Politics


Crime


Education


O.C.


Westside


Neighborhoods


Environment


Obituaries


FindLocal




U.S.


Politics


Nation Now


Politics Now


Top of the Ticket


Science & Environment


Obituaries


Religion




World


Afghanistan & Pakistan


Africa


Asia


Europe


Iran


Iraq


Mexico & Latin America


Middle East




Business


Money & Co.


Technology


Personal Finance


Small Business


Company Town


Jobs


Real Estate


Cars




Sports


Lakers


Dodgers


Angels


NFL


Ducks/Kings


USC


UCLA


College football


Preps


Scores/Stats




Entertainment


Movies


TV


Music


Celebrity


Arts & Culture


Company Town


Calendar


Envelope


Books


FindLocal




Health


Booster Shots


Medicine


Fitness & Nutrition


Mental Health


Health Reform


Aging Well




Living


Home


Food


Image


Books


Parenting


FindLocal


Magazine


Reader Photos


Summer Guide


Comics




Travel


South Bay


California


Mexico


Hawaii


Las Vegas


Europe


Asia


Australia


Travel & Deal Blog




Opinion


Editorials


Op-Ed


Letters


Opinion L.A.


Readers' Rep




Deals


Save: Deals


Go: Travel


Eat: Food


Wear: Apparel


Live: Everyday Needs


Play: Electronics


Drive


More




Subscribe/Manage Account


Place Ad


LAT Store


Jobs


Cars


Real Estate


Rentals


Classifieds


Custom Publishing












          In the News:
        

U.S. poverty


kabul


windows 8


LivingSocial


Tupac Shakur


iran hikers
























Advanced Search



Advanced Search
X







include all of these words: 
include any of these words: 
include this exact phrase: 
exclude: 

 Select a date range


this week
past 30 days
past 3 months
past year




 Create a custom date range

From: 
To: 




















Texas wildfires destroy at least 500 homes
Scores of blazes rage in central and eastern parts of the drought-stricken state. Gov. Rick Perry appeals for federal aid.




































Comments

62











                                            A man drags a hose toward his home in Bastrop, Texas, in an effort to prevent flames from reaching it. Wildfires have destroyed at least 500 homes in the state.
                                                (Mike Stone, Reuters / September 6, 2011)







Also


Graphic: Bastrop fire



Rick Perry pulls out of S.C. forum due to Texas wildfires



Crash of small plane near Tehachapi kills 1, ignites brush fire



Cajon Pass fire destroys man's ranch, retirement dreams



Weather may help fight against big Texas fire









Molly Hennessy-Fiske, Los Angeles Times
September 6, 2011




A massive central Texas wildfire roared through ranchland and suburbs Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes — a state record for a single fire — as Gov. Rick Perry appealed for federal assistance to fight at least 63 blazes throughout the drought-dried state.The pine forests of central and eastern Texas, the northern panhandle and the southern Houston suburbs have been hit by scores of fires that have destroyed 1,091 homes and consumed 3.6 million acres, roughly the size of Connecticut, since the fire season began in November. As the fires worsened this weekend, a woman and her 18-month-old died Sunday in a burning mobile home in Gregg County in eastern Texas.On Monday, wind gusts generated by Tropical Storm Lee — which flooded some areas along the Gulf Coast — turned devilish in several parts of Texas and fanned the state's largest and most destructive fire in Bastrop County, about 30 miles east of Austin
The fast-moving, uncontrolled blaze — burning in heat and wind conditions so severe that firefighters were unable to mount a land attack — forced about 5,000 evacuations and  charred at least 25,000 acres, Texas Forest Service officials said. Plumes of smoke hovered over the county seat, a town of about 8,000 along the Colorado River.Perry, a Republican presidential candidate, cut short a campaign trip to South Carolina to go to Bastrop on Monday. He said officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency were expected to arrive in Texas as soon as Wednesday."I don't think we've ever seen a wildfire season like this" since the 1980s, Perry said after surveying the Bastrop fire by helicopter. "We've got a long way to go to get this thing contained."Gary Bonnette was visiting family in San Antonio on Sunday afternoon when he  heard of the wildfire. Bonnette, 59, a district court bailiff, rushed back to his home near Bastrop, nestled among loblolly pines.But the fire was faster, racing across seven miles in 40 minutes and devouring everything in its path, including his 1970s Polynesian-themed subdivision, Tahitian Village.By the time Bonnette arrived, the blaze had leveled his $195,000 dream home on Manawianui Drive and was threatening his $67,000 rental home nearby."It almost feels like the whole state of Texas is on fire now," Bonnette said.In Bastrop, more than 250 fire personnel were on hand, with planes and helicopters dumping water."There's practically a fleet of aircraft in the air," said Jan Amen, a Forest Service spokeswoman in Bastrop. "Problem is, we have to share them with other fires because there's so many burning in the area."Officials in the Austin area called for help from all volunteer firefighters and were expecting added fire crews and equipment from as far as California."We have exhausted our resources," said Melanie Spradling, a spokeswoman for the Texas Forest Service based in the eastern  city of Lufkin.Ed Brown, a Forest Service spokesman in the Houston area, said Tropical Storm Lee had done more harm than good, dropping little rain and whipping up winds statewide."All the hardwood trees are shedding leaves, a lot of the oak trees are drying and the pine trees, the needles are turning sort of a yellowish tint. They're drought-stressed," Brown said. "The fires get into the roots because they're so dry."The drought has also made it tough for helicopter crews to find water to douse the flames, he said."Most of your ponds, creeks and rivers are down to a trickle," he said.Julie Hart, a Bastrop City Council member who runs a bed-and-breakfast in town, said residents knew dry conditions in recent years would lead to fires. They watched reports about California wildfires last year and held their breath, she said. They figured firefighters could minimize the damage by using the river and highways to contain the blazes."The thing that's scary about this one is it's moving so quickly and it's jumped highways and rivers," she said. "No one's sure where it's going to go. The winds are 20 to 30 mph and everywhere you look, there's smoke."Flames even engulfed the banks of the Colorado River in Bastrop on Monday, making it difficult for firefighters to retrieve water, she said.At Vandegrift High School, one of four temporary shelters for evacuees, about 200 people claimed pallet beds on the gym floor and waited for officials to post a "street sheet" detailing which homes were damaged and destroyed."We have a lot of people who are very anxious," said Tom Davis, a spokesman for the American Red Cross of Central Texas staffing the shelter.Bonnette on Monday was staying at Hart's bed-and-breakfast, the Magnolia Inn on Main. He said he hoped to return to his neighborhood soon to see the damage. All he could see from a distance late Monday was a column of white smoke. Occasionally the smoke turned black, and Bonnette sensed that another home had burned."I really wish that we had had the resources to fight this type of fire," he said. "There's no end in sight right now."molly.hennessy-fiske@latimes.com




Copyright © 2011, Los Angeles Times





































Comments

62







« Previous Story
More Nation - U.S., Nation, Washington D.C., Politics, Government - latimes.com
Next Story »



Poll illustrates California voters' anger

GOP hopefuls court 'tea party' conservatives in South Carolina








 















Comments (62)
Add / View comments | Discussion FAQ




idabagwell at 12:58 AM September 07, 2011
					
					
                Many residents were forced to flee quickly with the fire right on their doorstep.    http://bit.ly/oOk5do



Wombat2 at 11:43 PM September 06, 2011
					
					
                Wow, next time somebody tells me that its conservatives who are hateful,  heartless and cruel, I'm going to direct them to this comments page.  Its great to see that left-wingers are as compassionate and tolerant as  ever.



TrueFacts at 7:26 PM September 06, 2011
					
					
                AngelaBirch, you need to have some facts before you spout off. Texas  provides MORE bottom line tax dollars to the federal coffers than  California. They are not leaching from the fed's or you.Just get your facts straight.














Comments are filtered for language and registration is required. The Times makes no guarantee of comments' factual accuracy. Readers may report inappropriate comments by clicking the Report Abuse link next to a comment. Here are the full legal terms you agree to by using this comment form.














L.A. Times on Facebook













Advertisement














Target's Missoni line sparks website crash











VIDEO: Crowd lifts burning car off man








Calif. poverty rate rises again in 2011








USC again beats UCLA in college rankings





















$10 for $20 towards Brazilian cuisine at Gamela Grill


















Latest News
Most Viewed
Most Emailed















Iran judiciary denies reports on 'imminent release' of American hikers
 - L.A. Times - World News
09/14/2011, 3:12 a.m.


Beyonce takes her baby bump to New York Fashion Week
 - L.A. Times - Entertainment News
09/14/2011, 1:09 a.m.


Court says teacher has no right to banners referring to God
 - L.A. Times - Education
09/14/2011, 12:41 a.m.


Court says teacher has no right to banners referring to God
 - L.A. Times - California | Local News
09/14/2011, 12:41 a.m.


New 'Breaking Dawn' trailer: Amazeballs, yes or no? [Video]
 - Ministry of Gossip
09/14/2011, 12:23 a.m.



















Court says teacher has no right to banners referring to God
09/14/2011, 12:41 a.m.


California farmworker protections not going far enough?
09/14/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Google News cuts link to news website financed by water district
09/14/2011, 12:00 a.m.


L.A. County backs off plan to catch, kill coyotes in Glendale
09/14/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Elation greets discovery of missing autistic boy, 8, in forest
09/14/2011, 12:00 a.m.



















Grizzly shooting pits Idahoans against Uncle Sam
09/13/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Reinventing California's higher education system
09/13/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Prison officials are set to let some female inmates out early
09/13/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Where newspapers thrive
09/13/2011, 12:00 a.m.


Artist's burning-bank paintings are hot commodities
09/13/2011, 12:00 a.m.
































Home Tours »

Peek inside new and remodeled houses, condos and apartments across Southern California.





 











Southern California Moments: Part 2





10 memorable destinations in the U.S. Photos





SpongeBob impairs little kids' thinking





It's taken a state to make 'Winter in the Blood'





Opinion: Rick Perry: He's no Galileo



More spotlights...

















Corrections




Horoscopes




Media Kit




About Us




Contact Us




Site Map














Burbank Leader
Coastline Pilot
Daily Pilot
Huntington Beach Independent
News Press
Pasadena Sun
Valley Sun
KTLA
Hoy
Los Angeles Times Magazine


Baltimore Sun
Chicago Tribune
Daily Press
Hartford Courant
Los Angeles Times
Orlando Sentinel
Sun Sentinel
The Morning Call



                               Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | About Our Ads | Los Angeles Times, 202 West 1st Street, Los Angeles, California, 90012 | Copyright 2011





A Tribune Newspaper website





































