Obama declares state of emergency in wildfire-ravaged Texas - Latest News Inn








Home
Contact Us
DMCA Detail
Privacy Policy
Sections
 Business

Health

Media

Press Releases

Science

Sports

Technology

US

Weather

World News


 


RSS Feed








 
 







Obama declares state of emergency in wildfire-ravaged Texas
Media, US | Latest News |	September 10, 2011 at  1:33 am     









Bastrop,  Texas (AP) – Barack Obama has declared martial law in Texas, making  federal funds available for those affected by forest fires in the county  Bastrop.
deadly texas wildfires rage
“Assistance can include  grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover  uninsured property losses and other programs to help individuals and  business owners recover from the effects of the disaster,” said the  White House said in a statement.
Night  comes after the declaration Friday by the lieutenant governor of Texas,  David Dewhurst expressed frustration at the lack of federal response
Texas has an urgent need for federal help, said Dewhurst.
Nearly 1,400 homes were destroyed in forest fires since the Bastrop County began about a week ago, said Dewhurst.
Other large fires burning in Cass, Grimes, Montgomery, Travis and Waller counties, according to Texas Forest Service.
Dewhurst,  who is acting governor while Gov. Rick Perry travels, said he received  no response to a request from state insurance claims earlier this week. Then he signed another to run the point home.
“We need help today,” Dewhurst said early Friday.
Texas  authorities have been working with the Federal Emergency Management  Agency for disaster declarations for some counties, including Bastrop.
More than 34,000 acres, fire complex Bastrop County near Austin is the largest fire in the state. Consists  of two small fires – the fire and the fire Bastrop Union Chapel – he  has transformed parts of the county in an almost post-apocalyptic scene.
“Utility  poles are still burning stumps are still burning, the wire hanging in  the air with only half of a pole, swing. The lines are on the ground,”  said Mark Rose, general manager of Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative.
Residents  are becoming increasingly frustrated by not being allowed back in the  fire area to survey their property, said County Judge Ronnie McDonald.
But the most important priority is to ensure that no one else dies in the fire, he said.
The research teams found two people dead in the ruins of a neighborhood on Tuesday.
“We try to ensure that we do not let anyone in until it is safe,” he said.
The fire was contained about 40% Bastrop Friday, while the fire chapel of the Union was 90% contained.
Dewhurst  said the firefighters had stopped the progress of the flame front, but  Bastrop Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said the fires and  hot spots are scattered throughout the county.
Elsewhere in the state, said Forest Service fire could have burned up to 40,000 acres in Cass County was still spreading. The  Bear Creek fire destroyed eight homes and was opposed by all the teams  on the ground of heavy air tankers, said Forest Service.
And another large fire near Houston was content to 60%, said the Forest Service on Friday. Ray  Riley had affected 15,000 acres in Grimes, Montgomery and Waller  counties, and moved to the west of Waller, said Forest Service.
The service said it had responded to 186 fires covering 156,517 acres in the last week. Nineteen new fires broke out Thursday, especially the young, according to the agency.
Page 1 Jan.  fought firefighters and state and local associations across the country  against forest fires 18,887 more than 3.5 million acres in Texas,  according to state officials.
The 10 months since the fire season began in November was the driest in the state since 1895, said Dewhurst.
Related NewsStock Market CrashHusband in a suit case trying to escapePrincess Cruises 2011Golden Gate Bridge – searching girlObama and GOP talk compromise produces conflictHighest poverty levels in the USCheck out the Harvest Moon this Week9/11: Barack Obama’s speech at closing ceremonySamantha Stosur New US Open championNear about hundred US soldiers wounded







Tags: Barack Obama, bastrop, bastrop county fire, bastrop fires, bastrop texas fire, Obama, steiner ranch fire, wildfire-ravaged



Tweet This
Share on Facebook
Digg This
Save to delicious
Stumble it
RSS Feed

 







Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
 

 
 


Subscribe to RSS
Subscribe to RSS or enter you email to receive newsletter for news, articles, and updates about what's new. 





 Recent World News 
Highest poverty levels in the US
Taliban attack on the diplomatic area near Kabul
Improve early detection of ovarian cancer
Check out the Harvest Moon this Week
Harvest Moon Reaches Its Peak
9/11: Barack Obama’s speech at closing ceremony
Samantha Stosur New US Open champion
Samsung Galaxy Note unveiled

Tagsapple
bac
bank of america
Barack Obama
breaking news
cancer
China
Conocophillips
current news
declaration of independence
dow jones
Exxon
Facebook
Google
Independence day
iPad
IPhone
ipod touch
iTunes
Latest News
macbook
Mac OS X
nasa
nasdaq
news of the world
new york stock exchange
nfl
Obama
PCF
Politics News
prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer Foundation
shell
Sony
sport News
stock market
Stock Market Crash
stock market news
stock market today
stock quotes
Tablet PC
Technology News
Video
world news
yankees


Categories 
Business

Health

Media

Press Releases

Science

Sports

Technology

Uncategorized

US

Weather

World News


  

World News Websites

ABC World News
BBC Daily News
CNN Breaking News
Dallas Hot News
Foxs Current News
Google Live News
Recent World News
Sun News
Times News
Today News
Urdu News


 
  
 



Latest News LatestNewsInn.Com is a live and latest news world . It publishes world daily latest news,current breaking news,USA headline news,Daily world breaking News,Technology news,Medical,Sports,the News Inn
Breaking News Daily News of the world, World news today, top news headlines, live breaking news and live latest news.
World latest news, Latest breaking news, late breaking news, top news, The news, Daily news, live news, Breaking news, News of the world, News, recent news
Follow US Twitter
Facebook
Delicious
Digg
FriendFeed

 
 


Copyright © 2011 — 

Latest News, World News,The News of the world, World News headlines, daily, latest, recent and late breaking news. . All Rights Reserved.
 

 










