Firefighters contain massive fire at George Bush Park | abc13.com


























Map of wildfires burning across Texas right now | ACTIVE FIRE DATABASE







KTRK-TV Houston, TX








News



iWitness
Houston News
Your Community News
Texas News
US World News
Business
Entertainment
Bizarre
Action 13 Consumer
HealthCheck
13 Undercover
Politics
Crime Tracker
Hometown Live
ABC13 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Most Popular
Technology
In Focus
People's Lawyer
In the Classroom
Life's Better Outside






Weather    
         









79°
CLEAR





Weather Home
Live Mega Doppler Radar
Street-Level Weather
Hurricane Central
Weather Blog
MORE TOPICS +


Watches/Warnings
Weather Maps
ABC13 First Alert
National Weather
Weather Photos






Video & Photos



Most Popular Video
Weather Photos
Live Video
Slideshows
Send ABC13 Your Photos
MORE TOPICS +


Video by Category






Use It



Traffic
Your Horoscope
Lottery Results
ABC13 Travel Guide
Live Well Network
ABC Shows
What's on TV
Contests
News Team
Inside ABC13
Jobs at ABC13
MORE TOPICS +


Around Town
My ABC13
Games






Marketplace



Houston Area Jobs
Classifieds
Find Local Businesses
Coupons






























Local
Crews contain massive fire at George Bush Park
Updated at 05:49 AM today
















 


Related Video
All Live Video :  All Video » 





















 



Firefighters get control of massive park fire

Grass fire erupts in George Bush Park

Ash from George Bush Park fire falls on nearby homes

Jeff Ehling reports from George Bush Park wildfire

Phoner with HFD Chief on wildfire

iWitness: Fire burning at George Bush Park

iWitness: Fire burning at George Bush Park

Big fire burning at George Bush Park

Tower Cam time lapse of west Houston wildfire

iWitness: Smoke from George Bush Park fire fills sky

iWitness: Fire erupts at George Bush Park

iWitness: View of Bush Park fire from I-10

 
 
Tags:local


Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 

  

HOUSTON (KTRK) -- 
A large wildfire ignited in George Bush Park in west Houston Tuesday afternoon and ash from it fell into neighborhoods miles away. Fortunately, the flames did not threaten any homes.   	
Related ContentPhotos:  Images of George Bush Park wildfireMore: Send News photos and videos to news@abc13.comStory: Deadly crash sparks wildfire in Trinity CountyMore: Got a story idea?  Let us know!   The fire, which is burning  near Westheimer Parkway and Westheimer, is now 99 percent contained and there are no neighborhoods in danger.    The fire started just after 3pm yesterday and sent huge clouds of smoke and flames in air.  It was under control by nighttime.  From SkyEye HD, you could see just how intense the flames and smoke became.  Wind pushed the fire northwest from where it started within George Bush Park. It was a lucky break, according to firefighters.  "We were very fortunate. The wind was coming from the south at about 7 miles per hour. If the wind was going from a different direction, for example out of the east or southeast, we had a neighborhood that we would've been really concerned about," Houston Fire Department Chief Fernando Herrera said.  "There were neighborhoods we were worried about, but as long as it burned north, we knew it would be OK."  As the fire billowed black clouds into the air and scorched more than 1,500 acres, residents along Highway 6 began to grow anxious.  "Lots of people outside their houses. Lots of people walking from their houses across the street, kinda getting on fields and sitting on top of chairs trying to what was going on, so definitely lots of people concerned," said Omar Yousef, who watched the fire grow.  More than 150 fire fighters from a dozen departments were able to get inside the heavily forested park and douse the flames.  They also used bulldozer to plow a 300-yard long fire break to contain the blaze.   The fire was still burning on last night, and could flare up again, which is why firefighters are telling residents who live northwest of George Bush Park to be prepared to leave quickly if need be. But right now, no homes are in danger and none were lost fighting this fire.   Smoke will likely be in the area for several days.  The cause of the fire is unknown.  There is a traffic alert in the area because of the fire.   Westbound Westheimer Parkway is closed between Westheimer and South Barker Cypress Road.  As an alternate, use FM 1093 or the Westpark Tollway.    Stay with Eyewitness News and abc13.com for the latest on this story.  If you see the smoke or flames and can take photos or videos, send them to news@abc13.com or upload them on our iWitness Reports page.  But please don't put yourself in harm's way to do it.If you have a Facebook account and are near the fire, go to our page and join the conversation.  Let us know what you're noticing.                    


    (Copyright ©2011 KTRK-TV/DT. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more Local »

Tags:local



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Deputy shoots suspect in fast food robbery, chase

22 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Crews contain massive fire at George Bush Park

40 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Deadly crash sparks wildfire in Trinity County

44 min ago
Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Deputy shoots suspect in fast food robbery, chase
22 min ago


Crews contain massive fire at George Bush Park
40 min ago


Surgeon accused of throwing award at wife



Shoreacres still recovering from Hurricane Ike



Train derailment forces evacuations in Galveston Co.
47 min ago


Gym trainers accused of stealing from customers



Teen sues father over $1 million trust fund



AP: NASA unveils giant new rocket design
33 min ago


Deadly crash sparks wildfire in Trinity County
44 min ago


Aid still slow to Galveston three years after Ike



US gov't prepares to release BP oil spill report



Photos:  'Pewtunia' the Corpse Flower at Houston Zoo



abcnews: Weatherman who awoke with dead body quits



Video: Tower Cam time lapse of west Houston wildfire



MORE:
iWitness | FREE apps | Lottery | Hurricane

 


1.


Casey Curry's Wednesday weather forecast28 min ago


2.


Tower Cam time lapse of west Houston wildfire


3.


Viewer video of Bush Park fire


4.


View of Bush Park fire from I-10

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 





Grill-Roasted Pork Shoulder
Pizza 101 and more...
Low Country Boil Party





'Point Break' remake in the works
Kristin Chenoweth talks new album, love life and...
Christina Hendricks of 'Mad Men': No baby plans...


 
 


abc13.com News Links




						
					
						FREE ABC13 iPad app


						
					
						FREE iPhone, Android, Blackberry app


						
					
						Find news in your neighborhood


						
					
						What are people clicking on the most?


						
					
						Send News photos and videos to news@abc13.com

 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


Crews contain massive fire at George Bush Park

Most Viewed Video


Grass fire erupts in George Bush Park

Most Viewed Photos


Images of George Bush Park wildfire




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc13.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KTRK-TV/DT Houston, TX. All Rights Reserved.

























