ABC Nightline Sept 2001



Immigration Lawyer Austin – Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.



Skip to content
Home
Attorneys

Mehron P. Azarmehr
Allison L. Ouvry
Dawn M. Salas
Nicole E. Merritt


Services

Employment Based Visas

H-1B Professionals
H-1B Teachers
H-1C Workers
H-2B Workers
H-3 Trainees
L-1 Intracompany Transfers
E-1/E2 Traders/Investors
0-1 Entertainers
J-1 Interns


Permanent Residency

Labor Certification – PERM
EB-1 Professors & Researchers
EB-1 Extraordinary Ability
EB-1 Managers and Executives
EB-5 Investors
Intracompany Transfers
Green Card FAQs
Family Based Residency
Employer Based Residency


U.S. Naturalization
Consular Processing


Clients

Representative Clients
Client Comments


News

Blog
Press


Resources

Case Status
Processing Times
Useful Links


Contact Us

Contact/Consultation Form
Office Locations
Client Survey








Home : Press : ABC Nightline Sept 2001



Star Telegraph Jul 07 2002 »

ABC Nightline Sept 2001
By Austin Immigration Lawyer | Published: September 26, 2001

We can handle all your needs for H2A/B Workers – Seasonal or year round!
When ABC’s Nightline wanted to do a special on US firms using Guest laborers through H2B visas, to whom did the State Department recommend they speak – Mehron Azarmehr, principal of Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.. Nightline followed Mr. Azarmehr to San Luis Potosi, Mexico on a recruiting trip for one of his clients and used portions of that visit as the basis of their show.
(Copies of the Nightline show available on CD-ROM or VHS Cassette, just request a copy by sending an email to marketing@mpalaw.net or by calling us at 512-261-0221).
We can be your H2B IMMIGRATION specialists
We specialize in helping you create a cost effective, reliable and dedicated labor force through the use of H2B alien worker visa programs.
Why risk the problems inherent in having potentially undocumented workers at your business when we can handle the entire process, using our extensive base of contacts and over 25 years of combined immigration law experience, to deliver 10s or 100s of workers to your door step.
What can we do for you?

Use our established working relationships with the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of State, Consulates abroad, as well as contracts at foreign embassies in the United States.
Provide a turnkey program, delivering the needed workers to your door or provide assistance at particular junctures in the process.
Take you through the process of recruiting Guest Laborers from the best region for your needs.
Use our Worldwide network to get work and residence permits in multiple countries. If we can’t get the permit for you, we’ll tell you who can do it most cost effectively. Ask about our Global Immigration Guide for corporate clients.
Provide clear guidelines and on-site help with internal review procedures to ensure that your company meets all I-9, anti-discrimination and file maintenance requirements, insulating the company from fines and penalties.








Tweet



This entry was posted in . Bookmark the permalink. Both comments and trackbacks are currently closed.











Blog
Press






© 2009 - 2011 Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.
Follow Us on:  Follow us on FacebookFollow us on Twitter!Follow us on LinkedIn








