EB-5 Path to Citizenship



Immigration Lawyer Austin – Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.



Skip to content
Home
Attorneys

Mehron P. Azarmehr
Allison L. Ouvry
Dawn M. Salas
Nicole E. Merritt


Services

Employment Based Visas

H-1B Professionals
H-1B Teachers
H-1C Workers
H-2B Workers
H-3 Trainees
L-1 Intracompany Transfers
E-1/E2 Traders/Investors
0-1 Entertainers
J-1 Interns


Permanent Residency

Labor Certification – PERM
EB-1 Professors & Researchers
EB-1 Extraordinary Ability
EB-1 Managers and Executives
EB-5 Investors
Intracompany Transfers
Green Card FAQs
Family Based Residency
Employer Based Residency


U.S. Naturalization
Consular Processing


Clients

Representative Clients
Client Comments


News

Blog
Press


Resources

Case Status
Processing Times
Useful Links


Contact Us

Contact/Consultation Form
Office Locations
Client Survey








Home : Blog : EB-5 Pathway to Citizenship


« Alabama Immigration Law Temporary Blocked
Texas Wildfire Relief Donations Encouraged »

EB-5 Pathway to Citizenship
By Austin Immigration Lawyer | Published: September 8, 2011

This is the first post in a series on EB-5 investor visas — We’ve explained the details of getting an EB-5 investor visa in detail on our ‘Services‘ page, but wanted to answer questions from our clients and discuss everything from defining the activities of a Regional Investment Center to how to find the right immigration attorney to how to select an investment project. These posts will include links to more information about obtaining citizenship through investment in America.
Overview of the program:
The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services began the Immigrant Investor Visa Program, known as the “EB-5″, in 1990 as an act of Congress to enhance the United States economy through job creation and capital investment by foreign investors.   The program has gained steam in the past 10 years due to becoming an effective way for gaining citizenship, but acquiring one of these visas can still be confusing without an immigration attorney to explain how making an investment can lead to a Green Card. Obtaining an EB-5 visa begins through investment with a Regional Investment Center — a private enterprise or corporation or a regional governmental agency designated by USCIS with a targeted market — and these centers hold, maintain, and create the proper projects for investment in accordance with USCIS standards. Each year, several thousand EB-5 visas are set aside for Regional Investment Centers (over 140 centers located throughout the US, many in Texas and California) based on proposals for promoting economic growth, and these centers find new commercial enterprise projects (which must create 10 or more jobs, directly or indirectly) for foreign investors seeking the opportunity to obtain a Green Card to live and work in the US. The basic amount required to invest is $1 million, or $500,000, if the investment is made in a rural or high unemployment area.
A Green Card provides Permanent Residency for the applicant, his or her spouse and any offspring under the age of 21, and using the EB-5 path towards a Green Card means avoiding the usual, often difficult requirements of family connections, securing a job, or running an actively traded business. When an investor undertakes the EB-5 process, the first step is to find an experienced immigration attorney to help the client gain a Green Card by evaluating and determining the client’s eligibility for the investment visa program.
Regional Investment Centers exist throughout the country, but Texas and California both provide unique opportunities for investors due to the many diverse construction projects, and solid economic infrastructures despite nation-wide Recession. In Texas, there are 9 designated Regional Investment Centers, with several more awaiting approval. These centers are divided by geographic regional spanning several counties and metropolitan areas of Texas. California has 49 Regional Investment Centers, making the state hold a wealth of potential projects ranging in focus from assisted living care to resorts, office parks, and shopping centers.
After an immigration attorney reviews the client’s eligibility factors, the attorney can assist in reviewing a potential fits for investment, and will help the client sign an I-526 Immigration Petition, which will go to USCIS for review. The immigration attorney keeps client informed on the status of their Green Card, which if approved, will be conditional for two years — until the investor files another application with USCIS to prove that job creation occurred because of the initial investment.  After final approval, the investor and his or her immediate family become permanent Green Card holders, and can later apply to become U.S. citizens.







Tweet



This entry was posted in . Bookmark the permalink. Both comments and trackbacks are currently closed.











Blog
Press






© 2009 - 2011 Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.
Follow Us on:  Follow us on FacebookFollow us on Twitter!Follow us on LinkedIn








