Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt    Kabul :  Afghanistan
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            7 0      
Views: 171
         It has been now over 12 hours that the armed men are givivng tough time to security forces in Kabul. The battle is still going on. These armed men are wearing suicide vests and are now holed up in a multi-storeyed building. They are also laced with rocket launchers. They are firing these rockets on to the NATO Headquarters, US Embassy and other official/government buildings.  The NATO forces are providing full ground and air support to the security forces. NATO helicopters are hovering over the building. However, they have not been able to flush out the militants from there. The exact number of these armed militants is yet not known. The police is claiming to have cleared the first two storeys of the building, but they are faced with heavy fire and unable to move forward. According to the latest reports 9 persons have died and another 23 injured in this battle so far. The US embassy in Kabul says no personnel have been reported injured.        1 of 32        
The battle still rages on after almost 12 hours
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (74.2%) Pakistan (7.6%) Russia (3.0%) China (3.0%) 5 other countries (7.6%)           READ MORE: Kabul Attacks, 23 Hurt, Kabul, security force, attack, US Embassy in Kabul, embassy, forces, security, rocket launchers, security forces   More News From: Kabul :  Afghanistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By       eessa2
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
doing nice work.rated it up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Well written, well done job rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Danish Malik
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
That is really a tragic news thanks Ruby for sharing this with us rated up :)
    
​        Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
its a TRAGIC reporting, thanksrated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       crown62
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Very nicely compiled report. Thanks for sharing. Rated up.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       HumTum
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
very sad news,thanks for sharing,rated up
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Latest Update: Battle Continues in Kabul By: khattar      Its now nearly 20 hours that the battle between insurgents and the security forces of Afghanistan is going on. According to the latest reports now only three insurgents are left who continue to fight with the security forces. Out of these three one is injured. These three insurgents are holed up on the top floors most probably ninth floor of an ...  about 7 hours ago     Taliban attacked the headquarters of NATO and the U.S. Embassy in ... By: kingston23      Eight militants were killed after different points of attack in the Afghan capital. Explosions and gunfire left seven dead. A
command of eight Taliban put in check Kabul yesterday with an attack on
several points of the Afghan capital, as the U.S. Embassy and the
headquarters of the Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which left
seven ...  about 7 hours ago     Continue fighting between Taliban and Afghan forces in central Kabul By: kingston23      During the night, Afghan troops backed by helicopter gunships continued to exchange gunfire in the capital, Kabul, with the last of a group of Taliban militants launched a series of attacks Tuesday.According to reports, at least one attacker used hand grenades and rockets to fight security forces.Earlier, militants and other suicide vests armed ...  about 8 hours ago     Twelve hours of street battles in Kabul By: karasiwo      Twelve hours after its inception, continues the battle between the street in Kabul Afghan security forces and Taliban militants, according to the BBC office in the capital of Afghanistan.Some of the attackers are being shot from atop a building, according to our correspondents.The attack began when suicide bombers blew themselves up in police ...  about 8 hours ago     U.S. embassy in Afghanistan attack  By: levsang      
Security forces in Afhhanistan are dealing with a series of attacks on U.S. embassies, NATO headquarters and police stations in the capital Kabul today. The attacks today seems to be a complicated campaign coordinating, BBC said.Some suicide bombers have targeted the embassy area while the others attack in the west of the city. 6 ...  about 9 hours ago     Afghan gunfight: Kabul police battle insurgents By: aniskhan26      Afghan and international security forces have been battling a multi-pronged attack by insurgents targeting the US embassy, Nato headquarters and police buildings in Kabul.
Police are still exchanging fire with at least one gunman holed up in an unfinished high-rise building overlooking the diplomatic quarter.
Six people have been killed and 16 ...  about 15 hours ago     Taliban executes attacks in Kabul and targeting embassies By: karasiwo      Taliban fighters launched a suicide attack in Afghan capital multiple on Tuesday, firing rockets at the U.S. embassy and three other countries and sending suicide bombers to targets in the west of the city and near the airport.At least two civilians and two policemen were killed and 22 people were injured in the attacks. More than a dozen ...  about 16 hours ago     Afghanistan: the continuing attacks in Kabul By: egyjan25       the Afghan capital Kabul saw  in the evening,  bombs and firearms began this morning.Security forces exchanged fire with two militants holed up in a building overlooking the diplomatic quarter in the city.Heaing  a series of explosions in the area believed that the gunmen were holed up in one of the buildings.Taliban claimed ...  about 16 hours ago     US Embassy, NATO and government buildings attacked in Kabul by ... By: Samantha86      
The US Embassy, NATO and government buildings were attacked in central Kabul by the Taliban today. Two civilians and four afghan police officers have been killed in the attack. The Afghan Taliban have claimed responsibility for the attacks.
No staff member has been reported wounded, according to an embassy spokesman. However, Kabul police ...  about 17 hours ago     TALIBAN ATTACK THE U.S. EMBASSY AND NATO IN KABUL By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ      It was confirmed that there have been several explosions and gun battles.
A series of explosions and gunfire rocked the center of Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, this morning.
After
several hours you could still hear gunfire and the staff of the U.S.
Embassy in Kabul, which was one of the two objects of attacks by the
Taliban, were holed up....  about 17 hours ago     U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan with Taliban attack  By: lethibichlan      Taliban fired a gun into the target U.S. embassy, ​​several other embassies and headquarters of Force International Security Assistance (ISAF) in Afghanistan's capital Kabul in the afternoon on 13-9. Three other suicide bombers have attacked targets to the west of the capital, in areas near airports. At least two civilians and two ...  about 19 hours ago     Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32       The U.S. embassy and NATO buildings have been among those targeted in a coordinated attack by Taliban involving several suicide bombers in Kabul. Rocket propelled grenades are also being used 
 Attackers took over a multi-storey building under construction near the diplomatic district in the Afghan capital and were firing rockets ...  about 20 hours ago     Taliban insurgents attack Kabul target U.S. embassy By: faraway      Kabul
was rocked by a series of explosions on Tuesday as part of an offensive
by the Taliban, who say they have launched a "massive suicide attack"
against foreign intelligence services and Afghanistan in the Afghan
capital.Several powerful bomb exploded in the afternoon, near the embassy district in central Kabul, and shots were heard ...  about 20 hours ago     5 killed as Taliban attacks U.S. embassy By: shiraxinco      
Five suicide bombers were killed late Tuesday when at least seven armed insurgents attacked different parts of the Afghan capital, Kabul, including the U.S. Embassy and the NATO headquarters in Kabul, police said.
 
"Five suicide bombers have been eliminated by the security forces since the attacks broke out in Kabul on Tuesday afternoon,"...  about 20 hours ago     Blasts, gunfire near US Embassy in Kabul By: kingrahulkhan30      Kabul: Several explosions and
gunfire rocked Kabul's embassy district on Tuesday afternoon. The blasts
and firing took place near the US Embassy in Kabul. Officials say the
attackers fired several rockets toward the US Embassy in Kabul.
According to US and Afghan officials, the terrorists are firing
on the US Embassy from a building ...  about 21 hours ago     Suicide bombers and gunmen seize Kabul By: naseemtanoli      
"Today at 13.00 (08.30 GMT) at Kabul's Abdul Haq roundabout a massive suicide attack on local and foreign intelligence facilities is ongoing," said a spokesman for the Islamist group of Tuesday's attack.
It appears to be a complex operation with a number of suicide bombers involved, says the BBC's Quentin Sommerville in the Afghan capital.
A ...  1 day ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Taliban Target US Embassy, NATO in Kabul Attack  
Voice of America
 Reuters Afghan policemen arrive at the site of a rocket-propelled attack in Kabul September 13, 2011...Gunfire and bomb blasts could be still heard in the Afghan capital Tuesday, as security forces worked to repel the assault near the city's...    US embassy in Kabul attacked - video  
The Guardian
 Shells from a rocket-propelled attack were found near the site in the Wazir Akbar Khan district and gun battles developed with Taliban fighters based in a half-completed building. Militants launched attacks on three different locations, initial...    Taleban attack in Kabul  
Wellington Dominion
 Taleban suicide fighters launched an attack on central Kabul overnight, taking over a multi-storey building under construction near the diplomatic district in the Afghan capital and firing rockets in the direction of several embassy and Nato...    Recent attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul  
Macleans
 Taliban suicide bombers storm the British Council, an international charity, killing eight people during an eight-hour firefight as two English language teachers and their bodyguard hid in a locked panic room. July 17: Gunmen strapped with explosives...    Explosions, gunfire in Kabul, near embassy district  
The Globe & Mail
 EDT Blasts and gunfire echoed through the Afghan capital Kabul on Wednesday, as the Taliban said several attackers armed with rocket-propelled grenades and suicide vests were targeting government buildings near the embassy district. At least six loud...    US embassy under attack in Afghanistan  
Russia Today
 Death toll from Chechen attacks climbs to 9 The death toll from the suicide attacks in the Russian republic of Chechnya on August 30 has climbed to nine, Interfax news agency quoted Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliev as saying on Wednesday. Afghan...   More Related Stories     Images    >         ka    ka Image Source: allvoices The battle still rages on after almost 12 hours        Afghan security forces in ...    Afghan security forces in ... Image Source: www.afp.com Afghan security forces in Kabul        NATO and Afghan security ...    NATO and Afghan security ... Image Source: www.afp.com NATO and Afghan security forces are stepping up security in Kabul        Afghan private security ...    Afghan private security ... Image Source: www.afp.com Afghan private security personnel in Kabul        Afghan and international ...    Afghan and international ... Image Source: www.afp.com Afghan and international security forces secure the site of a suicide ...        Afghan forces are in control ...    Afghan forces are in control ... Image Source: www.afp.com Afghan forces are in control of security in Kabul      More Related Images    More From Kabul          U.S. EMBASSY & NATO HEADQUARTERS ATTACKED BY MILITANTS        Afghan forces have killed Kabul insurgents        Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?         U.S. embassy in Afghanistan attack           Attack over Kabul by Taliban Insurgents Finally Ended        Taliban siege of Kabul ends with 14 dead        Fighting in Kabul ended after 19 hours        Taliban attacked on American embassy and NATO headquarter          Fighting goes on near Kabul US embassy        Taliban Attacks in Kabul Also Target Public Opinion        Kabul Live: 6 people killed and 15 wounded in attacks        September prgyarh completed ten years of U.S. attacks          Twelve hours of street battles in Kabul                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10326033          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 20       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 6       Images: 32       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10326033), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10326033 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10326033 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10326033-latest-update-kabul-attacks-9-killed-23-hurt.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         