Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site     New York City :  NY :  USA
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy             4 0      
Views: 313
          Target’s Web site crashed on Tuesday when consumers tried to engage in a special competition by filling up their shopping carts with creme de la creme clothing by Italian designer, Missoni, at budget prices.  In an effort to carry the chicest line of clothing at low prices, Target proved their latest marketing strategy was a hit with its limited-edition Missoni for Target line, and other low price high class duds available for purchase.  Rather than seeing the unaffordable tags marked at hundreds or thousands of dollars, customers could pick up one of Missoni's signature style zigzag denim skirts for only $40. While items at Bergdorf Goodman cost up to $12,000. “The excitement for this limited-time designer collection is unprecedented,” said Morgan O’Murray, a spokeswoman for Target, in an e-mail. Actress Mindy Kaling tweeted: “@target broke my heart today when I could not access their site once in 9 hours for Missoni.” The much sought after Italian line available at such a low price in a department store known to be above most already, Target's web site traffic just couldn't take the congestion and would be unable to clear up soon as unfortunately demand was quite a bit higher than supply.  How'd they do it? Target went on a marketing frenzy before the sale by advertising in magazines, on fashion blogs, hosting a party with celebrities and fashion editors, and by hitting the fashiion mecca, New York, last week using a pop-up shop.        1 of 3        
A few items remain after shoppers bought from U.S. retailer Target's new fashion line called "Missoni" by Italian luxury designer Missoni at a Target store in Vista
     
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (47.2%) Philippines (20.6%) Canada (6.0%) United Kingdom (4.9%) 21 other countries (18.4%)           READ MORE: Missoni, Missoni at Target, Target Department store, Target web site crashes, limited edition Missoni, Target high class, low price, web site, Target sells designer clothing, Target clothing lines   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 1            Reply  Posted By       Orakul
|
3 minutes
ago
  
Alright Stephanie. I still can't afford the designer clothes at Target even. Sad economy. Rate up
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Missoni for Target Launch Party: A Star-Studded Soiree By: saratom      With the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week festivities getting underway, a
bevy of beautiful ladies gathered together foe the Missoni for Target
private launch event in New York City.on Wednesday night (September 7).
Held at 1095 Sixth Avenue, the event was hosted by designer Margherita Missoni while pulling out Tinseltown actresses such as Camilla ...  6 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Demand at Target For Fashion Line Crashes Web Site  
The New York Times
 Margherita Maccapani Missoni in an ad for the Missoni for Target line of clothing. With its limited-edition Missoni for Target line, introduced on Tuesday, and other low-price designer collections, Target has been trying to position itself as the...    Target’s unexpected Missoni website crash  
MarketWatch
 Target Corp., which on Tuesday launched its limited collection featuring Italian design label Missoni for Target, saw its web site crashed by shoppers eager to snatch the line of apparel, home goods and luggage featuring the label's zigzag and other...    Your First Preview of Missoni For Target Private Party [PHOTOS]  
International Business Times
 The shoppers began forming lines in the early hours of the morning so they could be the first to snag a Missoni bikes, clothing, bedding, and even plates. Most of the merchandise were sold out within hours of the store opening. Missoni released the...    Missoni Crashed Target's Website  
The Frisky
 Thanks to the high volume of users trying to get their grubby mitts on the collection, Target's site is currently offline. If you go to the site right now, you'll receive a message that We are hard at work making the site better...We're not...    Target's website crashes  
AP Online
 Sometimes, a fashion launch is just too enticing.
Target Inc.'s entire website crashed Tuesday, the day the cheap chic retailer launched the online sale of its limited offerings of Missoni for Target, a partnership with the Italian...    Designer's line creates Black Friday-like buzz  
Merced Sun-Star
 In a scene that was reminiscent of the shopping frenzy that typically comes on the day after Thanksgiving, Target's website crashed several times throughout the day and more than hundred shoppers lined up at many of its stores early in the morning on...   More Related Stories     Blogs    >    My organization wants to outsource Sales Force and need the ideal ...  
diywealthcreation.net
 Also you could possibly be wondering how exactly a web 20 site just like Twitter can help your online business flourish? When reaching your initial business strategy, you can no doubt have thought long and hard about how exactly you can ...    Bla Bla » How to Get A lot more Visitors These days  
blasite.com
 If you are fortunate sufficient to have produced some fantastic content that individuals love then the web page will get voted up and up and up and could sooner or later deliver you hundreds of countless numbers of guests. Hyperlink to individuals     Have You Heard About Owning Movie? | flesh consumed  
www.fleshconsumed.com
 Fact is, if you aren't employing movie in the advertising and marketing, you simply will not stand the chance of producing a dent OR a dime on the web. Folks are just too occupied, there're on the move, they do not have enough time to endure     What is a good Reliable FREE Web Hosting Site?  
domainnametips.org
 I dont think that freewebs has web hosting does it? Answer by Jessica M about good Reliable FREE Web Hosting Site can be read in http://wikipediawiki.org/computers-internet/?q=good%20Reliable%20FREE%20Web%20Hosting%20Site ...    Web site or website? E-mail or email? | Answers Gather  
answersgather.com
 Which do you think is acceptable, which do you reads more attractively, and in what context? http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/Web%20site. Keywords:grammar|||language. Answers: to be truthful, I use both uses of either. I thing they both ...       Images    >         A few items remain after ...    A few items remain after ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A few items remain after shoppers bought from U.S. retailer Target's new ...        The "nook" digital reader, a ...    The "nook" digital reader, a ... Image Source: www.afp.com The "nook" digital reader, a wireless reader available on Barnes & Noble's ...        [mobile] WEB-SITE 2nd Place ...    [mobile] WEB-SITE 2nd Place ... Image Source: farm2.static.flickr... [mobile] WEB-SITE 2nd Place Ribbon [Mixed Media]      More Related Images    More From New York City         New York: Republican victory historic setback for Barack Obama        NYPD cops,Bump and Grind during West Indian Day parade         Kim Kardashian Rocks in a Vera Wang Dress        First Look at Dark Shadows          Surprising revelations made as Jacqueline Kennedy's secret audiotapes surfaces        Leonardo DiCaprio Talks Hoover with GQ        Commodity Trading Tips for Gold by KediaCommodity        The Divide Poster          Real Steel Posters        Puss in Boots Latest Poster        Channing Tatum Join Love and Honor Movie        Elizabeth Taylor exhibition of precious jewelry          Ice Age: Continental Drift Poster                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10329289          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 15       Blog Posts: 5       Videos: 4       Images: 3       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10329289), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10329289 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10329289 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10329289-targets-high-class-clothing-line-crashes-web-site.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         