Texas Wildfire Relief Donations Encouraged



Immigration Lawyer Austin – Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.



Skip to content
Home
Attorneys

Mehron P. Azarmehr
Allison L. Ouvry
Dawn M. Salas
Nicole E. Merritt


Services

Employment Based Visas

H-1B Professionals
H-1B Teachers
H-1C Workers
H-2B Workers
H-3 Trainees
L-1 Intracompany Transfers
E-1/E2 Traders/Investors
0-1 Entertainers
J-1 Interns


Permanent Residency

Labor Certification – PERM
EB-1 Professors & Researchers
EB-1 Extraordinary Ability
EB-1 Managers and Executives
EB-5 Investors
Intracompany Transfers
Green Card FAQs
Family Based Residency
Employer Based Residency


U.S. Naturalization
Consular Processing


Clients

Representative Clients
Client Comments


News

Blog
Press


Resources

Case Status
Processing Times
Useful Links


Contact Us

Contact/Consultation Form
Office Locations
Client Survey








Home : Blog : Texas Wildfire Relief Donations Encouraged


« EB-5 Pathway to Citizenship
Immigration Myths: The Job Creation Debate »

Texas Wildfire Relief Donations Encouraged
By Austin Immigration Lawyer | Published: September 8, 2011

Texas is currently battling an unprecedented number of wildfires as a result of the worst drought the state has seen in over 50 years. As of today, an astounding 1,386 homes are estimated to be destroyed in Bastrop County, with over 34,000 acres burned, and the fire resting at only 30% containment. Fires in North Austin at Steiner Ranch, Leander, in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties, and throughout the state are a massive cause for concern.
The staff at Azarmehr and Associates, P.C. extends our thoughts to those affected by the fires, our thanks to those assisting in the relief effort, and encourages donations to those in need. We love living and working in Austin, Texas, and these tragic circumstances are a chance to come together as a community to help each other.
The Austin-American Statesman has an extensive list of places to donate goods and created a Central Texas Recovery Facebook group with up-to-date information regarding the needs of both those who lost everything and the firefighters, volunteers, and those helping in the recovery effort. Austin Pets Alive also has information about adopting and fostering evacuated animals.
 







Tweet



This entry was posted in . Bookmark the permalink. Both comments and trackbacks are currently closed.











Blog
Press






© 2009 - 2011 Azarmehr & Associates, P.C.
Follow Us on:  Follow us on FacebookFollow us on Twitter!Follow us on LinkedIn








