  Scooter Blog « The Parkbench : Computer Blog Dot






News FeedComments









 




Home
Laptop Store
PC Store
Videos
Privacy Policy
Contact Us











Computer Information

Computer Tips

Every thing you Need to Know

Featured

WPSB New Products








	Browse > 

Home / Every thing you Need to Know / Scooter Blog « The Parkbench
	

Scooter Blog « The Parkbench


September 10, 2011 by cojimero1    Filed under Every thing you Need to Know


Leave a Comment




Scooter Blog by NPCC Webmaster.
A story of how my life has changed since coming to NPCC in 2007 culminating in my purchase of a scooter to get me here in a most economical if not adventurous way.
Let’s see where does my story begin? I suppose most stories should start at the beginning and this would be in 2007 when my engineering work dropped off dramatically. I had worked for 23 years in mechanical and electrical engineering, designing and drafting plans for commercial buildings including many of the buildings here at NPCC. boring right? Well I thought so. When the work slowed down, I found myself looking for things to keep busy and then one day my wife, Lizzette looked at me and said, “why don’t you take some classes at NPCC in something you are good at and enjoy like Computers? You have always wanted to.” I remember pausing to take that thought in and remarking, “Hmm, there’s an idea.” 
Next thing, I know I am enrolled in classes for the fall of 2007. I started with 2 classes and by the end of the semester I had increased my enrollment to 5 classes. I was hooked! this is too much fun! I remember thinking of how different college was from when I went to college in the early 80’s. it seemed easier, much easier and of course the faculty and staff here at NPCC made it so because of their enthusiasm, eagerness to help, and sincerity. they truly live the words, “Learning is our focus; student success is our goal.” 
In less than 2 years I had completed enough classes for an Associate’s Degree in Computer Information Systems and passed 2 certification exams (A+ and Network+). Each semester, I was hired to tutor for the Business Division and really enjoyed working with the students helping them master Microsoft Office. Those experiences reminded of me how much I love teaching. Helping others to learn something new that betters their life—there is nothing better you can do with your life!
After graduation in May of 2009, I had plans to incorporate a computer and networking service into my engineering business but it seems that destiny had made other plans for me. In June of 2009 I was hired part time to work on the website for NPCC, an area of work I had never considered. Much to my surprise, I really enjoyed the work. Technical, which I prefer, but also creative which is new and challenging for me. it reminded me of the days after high school at the university dorm studying Calculus, all the while my brother, was simultaneously watching TV, listening to music on the radio, painting, drawing, and building a models of theatrical stages. He was having way too much fun. A lot more fun than I was having. now I am having too much fun! The creative side of web design has really been a joy.
In October of 2009, I was thrilled to be asked to teach some classes as an adjunct. A lifelong dream now realized. The following year in October of 2010 I was hired full time as the Webmaster (a title I still need to grow into) and have never enjoyed working somewhere more. 
Four years later my life has really changed. People often talk about a mid-life crisis but that sounds too negative. for me it was more of a mid-life awakening to a much better life. A truly rewarding one! to my fellow students, friends, and colleagues here at NPCC I want to thank you. You have all played a part in this most enjoyable experience!
My next blog will be about the scooter you see in the picture and about that adventure or misadventure depending on how you look at it lol.
To those of you that are motorcycle or scooter enthusiasts you will have opportunities to share your stories. for this blog, I would like to hear your story on how NPCC has changed your life.
 Advertisement


Tags: blog, commercial buildings, scooter












Speak Your Mind
Tell us what you're thinking... and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar!

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website
























 Acer
amp
apple
Aspire
ASUS
Black
cable
Carrying
Case
Computer
computer information systems
consumers
Dell
desktop computer
ebay
game
games
gaming computer
google
hard drive
hp
inch
job
jobs
keyboard
Laptop
laptops
memory
microsoft
models
money
music
nbsp
Neoprene
Notebook
operating system
parents
personal computer
quot
Sleeve
Sony
Toshiba
weather
windows xp
yahooWP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck requires Flash Player 9 or better. 






Categories

Computer Information

Computer Tips

Every thing you Need to Know

Featured

WPSB New Products




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
September 2010



Blogroll

Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet



Admin

Register Log in
WordPress
XHTML










Advertisement
Click Here! 










Copyright © 2009 · All Rights Reserved · contet and design produced by PLR Boy · Powered by WordPress · Log in


