 101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI               101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure    Detroit :  MI :  USA
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Darlena Bonds            5 0      
Views: 289
         Without a doubt Texana Hollis is older than all her neighbors and I'm sure most of us reading this article. But it's a terrible thing to read about people that has loss their homes due to the fact that they aren't able to pay the mortgage. On Monday, Hollis was evicted from her Detroit home that shes lived in nearly sixty years. Hollis son 65, who was responsible for seeing that the mortgage was paid, fail to do so. Warren Hollis, said he didn't pay the bill for several years and disregarded eviction notices. I admitted he didn't think anything would happen. Wait a minute here! This man is living in one of the hardest hit cities in the nation and he thought that they didn't want the money? Really now. The Associate Press was told that the Hollises took out an adjustable-rate mortgage in 2002. A default and foreclosure notice was filed in November.  As of today they owe $80,000 on the home. I'm sure this was pretty confusing to Texana Hollis, because she had to be taken to the hospital for evaluation after she became disoriented. Wayne County officials are looking into what they can do to help, in the mean time the Hollises have relocated across the street with a neighbor. The property taxes on Hollis house werw paid through summer 2010. A winter tax bill of $55.95, including interest and fees, was unpaid, and a $778.44 summer tax bill was due this month.  It's really sad to hear that someone at Hollis age was displaced, but its really sad that no one helped before she was tossed into the streets.        1 of 1        
Texana Hollis
        
Darlena Bonds is based in Detroit, Michigan, United States of America,
and is a Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (66.3%) United Kingdom (7.7%) Canada (5.8%) Portugal (4.8%) 15 other countries (12.5%)           READ MORE: Texana Hollis, Detroit, 101 year old woman, michigan, Foreclosure help, Warren Hollis   More News From: Detroit :  MI :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 5            Reply  Posted By       Veronica Roberts 
|
about 12 hours
ago
  
That is very disturbing! To but someone this old out of their home..despicable.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Orakul
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Someone needs to take the son out to the woodshed. Thanks for the report. Rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       wadadli
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
oh my very sad, rate up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Nicely compiled and presented, thumbs up, rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
That is terrible losing your home no matter what your age is.
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     101-Year-Old Woman Evicted From Detroit Home  
Fox
 A 101-year-old woman was evicted from the southwest Detroit home where she lived for nearly six decades after her 65-year-old son failed to pay the mortgage. Texana Hollis was evicted Monday and her belongings were placed outside the home. TV for a...    101-year-old Detroit woman evicted in foreclosure  
AP Online
 TV reports Texana Hollis was evicted Monday and her belongings placed outside. Warren Hollis tells the station he didn't pay for several years and he ignored eviction notices.
Wayne County Chief Deputy Treasurer David Szymanski tells...    101-year-old woman evicted  
NY Daily News
 The Wayne County treasurer's office told the TV station it was trying to figure out exactly what happened. The distraught woman's son, Warren Hollis , said it was all his fault...Texana Hollis had lived in the house for 58 years. "This lady needs to...    101-year-old woman evicted from Detroit home  
USA Today
 An edited and truncated Associated Press story linked to in the Detroit Free Press states that Texana Hollis was evicted because her son failed to pay taxes on their house, but another AP article quotes the Wayne County treasurer as saying the...    Worries lift Greek bond rates  
The Journal Gazette
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel sought Tuesday to calm market fears that Greece is heading for a chaotic default as Europe struggles to contain a crippling financial crisis. Merkel rejected the notion that a Greek bankruptcy a possibility raised a...       Images    >         101 year-old Detroit woman ...    101 year-old Detroit woman ... Image Source: allvoices Texana Hollis      More Related Images    More From Detroit           101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure        Passenger aircraft causes security alert in the U.S.         Obama Rallies Support for Jobs Speech as GOP Contenders Woo Voters in S.C.         9/11 Memories Linger So Do the Health Effects          Police postpone the recovery of the river canyon         Obama address Americans about his job package        Safety of Osteoporosis Drugs In Question        Tommy Rees named Notre Dame quarterback for college football games coming against Michigan         Obama fires across Republican bow with Labor Day address        What dangers lurk from your treadmill?        Barack Obama protects record on the economy        America and Pakistan are cooperating in the arrest of senior leader of al-Qaeda          Barack Obama challenged Republicans on employment                         Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10328399          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 5       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 6       Comments: 5    5       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10328399), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10328399 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10328399 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “ 101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10328399-101-yearold-detroit-woman-evicted-from-home-after-foreclosure.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         