  Apple vs. Samsung suit: German court upholds Galaxy Tab 10.1 ban : Computer Blog Dot






News FeedComments









 




Home
Laptop Store
PC Store
Videos
Privacy Policy
Contact Us











Computer Information

Computer Tips

Every thing you Need to Know

Featured

WPSB New Products








	Browse > 

Home / Every thing you Need to Know / Apple vs. Samsung suit: German court upholds Galaxy Tab 10.1 ban
	

Apple vs. Samsung suit: German court upholds Galaxy Tab 10.1 ban


September 10, 2011 by cojimero1    Filed under Every thing you Need to Know


Leave a Comment




A German court upheld its preliminary sales ban on the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 on Friday, the latest move in an international patent battle between Samsung and Apple.
"The court is of the opinion that Apple's minimalistic design isn't the only technical solution to make a tablet computer, other designs are possible," said Justice Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann in court, according to a Bloomberg news report.
"for the informed customer there remains the predominant overall impression that the device looks" like the design Apple has patented in Europe, Brueckner-Hofmann said, according to the report.
The court decision is a win for Apple, which is suing Samsung in Germany over complaints that the Korean consumer electronics maker is infringing on a number of Apple-owned patents with the Galaxy Tab tablets and Galaxy phone lines. Apple accuses Samsung of also copying the look and feel of the iPad and iPhone with its Galaxy products.
The German court first granted Apple a sales ban request against the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in August and last week, the court also places a temporary injunction against the sale of the unreleased Galaxy Tab 7.7 there as well. Samsung told Bloomberg that it will appeal the ruling.
Apple and Samsung are also locked in patent battles over phones and tablets in other European countries, as well as Japan, the U.S. and Australia.
Apple won a sales injunction against Samsung's Galaxy S, Galaxy S II and Ace smartphones last month in 30 European countries. The Galaxy Tab 10.1 has been voluntarily placed under a sales stoppage in Australia.
While the two tech giants are rivals, and suing each other in courtrooms around the world, they are also business partners from time to time as well. Samsung makes displays and internal components for the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.
Samsung's unreleased Galaxy Tab 7.7 faces German ban
Apple sues Samsung in Japan, seeking to block Galaxy phone sales
Apple wins ban on sales of Samsung Galaxy smartphones in 30 E.U. nations
– Nathan Olivarez-Giles
Photo: an Apple iPad 2, left, and a Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 at a store in The Hague, Netherlands, last month. Credit: Robert Vos/EPA


Tags: brueckner, Samsung












Speak Your Mind
Tell us what you're thinking... and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar!

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website
























 Acer
amp
apple
Aspire
ASUS
Black
cable
Carrying
Case
Computer
computer information systems
consumers
Dell
desktop computer
ebay
game
games
gaming computer
google
hard drive
hp
inch
job
jobs
keyboard
Laptop
laptops
memory
microsoft
models
money
music
nbsp
Neoprene
Notebook
operating system
parents
personal computer
quot
Sleeve
Sony
Toshiba
weather
windows xp
yahooWP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck requires Flash Player 9 or better. 






Categories

Computer Information

Computer Tips

Every thing you Need to Know

Featured

WPSB New Products




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
September 2010



Blogroll

Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet



Admin

Register Log in
WordPress
XHTML










Advertisement
Click Here! 










Copyright © 2009 · All Rights Reserved · contet and design produced by PLR Boy · Powered by WordPress · Log in


