Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week    New York City :  NY :  USA
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            9 0      
Views: 132
          Donna KaranDonna Karan showcased her latest collection at New York’s Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week for her Spring 2012 line on 547 West 26th Street on 12 September to the delight of her die-hard fans. The Donna Karan Spring 2012 collection is all about ethnic inspired bold geometric prints in neutral tones, color blocking and the African tribal motif in earthy tones of brown and rust teamed with black and white.  Add to that some very striking gowns for the evening in combinations of black paired with brown in undulating designs, with a measure of bling in the way of beadwork and sequins that are accessorized with chunky ethnic necklaces and you’ve got the Donna Karan Spring 2012 look. Karan also had a few surprises with her cocktail dresses in bright colors such as purple and rust, just to break things up a bit! But one of the most interesting designs worn for the collection was sported by none other than Donna Karan herself – the olive body-hugging top with triangular motif at the hips, which the designer paired with tights and accessorized with a matching chunky necklace and several bracelets. Being one of New York’s fashion mainstays, her fashion show was attended by the Vogue team to include Editor-in-Chief Anna WintourAnna Wintour and Hamish Bowles. Other notables in attendance were America’s Most Smartest Model producer and host Mary Alice Stephenson and model Molly Sims, actress Rose McGowan, Fashion Week production assistant Sarah Uslan, Editor-in-chief of Harper's Bazaar Glenda Bailey, Marie Claire editor Joanna Coles and Russian style maven Dasha Veledeeva.  Enjoy the slideshow with tonnes of pictures from Donna Karan’s Spring 2012 collection as presented at New York’s Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week and thanks for visiting!        1 of 18        
American Vogue Editor in Chief Anna Wintour and Donna Karen at Donna Karan Spring 2012 fashion show at New York Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week on 547 West 26th Street on 12 September 2011.
     
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (47.9%) France (13.8%) Portugal (12.8%) Pakistan (4.3%) 11 other countries (17.0%)           READ MORE: Donna Karan Spring 2012, Atlanta fashion, Anna Wintour, Hamish Bowles, Donna Karan latest collection, benz fashion, Donna Karan, karan spring, New York&, fashion week   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 9            Reply  Posted By       Ruby1204
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing the news. Rates up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Well written, well done job rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       safdarjaved
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Really great job rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       simongill777
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
its really great.. rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Nicely compiled and presented, thumbs up, rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
great news to sharethanks,rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       atifji75
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Well Written And Nice sharing. Must be Rated Up.Please visit my section.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       crown62
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
AmberCornelio,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       mohsin11
|
17 minutes
ago
  
thanks for sharing.rated up
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          J Crew Spring 2012 Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio      
J.Crew Spring 2012 fashion show rolled out their best and
brightest for Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week at The Stage at Lincoln Center on
September 13, 2011 in New York City. 
Creative Director and President of J. Crew Jenna Lyons and
Head Designer Marissa Webb see us in the pale pastels lemon, coral, pink as
well as tangerine and lime to ...  about 16 hours ago     Marc By Marc Jacobs Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio      
The Marc By Marc Jacobs Spring 2012 fashion show was a
resounding success during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week at New York State Armory
on 12 September 2011 in New York City.
Marc By Marc Jacobs Spring 2012 is all about a casual,
crisp, sporty look but with a definite Parisian flair though many could
interpret his choice of predominantly red, ...  about 22 hours ago     Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio      
When people go to a showing for Betsey Johnson they know that they’re
in for a fun-filled treat.  Such was the
case for the Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 fashion show during New York’s
Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week at The Theater at Lincoln Center on September 12,
2011.
The models were a splash of color and gaiety as they ...  about 23 hours ago     Zac Posen goes glam for Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz! By: AmberCornelio      
Behold the new Zac Posen Spring 2012 fashion show featuring
Posen’s best in evening gowns and cocktail dresses for Mercedes-Benz Fashion
Week at Lincoln Center’s Avery Fisher Hall on 11 September 2011 in New York
City.
If you’re looking for the ultimate in diva glam to
prove that you’re a force to be reckoned with, ...  2 days ago     New York opens the season of fashion shows  By: mus1423      
Ten years ago, the tragedy of September 11 still 'the Fashion Week in New York and meeting all the fashion' astonished to reflect on the meaning of life.This year, the tenth anniversary of the Twin Towers will 'celebrated with parades in the middle of the Big Apple, which came alive in the Sept. 10, opening up, as always, the long season of ...  2 days ago     Lindsay Lohan wows at Cynthia Rowley Spring 2012! By: AmberCornelio      
The tabloids said that actress Lindsay Lohan had gotten her
fake tan retouched for her partying weekend in New York for FNO – Fashion’s
Night Out and Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. 
But whatever the case, Lindsay looked pretty cool in her
dark sunglasses, ivory tuxedo blazer, trimmed in black and stylishly sans the
sleeves, ...  4 days ago     The Stunning Sophia Bush Shines at BCBG Max Azria Spring 2012 Show (... By: jinkinpark      
New York has fashion fever. This is
the time for another Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. And the catwalks have never
been hotter.
One of those cats is the lovely
Sophia Bush. The One Tree Hill star was stunning as she arrived at the BCBG Max
Azria Spring 2012 show on Thursday. She was having fun and her fans enjoyed her
fashion ...  4 days ago     Sophia Bush Latest Fashion Style In New York City (Photos) By: jamespabalan      One Tree Hill star Sophia Bush attended the BCBG Max Azria Spring 2012 during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week at The Theater at Lincoln Center, in New York City. Her dazzling and gorgeous attire, paired a loose-fitting dress with nude strapped heels.
See latest pictures of Sophia Bush during Mercedes-Benz ...  5 days ago     Within days of the most anticipated event of the fashion world By: ZohaibAnwer       
September 8 The hundreds of thousands of fashionistas have a date in New York City. This is the Fashion Week Mercedes Benz, as every season brings in the Big Apple to the cream of world fashion.Thus, the Lincoln Center's Damrosch Park will serve as the venue for Spring 2012 collections from over 95 designers.
"New York City is the ...  9 days ago     Whitney Port makes low collection  By: sharinaz      
Reality Participant Whitney Port is best known from MTV series "The City", where she works, parties and turns up as an independent clothing designer in the fashion metropolis of New York.
Whitney's own brand, Whitney Eve, has been around since 2007 and currently she is working with the spring collection for 2012.
During this weekend's Mercedes ...  23 days ago     Toni Maticevski Mercedes-Benz Fashion Festival Sydney preview! By: AmberCornelio      
Toni Maticevski was a little ahead of the crowd as he
previewed his lovely clothing designs for his fashion label which will be
presented on the runway at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Festival Sydney on August 23,
2011. 
Maticevski’s models donned his best creations, all in
marabou plumes in shades of red and pink, complementing his ...  28 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Nicki Minaj Mingles with Anna Wintour at Fashion Week  
Rap-Up
 Nicki Minaj rapped about Anna Wintour on her Pink Friday album cut Muny, and she came face to face with the fashion maven today. The Super Bass rapper scored a prime front row seat next to the editor-in-chief of Vogue at the Carolina Herrera show...    Gallery buys Wintour portrait  
The Independent
 PA, AP Alex Katz's portrait marks the first time Anna Wintour, above right, has posed A portrait of American Vogue's formidable editor-in-chief, Anna Wintour, has been acquired by the National Portrait Gallery in London for 125,000. American artist...    Fashion Week: Highlights, remembrances, and Muppets  
EW - PopWatch
 Nicki Minaj seems as committed as ever to sky-high hair, laughing in the face of the schlub behind her on the second row, and Lindsay Lohan may just survive the oncoming apocalypse...I'm sure Anna Wintour would have nothing but glowing things to say...    Star Spotting: Taylor Swift Sat Next To Anna Wintour, OMFG  
MTV
 Posted 9/13/11 Posted 9/13/11 Posted 9/13/11 Posted 9/13/11 Credit: Getty NYC's Fashion Week is the perfect place to make new friends. With all the world's best-dressed people in one place, how can folks not want to gain some numbers for the old...    Simon Spurr Spring 2012  
DenimBlog.com
 The collection featured just classic black or white jeans, he didn't opt for any blue toned denim this time. I did notice that he chose some unusual Spring colours as well; Olive greens, dark reds, blacks and khakis.       Blogs    >    Video: The View From the Front Row at Thakoon | Where To Buy ...  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 ... a href=/tags/new%20york%20fashion%20week%20spring%202012 title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week spring 2012'new york fashion week spring 2012/a, a href=/tags/thakoon title=Read all posts tagged 'thakoon'thakoon/a, ...    All Nine Remaining Designers on Project Runway Showed Today ...  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 ... title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week'new york fashion week/a, a href=/tags/new%20york%20fashion%20week%20spring%202012 title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week spring 2012'new york fashion week spring ...    Slideshow: Street Style From New York Fashion Week, Day Six ...  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 ... posts tagged 'fashion shows'fashion shows/a, a href=/tags/new%20york%20fashion%20week%20spring%202012 title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week spring 2012'new york fashion week spring 2012/a, a href=/tags/slideshow ...    At Rag & Bone's Spring Collection, the Bumbys See Nirvana | Where .....  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 ... a href=/tags/new%20york%20fashion%20week%20spring%202012 title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week spring 2012'new york fashion week spring 2012/a, a href=/tags/rag%20%26%20bone title=Read all posts tagged 'rag ...    Critics Adore DVF's Painterly Prints, Disagree on Tommy Hilfiger's ....  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 8221; /p p#8226; #8220;Tommy Hilfiger courted new younger customers with color, leather and kaftans #133; With the help of designer Peter Som, who has been consulting for Mr. Hilfiger, this isn#8217;t the rap star Tommy you remember. ... a href=”/       Images    >         Donna Karan Spring 2012 Anna ...    Donna Karan Spring 2012 Anna ... Image Source: allvoices American Vogue Editor in Chief Anna Wintour and Donna Karen at Donna Karan ...        American Vogue editor-in-chief ...    American Vogue editor-in-chief ... Image Source: www.afp.com American Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour        A model walks the runway at ...    A model walks the runway at ... Image Source: www.afp.com A model walks the runway at the Donna Karan New York Fall 2011 fashion ...        US Vogue magazine editor Anna ...    US Vogue magazine editor Anna ... Image Source: www.reuters.com US Vogue magazine editor Anna Wintour attends the Derek Lam Spring/Summer ...        U.S. Vogue magazine editor ...    U.S. Vogue magazine editor ... Image Source: www.reuters.com U.S. Vogue magazine editor Anna Wintour attends the Derek Lam Spring/Summer ...        U.S. Vogue magazine editor ...    U.S. Vogue magazine editor ... Image Source: www.reuters.com U.S. Vogue magazine editor Anna Wintour attends the Derek Lam Spring/Summer ...      More Related Images    More From New York City         New York: Republican victory historic setback for Barack Obama        NYPD cops,Bump and Grind during West Indian Day parade         Kim Kardashian Rocks in a Vera Wang Dress        First Look at Dark Shadows          Surprising revelations made as Jacqueline Kennedy's secret audiotapes surfaces        Leonardo DiCaprio Talks Hoover with GQ        Commodity Trading Tips for Gold by KediaCommodity        The Divide Poster          Real Steel Posters        Puss in Boots Latest Poster        Channing Tatum Join Love and Honor Movie        Elizabeth Taylor exhibition of precious jewelry          Ice Age: Continental Drift Poster                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10325597          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 5       Blog Posts: 5       Videos: 5       Images: 24       Comments: 9    9       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10325597), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10325597 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10325597 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10325597-donna-karan-spring-2012-at-ny-mercedesbenz-fashion-week.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         