Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match against chelsea                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match against chelsea    London :  United Kingdom
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By nthabeleng            8 0      
Views: 48
         Rio Ferdinand, Manchester UnitedManchester United defender is set to miss their opening game in the champions league with Benfica at Lisbon tomorrow. Ferdinand, who made his first appearance for United in over a month in the 5-0 rout of Bolton on Saturday following an injury layoff, was not among the party that travelled to Lisbon. He is not necessarily injured but his fitness has been patchy in recent years and its suspected that United manager Sir Alex Ferguson is keen to keep the defender as fresh as possible for Sunday's clash against Chelsea at Old Trafford. Story courtesy of supersport.com        1 of 31        
Rio Ferdinand, picture by action images
     
nthabeleng is based in Maseru, Maseru, Lesotho,
and is a Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (20.7%) Portugal (20.7%) Lesotho (17.2%) Pakistan (10.3%) 5 other countries (20.7%)           READ MORE: Ferdinand, Benfica, Manchester Uniter, champions leaque., champions league, Manchester, man, Rio Ferdinand, Benficaat Lisbon, manchester united, United   More News From: London :  United Kingdom      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 9            Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
Well written sport article, keep up the good job rated!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       safdarjaved
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Thanks for good sharing rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Asim Mukhtar
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Good sports news dear well job.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Danish Malik
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
Hmm I really like you writing style rated up :)
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Nicely compiled and presented, thumbs up, rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
great news to sharethanks,rated up!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       atifji75
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Well Written And Nice sharing. Must be Rated Up.Please visit my section.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       HumTum
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
About Football,well written report,thanks for sharing,rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       mohsin11
|
18 minutes
ago
  
thanks for sharing.rated up
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          MU "saving" the game of battle with Ferdinand Chelsea By: levsang      
Manchester United have announced that defender Rio Ferdinand will travel with the team to Portugal to prepare for the match against Benfica in the Champions League.Ferdinand injured hamstring in the opening match against West Bromwich Albion Premier League and then was absent in the match against Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal. Although ...  about 8 hours ago     Manchester United Ferdinand without the Light By: junaid1990      Manchester United left this morning for Lisbon, where tomorrow will face Benfica in the Stadium of Light for the opening Group C Champions League. Alex Ferguson has called 19 players for the trip, leaving out the experienced central defender Rio Ferdinand, who met last Saturday for the first time this season victory in 90 minutes against ...  1 day ago     Man United: Evra out of the energy team By: junaid1990      The defender Patrice Evra points to the "energy" as one of the capital gains of Manchester United, due to the youth of the squad led by Alex Ferguson. In the projection of the game the next week-end with Chelsea, admits that the Gallic international team led by Andre Villas Boas' may be more experienced but United have more energy. " "...  1 day ago     Man United to the Champions League list By: chungtucuong       
List of 34 players of Man United Champions League 2011/12 season was officially coach
No
major surprises in the list that Sir Alex has submitted to the
organizing committee except the Champions League talent Paul Pogba to
"home". These are the main players are highly valued and Ferguson confirmed he will give teams a chance to this ...  2 days ago     Bad News for United: Cleverley out for 4 weeks because of ligament ... By: Ezio-Altair      Manchester United expect the England Under-21 midfielder to be out for four weeks which is an improvement on the forecast when they feared a fracture would have meant he was unable to play for months.
Providing England have collected the point against Montenegro they need to book a place at Euro 2012, Capello has said he plans to blood ...  2 days ago     Why Mancini signed Nasri & Adebayor loan to Tottenham By: taimur1      Mancini in press conference explaining why he signed Nasri and why he loaned out Adebayor to Tottenham.[Tags:]Bodya Martovskyi, Bohdan Martovskyi, 2010-2011 09-10 10-11 Season Goals Tricks Skills Freestyle Power Ability Manchester United 2007 2008 07 Top 10 Best World Footballers 2009 Sergio Kun Aguero (Atletico Madrid) Samir Nasri (Arsenal) ...  17 days ago     Barca met Milan, Bayern meet Man City  By: lethibichlan      At Monaco, the European Football Association (UEFA) has conducted the ceremony Champions League draw. Table A board game has become "death", with the participation of four teams from four leading European countries, as Bayern Munich, Villarreal, Man City, Napoli. While AC Milan Barcelona clash in Group H. Man United play at a table quite ...  18 days ago     WAYNE ROONEY trooped off Wembley last May a dejected, crushed figure. By: izabel      
Barcelona had just ended Manchester United's Champions League dream with a
swagger and panache that stunned the world.
Like every United player on that humid night in London, Rooney (right) would
have vowed to put that disappointment behind them in the most emphatic way
— by winning this season's tournament.
Manager Alex ...  18 days ago     Manchester United shows can-do qualities to start By: junaid1990      Sir Alex Ferguson tried it with irony. The coach of the English soccer champion Manchester United called on his Spanish goalkeeper David de Gea for the arduous 2-1 away win at West Bromwich Albion dry "Welcome to England."
The 69-year-old veteran coach was referring to the keeper on the island traditionally weak performance. ManUnited ...  29 days ago     Manchester United In Trouble By: Ruby1204      Manchester United started the defence of their Premier League title in style when they overcame 2-1 on a battling and spirited West Brom. However, the joy was shortlived as there were bad news regarding lengthy lay offs for their two most experienced and dependable defenders. Add to this the injury to Rafeal Da Silva.
First their skipper Vidic ...  about 1 month ago     Man United make winning start, Chelsea draw By: shadow084      
* Manchester United beat West Brom 2-1
* Chelsea draw 0-0 at Stoke City on Villas-Boas league debut (Updates after Manchester United match)
MANCHESTER, England, Aug 14 (Reuters) - English champions Manchester United opened their title defence with a 2-1 win at West Bromwich Albion on Sunday while Chelsea could manage a draw only in new coach ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Ferdinand to Miss Opening Champions League Match  
International Herald Tribune
 Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand will miss the Premier League champions' opening Champions League Group C match against Benfica in Lisbon on Wednesday, the club said on Tuesday. A statement on the club's website ( www.manutd.com ) said...    Man United to test its form in Europe vs. Benfica  
Taiwan News
 Manchester United will test its impressive domestic form in the Champions League on Wednesday when it travels to Benfica. After four straight Premier League wins using a mix of younger players, United manager Alex Ferguson said he may turn to his...    Rio Ferdinand ruled out of Benfica match  
The independent
 There was no place either for Federico Macheda or Mame Biram Diouf, who scored twice for the reserves in their win over Fulham last night, but Jonny Evans and Patrice Evra shrugged off hip and knee knocks picked up at Bolton on Saturday...However,...    Ferguson plays down United hype  
France24
 Sir Alex Ferguson, pictured in August 2011, sought to dampen down some of the excitement surrounding his Manchester United team on Tuesday, as they prepared to open their Champions League campaign against Benfica. Sir Alex Ferguson sought to dampen...    This is going to be a vintage year for Rooney: teammate Carrick  
Independent
 Carrick believes Manchester United team-mate Wayne Rooney is heading for the best season of his career...Although Sir Alex Ferguson intends to make some changes when United begin their latest Champions League quest against Benfica on Wednesday in...    Champions League pot of gold the same as last season  
Independent
 English clubs in Europe can earn up to 50m if they win the competition. Arsenal, Manchester City , Chelsea and Manchester United are guaranteed 22.5m even if they fail to qualify for the knock-out stages. Last season, Sir Alex Ferguson 's United side...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Rio Ferdinand    Rio Ferdinand Image Source: allvoices Rio Ferdinand, picture by action images        Manchester United's Michael ...    Manchester United's Michael ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Manchester United's Michael Owen, Wayne Rooney and Rio Ferdinand warm up ...        Sir Alex Ferguson has backed ...    Sir Alex Ferguson has backed ... Image Source: www.afp.com Sir Alex Ferguson has backed fit-again Rio Ferdinand        Manchester United's Rio ...    Manchester United's Rio ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Manchester United's Rio Ferdinand leaves his hotel in London        Manchester United and England ...    Manchester United and England ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Manchester United and England soccer player Rio Ferdinand leaves the High ...        Rio Ferdinand will miss the ...    Rio Ferdinand will miss the ... Image Source: www.afp.com Rio Ferdinand will miss the World Cup      More Related Images    More From London         Laughter reduces pain, study finds        England v India, 4th ODI, Lord's, September 11, 2011 Photos3        England v India, 4th ODI, Lord's, September 11, 2011 Photos4        Milan and Tottenham follow John Pereira          England v India, 4th ODI, Lord's, September 11, 2011 Photos1        Eat bananas reduce asthma risk in children        Guidance on how to make an impact on morale in your Denver office for firms large and small        Abbottabad, a military operation against Osama juatha, Barack Obama          England v India, 4th ODI, Lord's, September 11, 2011 Photos2        City: "Barcelona will not dominate forever" - Aguero         Painkiller Can Trigger Kidney Cancer        ENJOY CELEBRATION OF FOOD IN DEVON THIS OCTOBER          MU "saving" the game of battle with Ferdinand Chelsea                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10324922      Related People              Manchester United         Rio Ferdinand           Old Trafford          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 31       Comments: 9    9       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10324922), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10324922 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10324922 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match against chelsea” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10324922-rio-ferdinand-out-of-benfica-clash-he-may-be-saved-for-sundays-match-against-chelsea.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         