School nurses work to get teens vaccinated - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







Top Universities in the U.S.
•
Special Weiner election
•
Democratic campaign scandal
•
The Vatican vs. the ICC?








			You are here: 
			Home
			 / Health News			/ School nurses work to get teens vaccinated 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

Health News



School nurses work to get teens vaccinated

        		Published: Sept. 11, 2011 at 11:54 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Advertisement

CLEVELAND, Sept. 11 (UPI) -- After a survey indicated 40 percent of Ohio teens had not been vaccinated against meningococcal disease, nurses began educating families about the health issue.
The Ohio Association of School Nurses, Cleveland and Cuyahoga County health officials, and the Consortium for Healthy and Immunized Communities Inc. are lending their support to the National Association of School Nurses' Voices of Meningitis campaign to increase meningitis vaccination rates among preteens and teens in Cleveland and Cuyahoga County.  
"I didn't know the meningitis vaccine even existed, until my family experienced the devastation this disease can cause firsthand," Cindy Krejny, who lost her daughter Erin to the disease, says in a statement. "Other families need to know this disease may be prevented through vaccination. I do not want another family to experience what we went through."
Terry Allan, health commissioner of the Cuyahoga County Board of Health, says meningococcal disease, which includes meningitis, may be rare, but it's often devastating and can take the life of an otherwise healthy child in just a single day. 
Preteens and teens are at greater risk for meningitis than other age groups, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta recommends they be vaccinated beginning at age 11, with a booster dose by 18 years of age, Allan says.  



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints


Next Story: Tangible ways offered to prevent suicides
or see all Health News stories



Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional Health News Stories



Top News


Minnesota wildfire burns 100,000 acres
ELY, Minn., Sept. 13 (UPI) -- 
			A wildfire in Minnesota's Boundary Waters described as a "beast" burned more than 100,000 acres, sending smoke across the Upper Midwest, officials said Tuesday.
		
Death of 5-year-old solved 18 years later
Katia flails Ireland, Britain
Texas executes 10th inmate this year
Police: Killer was mad at good Samaritan


Entertainment News


McCartney to marry Shevell this weekend
LONDON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Rock icon Paul McCartney is to marry his longtime girlfriend Nancy Shevell at his farmhouse in England this weekend, UsMagazine.com said Tuesday.
		
Vieira joins new NBC newsmagazine team
People in the news
Tony Bennett to make Met debut
Jackman heading back to Broadway




Local News

Arlington Citizens Discuss Concerns at Sign Ordinance Public Forum
Last Saturday was a great day in education and politics
New restaurant poised to move into K Street space
Fairfax raises employee pay, sets aside funds for flooding damage, next budget gap
Movie Review: CONTAGION Is Steven Soderbergh's Bold Humanist View of Catastrophe

Business News


DISH Network hit by satellite woes
ENGLEWOOD, Colo., Sept. 13 (UPI) -- 
			DISH Network said Tuesday night it was experiencing a satellite problem that knocked out HD channels "in some areas."
		
Nigeria ups security in oil-rich delta
Study: Small chance of stored CO2 leaks
Dassault Falcon sees future in Brazil ties
Exxon, Rosneft hint at joint plans







 


Featured Galleries

Curvaceous Celebrities



9/11 Memorial opens in New York



Signs of China's new wealth





Most Popular



1.
Larger women more apt to have sex on date


2.
External artificial lung saves teen's life


3.
School nurses work to get teens vaccinated


4.
Why drunken people do embarrassing things


5.
Source sought for novel swine flu cases





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 35
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Palestinian students hold up a picture of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Turkish and Palestinian flags during rally beckoning him to visit the Gaza  at the port in Gaza City on September 13, 2011. Erdogan is currently visiting neighboring Egypt where he will attend the Arab League meeting to show his support as Palestinians seek support for a UN membership bid later this month.  UPI/Ismael Mohamad		













 





Today's squee-worthy link...sleeping puppies

GOP packs Weiner's seat. No Twitter pics though

Smoking ban supporters: Smoking bans in private restaurants and bars will lower heart ailments....

Mom takes time off work to donate a kidney to save her son's life. When she returns to work, does...

Don't want your loved ones flying close to the 9/11 anniversary? Call in a bomb threat on their...

Photoshop Theme: The real reason Duke Sucks


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Auto Dealers -
 Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Motivational Speaker 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















