42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders    Los Angeles :  CA :  USA
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Darlena Bonds            3 1      
Views: 217
         In 1969, Charles MansonCharles Manson and his cohorts killed five people in the mansion of director, Roman Pulaski. Included in the slayings were coffee heiress, Abigail Folger and actress Sharon Tate. Tate was said to have been pregnant at the time of her death. Others killed were; Steven Parent, Jay Sebring, Wojciech Frykowskand Tate's unborn child.  The bloody plan was executed on August 8th, 1969, when Charles "Tex" Watson, Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwinkel, and Linda Kasabian were sent by Charlie to the home of Pulaski at 10050 Cielo Drive. Their instructions were to kill everyone at the house and make it appear like Hinman's murder, with words and symbols written in blood on the walls.  For some time the murders went unsolved, until Susan Atkins boasted in detail about the murders to her prison cell mates. She gave specific details about Manson and the killings. She also told of other famous people the Family planned on killing. Her cellmate reported the information to the authorities and Atkins was offered a life sentence in return for her testimony. She refused the offer, but repeated the prison cell story to the grand jury. Later Atkins recanted her grand jury testimony. On January 25, 1971 the jury returned a guilty verdict of all defendants and on all counts of first-degree murder. Manson, like the other three defendants, was sentenced to death in the gas chamber. Manson shouted, "You people have no authority over me," as he was led off in handcuffs.  Manson has been denied parole 10 times, the last time in 2001 when he refused to attend the hearing because he was forced to wear handcuffs. While some of his followers have already been paroled, with others possibly to follow, it seems certain Manson will die behind bars. He will be 76 years old.         1 of 1        
Charles Manson
        
Darlena Bonds is based in Detroit, Michigan, United States of America,
and is a Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (65.9%) Canada (11.0%) Portugal (7.9%) Russia (1.8%) 12 other countries (11.0%)           READ MORE: Charles Manson, Abilgail Folger, California   More News From: Los Angeles :  CA :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
|
about 20 hours
ago
  
Well done!Nicely compiled!! Rated Up!!!
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Darlena Bonds
|
about 20 hours
ago
  
Thanks...and thanks for your continued support
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Robert Weller
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
If memory serves the death penalty had been blocked by the U.S. Supreme Court or he would not be with us. That isn't meant as a criticism of the court. Don't want to go there. One of this group tried to assassinate President Ford. She had not been convicted and imprisoned in the Tate-LaBianca case. That was Lynette Fromme. I was chief editor on the AP New York desk when it happened. Still remember it. One of our editors kept telling me I needed to get the fact that she had red hair in the story. I'm just sayin ...
    
​        Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
I hope that Charles Manson stays in the slammer for the rest of his life so he can think about the lives his "family" killed for no apparent reason.
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          09 Aug 1969 Manson Cult Murders Five At Roman Polanski's House By: preemi_suleman2008      The
dead included Polanski's 8-month pregnant wife, Sharon Tate. Another similar attack
happened two days later.
The
killers scrawled messages in blood on the walls in both attacks. Charles Manson
was quickly identified as the leader of the group when one of the members of the
cult was heard bragging about the murders.
Manson
was a ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       Images    >         Manson Murders    Manson Murders Image Source: allvoices Charles Manson      More Related Images    More From Los Angeles          Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (Photos)        Madonna takes care of boyfriend         iCarly’s Jennette McCurdy Grows Up Well and Hot at the Creative Arts Emmys (Photos)        Reese Witherspoon Showed Up First Time After Being Knocked Over by Car          Solidarity concert joins Lady Gaga, Usher, Bono and Edge        Tucker injured race car karh pay udrspun        Carla Gugino Brings in the Heat for Esquire (Magazine Photos)        Breaking Dawn: Unseen Footage of Pregnant Bella Swan Dying Released to Twilight Fans          MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        Reese Whitherspoon Suffered A Black Eye After Car Accident (Photos)        Elizabeth Gillies is One Hot Property at the 2011 Creative Arts Emmys (Photos)       Chris Pine Join This Means War Movie Cast          Lady Gaga is in love                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10324328      Related People              Charles Manson          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 6       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10324328), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10324328 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10324328 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10324328-42nd-anniversary-of-the-manson-murders.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         