Lawsuit accuses Chicago police of wrongly arresting and beating man |  The Raw Story































Lawsuit accuses Chicago police of wrongly arresting and beating man







By Eric W. Dolan
Sunday, September 11th, 2011 -- 1:27 pm
 
















 




Tags: chicago police officers, cook county jail, marijuana possessionA man who was allegedly beaten by Chicago police officers has filed a federal lawsuit for excessive force, assault, battery, wrongful arrest and malicious prosecution.
The Chicago Tribune reported that Ohesha Brinkley was approached by officers Juan Santiago and Zeyad Matlock while he was waiting at a bus stop and told him to place his hands on the wall. The lawsuit alleges that Brinkley initially ran away from the officers because he had a small amount of marijuana in his possession, but quickly surrendered to officers on his knees with his hands up.
He alleges in the lawsuit that after surrendering, he was shot in the back with a stun gun and then sprayed in the face with mace.
Brinkley was later charged with marijuana possession and the unlawful use of a weapon, and was eventually found not guilty after a jury trial. But after spending more than 8 months in the Cook County jail awaiting trial, he was evicted from his apartment and lost his job.
Brinkley is suing Santiago, Matlock and the City of Chicago for court costs, attorney fees and an unspecified amount of money. The lawsuit claims he suffered severe mental distress, insomnia, anxiety and depression.












Share this story >>





















Change.org|Start an Online Petition ť










blog comments powered by Disqus












Follow Us!
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Digg
RSS






























Most Read
Most Commented







Ongoing Greek debt problems spark talk of euro exit

 


Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal to endorse Rick Perry

 


Key Republican blasts Obama jobs plan

 


U.S. experts eye Cuba oil plans after BP spill

 


NC GOP lawmaker: Gays could 'lose rights' without marriage ban

 








                                Watch: Obama accepts Nobel Peace Prize                            
( View Comments )

 



                                Fearing tea party violence, four Arizona Republicans resign                            
( View Comments )

 



                                Politico’s ‘dreamed up’ attack on Obama hits Fox News                            
( View Comments )

 



                                Wall Street-backed senator can’t explain why he opposes financial reform, asks reporter what’s wrong with it                            
( View Comments )

 



                                Drudge criticized for Obama playing ‘race card’ banner                            
( View Comments )

 












Raw Investigations






                                Penn. township challenges fracking with ballot initiative                            

 



                                The top 5 Republican hypocrites on immigration                            

 



                                WI Senate candidate Tammy Baldwin: ‘I’m not afraid’                            

 



                                16,000 guns ‘lost’ from manufacturing plants in last 2.5 years: report                            

 



                                GOP in Giffords’ district holds raffle for Glock                            

 











newsinc


blog advertising is good for you
        


























 
















 
 
