lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2006 » February






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, February 28, 2006
Nancy Depew

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:11 am 
 


Nancy Depew paints landscapes, still lifes and figures. In each case her approach, although consistent in many ways, is so strongly tied to her intentions toward the subject that you might think it the work of three different artists if you didn’t know otherwise. 
Her landscape paintings are usually deep within the woods, at the edge or center of streams, in thickly canopied areas occasionally punctuated with light. She works in a meticulous and refined realist style and infuses her landscapes with subtle emotions by controlling the light. The light invites you in, but the darkness is always there, at the edges. Her landscape images are at once appealing and slightly disconcerting.
Depew’s still life paintings are primarily of floral subjects. Rather than the expected arrangements in a vase, her flowers are often lying on a flat surface, as if carelessly tossed aside, or pulled up roots and all. The colors are simultaneously delicate and strong, vibrant and subdued. She often plays with a subtle spotlight effect as in her landscapes, drawing your eye to a particular point from which you then move to other areas of the image, exploring her wonderfully rendered textures and careful arrangements of tone.
There are also figure paintings and charcoal drawings on the site. Her figures are most often in curled or contorted positions, as if haunted by something or struggling with emotional isolation. Her figure paintings show a masterful command of traditional techniques and perhaps a fondness for Velázquez.
After seeing the figures your perception of her landscape and still life paintings may be altered, so I recommend viewing the figure work last.
The paintings are in oil. Unfortunately, Depew has taken down the small gouache landscapes that used to accompany the oils.


Link: www.depewstudio.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Monday, February 27, 2006
Kazu Kibuishi

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:27 am 
 


When I started lines and colors last summer,  Kazu Kibuishi’s beautiful web comic Copper was the topic of one of my first posts. 
Kibuishi is the creator of several other comics, including Daisy Cutter and Clive and Cabbage and is the driving force behind Flight, a terrific series of comics anthologies. He is currently working on a new graphic novel series called Amulet. His freelance work includes clients like Walt Disney Animation, Mattel, Nickelodeon Magazine and Sony Computer Entertainment.
If you aren’t familiar with Copper, you’re in for a treat. I’ll repeat the advice I gave in my original post: go to the Copper page, look at one of the current strips to see how beautiful they are, then scroll to page bottom, start with the earliest and read them all. When you’re looking for more (and you will be) there are previews for Copper stories in the Flight anthologies here and here.
Kibuishi has recently updated his site to include a superb multi-page tutorial on the making of Copper (images above). He starts with the thumbnail sketches, moves to layout, though pencil drawing, inking, scanning and finally right down to the details of applying digital color in Photoshop. In the process he discusses his tools and materials, both traditional and digital, even to the point of posting images of his pens, papers and work space. The whole process, in fact,  is supplemented with wonderfully large, detailed images. (Here is the final page for the process shown in the tutorial.)
You could consider this a mini-course in modern comic creation methods.  Kibuishi points out, however,  that his approach to Copper is different than his usual process when working on longer format comics. He discusses the difference and talks about how long it takes to draw a Copper page in this post on his blog. 
For those in the Los Angeles area, you have the opportunity to learn about the process in person. Kibuishi is giving a Graphic Narrative Workshop at Gallery Nucleus in Alhambra on Sunday, March 5th. 
The latest edition of the Flight comics anthology, Flight Volume Three, is now available for pre-order on Amazon.  Flight Volume 1 and Flight Volume 2 are also available, along with Kibuishi’s Daisy Kutter: The Last Train comics album.


Link: www.boltcity.com/
www.boltcity.com/copper/
www.boltcity.com/workshop/copper_tutorial/

Posted in:  Comics,Drawing,Tools and Techniques,Webcomics   |   1 Comment »


Sunday, February 26, 2006
Alex Jaeger

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:42 am 
 


Alex Jaeger is a senior visual effects art director and concept designer for Industrial Light and Magic. He could easily have been a top automotive designer as well, judging by his sleekly rendered concept vehicle designs. As it is, he also gets to design spaceships, costumes, environments and all of the other cool stuff that goes with science fiction movie design.
He has worked on films like Star Wars II & III, The Perfect Storm, Galaxy Quest, Terminator 3, Pearl Harbor and Star Trek: First Contact. 
Jaeger also could have been a terrific comics artist, judging by his small amount of comics work. He was the writer/artist for the beautifully drawn comics stories Star Wars: Visionaries “Entrenched”, and Virtual Encounter.
If that isn’t enough versatility, Jaeger also does conceptual architectural design for theme parks.
He often seems to make his sketches with ball point pen, filling in colors with markers or digital paint, which may be why his style translates so well into comics. He takes particular delight in vehicle designs and has a loose but sophisticated rendering style for his vehicle drawings.


Link: www.alxart.com/
Site Quirks: Gallery navigation takes a little getting used to, but works well after that. Scroll through thumbnails at left, those with a small folder icon lead to galleries of multiple images. Left-pointing arrows lead you back. When viewing the images there is often a small word balloon at the upper right opens a comment screen over the image with info about the image and materials.

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, February 25, 2006
Rembrandt vs Caravaggio

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:10 pm 
 


2006 marks the 400th anniversary of Rembrandt’s birth, so you’re likely to hear a lot about him this year, from me and others. As part of Holland’s celebration of Rembrandt’s 400th, two of the major museums in Amsterdam, the Rijksmusem and the Van Gogh Museum are having a fascinating exhibit (at the latter space) celebrating and comparing the work of home-boy Rembrandt with bad-boy Caravaggio in what promises to the the chiaroscuro smack-down of the ages.
The Rembrandt – Caravaggio exhibit (which also has its own site here),  will compare the work of the two great painters by hanging their paintings side by side, giving visitors the chance to compare their technique, subject matter and emotional impact.
Rembrandt and Caravaggio (actually Michelangelo Merisi from Caravaggio, Italy) were the two greatest masters of the Baroque period, and two of the greatest painters ever. Both were revolutionary in their way, both reached heights of success and depths of personal tragedy, both painted scenes of violence (usually biblical) as well as calmer subjects, and both developed their own powerful style and acquired painting skills in the rarified heights of supreme virtuosity. 
Rembrandt was influenced by Caravaggio; he learned of the other master through Dutch artists like Honthorst and Van Baburen who traveled to Italy and carried the Italian master’s influence in their own work. It’s unlikely the influence traveled in the other direction.
Both painters were masters of chiaroscuro, the use of dramatic contrasts of light and shadow to describe form. (Chiaroscuro is Italian for “lightdark”.) You can see the technique, as well as some of the power, drama and superb skill of both painters in the images I’ve posted above: Rembrandt’s The Blinding of Samson and Caravaggio’s Judith Beheading Holofernes. 
Since we can’t all go to Amasterdam for the exhibit (sigh), here are some links to resources and galleries for the two artists on the web so we can do our own smack-down. Unfortunately, there’s nothing for Caravaggio like Jonathan Janson’s amazing site devoted to Rembrandt: life , paintings, etchings, drawings and self protraits. (See my post about this site and Rembrandt’s drawings.) The other major web galleries are represented in my list for both artists:
Art Renewal Center: Rembrandt
Art Renewal Center: Caravaggio
Webmuseum: Rembrandt
Webmuseum: Caravaggio
Web Gallery of Art: Rembrandt
Web Gallery of Art: Caravaggio
Olga’s Gallery: Rembrandt (contains ads)
Olga’s Gallery: Caravaggio (contains ads)
Artchive: Caravaggio (contains ads)
Artchive: Rembrandt (contains ads)
On canvas, my money would be on Rembrandt, if only because I feel a more human connection to his work than to the turbulent emotions of Caravaggio. In the ring, however, smart money would be on Caravaggio, who had a history of violent conflicts, arrests and imprisonments for assaults, and killed a man in a dispute over a game of court tennis. (He spent a couple of years on the run, during which time he did some of his finest work, and was eventually pardoned by the Pope.) 
In either case we come out the winners. It’s hard to overstate the importance and influence of these two heavyweights of painting virtuosity and artistic vision.


Link: www.vangoghmuseum.nl/vgm/index.jsp?page=7786
www.rembrandt-caravaggio.com/index_en.htm

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Museums,Online Museums   |   1 Comment »


Friday, February 24, 2006
William Stout

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:50 am 
 

I first encountered Bill Stout’s work in underground comix. He then cropped up on the covers of Firesign Theatre albums and in the pages of magazines devoted to automotive humor from Peterson Publishing (a publishing niche which also featured work from Gilbert Shelton and Alex Toth). By the time I found his remarkable book of dinosaur art, The Dinosaurs, I was a solid Stout fan, and the book was a big influence on me when I started doing my series of dinosaur cartoons for Asimov’s.
Stout worked with Russ Manning on the Tarzan daily newspaper strips and worked with Harvey Kurtzman and Will Elder on Playboy’s Little Annie Fanny. In addition to comics, album cover art and dinosaur art, Stout has done fantasy art, trading cards, movie poster art, and film design. The one common thread is that his work always stands out.
His admiration for the classic pen and ink illustrators like Joseph Clement Coll, paleo art greats like Charles R. Knight and classic comics artists like Wally Wood, Will Elder and Al Williamson serves him well. Stout has a wonderful ability to put down just the right amount of hatching, just the right spotted blacks and just the right amount of detail to make his drawings hit my visual pleasure button square on. Unfortunately there aren’t many examples of his black and white work on his site, but you can see some of it on the covers of his published Convention Sketches.
Stout’s beautiful book of dinosaur art has been reissued as The New Dinosaurs. Also in print is Abu and the 7 Marvels, illustrated by Stout and authored by Richard Matheson. There is an interview with Matheson and Stout on SciFi.com.
Delightfully, you can also get many of Stout’s convention sketchbooks as well as sketchbooks on other themes, reprints of classic stout comics, other books, trading cards and all manner of other Stout stuff directly from his site. Stout sometimes offers his original art for sale directly on the site or through eBay. He also keeps a journal on the site.
The images on his site are a bit small to get a real feeling for the quality of his work. There is an unofficial Stout gallery here with some larger images, and there are some interviews with him on the Comics Journal site.
 


Link: www.williamstout.com
Site Quirks: Unfortunately his site has a left-over 90's feel to it and isn't organized as well as it might be. Look to the navigation at page bottom and keep clicking around.

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration,Paleo Art   |   Comments »


Thursday, February 23, 2006
Robert Beverly Hale

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:49 am 
 

While preparing my post on Daniel E. Green I found an image of his incisive pastel portrait of Robert Beverly Hale (left). 
Hale was probably the foremost teacher of figure drawing and artistic anatomy in America. He was Curator of the American Painting and Sculpture Department at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Instructor of Drawing and Lecturer on Anatomy at The Art Students League in New York, and Lecturer on Anatomy at The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia.
When I was a student at the Academy I had the privilege of attending Hale’s lectures on artistic anatomy. I was pretty young at the time and unaware of Hale’s status or reputation as a teacher. To me he was just “the anatomy lecture guy”. His lectures, however, left no doubt that you were getting the real goods from someone who knew his subject in extraordinary depth. I began to realize just how good he was when I started to pick up his books.
Hale was the author or co-author of some of the best books ever written on figure drawing and artistic anatomy: “Drawing Lessons from the Great Masters: 100 Great Drawings Analyzed, Figure Drawing Fundamentals Defined,   Master Class in Figure Drawing,   Artistic Anatomy (with Dr. Paul Richer), and   “Anatomy Lessons from the Great Masters”  (with Terence Coyle).
All of them are excellent. Anatomy Lessons from the Great Masters is my favorite book on artistic anatomy. Coyle took material from lectures by Hale, who really knew the work of the masters in addition to his knowledge of figure drawing and anatomy, included the corresponding images from Rembrandt, Rubens, Raphael, Michaelangelo, Pontormo, Leonardo, Prud’hon and others, and arranged them on opposing pages  to illustrate important principles of artistic anatomy. 
Hale’s quotes are accompanied by a diagram that Coyle has annotated so you know exactly what part of the master drawing Hale is referring to (image at left, below Daniel E. Green’s portrait of Hale). Wow, what a great way to learn artistic anatomy.
 

Posted in:  Drawing,Gallery and Museum Art,Tools and Techniques   |   48 Comments »


Wednesday, February 22, 2006
Frezzato (Massimiliano Frezzato)

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:58 am 
 

Massimiliano Frezzato, (usually referred to, Elvis-style, as simply Frezzato) is a highly regarded Italian comics artist. Frezzato was born and lives in Torino, site of the current Winter Olympics. (how’s that for a topical tie-in?)
Although he has worked an a number of projects and short features he is best known as the artist of two major series, Margot, written by Jérôme Charyn, and in particular, Les Gardiens du Maser, written by Nikita Mandryka. 
Frezzato seems to have been influenced by anime (occasionally his characters will exhibit the large doll-like eyes and head proportions seen in anime and manga), but his main influences are probably major European comics artists like Moebius and Enki Bilal. 
Like Bilal, and to a lesser extent, Moebius, Frezzato’s work seems to be a mixed-media affair, combining pencils, inks, paint and colored pencils, crayons or chalks (image detail at left).
His work is at once realistic and cartoon-like, highly rendered and quickly gestured. His draughtsmanship can be restrained and straightforward and wildly exaggerated, often within the same story or even on the same page. (The image here shows him at his most restrained.)
There is a site devoted to the Maser series, with French and English versions, although the English version is offline as of this writing. It’s worth checking out, though; it contains some large (but watermarked) Frezzato images in the form of downloadable wallpapers, and the Albums  section has thumbnail images that you can mouse-over to see small but beautiful previews of whole pages.  
There is also a Frezzato gallery on Myrdhinn’s site, and the BDNet site (in French) includes a sample comics page linked from the detail page for most of the titles listed.
You can find the English translation versions of  the Maser series in many U.S. comics shops and book stores. Here is an Amazon link to the first volume of the series: Second Moon (Keepers of the Maser Series, Volume 1). 
There is also a Frezzato Sketchbook available, which I really enjoy. It contains preliminary drawings and penciled pages for his comics albums, as well as character drawings, random sketches and flights of fancy.
His work also occasionally appears in Heavy Metal, a comics magazine based on the French Metal Hurlant comics magazine.
 
 Heavy Metal also publishes the U.S. versions of Frezzato’s comic albums.


Link: www.maser-universe.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Pastel, Conté & Chalk   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, February 21, 2006
Belinda Del Pesco

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:29 pm 
 


Belinda Del Pesco is a watercolorist from California who has a terrific blog, Belinda Del Pesco Fine Art, in which she not only posts her work, but describes her working methods along with images of the work in progress. 
She has the kind of approach to watercolor that I admire: clear and fresh color built on a solid foundation of traditional draughtsmanship. She pays particular attention to contrasts of light and shadow and deals often with transparent and reflective objects, which I particularly enjoy.
The image shown above is from a post about building value in layers, which was preceded by related posts about watercolor glazing and watercolor washes. She also posted a preliminary painting of a similar composition.
Del Pesco often likes to work in monotype, prints made by painting or drawing on a non-absorbent surface (e.g. plexiglass) and transferring the unique image to paper, and monoprints, prints in traditional graphic media for which each impression is unique, (which she usually combines with watercolor). She has several instructive posts about various approaches to these processes, including this one about creating a soft-ground miniature etching with watercolor.
Here are several other informative posts about her working methods for various media: a monotype and watercolor, another monotype and watercolor, a woodcut and watercolor, a linocut, and a miniature monotype.
Del Pesco also has a web site where you can see a gallery of her work. 


Link: http://belindadelpesco.blogspot.com/
http://homepage.mac.com/bdelpesco/PhotoAlbum.html

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Prints and Printmaking,Tools and Techniques,Watercolor and Gouache   |   1 Comment »


Monday, February 20, 2006
Stephan Martiniere

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:06 am 
 


Stephan Martiniere has done concept and production art for films like Star Wars, Episodes II and III, I, Robot, Red Planet, Dragonheart and others.
He has also done concept design for theme parks and animation as well as doing book and magazine illustration. During his three year stint at CYAN he was visual design director for Uru “Ages Beyond Myst”. 
His work is rich in detail and and sparkles with light and atmospheric effects. His science fiction illustration and space themed concept art carry delightful echoes of John Berkey’s classic illustrations, at once loose and intricate. Martiniere doesn’t shy away from tackling images of enormous scale, and he can pull it off with masterful control of atmospheric perspective and color range.
The galleries on his site contain illustration, production and concept art in pencil, marker, charcoal, paint and digital media (Photoshop). Images in the gallery can be viewed by theme (characters, environments, etc.) or by genre (feature films, theme parks, illustration etc.) 
Individual images are often marked with a blinking dot, indicating a print is available, there is also a separate section of the Prints for Sale.
There are past articles about Martiniere archived on CGNetworks, Starlog, and Gamasutra. 
Martiniere’s work has been featured in several Spectrum fantastic art, and Exposé digital art collections.
There is a book of Martiniere’s work called Quantum Dreams: The Art of Stephan Martiniere from Design Studio Press, (Amazon link).


Link: www.martiniere.com/

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, February 19, 2006
Chris Ware (F.C. Ware)

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:25 pm 
 


It’s possible that some of you have not heard of Chris Ware, particularly if you’ve been living in a refrigerator box somewhere. His books of comic art have been reviewed and written about in  all levels of the press lately. It’s a  little more likely, though, that you have heard of him but may not have seen good examples of his work unless you’ve actually picked up one or more of his books. (I say one or more because if you like Ware’s work, it’s hard not to want more of it.) 
Until recently it was easy to find reviews and articles about Ware on the web, but difficult to find much in the way of posted examples of his work, except for disjointed snippets or images that are too small to get a real flavor for why so many find it so appealing. 
Just recently the New York Times began publishing comics for the first time. The first comics artist they choose to publish was Chris Ware. They are serializing his Building Stories (image above), and offering the pages online in PDF format. They’re in actual postscript PDF, which means you can zoom them large enough to read Ware’s occasionally tiny panels and get a feeling for the astonishing amount of work he invests in his comics stories.  His comics pages, novelty ad parodies and book designs exhibit an attention to detail and devotion to craft for which “obsessive” is a mild word.
Like a cross between Gasoline Alley, Hergé and the flat pictographic panels of comic-style instructional pamphlets, Ware’s work is usually devoid of the hatching or rendering found in most comics (except when he’s deliberately cultivating the look of woodcuts). His drawings are mostly outline filled with color. Linear perspective is often flattened or replaced with orthographic projection; and Ware sidesteps atmospheric perspective in favor of utilizing color for design and mood. 
His colors are carefully chosen, often muted and always in careful relationship not only to the other colors in the panel, but also in relation to the entire page as a work of design. Many of the elements, whether panels or actual drawn objects, are abstracted to the point of becoming elementary geometric shapes.
Sometimes his images seem not so much drawn as meticulously constructed; as if a 19th century master draughtsman had programmed a difference engine to draw comics with a series of precision pantographs. 
Ware also plays with the conventions of comic art page design and storytelling, playing with panel and page layout and the normal presentation of linear time in remarkable ways. The level of design work and detail can actually be a bit overwhelming.
Despite the intricately appealing look of the art , Ware’s stories are anything but cheerful. Most of his humor is in the packaging, the parody retro graphic design and the mock ads (some of which are hilarious). The comics themselves are rarely “funny”, usually dealing with themes of loneliness, isolation, regret and the looming emptiness of modern life. But don’t let that description convince you his work is a downer. The emotional effect is balanced by the beautiful art, superb design and toy-like fun of the endlessly detailed features and comic strips. His books are more lavishly detailed artifacts then simply books of comic art. Ware’s running gag of the whole of his work being the product of “The Acme Novelty Company” is perfectly appropriate.
Ware’s own site is devoted to his interest in collecting Ragtime ephemera and doesn’t mention his own work.  Here are some other links for Ware info on the web: some small reproductions of pages from  Jimmy Corrigan, a small gallery of individual panels, an audio interview with Ware,  a bio on NNDB, the Wikipedia entry, a review of Jimmy Corrigan, review of Acme Novelty Library 15, The Fantagraphics Books listing for many of his books,  an online exhibition of black and white graphics and pages, and some wonderfully large images of pages for sale (or sold) at the Hammer Gallery. 
Here is an excellent unofficial Chris Ware page with information and links to other Chris Ware pages and resources on the web. These may give you a slight taste, but you really need to pick up one of his books to get a real feeling for his work.
Though he has received acclaim for his graphic novel Jimmy Corrigan, The Smartest Kid On Earth, and there are many volumes of his work in print, I might suggest starting with his recent collection of material which offers a variety of his styles as well as being a prime example of his maniacal, designed down to the last square millimeter package:The Acme Novelty Library Final Report to Shareholders and Rainy Day Saturday Afternoon Fun Book. 
Rather than try do describe this remarkable feat of comics art, design work and publishing craft, I’ll point you to Douglas Wolk’s excellent description and review on Salon. 
To borrow a phrase from his own Cut Out and Fold Miniature Working Acme Novelty Library: Chris Ware’s work is “A Rewarding and Insightful Amusement for All Those  who Attempt to Master its Intricacies”.


Link: www.nytimes.com/ref/magazine/funnypages.html

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   8 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Watercolor artist Keiko Tanabe's wonderful evocations of Japan, China, Europe and the US: http://t.co/3Gr154T New Lines and Colors post.  2011/09/08 Into the Pixel 2011, showcase of video game art: http://t.co/HC6vDzC New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/08 RT @npg: Express yourself in our Outwin Boochever Portrait Competition: http://t.co/jVrRBZz #OBPC2013 2011/09/07


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






