lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2006 » January






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, January 31, 2006
Chris Turnham

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:45 am 
 

I came across Chris Turnham’s art pretty much by accident, (a link in one of the blog aggregators I think), so his work was a pleasant surprise. Turnham is an illustrator and gaming concept artist living in Washington state. There are examples on the site of some of his 3-D game design work for games like Evil Dead Regeneration, but what I found really appealing is his 2-D illustration. 
His stylized images are sometimes in a 60′s modern vein, sometimes almost 19th century in feeling, but always have a beautifully controlled sense of color, value and spacial relationships. His judicious use of texture adds visual interest to open areas and he introduces atmospheric perspective with deceptively simple color and tone choices. 
The result is a real visual pleasure. The site contains a variety of his illustrations. I found a mention somewhere that indicates the first four illustrations in the portfolio are part of a series that are interpretations of Decemberists songs. 
 I suspect he has been influenced by artists like Tadahiro Uesugi, but I don’t actually know that. The bio information in his site is slim, but indicates that he is young and just starting his career. I hope that means we’ll see a lot more from him.
 


Link: www.christurnham.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Monday, January 30, 2006
Henri Rousseau

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:58 am 
 


For years, The Sleeping Gypsy (above), a painting by French artist Henri Rousseau, was one of the most widely reproduced images in the world. (It may still be, I don’t know.) When I was in college I marveled at the number of apartment and dorm room walls it appeared on. My own apartment at the time had a copy of Rousseau’s Carnival Night (below, left) on a prominent wall and I spent a fair bit of time in front of the original in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
A major exhibition of Rousseau’s jungle-themed paintings just closed a the Tate Gallery in London and his work is on prominent display in major museums around the world. Not bad for a self-taught “naive” artist who didn’t start painting seriously until he was 40. 
Rousseau desparately wanted to paint like Bougereau or Gérôme, mainstream Academic Salon painters of his day. Fortunately for us, his own individualistic vision was stronger than that desire, and seemingly impervious to the influence of the impressionist style blooming around him, even though he associated with artists in that circle.
Loosely classed as a “Post-Impressionist”, Rousseau stands unique, almost outside the flow of art history. Yes, you can find influences if you look hard enough (Gauguin, for one), but his style doesn’t really “fit” anywhere. The Surrealists adopted him as a precursor to Surrealism, admiring the dream-like quality of his images and the vertiginous lack of formal perspective (which he never mastered, perhaps a moot point since it was being intentionally abandoned by modernist painters at the time). He got the attention of many of the avant-garde artists and writers of the day, including Degas, Renoir, Gauguin and Aplloinaire. Many of them joined in a banquet organized by Picasso in Rousseau’s honor two years before his death.
Critics ridiculed Rousseau as not a serious artist (as critics will, being such a broad-minded, egalitarian and generous group as a whole), and called him Le Douanier, “the customs inspector”, after his day-job of many years. (Of course these same people would probably have called Einstein “the patent clerk”.) Rousseau was from a family of modest means and couldn’t afford to go to art school. Admittedly, he was eccentric; he considered himself one of the greatest artists of the age, seemed unable to distinguish sarcastic remarks from sincere compliments and sometimes bragged of accomplishments that were untrue.
His paintings, though, speak undeniably of their own power. His fantastic images of intense jungles and wild beasts (based on books and visits to the botanical gardens, he never left France) resonate with us on some instinctual level. He not only developed his own artistic style, but his own unconventional methods of painting, applying the colors one at a time, painting in layers of content (sky first, then other background elements, finishing with foreground subjects) and working the canvas methodically from the top down.
Here is a good bio on the Artelino Art Auction site. Here is a nice site devoted to Rousseau and his work, but the color of the reproductions is off. There are Rousseau links on the Artcyclopedia site
The sites I link to below are image collections on the WebMuseum and the ARTchive (pop-up and ad warning for the latter).
 


Link: www.ibiblio.org/wm/paint/auth/rousseau/
www.artchive.com/artchive/R/rousseau.html#images

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   10 Comments »


Sunday, January 29, 2006
B. Kliban

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:20 am 
 


B. Kliban is quite possibly my favorite cartoonist, which is saying a lot, frankly. His ideosynchratic “drawings” (he didn’t always call them cartoons, perhaps rightly so) are not everyone’s idea of funny ha-ha cartoons. 
Occasionally his work is immensely funny and hits you like a lightning bolt. At other times you will look at a Kliban drawing in complete bemusement… there’s something there, something you can’t put your finger on that’s tickling you at the base of your brain, but it’s not a “gag cartoon” in the usual sense. Some of his cartoons are obvious and just overtly silly, he loved to stoop to outrageously dumb puns (which I’ll admit I’m a sucker for); but some of them are subtle and wonderful to the point of being sublime. 
Like Saul Steinberg, who he apparently admired greatly, Kliban explored ideas in his drawings that make you stop and think and perhaps come away looking at the world just a little bit differently. Some of them are crass; Kliban was a regular contributor to Playboy for many years (and elevated the magazine’s level of cartooning considerably) and was unafraid to “draw what he thought”. He was also somewhat compelled by the marketplace to make sex a topic more often than he might have in another magazine. 
Kliban achieved commercial success and recognition with the publication of his first book of cartoons, Cat. This is the Kliban that most people know, and cat lovers and cat haters everywhere think of him as a cat cartoonist. The book is actually quite good and contains some of Kliban’s more whimsical work, intermixed with actual drawings of his own cats. His cat drawings are clever and amusing but never “cute” in the cloying, saccharine Garfield sense. Kliban’s real genius, though, is in a series of “cartoon” books published after that, filled with his marvels of weird, “out of left field”, “pick your brain up and give it a twist” cartoon drawings. 
Kliban is essentially responsible for the non-sequiter absurdist style of cartooning that most people think Gary Larson invented with his newspaper panel The Far Side. (I think Larson would be the first to say so and point to Kliban as a big influence.) Even more absurd and surreal than Larson, and at times even funnier that Larson at his best (which is pretty damn good), Kliban was a true original and some kind of bizarre artistic genius.
Unfortunately, inexplicably, unforgivably, most of his wonderful books are out of print and have remained out of print for years, even though his Cat calendars continue to be posthumously produced and marketed (right there that says something about America). However, you may still be able to acquire the books through eBay, aLibris, Amazon or other book search services. 
Tiny Footprints, Never Eat Anything Bigger Than Your Head & Other Drawings, Whack Your Porcupine, and Other Drawings, The Biggest Tongue in Tunisia and Other Drawings, Advanced Cartooning and Other Drawings, Luminous animals and other drawings are out of print.
A couple of them remain in print: Two Guys Fooling Around with the Moon is the only one in print of the collections I’m talking about, CatDreams is a collection of his calendar drawings, and of course, Cat (Seventeenth Anniversary Edition) is still available (and certainly worthwhile). 
And don’t get me wrong about the Cat calendars, they’re pretty cool, just not Kilban at his best and most bizarre. Here is the official Kliban Cats site (rather annoyingly done in Flash) which has a gallery of his postcard and calendar Cat drawings, and the Kliban.com merchandise site. Hopefully, his family is getting proceeds from these. Here is the Kliban Klubhouse fan site with links.
The site I’m linking to below is a fan tribute site with some of Kliban’s drawings (unfortunately not hi-res images) that may give you a taste of his work and links to articles.


Link: www.coldbacon.com/kliban2.html

Posted in:  Cartoons   |   11 Comments »


Saturday, January 28, 2006
Christian Alzmann

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:51 am 
 


Concept artist Christian Alzmann graduated with distinction from Art Center College of Design and went straight from an on-campus interview to a job with with Industrial Light and magic. He has worked as digital artist, visual effects art director or concept artist on films like Munich, War of the Worlds, The Village, Terminator 3, Star Wars II: Attack of the Clones, Men in Black II and Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.
Alzmann’s images are occasionally whimsical, but often dark or horrific. He uses careful control of texture, color and light to dark relationships to give his work and extra feeling of eerie power.
His work has appeared in several concept art collections including Star Wars Mythmaking: Behind the Scenes of Attack of the Clones, Van Helsing: The Making of the Legend, Inside Men in Black II, and several of the Spectrum Collections: Spectrum 9, Spectrum 10 and Spectrum 11.


Link: www.christianalzmann.com/
Site Quirks: Gallery has links for Paintings and Drawings (links to "Other" and "Film Vault" don't currently have content). Galleries open in the main window and have a click-through to subsequent pages of thumbnails. Details open in a pop-up and also have a convenient click-through navigation within the pop-up. Clicking on the symbol between the arrows closes the pop-up an leaves you back at the thumbnails.

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting   |   3 Comments »


Friday, January 27, 2006
Max Fleischer

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:35 am 
 

Max Fleischer was a pioneering animator responsible for some of the all-time classic animated cartoons. Together with his brothers Dave and Joe he founded Fleischer Studios, one of the first animation studios. It was Fleischer, not Disney, who produced the first sound cartoons. The studio was responsible for the Betty Boop cartoons, KoKo the Clown, Gullivers Travels, the original (and best) Popeye animated cartoons, and a wonderful series of Superman cartoons that are treasures of classic animation.
Fleischer was working as the art editor of Popular Science in 1925 when he came up with the idea for what would eventually become the process of rotoscoping – using live action as the basis of drawn animation. The studio was also using Fleischer’s rotograph, to blend animated characters with live backgrounds on film 70 years before Who Framed Roger Rabbit. The studio was the first to introduce the practice of in-betweening, using junior artists to fill in between key frames drawn by the main animator to expedite the production of cartoons.
Despite their innovations and excellent work, when the era of full-length animated cartoons arrived they couldn’t keep pace with Disney and the studio went bankrupt trying to compete.
Fleischer’s Superman cartoons, with their art-deco design, beautiful drawing, film noir “cinematography” and artful use of shadows, lighting and color are still marvels of cartoon animation and, no offense to Christopher Reeve, still the best version of that character ever brought to film. You can see their influence not only in the modern run of Warner Brothers Batman and Superman cartoons (see my post on Bruce Timm), but also in films like Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow, where the first half hour is basically a homage to the Fleischer Supermans.
There is a treasure trove of freely downloadable Max Fleischer cartoons as part of the Internet Archive.
Try some classics like Electric Earthquake or Bulleteers.
Or you may want the convenience and image quality of the versions available on DVD: “The Superman Cartoons of Max and Dave Fleischer”, “The Animated World of Max & Dave Fleischer: Superman / Popeye” (and others).
 


Link: Max Fleischer cartoons on the Internet Archive

Posted in:  Animation   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, January 26, 2006
Russian Art Gallery Museum of Russian Art

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:08 am 
 


I had the good fortune to be in Florence last summer. My wife and I were in a restaurant one rainy evening and the couple sitting next to us turned out to be a Russian art professor from St. Petersburg and his wife. 
While we were having fun trying to carry on a conversation about art with gestures, nods, sketchbooks and the help of his wife’s limited English (certainly better than our non-grasp of Russian), the question came up about how much Russian art I was familiar with. I realized to my surprise that the answer was almost none. For some reason, even in the post-cold war climate of the last several years, Americans have some familiarity with Russian music and literature but almost no exposure to Russian visual art.
Even when I thought about it later, the only Russian painters I could think of were Chagall and Kandinski and I tend to think that’s because they both achieved notice in Paris. Russian painters who lived and worked in Russia were a blank to me. So I made a point of looking up some Russian Art on the web.
For many years of Communist (and particularly Stalinist) rule, the only art style that wasn’t actively discouraged in Soviet Russia was Socialist Realism, so there are lots of images depicting the nobility of toil and smiling workers carrying the revolutionary ideals forward, etc. Even within those oppressive limitations, Russian artists achieved great beauty and there was a surprising flowering of Russian Impressionism. That’s mostly what I’m showing here: clockwise from top left: Victor Koshevoi, Sergei A. Kolyada, Vladimir Sosnovsky and Konstantin Lomykin. I’ve become particularly impressed with the work of Vladimir Sosnovsky whose simple and direct version of impressionism reminds me of my favorite under-appreciated Impressionist, Alfred Sisley.
These images were found in the two main resources I came across on the web. The Russian Art Gallery has nice online images of work they have for sale from Russian artists working in various styles. 
The Museum of Russian Art is a museum in Minnesota devoted to promoting awareness of Russian art in this country. They recently provided the art for a well-received exhibition at the Guggenheim Museumâ€™s Sackler Center. There is a good online gallery associated with the museum’s own exhibit, Perspectives on Russian Art.
In addition, I found that Rollins College has an online section on 20th Century Russian Art and Auburn University has a good selection from several centuries.


Link: www.russianartgallery.com/
www.tmora.org/collection/Russian_art.asp

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting   |   15 Comments »


Wednesday, January 25, 2006
Masamune Shirow

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:01 am 
 


Masamune Shirow (pen name for Masanori Ota) is one of the most popular and influential creators of manga (Japanese comics). He is best known as the creator of Ghost in the Shell, which most Westerners know more from the 2 Anime movies (directed by Mamoru Oshii) and TV show than from the original manga they were adapted from. His other well-known manga include Appleseed and Dominion.
Ghost in the Shell is essentially a cyberpunk (computer oriented science fiction) story and the anime adaptation of it was very influential on popular films like The Matrix. The story is that the Wachowski brothers were running into resistance from the studio when pitching the idea for the original Matrix movie. The Brothers W couldn’t seem to get across to the studio execs what kind of a movie they were trying to make  until they sat them down for a showing of Ghost in the Shell and said “We want to make a live action version of something like this.”
In addition to manga stories, Shirow also creates highly-rendered “calendar art” specifically designed to appeal to the prurient interests of young men. It usually features scantily-clad or semi-naked women with exaggerated sexual characteristics, (who may or may not be robots or androids), wielding large high-tech weapons amid gleaming sci-fi trappings and futuristic settings. 
Many of his images will be unappealing or downright offensive to some women. Ironically, strong women are the central characters in his comic stories. They are the heroes, the movers and shakers, the ones who make things happen. The men are either supporting characters or the villains.
Shirow’s drawings, even his highly rendered calendar images, have that “anime” cartoon-style look to the faces that many western viewers have trouble accepting: large doll-like eyes, tiny pointed noses and exaggeratedly small mouths and chins. His comics storytelling, however, can be fairly straightforward for Westerners when it has been translated and the images have been “flopped” so the panels read left to right instead of right-to left.
I don’t know of an official Masamune Shirow website, although there is an official Ghost in the Shell site. Here is a Masamune Shirow fan site with information and links, and another Masamune Shirow Hyperpage with info, articles, reviews and fan forums.
Here is a Shirow Gallery of his highly rendered calendar art as part of this French Web magazine Black Hole (see my notice at the end of the post).
Here is an About Shirow page on a British site, and another informational British site on The Art of Shirow.
To read Shirow’s actual manga, start with Ghost In The Shell Volume 1. The recent Ghost In The Shell 2: Man-Machine Interface is also good, but quite different from the original and his other work.
Note: The sites linked here contain sexually oriented material and nudity. Avoid them if you’re likely to be offended.
 


Link: http://members.lycos.co.uk/masamune_shirow/

Posted in:  Anime & Manga,Comics,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Tuesday, January 24, 2006
Arthur Rackham

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:37 am 
 


British book illustrator Arthur Rackham, who was active from the late 1800′s to the 1930′s, was one of the all time great illustrators and one of my favorites. He was particularly noted for his illustrations of children’s books. Whatever he tackled, Fairy Tales of the Brothers Grimm, Rip van Winkle, The Wind in the Willows, Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens…, Rackham would own it. His unique vision and amazingly strong images became an integral part of the experience of reading the story. 
Of the many artists who have tried to illustrate Alice in Wonderland in the footsteps of the amazing Sir John Tenniel, Rackham is the only artist I can think who doesn’t disappear into Tenniel’s shadow like a Cheshire Cat fading into the gloom. 
Rackham’s fairy tale worlds are sometimes steeped in gloom and mystery. His misty forests are inhabited by elves and goblins peering about twisted roots, massive gnarled trees, mushrooms, ferns and sinuous, tangled undergrowth. I think his fairy tale illustrations were one of the main starting points for modern fantasy illustration, influencing artists like Frank Frazetta and Roy Krenkel and the generations of fantasy artists behind them.
Rackham was a deft pen and ink artist and most of his paintings started as pen and ink drawings into which he worked layer after layer of transparent watercolor glaze, a painstaking method associated more with classical painting than modern illustration.
The Arthur Rackham Society site has a good selection of links to Rackham’s illustrations online (pop-up warning: Angelfire hosted site).
There is a nice selection of images from J.M. Barrie’s Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens here.
There are complete facsimiles of his illustrated versions of Aesop’s Fables and English Fairy Tales available online as part of Project Gutenberg. (For the quickest view of the material, go to the “Format” section, choose “HTML”, Compression: “None” and look to the index of illustrations.)
Here is a beautiful set of Rackham’s Alice in Wonderland illustrations courtesy of good ol’ Doc Ozone.
The link I’m suggesting below is to a nice broad cross-section of Rackham’s work on the Art Passions site.


Link: www.artpassions.net/rackham/Authur Rackham on nocloo.com

Posted in:  Illustration,Watercolor and Gouache   |   7 Comments »


Monday, January 23, 2006
Mark Goerner

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:52 am 
 


Concept artist Mark Goerner has done conceptual illustrations for props, sets and environments for films like Minority Report, Constantine, X-men 2 and The Terminal,  as well as upcoming films like the new Superman and Battle Angel Alita (for James Cameron).  
Goerner’s site contains concept art from many of those movies as well as some of his other professional work and even some of his student work. The Superman section is interesting in particular because it showcases sketches and alternate versions as well as some of the finished design renderings. The “Student Work” section has an interesting variety of work, including product design, sketches and figure drawing.
His sleek futuristic designs remind me a bit of master concept artist Syd Mead (who I profiled in last November).
Goerner has done three training CDs for the Gnomon Workshop, for whom he is in instructor. There is an additional gallery of his work on the Gnomon Workshop site (images above). There is also an illustrated interview with Goerner on the CG Channel.


Link: www.grnr.com/

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   1 Comment »


Sunday, January 22, 2006
Kawase Hasui

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:58 am 
 


Kawase Hasui was a Japanese printmaker, active in the first half of the 20th century, who created wonderfully subtle and entrancingly beautiful woodblock prints of landscape scenes.
His images were sometimes brimming with light and the brilliant colors of Spring or Autumn at other times almost monochromatic, depicting scenes at night, twilight or in the rain or fog. 
He had a fascination with the play of light and shadow, the subtle patterns of dappled sunlight or moonlight, and the strange highlights created by late morning or early evening sun. He also often composed his scenes near water, adding reflections to his fascination with light. 
Even though there is no overt similarity, I feel like he has a kinship with the impressionists in his pursuit of the qualities of light and the visual characteristics of the natural world. He sometimes created multiple images of the same scene at different times of the day or in different seasons, much as Monet did.
At times he takes a solid outline filled with color approach that is suggestive of comic book art. At the other end of his stylistic range, his linework is minimal and almost overpowered by the colored inks. He traveled extensively in Japan making watercolor sketches of his subjects and many of his prints have a watercolor feel to them.
The site linked below is to the listing about Hasui on the Hanga Gallery site. The gallery site contains a remarkably complete representation of his work, containing images of almost all of his nearly 600 extant prints, arranged by publisher and year or by series. I’m particularly fond of his work from the 1940′s.
There is also a nice gallery here, with click-through navigation and a good article about Hasui here.
Link via Illustrated Ideas.


Link: http://www.hanga.com/bio.cfm?ID=2

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Prints and Printmaking   |   4 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Watercolor artist Keiko Tanabe's wonderful evocations of Japan, China, Europe and the US: http://t.co/3Gr154T New Lines and Colors post.  2011/09/08 Into the Pixel 2011, showcase of video game art: http://t.co/HC6vDzC New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/08 RT @npg: Express yourself in our Outwin Boochever Portrait Competition: http://t.co/jVrRBZz #OBPC2013 2011/09/07


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






