Wow! Kirstie Alley's dramatic weight loss - Healthy Living on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




 the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your futureanderson cooper




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Healthy Living
Thursday, September 15, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: fall fashion




Wow! Kirstie Alley's dramatic weight loss



editor


by Jessica Ashley, Shine staff, 16 hours ago


5747 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse










Kirstie Alley | Photo Credits: Michael Buckner/Getty ImagesTV Guide 

Kirstie Alley, who has
struggled with yo-yo weight gain and loss for years, is 
showing off a body 10 sizes smaller after a lot of
hard work. The 60-year-old actress strutted the runway during New
York Fashion Week -- 100 pounds slimmer! – at her designer friend
Zang Toi’s show.
Inspired by her physically demanding "Dancing With
the Stars" stint, Alley has gone from a size 14 to a size 4.
Before her appearance on the show, Alley said she visualized one
day fitting in a size 4, and now she does.
Today, Alley's confidence is contagious, and she says
she feels much more comfortable in her body. "I feel like
I'm back in my element," Alley told Entertainment Tonight.
"I honestly didn't even realize what I looked
like."
Her hard-won metamorphosis is not tempting her to take
things further. No plastic surgery for the former “Cheers"
star. "I haven't had plastic surgery but here's the
reason: People do plastic surgery to make you look younger,"
she said. "I don't think it makes you look younger. I
think it can make you look weirder."
Once 228 pounds, Alley saw the scale go up and down a lot and got
to the point when she stopped looking at it altogether. After a
15-month hiatus from weighing herself, she finally stepped on a
scale. What she saw, she said, was shocking.
"I
started screaming," she told People in
2009. "It said 228 lbs., which is my highest weight ever. I
was so much more disgusting than I thought!"

At that point, Alley had already lost 75 pounds during her tenure
as a spokesperson for Jenny Craig, then gained that weight (and
more) back.





More on Shine:


Eat your way to better health

Dr. Oz explains: How to avoid the biggest weight-loss
mistakes

How your diet can help you live to 100




Prev Next
10 photos













photo 1 of 10

Prev
Next



Though she looked svelte and amazing strolling the streets of NYC this week, Kirstie Alley has struggled with her weight for years.

Getty Images





Related: weight loss, kirstie alley, jenny craig





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 5,742 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by optics22 15 hours ago

beautiful!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by zodiac 15 hours ago

And she'll gain it all back just like the times before.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Michelle 15 hours ago

Absolutely stunning. Represent for the over 60 year old women!  Love it!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Cyrena 15 hours ago

wow, she looks like she did 20 years ago! let's just hope she learned how to eat nutritiously during the time she was dancing so much. now that she's not putting in 4-6 hours of dancing a day, it would be easy to gain it back without proper nutrition.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Deborah 15 hours ago

Here and now today she is stunning and you know it. Good for her.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Donna 15 hours ago

She looks fantastic!  Wish I could do it.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Vic 14 hours ago

I love her, but really, a size 4?  Maybe with vanity sizing!  What a liar, she looks slim but not THAT slim.  Still, she makes 60 look amazing!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by k8blujay 14 hours ago

Good for her! I hope she makes it stick!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by LS650 13 hours ago

Saavik...!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by The Watcher 13 hours ago

Not trying to be snotty, just a working ( 12 hour day ) guy who isnt impressed by these celebrities that can afford personal trainers and cooks to prepare meals for her,   good for her and god bless her she did something about it but, between Her and Oprah they had no excuse to get that big.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 5,742 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Healthy Living Cheat_Sheet



Which running shoes are best for you?Eat your way to better healthWhy are so many young people losing their hearing?Foods that pack the biggest nutritional punch




Most Popular On Healthy Living


Wow! Kirstie Alley's dramatic weight loss16 hours agoDr. Oz shares: The top weight-loss mistakes and how to avoid them Mon Sep 12, 2011 10:26am PDTIs overweight the new normal weight? Thu Sep 8, 2011 8:25am PDTHave you been impacted by suicide? Fri Sep 9, 2011 10:48am PDTDo you really need to cut back on salt? Mon Sep 12, 2011 8:58am PDT


More Most Popular on Healthy Living »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





5 Secrets for Weight Loss
by weightlossmeter.com a short while  ago





The 7 Hottest Rules For Permanent Weight Loss
by myallnaturalweightloss.com 2 minutes ago





Rapid Weight Loss
by quickweightlosstips.net 4 minutes ago





6 Tricks for Boosting Your Metabolism
by quickweightloss.net 5 minutes ago





8 Sex Questions You’re Too Embarrassed to Ask
by Zhang 5 minutes ago





Weight Loss Tips Eat When You Are Really Hungry
by 100-weight-loss-tips.com 8 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Exercises that waste your time



Are you working hard and not seeing any results? The wrong workout could be to blame. Here are the moves to skip and one that will work wonders.




Get started. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Get your closet ready for fall
With these iPhone apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


Alison’s Beginnings: 'It Doesn’t Define Me'

8 secrets about Jackie Kennedy revealed!Mini Memories: 7 adorable ways to display your family photos


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 7

T-shirts joke about domestic violence. Nobody laughs.Designer Looks for Less: How to Build a Fall Wardrobe on a Budget


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


How Baboons Can Motivate You to Exercise (Yes, Really)

Are you allergic to Wi-Fi? Strange new illness with even stranger cure.Keep Your Fall Marathon Training Realistic


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Childhood ADHD—Explained

Teach Your Kids the Secrets of Smart Web SearchingAre Fast-Paced Cartoons Melting Your Kid's Brain?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Jealousy Is Actually Good For Your Relationship

How Long Should Intercourse Last?User Post: The Perils of Facebook


More in Love + Sex »



Food


All Hail the Apple, Applaud the Pumpkin! Rich, Scrumptious Fall Desserts are Back!

Tips for Making the Perfect Mac 'n' CheeseThe Easy-Bake Oven gets a makeover


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Top 10 Funniest Picture Day Outfits

User Post: Should I Adopt?The Great Mom Debate: Have You Ever Argued With Your Child's Teacher?


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














