6 Easy Ways to Extend Your Life in One Minute or Less - Healthy Living on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




 the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your futureanderson cooper




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Healthy Living
Thursday, September 15, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: fall fashion




6 Easy Ways to Extend Your Life in One Minute or Less



user


by Oprah.com, on Tue Sep 6, 2011 9:25am PDT


275 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse










Photo: Dan Saelinger

By Dr. Mehmet Oz

If your reason for not adopting healthier habits is that you
don't have enough time, consider your problem solved: I've
put together a list of practices that could literally add years to
your life, and each one can be done in 60 seconds or less.

RELATED: 
Sign Up for Oprah's Lifeclass!

Get Up Every Hour
A recent study in the Journal of the American College of
Cardiology discovered that people who sat for four or more
hours a day outside work had a 50 percent greater risk of dying
from any cause than those who sat less than two hours a day. I
recommend taking a minute-long walk at least once an hour. Every
step counts toward the 10,000 you should be taking every day.

Eat an Egg
This nutritional powerhouse does a body good: One egg provides 13
percent of your daily protein requirement and only 4 percent of the
average recommended daily calorie count. Plus, it contains a hefty
dose of lutein, an antioxidant that protects your eyes from macular
degeneration and UV damage. An egg a day may even help prevent
Alzheimer's: The yolk is a significant source of choline, a
nutrient that reduces inflammation in the brain.

RELATED: 
25 Superfoods to Incorporate into Your Diet Now

Take Chromium
Research shows that the trace mineral helps maintain proper blood
sugar levels by increasing cells' sensitivity to insulin,
steeling your body against type II diabetes. Swallow 200 micrograms
a day of chromium polynicotinate.

Don't Forget to Floss
When left to their own devices, the bacteria hiding between your
teeth will infect your gums and enter your bloodstream, where they
can cause inflammation in your arteries and contribute to plaque
buildup on blood vessel walls. Recent studies have linked gum
disease to other problems, too, ranging from respiratory infections
to neurodegeneration.

Check Your Pulse
Before you get out of bed in the morning, press your index and
middle fingers against the inside of your wrist below your thumb
and count the beats for 30 seconds. Then double that number. A 2010
study found that compared with a normal resting rate of 60 beats
per minute, a rate of 90 or above triples a woman's risk of
dying from heart disease. If your heart rate is high, consider
adding more omega-3 fatty acids to your diet.

RELATED: 
8 Ways to Save Your Heart

Do Self-Massage
Stress damages every organ in your body. For quick relief, press
your thumbs against the sides of your nose just below your
browbone; then walk your index and middle fingers across your brows
and finish by lightly rubbing your temples. Massage prompts a drop
in cortisol and adrenaline and a surge in feel-good endorphins.

More from O, The Oprah Magazine:



The Cure for Self-Consciousness

5 Unforgettable Hostess Gifts

10 Ways to Beat the Back-to-School Blues

15
Healthy Habits for Today, This Week, and This
Month


Like O, The Oprah
Magazine on Facebook

Related: healthy living, health, easy ways to extend your life, dr. oz





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 275 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by CER 13 hours ago

I got to do more self-massages. Tee Hee !!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Wayne 13 hours ago

what a bunch of crap this is..

Report Abuse

 


Posted by ponegirl 13 hours ago

Idiocy.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Capt. Evil 13 hours ago

oh I feel so much better already..

Report Abuse

 


Posted by C - 13 hours ago

Do eggs in cookies count?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Me 13 hours ago

Oh Dr. Oz... I love you!! :)

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Deborah 13 hours ago

pure garbage

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Arliss Bayless 13 hours ago

My girlfriend told me that WAS scrambled eggs I was eating!!EEWWWWWW!!!!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Dee 13 hours ago

Eggs are vile.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Friga 13 hours ago

I can bet alot of young guys will go for this but mom self massage is good for my health and it's  not porn but self help.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 275 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Healthy Living Cheat_Sheet



Which running shoes are best for you?Eat your way to better healthWhy are so many young people losing their hearing?Foods that pack the biggest nutritional punch




Most Popular On Healthy Living


Wow! Kirstie Alley's dramatic weight loss16 hours agoDr. Oz shares: The top weight-loss mistakes and how to avoid them Mon Sep 12, 2011 10:26am PDTIs overweight the new normal weight? Thu Sep 8, 2011 8:25am PDTHave you been impacted by suicide? Fri Sep 9, 2011 10:48am PDTDo you really need to cut back on salt? Mon Sep 12, 2011 8:58am PDT


More Most Popular on Healthy Living »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





5 Secrets for Weight Loss
by weightlossmeter.com a short while  ago





The 7 Hottest Rules For Permanent Weight Loss
by myallnaturalweightloss.com 2 minutes ago





Rapid Weight Loss
by quickweightlosstips.net 3 minutes ago





6 Tricks for Boosting Your Metabolism
by quickweightloss.net 5 minutes ago





8 Sex Questions You’re Too Embarrassed to Ask
by Zhang 5 minutes ago





Weight Loss Tips Eat When You Are Really Hungry
by 100-weight-loss-tips.com 8 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Exercises that waste your time



Are you working hard and not seeing any results? The wrong workout could be to blame. Here are the moves to skip and one that will work wonders.




Get started. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Get your closet ready for fall
With these iPhone apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


Alison’s Beginnings: 'It Doesn’t Define Me'

8 secrets about Jackie Kennedy revealed!Mini Memories: 7 adorable ways to display your family photos


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 7

T-shirts joke about domestic violence. Nobody laughs.Designer Looks for Less: How to Build a Fall Wardrobe on a Budget


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


How Baboons Can Motivate You to Exercise (Yes, Really)

Are you allergic to Wi-Fi? Strange new illness with even stranger cure.Keep Your Fall Marathon Training Realistic


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Childhood ADHD—Explained

Teach Your Kids the Secrets of Smart Web SearchingAre Fast-Paced Cartoons Melting Your Kid's Brain?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Jealousy Is Actually Good For Your Relationship

How Long Should Intercourse Last?User Post: The Perils of Facebook


More in Love + Sex »



Food


All Hail the Apple, Applaud the Pumpkin! Rich, Scrumptious Fall Desserts are Back!

Tips for Making the Perfect Mac 'n' CheeseThe Easy-Bake Oven gets a makeover


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Top 10 Funniest Picture Day Outfits

User Post: Should I Adopt?The Great Mom Debate: Have You Ever Argued With Your Child's Teacher?


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














