Why Are TV’s Top-Rated Shows Ignored at the Emmys? - 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards® on Yahoo! TV











TV Home
Emmy Awards


more






TV! Search

Search TV























Coverage of the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards®



HomeNomineesPhotosVideosNewsBlogBest Dressed







Emmys Blog





Wed Sep 14 2011, 4:30 PM PDT

Why Are TV’s Top-Rated Shows Ignored at the Emmys?

92 comments
facebook
twitter
digg

by: Tom O'Neil, Goldderby.com




"NCIS" star Pauley Perrette
CBS

				 Strangely, there's something missing from the list of TV shows most popular with Emmy voters: the programs most popular with all TV viewers. Why weren't "NCIS," "The Mentalist," and "Burn Notice" nominated in top categories? 
Police procedurals used to cop lots of major Emmys. "NYPD Blue," "Hill Street Blues," and "Law & Order" even won Outstanding Drama Series, but the newer "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" hasn't even been nominated for that top prize throughout its 12 hugely popular TV seasons. What gives? 
Police procedurals have fallen out of favor at the Emmys as new cable channels have grown in prominence, offering voters more snobbish options like HBO's "The Sopranos" (winner of Outstanding Drama Series in 2004) and AMC's "Mad Men" (2009, 2010, 2011) than they see on broadcast TV. As usual, cable shows dominate the newest list of nominees for Outstanding Drama Series, claiming four of the six spots: "Boardwalk Empire" (HBO), "Dexter" (Showtime), "Game of Thrones" (HBO), and "Mad Men" (AMC). 

[Photos: Check out photos of this year's Outstanding Drama Series nominees.] Most pundits are betting on "Mad Men" to repeat or "Boardwalk Empire" to rule. But even if "The Good Wife" (CBS) or "Friday Night Lights" (NBC/DirecTV) delivers a rare win for broadcast TV, it will be because those shows have elitist appeal, too. 
There's just no getting around highfalutin pretension in Hollywood. It's no small coincidence that the biggest winner in Emmy history, with 37 awards, is a TV show about two effete brothers bickering over opera and vintage wines ("Frasier"). On the drama side, before the recent romp by "Mad Men," the biggest champ was one of the tube's highest-class shows ever, "The West Wing," which won Outstanding Drama Series four years in a row (2000-2003). 
Meantime, some of the greatest series in TV history without an ounce of snob appeal never got nominated for a single Emmy, not even in the lowly tech categories: "The Brady Brunch," "Melrose Place," "Gilligan's Island," "Green Acres," and "The Munsters." [Related: See the full list of this year's Emmy nominees and vote for your favorites.]  
The Emmys aren't alone in this bias. The same snub occurs at the Oscars where indie artsy movies like "The King's Speech" (2010) and "The Hurt Locker" (2009) have ruled in recent years. Big box-office blockbusters rarely get nominated for the top prize, even when critics heap rapturous reviews upon them. The Oscars felt the sting of public outrage when "The Dark Knight" wasn't nominated for Best Picture of 2008, so the academy expanded the list to 10. That didn't help, though, so now Oscar leaders will try new tricks to whip up interest and excitement. 
At the Emmys in 2009, TV academy leaders responded to a similar crisis by expanding the list of nominees to six from the usual five. Because of a close vote, seven contenders actually got nominated for Outstanding Drama Series, but the extra room didn't accommodate the Nielsen hits. Instead, "Breaking Bad" (AMC) broke in, much to everyone's astonishment, and HBO's "Big Love" got in even though it reaped no nominations in other major categories. 
In the end, maybe nothing can be done and TV's top shows should stop striving for golden statuettes and be happy with all of the gold they pull in from ad dollars thanks to those 24-karat TV ratings. The most successful series in the history of international TV was never nominated for a single Emmy back in the U.S. -- "Baywatch" -- but its producers never expected one and probably, in the end, didn't care. More from Goldderby.com:• Why Do the Emmys Hate Sci-Fi and Fantasy Shows?• Emmys 101: Who Won (and Lost) Last Year?• Who's Got the EGOT: Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, Tony? 
 Make TV watching more social with the IntoNow mobile app from Yahoo! 






previous post
Randee Heller Is Taking 'Mad Men's' Miss Blankenship to the Emmys
























SPONSORED LINKS

The New Skinny Fruit
How This Strange African Fruit Is Making America Skinny.
HealthDiscoveriesToday.com
2.50% Mortgage Refinance
$160,000 Mortgage for $632/Month. Compare Free Quotes Now. 2.9% APR
eLendingSaver.com
3-in-1 Credit Scores - $0
View your Credit Report & Scores from All 3 Bureaus in 60 seconds.
FreeScoreOnline.com
Man "Cheats" Credit Score
News: He Added 183 Points to His Credit Score Using This 1 Easy Tip
www.TheCreditSolutionProgram.com
Local Hair Cuts
Find Hair Cuts Near You. See Actual Customer Reviews!
Local.com












YAHOO! TV

TV Home
Shows
News & Gossip
Photos
Videos
TV Listings


Full Episodes
Tonight's Picks
Primetime in No Time
Daytime in No Time
Blog



ALSO ON YAHOO!

Entertainment
Kids
Buy Movie Tickets
Yahoo!
Finance
Lifestyles


Set my TiVo
My Yahoo!
Food
Movies
Check Stocks
Mail


Games
Music
Sports
Messenger
omg!



THINGS TO DO

Buy Movie Tickets
Set My TiVo
Lose Weight
Listen to Music
Watch Videos
Share Photos









