Web Design Romania, Web Development Outsourcing Romania




Web Design Romania, Outsourcing ServicesSoftware Development 

home
site map
contact


romana





 	 About us ServicesPortfolio get a custom quote now!






web solutions

	       	 				We have extensive experience in a wide variety of Web 2.0 projects including  Online Portal, B2B, E-Commerce, CMS.
	       	 			
more +






entreprise solutions
											
						We have already built various types of enterprise applications in a wide range of domains like: Real Estate, Booking, Engineering. 
	       	 			
more +






mobile development

	       	 				We have experience in mobile application development and we offer custom mobile application development for iPhone, iPad, Android and  Windows Mobile.
	       	 			
more +







 





web design romania
                 Roweb Development is a web design and development company located in Pitesti, Romania. Using our wide range of experience and the latest web development technologies, we focus on managing your web project from conceptualization and creation to full development and implementation.               
             

software outsourcing
                We offer software development outsourcing, offshore web design and web development services. Our services are one of the best services from Eastern Europe.We have the resources to solve problems from small maintenance issues to major development and implementation engagements.Our company provides full-featured web design in Romania and programming services.	
             

contact us
 
Roweb Development
Address: Trivale No. 64
City: Pitesti, State: Arges
Postal Code: 110058, Romania
Fax: 004 0348 401 305
Phone: 004 0348 401 305
Email: webmaster@roweb.ro
click to send us an email

 

microsoft gold certified partner



Roweb Development is proud to announce that we are now a Microsoft® Gold Certified Partner.
 
                 	We have many Microsoft® Certified Professionals and Microsoft® Certified Technology Specialists in our team and we continue to train our people in order to provide high quality, leading-edge software, web development solutions and consultancy. References from our satisfied clients stand as a proof for this.
                 	Being a Microsoft Gold Partner gives Roweb early access to product information, so that we can take advantage of the latest Microsoft technology solutions and offer our customers experience and technology needed to develop first class software solutions.
             

We provide IT solutions in these fields:
 Asp.Net and Asp.Net AJAX development
Iphone & Ipad Applications Development
Android Applications Development
 web services development and SOA
websites development
web applications, web database applications
client/server applications
applications for MS Windows and Linux (development and maintenance)
database development and maintenance
consulting web hosting
and more...

Our expertise area:
Microsoft: ASP.NET ,Asp.NET AJAX ,  MVC , Silverlight , WPF  , WCF ,  SQL Server , Sql Reporting .
Open source: PHP, Magento, PrestaShop, Wordpress, Joomla, CodeIgniter, Smarty, JQuery, My Sql.
Control suites & libraries: Telerik RadControls for ASP.NET AJAX, ComponentOne Studio for WPF, Perpetum Report Sharp-Shooter, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Abc PDF.
API and Payment getways that we have used: Facebook, Google Maps, Authorize.NET, Pay Pal, 2Checkout, SecureTrading, Dibs, Google Analytics, LinkPoint, USA E-Pay.
Do you want more visitors to your website?Check today our search engine optimization services and our seo consulting services. We can prove our work with portfolio and results.
Equipped with creative minds, fast fingertips, and the latest technology, we take great pride in our diverse and exciting designs. From simple text & graphics to more intricate designs, we provide you with amazing services at very affordable prices. No matter what your budget is we will give you the absolute best solution to accomplish all your goals.
If you are looking for a reliable long-term partner in the areas of offshore Software Development, Software Testing and Web Development, then Roweb is your best choice.Please acquaint yourself with the detailed information on our company that is presented on this site, and email us if you wish.We strive to constantly optimize our operation and expand the selection of services we offer, and we will be very happy to discuss your ideas.


 


 


web solutions
               We provide our clients with scalable, tested, and extremely custom websites, built on a search engine optimized architecture 
               In our web design process we use a wide range of technologies starting with Asp.Net to PHP and open source frameworks like Joomla or Wordpress.
            

enterprise development
               Roweb has the necessary knowledge and tools to create business-critical applications to meet today's business demands. 
               We are using ASP.NET, WPF,WCF and SQL SERVER to build, deploy, host, and manage even the most demanding and complex applications. 
                


online marketing services
               Our core online marketing services include Search Engine Optimization Services, Keyword Research Services, Keyword Ranking Reports, PPC management services, Ad Tracking & ROI Conversion Measurement, Social Media Optimization, E-Mail Marketing Strategy, Blog Optimization & Support, Press Release Optimization .
            

 

click here to complete a project form
get your custom quota to create or redesign your website!
	Send us an email with your information and your requests for your future website and we will send you back a custom quotation for this project.            
 



Home|  	 About us | Services| Enterprise solutions| Web development| Web applications | E-commerce| Mobile application development| Web site redesigning| Web site maintenance | Custom software development | Flash presentation |  	 Web Hosting|  	 Website marketing and SEO|  It consulting | Logo design |  	 Multimedia presentation |  	 Asp.Net AJAX Development |  	 Client server applications | Database development |  	 Search Engine Optimization | Portfolio| Custom web design| Custom software| CMS| E-Commerce| Enterprise applications| Web service development and SOA|  	 How Projects Run | 


			© Copyright 2010 RoWeb Development. 
			All rights reserved.
		
 




