
	TOP STORIES - Binghamton/Oneonta - YNN, Your News Now





























YNN.com

Binghamton / Oneonta
Change region




 
63º

Skip to stories
Your News Now.
Time Warner Cable. The power of you ™


RSSTwitterFacebook









Main Menu
TOP STORIESALL NEWS9/11: TEN YEARSLATERFLOODINGWEATHERTRAFFICCOMMUNITYSTORY LINKSSPORTSPOLITICSCAPITAL TONIGHTHEALTHFEATURESCOOKING AT HOMESPECIAL COVERAGECLOSINGSBUSINESSCALENDARABOUT USCONTACT USSEARCHJOBSROAD RUNNER MAILSITEMAP





Search

YNN
Web


Search terms:




















Conklin officials hold meeting for residents


Conklin

Town of Conklin officials updated their community Sunday on the situation following last week's severe flooding. As YNN's Erin Clarke tells us, although residents got some information, many are still uneasy.





09/11/2011 11:00 PM






Local church helps flood victims clean up


Binghamton

As cleanup efforts get underway in the Southern Tier, many members of the community are reaching out to help others affected by flood damage. Our Melissa Kakareka tells us how one group of volunteers spent Sunday afternoon trying to make the cleanup process a little bit easier for residents in Binghamton's First Ward.


Updated 09/11/2011 06:59 PM






Broome County honors September 11th anniversary


Binghamton

Officials in Broome County held a ceremony to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks Sunday.


Updated 09/11/2011 07:08 PM






"Healing Field" Memorial in Horseheads


Horseheads

The "Healing Field" in Horseheads is a memorial of 2,000 flags paying tribute to the lives lost a decade ago.  As our Bill Mich tells us, what makes it so unique is the ability for people to personalize their tributes.


Updated 09/11/2011 07:11 PM







Flooded homeowners in Owego go without power or assistance


Owego

Residents in Owego are doing their best to recover from last week's massive flooding in spite of many obstacles and little assistance.





Updated 09/11/2011 06:42 PM







Primary elections will go on in Broome County


Broome County

Flooding in the Southern Tier won't stop primary elections from happening this week. Broome County will be holding them as scheduled on Tuesday.




Updated 09/11/2011 07:19 PM







Broome County offices resume normal business hours


Broome County

Municipal buildings are beginning to reopen in Broome County. Binghamton county offices will be open to the public Monday and other areas may soon be ready for re-entry.




Updated 09/11/2011 07:17 PM







Remembering 9/11


US

Ten years ago, the world was rocked by news that the World Trade Center had been attacked by terrorists. Now, the city hit hardest by the tragedy takes time to remember the victims of September 11th, 2001.





Updated 09/11/2011 02:13 PM










Road Closures



There are a number of roads closed due to flooding throughout our region.  Inside of this story we have a list of roads that the county has told us are closed.










State of Emergency & Travel Advisories



View a  list of evacuated areas inside of this story.










Shelters and Animal Care Providers



Inside this story you can view a list of area shelters and animal care providers for those who have been evacuated from their homes.














Interview: Endicott Police Chief



Endicott Police Chief Michael Cox joined us by phone to talk to us about how they are dealing with the flooding.










NEWS CONFERENCE: Governor Cuomo talks about storm damage



Watch the full press conference held earlier today in Binghamton where Governor Cuomo talked about the damage from the storm.










Interviews:  Tioga County Sheriff



One of the people in charge of keeping everyone safe in Tioga County is Sheriff Gary Howard. He spoke with us about the conditions in the county earlier this morning.











Interviews:  Chemung Co. Dir. of Fire & Emergency Management



The Chemung County Director of Fire and Emergency Management, Michael Smith, spoke with us about conditions throughout the county.










Interview:  Tompkins County Sheriff



Conditions are poor in Tompkins County where people are being told not to travel unless absolutely necessary. Tompkins County Sheriff Ken Lansing spoke with us this morning.










Interview:  Broome County Executive



Eric Denk from the Broome County Executive’s Office spoke with us this morning with an update.  He says the evacuations continue and shelters are available for those who have been evacuated.














Businesses begin to clean up following flood


Binghamton

The water is just about gone, but it leaves behind a devastating mess.  Among those hardest hit in Binghamton were businesses operating near the river.  YNN's Chris Whalen spoke with some of them as they begin to clean up.




Updated 09/11/2011 10:47 AM






Town of Union begins flood cleanup


Broome County

Residents on Glendale Drive in the Town of Union spent Saturday cleaning mud and pumping water out of their homes.

Updated 09/11/2011 11:45 AM






Hundreds seek shelter at BU Event Center


Broome County

Days after thousands were evacuated from their home, they continue to seek shelter at the BU Event Center. YNN's Erin Clarke tells us what the mood is like there.

Updated 09/11/2011 10:57 AM






Pennsylvania officials announce the first official death from Tropical Storm Lee


Bradford County (PA)

Officials announce the first official death linked to Tropical Storm Lee in the state of Pennsylvania.

Updated 09/11/2011 12:32 PM






Some Conklin residents could return to their homes Sunday


Conklin

Some Conklin residents may be able to go back in to their homes Sunday, but the town warns re-entry will be a gradual process.

Updated 09/11/2011 11:39 AM






Fatal motorcycle accident


Cortland County

One person is dead following a motorcycle accident in Cortland County. It happened around 6:45 a.m. Saturday on Page Green Road in the Town of Virgil.

09/10/2011 12:56 PM






Broome County reoccupation begins


Broome County

Broome County officials have begun working on a reoccupation plan to get residents safely back into their homes.

Updated 09/11/2011 12:19 PM










Syracuse eeks out win over Rhode Island



In a game that was much closer than many expected it to be, Syracuse held off lower-division opponent Rhode Island 21-14 on Saturday, improving to 2-0 for the first time since 1999.










SU football postgame press conferences



Watch Doug Marrone and his players' uncut press conferences following SU's 21-14 win over Rhode Island at the Carrier Dome Saturday night.










Crunch game at Dome postponed for at least another year



In a surprising turn of events, the Syracuse Crunch's scheduled game at the Carrier Dome has been called off and pushed back for at least another year.














Two women stabbed by neighbor in City of Syracuse



Syracuse police have a man in custody after they say he stabbed two of his neighbors.  It happened just after 5:30 p.m. Sunday on Wayne Street. YNN’s Brad Vivacqua has more.




Updated 7:05 AM






Fort Drum remembers ten years later



Our Amanda Kelley shows us how Fort Drum honored the 9/11 anniversary Sunday and how terror attacks ten years ago still affects those who defend our nation's freedom.

Updated 09/11/2011 05:08 PM






10th anniversary of 9/11 a day to remember and serve



First responders, officials and citizens in Utica came together to honor the 10 year anniversary of 9/11. Our Beth Jones takes us on a tour of the day-long commemoration, which wasn't just about remembrance, but also giving back.

Updated 09/11/2011 07:03 PM






Fort Drum therapy dog makes a difference in soldier's lives



Dogs are known as man's best friend and one dog on Fort Drum is proving that. Our Rachael Paradis has more on how Arnold, and others, are providing support.

Updated 09/11/2011 07:24 PM






NY fire companies college tuition reimbursement program



Volunteer fire companies in New York are trying a new way to attract members: community college tuition reimbursement.

7:59 AM






Jefferson County Firefighters reflect on 9/11



Jefferson County firefighters and EMS crews gathered Sunday afternoon to mark the 9/11 anniversary. Departments from around the county also took time to honor those locally who have lost their lives this past year.

Updated 09/11/2011 05:04 PM






Baldwinsville holds memorial service for 9/11



A 9/11 memorial service drew hundreds of people to the new fire house in Baldwinsville Sunday. A dedication ceremony was held, showcasing a beam from the World Trade Center.

09/11/2011 07:42 PM






Megabus crash anniversary



While the nation remembers the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks, Sunday also marks the one year anniversary of the Megabus crash in Liverpool.

09/11/2011 07:47 PM










Healthy Living:  Choosing the right sunscreen



Choosing the right sunscreen and understanding exactly what it does for your skin can be confusing and misleading, but according to Dr. Brett Shulman, the rules to sunscreen products are being updated.










Travel With Val:  Hidden wineries of Loudoun County



Valerie D'Elia explores the outskirts of Washington D.C. in Loudon County, Virginia.







App Wrap:"9/11 Memorial: Past, Present, And Future," "9/11 Memorial Guide," "World Trade Center 360 Virtual Tour"



A number of iOS apps provide a guide to 9/11, whether they highlight the memorial or give a panoramic view of the top of the South Tower as it would have been before September 11th.







Going Green:  Old newspaper as home insulation



A new way to get rid of old newspapers is to use it as insulation. Students at the New York State Weatherization Directors Association training center are learning how to install this "green" home insulation.







Travel With Val: Travel industry still adjusting to post 9/11 world



From airlines to buses, trains and cruise ships, one of the biggest changes in the wake of September 11th was the the way we travel. Valarie D'Elia reports.







Garden Journeys: Leaf diseases on Norway maples



The Norway maple tree is an extremely popular shade tree, but there's a couple of very common leaf diseases that can be problematic. Terry Ettinger reports.







Your Home: Obtaining the American dream



We often hear people talk about the American dream.  Home ownership, more often than not, is what defines that dream.  It's what draws countless numbers of people to our country every year.  Given the current state of both the economy and the real estate market, does that dream still exist? Ryan Peterson reports.







Lights-Camera-Jackson: "Contagion"



Some serious and sometimes scary films are making their way into the box office for fall. That includes the new movie, "Contagion," which is about the spread of a lethal virus and the global pandemic that follows. At the heart of the story is an ever day guy who is immune to the illness. Here to talk to us about this film that hopes to infect us with thrills is Lights Camera Jackson.







Pet Pointers: Animals helping kids with autism



New research suggests pets can help people with a wide variety of issues including kids with autism and ADD. In this edition of Pet Pointers, Lisa Chelenza introduces us to a dog doing just that.







Healthy Living: First responder approaches 9/11 anniversary with concerns



September 11th first responder Marvin Bethea has long struggled to receive worker’s compensation for the sickness he’s suffered after the attacks on the World Trade Center, and though he’s made strides, he still worries for his future. Susan Jhun reports.







EW Movie Review:  September 11th tragedy spans film genres



In the 10 years since the World Trade Center attacks, artists of every medium have tried to make sense of the tragedy in their own ways, including film. Neil Rosen filed the following report.







Tech Beat: "Tribute In Light" faces dim future



The Tribute in Light installation has been a memorable part of 9/11 anniversaries, but its future is uncertain due to funding concerns. Adam Balkin filed the following report.












Recipe: Beef Tacos with Fresh Corn and Zucchini



Seasonal version of a favorite recipe!











Recipe: Chicken with Prosciutto, Mesclun and Grated Parmesan Cheese



A great summertime meal!











Fresh Corn Polenta with Italian Sausage, Tomato, Eggplant and Zucchini Stew



Tasty, rustic Italian late summer meal!














Secretary of State details new counterterrorism plans at John Jay College



Secretary of State Hillary Clinton returned to New York Friday, unveiling counterterrorism plans and remembering lower Manhattan in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks. Our Josh Robin was at John Jay College for her address.










Joe Bruno reflects back on 9/11



As we get closer to the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, many people are looking back on that day. Joe Bruno was the Senate Majority Leader then.  Capital Tonight's Nick Reisman sat down with Bruno for an exclusive interview to talk about that fateful day.














Shanksville, Pa. victims remembered



Several dozen people were killed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania when United Flight 93 crashed into a field.  Casualties could have been much higher if the passengers hadn't confronted the hijackers. Susan Jhun has more on how the heroism of those men and women is being remembered.










Ceremony held at the Pentagon



Nearly 200 people were killed on the 9/11 in the attack on the Pentagon. Sunday, a somber ceremony was held to remember them. Our Erin Billups has more.










NYPD pays tribute to fallen comrades in blue



Tens of thousands of members of the New York City Police Department took time Sunday to remember those in the department who gave their lives on September 11th.

































Weather





daytime

70s



evening

60s



overnight

50s



morning

70


















7-Day Forecast |Today |Travel |RadarSkytracker |Cameras




































  Healthy Living:    Choosing the right sunscreen




  Recipe:   Beef Tacos with Fresh Corn and Zucchini




  Going Green:    Old newspaper as home insulation




  Travel With Val:    Hidden wineries of Loudoun County




  App Wrap:  "9/11 Memorial: Past, Present, And Future," "9/11 Memorial Guide," "World Trade Center 360 Virtual Tour"  


























Home
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Information
Site Map


Copyright © 2003-2011 TWEAN News Channel of Syracuse L.L.C d.b.a. YNN. All Rights Reserved.
Web production by Tipit — Powered by News Gecko

10.11.12.44









Save as my preferred location




New York
Southern Tier
Binghamton/OneontaElmira/Corning 
Central New York
Syracuse/Oswego/Auburn Ithaca/Cortland Utica/Rome/Mohawk Valley 
Northern New York
Watertown/Fort DrumNorth Country/Tri-Lakes 
Capital Region
Albany/Schenectady/TroySaratoga/North CountryAmsterdam/Mohawk ValleyBerkshire County, MA





New York
Western NY
Finger LakesRochesterBataviaBuffalo
Hudson Valley
Orange/Dutchess/Ulster/Sullivan

Texas
Central Texas
Austin/Round Rock/San MarcosWaco/Temple/Killeen



view all regions >>

































         













