Isle of Wight Hotel, The Royal. One of the finest Isle of Wight Hotels













Home
Rooms
        

Premier Rooms
Deluxe Rooms
Family Rooms
Classic Rooms



Dining
        

The Appuldurcombe Restaurant
Hambrough Bar & Terrace
Riviera Terrace
Afternoon Tea
Conferences & Banqueting
Royal Outside Catering
Meet the Team



Latest Offers & Events

Monthly Special Offers
The Royal Revival
IWYT Gala Dinner
A Royal Christmas
Royal Events


Prices
Gallery
Location
        

Ventnor, Isle of Wight
Getting to the Royal Hotel
Exciting Reasons to Visit Ventnor
Activities & Places to Visit



About
        
        

The Royal Hotel Experience
The Royal Hotel Gardens
Going Green at The Royal
Career Opportunities



Contact
BOOK ONLINE NOW







Welcome to The Royal, one of the leading Four Star Isle of Wight Hotels
The Royal Hotel is one of the Isle of Wight's Best Kept Secrets – a refined and elegant historic jewel and a destination for the discerning traveller for more than 150 years. This is the island's leading AA Four Star hotel.
Built in 1832, The Royal is one of the oldest hotels on the island and shares the rare privilege of being one of only 30 hotels to be listed in every Michelin Guide since it was first published in 1911.
Unashamedly old-fashioned, The Royal evokes a sense of a bygone era.  Grand yet intimate, this beautiful early Victorian hotel has 53 bedrooms and is set in sub tropical gardens in the seaside town of Ventnor, on the island's south coast.
Come for the award-winning local food cooked with flair, passion and artistry; warm, attentive service and a beguiling, sought after location – only minutes from inspiring cliff top walks and areas of outstanding natural beauty (AONB) and heritage coast.
The food is fabulous and cake o'clock on the beautiful geranium terrace is an absolute must.' Julia Brookes, The Times 
'The Royal is the isle's grandmother - elegant and truly stylish.'  Tatler Magazine 
'This Victorian icon exudes tranquility and charm.' Alison-Jane Reid, The Lady 
Royal Catering - Outside Catering on the Isle of Wight Our outside catering service provides an unforgettable culinary experience at your wedding or event.
Royal Skiing - Luxury skiing in the French Alps Chalet Royale is our well established luxury ski lodge near Megéve where you can expect outstanding service, food and attention to detail.





Looking for last minute break?
          Contact Us to ask about our discounted offers.

2 AA Rosettes for Outstanding Food 15 Years Running.

Elegant well appointed rooms each with their own unique style.


            Enter Your Email Address to Sign Up to our Mailing List

 



Read reviews of The Royal Hotel



Traveller Review
"We fully endorse what others have said about about the staff who, without exception, we found to be friendly, helpful and efficient and were porobably the outstanding feature of our stay. The food, too, was of an exceptional quality and matched the service.
"








Home
Rooms
Dining
Deals, Offers & Events
Prices
Gallery
Location
About
Contact
BOOK ONLINE NOW
 Links
 Careers



The Royal Hotel, Belgrave Road, Ventnor, Isle Of Wight PO38 1JJ. Tel: 01983 852 186. Fax: 01983 855 395Web Design By Matrix Create

