Texas wildfires destroy more than 1,000 homes | AP | 09/06/2011






















Mobile
Home Delivery







 Sep 12, 8:37 AM | Traffic





			Search for :

 

South Jersey news


									
 - Mob Scene


									
 - Jobs
 






















News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Restaurants & Food
Living
Video
Classifieds
Dealyo



 South Jersey
 Weather
 Nation
 World
 Lottery
 Politics
 Religion
 Weird News
 Blogs
 Editorial
 Education
 Health
 Obituaries







  Eagles news 
  Eagles videos
  NFL scores
  Buy tickets
  High school 
  College 
  Golf, boxing, auto 




  Phillies news 
  Phillies videos
  Minor Leagues
  MLB scores
  Buy tickets
  Sixers news 
  Sixers videos




  Flyers news 
  Flyers videos
  Union news 
  Play fantasy sports 
  Forums 
  Columnists 
  Sports blogs 









  Latest health news 
  Onco Girl
  Planet of the Apes
  CheckUp
  Steve & Mia
  Green 




  Living 
  Weddings
  Announcements
  Pets 
  PhillyDawg
  Puppy Steps




  Travel 
  Down the Shore
  Home & Design 
  Kiss the Earth
  Mirror Image 









  Philly Dealyo 
  Today's Deal
  Sportswear 
  Pro Team Apparel
  High School Apparel




  Ticket Search 
  Sporting Events
  Concert Tickets
  Theater Tickets
  Search All Events




  Enter Contests 
  Find Coupons 
  Inquirer Store 
  Newspaper Deals 









  Latest food news 
  The Insider blog
  Restaurants 
  Craig LaBan reviews
  City Paper's Meal Ticket blog 




  In the Kitchen 
  Find a recipe
  Locavore 
  Healthfully 




  Beverages 
  Joe Sixpack
  Craig LaBan on drinks
  Good Eggs 
  Food People 









  News and feature video 
  Mob Scene
  Entertainment video 
  Gossip
  Movie trailers




  Food videos 
  Philly Uncorked
  Two Guys on Beer
  Living videos 
  SnapGlowTv
  Down the Shore




  Sports videos 
  Phillies videos
  Eagles videos
  Union videos
  College videos
  High school videos









  Latest news 
  PhillyDeals 
  PhillyInc 
  Highest-paid CEOs 




  Your Money 
  Inquiring Consumer
  Jobbing
  Michelle Singletary






  Your Tech 
  Gizmo
  Business travel 
  Top Workplaces 









  Comics 
  Comics Kingdom
  Movies 
  Find a theater
  Buy tickets
  Flickgrrl
  On Movies
  City Paper's Critical Mass blog 
  Contests 
  Philly101: Back to College 




  Celebrities 
  PhillyGossip
  Sideshow
  Music & Nightlife 
  In the Mix
  Books 
  Phrequency 
  Events calendar 
  City Paper's Win blog 




  Style 
  Television 
  Ellen Gray on TV
  Eye of the Storm
  Dave on Demand
  The Arts 
  ArtsWatch
  PhillyStage
  Dear Abby 
  Horoscopes 









  Jobs 
  Find a Job
  Post my Resume
  Career Fairs
  Post a Job 
  Employers 




  Search Cars 
  Auto Reviews
  Find a Dealer
  Recreational Vehicles
  Gas Prices
  Sell Vehicles 




  Homes 
  Search Real Estate
  Search Rentals
  Commercial Property
  Open Houses
  List a Property 




  Marketplace 
  Search Classifieds
  Find a Pet
  Shop Merchandise
  Events & Notices
  Place an Ad 
























 









email



print



font size












 

options
 


















 Alberto MartInez 

 Texas Gov. Rick Perry speaks  to media after tasking an aerial tour of the fire devastation at Steiner Ranch, a residential development in Austin, Texas.  (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Alberto MartInez )  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY



1 of 2
View images

 








			
			ALSO ON PHILLY.COM
		

 Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes
 Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze
 Texas fires destroy 1,000 homes
 Wildfires in Bastrop area 30 percent contained
 Central Texas wildfires destroy nearly 1,400 homes






PHILLY.COM's TOP FIVE PICKS
	



			
							In NYC, relatives seek a touchstone
						 




			
							Hope and inspiration in remembering FL93
						 




			
							New Yorkers make new 9/11 memories
						 



			
							Chaput's first sermon focuses on forgiveness
						 



			
							Merlino aims for biopic
						 


 
 





						
						Posted on Tue, Sep. 6, 2011


Texas wildfires destroy more than 1,000 homes

JIM VERTUNO and MICHAEL GRACZYK   
The Associated Press


BASTROP, Texas - One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee's winds over the weekend, the blaze burned at least 40 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four."We lost everything," said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a neighborhood near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand.""This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old Clements said.The crisis represents a test of leadership for Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina on Monday to return home. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 25 miles from Austin."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," he said. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of." But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that the governor planned to be at the event.Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being used in the fight."It's more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government," he said. "When you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to. If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that's a problem."White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and "we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires."About 370 firefighters battled the blazes, many of them arriving from out of state after Texas called in help. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft that scooped water 1,500 gallons at a time from lakes took part in the fight."We're getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. Some homes survived; others were gone.Some residents were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods."We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this," said Dave Wilhelm, who lives just east of Bastrop. "All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left."Wilhelm returned on Tuesday to find his neighbor's house and three vehicles gone. Some of his children's backyard toys were destroyed, but the Wilhelm house was spared."Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us," he said. "Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We're definitely very lucky."John Chapman's home on about 20 acres was only singed a little bit and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a '57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: "You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.""The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I'm not going to worry about it," he said.About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires."The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.",,,Also contributing to this story were AP reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop. Michael Graczyk reported from Houston.


















CURRENTLY SHOWING ON PHILLY.COM
	






 
 

								South Jersey twins' special relationship
					












 
 

								Down The Shore: A Day at The Chelsea
					












 
 

								Mob Scene: Lawyer chooses self-defense
					












 
 

								Gossip: A Harlem globetrotter does cool tricks!
					












 
 

								One Great Idea: Joseph Conti
					








 



















Advertise Here 











 
Lingerie football opener
  
Scenes from Sept. 11, 2001
  
2011 Naked Bike Ride


 



 
9/11 recalled around globe
  
Fearsome flooding
  
New York Fashion Week Sp 2012


 



			SHADES OF PHILLY'S PAST
	

 
1950s Inquirer ads
  
1960s Inquirer ads
  
History of Philly crime
  
Updated: Places not forgotten


 













 
 
John Baer
 Flood worse, times better 







 
 
Kevin Riordan
 In Shanksville, a widow recalls the hero she lost 







 
 
Monica Yant Kinney
 A reverse twist on medical insurance 







 
 
Stu Bykofsky
 Death silences a give-back guy 





			Latest Blog Posts
	

 
Blinq:   "They're ba-a-a-a-ck!"
 -
					 			   

	
			
	 		
	
					 8:25am
		
	
	
	

								

 
Scene on the Road:   Remembering September 11
 -
					 			   

	
			
	 		
	
					 3:08am
		
	
	
	

								

 
Attytood:   Buy my book, now in paperback, and support me while I'm unemployed (for 4 days)
 -
					 			   

	
			
	 		
	
					 12:58am
		
	
	
	

								

 
PhillyConfidential:   Man shot in Overbrook is second killed tonight in West Phila.
 -
					 			   

	
			
	 		
	
					 09/11/2011		
	
	
	

								

 
The Daily Delco:   Six men injured in Chester shooting
 -
					 			   

	
			
	 		
	
					 09/11/2011		
	
	
	

								


More blogs »







































Viewed
Shared 





 

	New Jersey woman admits hiring hit man with stolen credit cards


 

	Eagles pass messy first test


 

	Eagles report card


 

	Inside the Phillies: Just how many wins over 100 can the Phillies go?


 

	Cliff Robertson, who played JFK in 'PT-109,' dies


 

	Inside the Flyers:  Revamped Flyers are ready to start camp and get answers to questions


 

	What I saw: Eagles vs. Rams


 

	Comics Kingdom


 

	Defensive line shines in Eagles win


 

	Eagles-Rams Report Card


» More Most Viewed





 

	Monica Yant Kinney: A reverse twist on medical insurance


 

	Along Broad Street, across the city and beyond, we'll see a host of new restaurants from stars and rising talents.


 

	Sunoco's Elsenhans a high-octane CEO


 

	Reclaiming its place on the world stage


 

	A wave of productions will show why Philadelphia's dance scene is among the best.


 

	Is this why the GOP wants to hinder consumer bureau's startup?


 

	PhillyDeals: King of Prussia's new Kynetic L.L.C. among the top private Internet firms


 

	New Jersey woman admits hiring hit man with stolen credit cards


 

	In tune with gardens' founder


 

	Five men die in Philadelphia in separate shootings


» More Most Emailed



  

















  Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes 
  Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze 
  Texas fires destroy 1,000 homes 
  Wildfires in Bastrop area 30 percent contained 
  Central Texas wildfires destroy nearly 1,400 homes 
























today's   Philly.com poll
	

Did 9/11 really change America?





 

Yes, we share a common goal of fighting terrorism
No, political and social divisions even greater
Yes, but only for air travelers
No, the sense of unity lasted only briefly
View results










 TODAY'S PHILLY.COM VIDEOS


  McLane: Vick Carries Eagles to Victory 
  Gelb: Phils Fail to Sweep Brewers 
  Fish Fossil 
  Oscar contenders - Fall Arts 
  The TV male - Fall Arts 

More videos »









			Philly.com Promotions
	
 
  Philly.com Contests
  Philly Dealyo
  Philadelphia Visitors Guide
  Philadelphia Restaurants
  Philadelphia Sports
  Buy Phillies Tickets
  Buy Eagles Tickets








 latest   photo galleries


  Nation remembers 9/11 
  Eagles 31, Rams 13 
  Remembering 9/11 
  Brewers 3, Phillies 2 
  Haven: The Costanzas' Collegeville mill house 
  Phillies 3, Brewers 2 






 






Philly.com:


News
															 | 
						
															Sports
													
																				 | 
						
															Business
													
																				 | 
						
															What's Happening
													
																				 | 
						
															Restaurants & Food
													
																				 | 
						
															Entertainment
													
																				 | 
						
															Living
													
																				 | 
						
															Marketplace
													
																				 | 
						
															Jobs
													




Site Services:
 

Advertise on Philly.com


									
 | View print ads and special sections


									
 | Mobile Edition


									
 | Apps


									
 |   News In Education
 



The Inquirer:


The Inquirer Digital
| Columns
				| Subscriber Services




Daily News:


Daily News Digital
| Columns
				| Subscriber Services




Classifieds:
 

Jobs


									
 | Cars on AutoTrader.com


									
 | Real Estate


									
 | Rentals


									
 | Marketplace


									
 | Celebrations
 



Partners:
 

Phrequency


									
 | Philadelphia City Paper


									
 | Philly Dealyo


									
 | Taste of Philadelphia


									
 | Parade Magazine
 



Local Services:
 

Mattress Factory
 



About Philly.com | Contact Us | 
			Terms of Use & Privacy Statement |
			Copyright 2011

Latest News Feed          All RSS Feeds
			   RSS Terms of Use

 
 



 












