eLetters - powered by FeedBurner
&



eLetters

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get eLetters delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Coffman’s call to pull Peace Corps out of China (2 letters)


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:01:22 +0000
Re: “Colorado Rep. Mike Coffman wants Peace Corps out of China,” Sept. 2 news story.

I strongly disagree with Congressman Mike Coffman’s wish to remove the Peace Corps from China. I believe the Peace Corps’ presence benefits both the USA’s future economic growth and our national security.
As China’s wealth increases, more than a billion potential customers will be looking around the world for products and services to buy. The more Chinese who speak English (and Americans who speak Chinese), the greater our ability to expand our presence in this traditionally closed society.
As far as our national security, I believe the Peace Corps volunteers’ presence does more to promote our security through building friendship and trust than any military weapon ever will. The China Peace Corps budget of $2.9 million is trivial compared to the total federal budget, especially when compared to the benefits.
I certainly agree with the congressman that there are plenty of wasteful programs in the budget, but the Peace Corps is not one of them.
Brian Rothkopf, Centennial
This letter was published in the Sept. 12 edition.


As a former Peace Corps China volunteer, I strongly disagree with Congressman Mike Coffman’s opposition to the program. The volunteers serve mainly students from underdeveloped rural areas who are first-generation college students. One of the explicit goals of the program is to instill critical thinking skills in these university students, skills that most have never learned before.
China and the United States are going to be together on the world stage for many years to come. Does it not make sense to encourage critical thinking and improved communication skills in Chinese young people, a development that will likely benefit both nations?
President Kennedy founded the Peace Corps in 1961 to encourage Americans to serve the world in development and peace. Is China not an excellent and important country with which to work towards these goals?
Ginger Tanton, Chicago
This letter was published in the Sept. 12 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.




Degree? Check. Hard work? Check. Job? Job?


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:00:16 +0000
I’ve been looking for work since 2009. I am well-educated, passionate, and very eager to put my skills to use in my community. So, I’m writing to ask: Where are the jobs for educated young workers in Colorado?
I graduated from the University of Denver two years ago with a master’s degree in international studies and have yet to procure a job. My student loans have been deferred as long possible, and every month I see the interest compound upon itself. I have done sporadic temp work to avoid homelessness, with no real career opportunities on the horizon. Remember when society told you that if you worked hard, got good grades and had the drive, you could live the American dream? I did that. Instead, like many young Americans, I am treated like a disposable worker. Where is the future career I dangled in front of myself as motivation all these years? Will I ever get a job with good benefits like a secure retirement or paid sick days?
I know I’m not alone in this. Our stories need to be heard. If you have a story like mine, or are a struggling young worker, please let your voice be heard. Write to your elected officials, write to The Denver Post, do something, say something. This problem won’t be resolved unless we stand together.
The U.S. economy remains mired in a devastating jobs crisis and those who need help the most are being ignored.
Romina Halabi, Denver
This letter was published in the Sept. 12 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





No need for another drugged-driving law


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:00:06 +0000
Re: “Legal limit for driving stoned,” Sept. 7 editorial.

The imposition of a per se standard for the presence of marijuana’s primary psychoactive ingredient, THC, in blood is a solution in search of a problem.
There is no need for state lawmakers to impose this arbitrary, unscientific and inflexible regulation.
According to the U.S. National Highway Safety Traffic Administration, driving fatality rates in Colorado fell more than 20 percent between 1994 and 2009 — at a time when medical marijuana authorizations were rising. Further, state law enforcement already has the legal authority to collect THC blood specimens of suspected DUI marijuana drivers and prosecutors presently use these results as evidence in drugged-driving prosecutions.
This evidence, along with additional evidence gathered at the scene, provide the state with sufficient tools to effectively prosecute and convict drivers who engage in DUI marijuana behavior. 
The present law criminalizing drugged-driving behavior is sufficient.
Paul Armentano, Washington, D.C.
The writer is deputy director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML).
This letter was published in the Sept. 12 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Rep. Mike Coffman’s plan for cutting U.S. military spending (3 letters)


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:08:26 +0000
Re: “How to cut the defense budget,” Sept. 4 Perspective article by Rep. Mike Coffman.
Bravo, Congressman Mike Coffman! The Defense Department, like everything else in the federal government, has been supersized. Put it on a diet. Our NATO “allies” are really among our biggest welfare cases. By all means, return to the notion of a “citizen militia” through the National Guard and Reserve.
Gargantuan, professional and standing armies are, I fear, as much a threat to our liberties as they are to our nation’s enemies. “Nation building” for nations that have no desire to be built is a costly and bloody exercise in futility. Instead, find the terrorists. Kill them. And get out.
State Rep. Spencer Swalm, Centennial
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.

Once again, Rep. Mike Coffman has shown he can be clear-headed and dispassionate when looking at ways to cut defense waste that will surely result in helping our country get back on its economic feet.
I now urge him to apply the same clear-headed but compassionate thinking when it comes to the DREAM Act.
Rep. Coffman, show some heart and let these kids — who want nothing more than to be fully realized citizens in all ways — complete their education by attending college here. They are innocent victims and it’s simply unfair and wrong to deny them this opportunity.
Rep. Coffman, your position does not reflect the honored history and tradition of our country’s position toward immigrants. Please think again. 
Chris Angle, Centennial
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.

As a dyed-in-the-wool progressive, I was amazed to find myself nodding my head in agreement with Republican Congressman Mike Coffman’s ideas for reducing our defense budget. I thought they were well thought out and clear. Now let’s hope that they will be adopted as part of the plan to cut our federal deficit and reduce our debt.
Michael Dubrovich, Parker
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Taking away United retirees’ travel benefits


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:07:59 +0000
Re: “Non-binding promises; Retirees fight to keep corporations from taking back benefits that they earned,” Sept. 4 Perspective article.
Thank you for publishing the extremely well-written article regarding the retiree benefits of United Airlines employees. If you haven’t traveled the very bumpy and difficult road of being an airline employee with all of our losses over the years, it is difficult to understand how this loss of a last benefit affected so many of us. But Lisa Wirthman did an excellent job of presenting all aspects of the loss.
I had a wonderful career at United and was blessed with having some of the best people in the world as my fellow employees. It would be so good to be able to see them in retirement, but that last benefit has been stolen by the greed of a large corporation caring little or nothing about former employees. A sad basis for the start of a new airline hoping to build good will with teamwork.
Charlotte O’Donnell, Mount Prospect, Ill.
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.

Lisa Wirthman’s article about United Airlines/Continental decimating retirees’ travel benefits accurately reflects the attitude United/Continental management has towards its retirees. Retirees and long-term employees worked through the good times and the bad while top management grabbed golden parachutes, bonus payments and stock options and then left. Glenn Tilton’s lifetime travel benefit on United won’t see him getting bumped off a flight because a 30-day new hire has boarding priority, but a retiree with 40 years of service will not get a seat ahead of the employee with one month of service.
Brian Wendt, Lincolnshire, Ill.
Michael Dubrovich, Parker
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Sad to see Zaidy’s go


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:06:52 +0000
Re: “Deli on the shopping block,” Sept. 4 Penny Parker column.
Upon reading Penny Parker’s column about Zaidy’s Deli being on the market for sale, I was saddened to think of Zaidy’s being gone. Sure, it may become some other restaurant via the sale, but these “landmark” institutions are disappearing as their owners want to retire.
Somewhere around 50 percent of all businesses in Denver are owned by people who probably will want to retire in the next 10 years, and according to the Small Business Administration, only 3 percent survive even with a sale unless they sell to their employees.
The city needs to do more to educate these owners that selling to their employees is an excellent way to retire and be relatively assured their business will survive.
Dick Peterson, Denver
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Still keeping 9/11 alive, a decade after it happened


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:05:21 +0000
I’m tired of 9/11 and would like to move on.
9/11 was a tragic event for those who perished, and for their loved ones. While those most affected by it won’t put it aside anytime soon, the nation should. Yet we don’t. Why do we keep picking and scratching at the scab?
For one, I believe 9/11, along with the “hallowed ground at ground zero,” is a politician’s candy store. Politicians associate themselves with it, and with the aftermath of it, as much and often as possible. Hyping 9/11 also keeps hundreds of millions of dollars rolling into the coffers of Homeland Security without a whimper from the taxpayers, even though there are many who doubt Homeland Security serves any purpose at all.
Keeping 9/11 alive helps justify our present wars, and the terrible cost to the finest of our young who serve in them. 
Some try to equate the event with Pearl Harbor. Pearl Harbor cast us into a global conflict that put the very existence of our country at stake. It cost millions of wounded and dead. 9/11 is not this. Not anywhere near.
Let’s place 9/11 in perspective with other great challenges our country has faced in the past, and honor it accordingly. 
Bob Benham, Denver
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Using fear of terrorism to protect bottom lines


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:04:43 +0000
Re: “Since 9/11, at least 35,000 terrorism convictions worldwide,” Sept. 4 news story.
Terrorism rhetoric is abused in the United States. Lawmakers feel they must be “tough on terror,” and thus corporations are finding post-9/11 opportunities. The Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act of 2006 exemplifies the use of fear to protect bottom lines. The AETA redefines terrorism as any act that “damages or causes the loss of any real or personal property” of an animal enterprise. It exempts protected speech, but explicitly aims to place business interests on the same level as human life. Influencing a loss of profit is terrorism? Who would agree with that statement? And yet this is where we see our federal agencies focusing their attention.
In this relatively new “green scare,” the FBI is calling animal and environmental activists the No. 1 domestic terror threat. Yet nobody has ever been killed by an environmental activist. So why are we discussing them in the same breath as al-Qaeda?
Mark Hagelberg, Denver
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Higher state taxes: More money to waste?


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:03:42 +0000
Re: “It’s time to talk taxes, Colorado,” Sept. 4 editorial.
I find it ironic that the front-page story last Sunday was all about the wasted Homeland Security grants (“Millions spent after 9/11, but are we really safe?”), while the editorial on the same day says The Post does “not see state government fraught with pork and big-ticket expenses” and therefore urges Colorado taxpayers to increase taxes. 
Call it pork, big-ticket expenses or simply fiscal irresponsibility. The bottom line is that it makes no sense to increase taxes just to give our elected state officials more money to waste (our federal government does enough of that). Let them first get our house in order and show voters they can prudently manage the money we already give them.
Jim Malec, Roxborough
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.





Denver’s tough immigration court (2 letters)


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:02:33 +0000
Re: “Denver’s immigration courts still tough despite new federal policy allowing enforcement discretion,” Sept. 4 news story.
Gilberto Lagunas Rogel should be deported from the United States. He is here illegally in violation of federal laws. It seems we have not learned anything from Sept. 11, 2001. Our southern border is still porous.
Also, immigrants come here under programs such as J-1 visas. Sen. Mark Udall recently criticized the J-1 visa program. The problem is that even people coming here under the J-1 visa program are not tracked to see if they have violated the terms and duration of their stay in the United States.
A number of the terrorists involved in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks had overstayed their visa limits.
Mike West, Westminster
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.

The juxtaposition of the article on the Denver immigration court’s “less-generous” approach to new federal policy and Tina Griego’s column on the Jefferson County court’s thoughtful and successful handling of child support cases (“Court lends support to dads behind in theirs”) was striking.
I hope prosecutors read the Griego column and develop an equally effective, fair and reasonable approach to the exercise of prosecutorial discretion in the enforcement of immigration policies. 
Beth Owens, Castle Rock
This letter was published in the Sept. 11 edition.
For information on how to send a letter to the editor, click here. Follow DPLetters on Twitter to receive updates about new letters to the editor when they’re posted.






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


