GlobeAwake - powered by FeedBurner
&



GlobeAwake

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get GlobeAwake delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



All the World's A Stage for Charlie Sheen: Charlie Sheen Roasted!


Posted: 2011-09-11 15:52:09 UTC-07:00


Photo Credit: AP



The whole world is a stage to Charlie Sheen, no matter how bad things get. After loosing his job on CBS' Two And A Half Men, admitting to weeks and weeks of drug fueled parties and orgies with porn stars living in his home, and giving quasi-psychotic interviews to network news which turned "winning" into one of the biggest pop culture phrases and internet meme's of the year, Charlie still managed to keep a huge smile on his face during his roast on Comedy Central. 

Mike Tyson, William Shatner, actress Kate Walsh took turns taking comedic stabs at the self appointed rocks-star from Mars with tiger's blood and Adonis DNA.


Our two favorite punchlines, cam from comedian Jon Lovitz and from the legendary William Shatner. 



Lovitz quipped, "How much (cocaine) can Charlie Sheen do? Enough to kill two and a half men."



Star Trak icon & current Priceline TV commercial face William Shatner offered Sheen the deal of a life time, telling him he could "book your next rehab stay through Priceline.com." in that famous Shatner straight face. 



Winning, indeed.

Source: Yahoo





Jermaine Jackson says he would have flown Michael to safety!


Posted: 2011-09-11 15:42:49 UTC-07:00




Jermaine Jackson, brother to pop music's biggest icon Michael Jackson, revealed that he was ready to fly his brother to Bahrain in the event he was convicted during his 2005 trial. Michael Jackson faced a child molestation trial in 2005, of which he was found not-guilty. Had he, however, been found guilty, Jermaine claims he would have had his brother flown to Bahrain, which does not have an extradition treaty with the United States, effectively allowing his brother to become an exile. 

"Why should he go to jail for something he didn't do?" Jermaine asked.

What's your opinion? Personally we don't think it would have been a wise decision. Jackson's immense legacy was already slightly tarnished by the accusations. And although if he had been convicted of the allegations in 2005, even if wrongfully, becoming an exile and running from the country probably would have effectively ruined the legacy he left behind. What are your thoughts. Share them!





Artist of the Day: Beyonce Knowles


Posted: 2011-09-11 16:10:53 UTC-07:00




In honor of her amazing tribute to the victims of 9/11, and her unbelievably big heart, we couldn't help but make Beyonce our artist for the day. Since her debut in the late 1990's with the R&B supergroup Destiny's Child, Beyonce has risen to become one of the most unstoppable forces in music today. Continuously releasing successful album after album, she has quickly become one of the benchmarks of the music industry. She is, without a doubt, the current standard for female performers and even inspires her male counterparts to reach her level. Dubbed "Queen B" by her fans, she truly is the Queen of the music industry, delivering lush gorgeous performances, and jaw-dropping, heart-pounding dance extravaganzas! She has delivered hit after hit, ranging from pulsating irresistible club-bangers, to sweet, lucid, & introspective ballads. Her voice can be at once a sweet whisper, or a ranging hurricane-force blast; she switches from genre to genre effortlessly. As a performer she has the type of energy that commands stadiums full of people into a frenzy similar to that of the great performers who came before her. Without a doubt, she will become one of the legends of her time. We could type a book of things here to further display the genius and legendary potential of this woman, which is being realized each day...but we'll let her work speak for itself. Here's some of our favorite tracks, from Youtube:







































Here's the 9/11 tribute which we spoke of, which will certainly bring tears to your eyes! What a beautiful spirit she has to dedicate this lovely song to the lives and families of those who were lost in 9/11:








All of this combined makes Beyonce today's Artist of the Day! 

What are your opinions! Chime in with your thoughts!!!





Tribute on the Anniversary of September 11


Posted: 2011-09-11 14:38:14 UTC-07:00




It is tragic that we still live in a world where terrorism appears to 
be considered a valid means. Today, New York City is on high alert against potential terrorist activity. This threat comes on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack on American soil, and perhaps one of the worst tragedies in recent history. This attack comprised of the complete destruction of the two towers of the World Trade Center and portions of the Pentagon using airplanes; it has forever been memorialized as September 11. A fourth plane crashed into a field, although it's target has been postulated to have been a number of national landmarks and important government landmarks. Thousands of lives were lost. A war on terror, which spawned several battles and skirmishes in overseas locales was started. A new level of barbaric violence was breached by those who committed the crime, and a renewed international fear was spawned in those who were affected by it.

In the hindsight, the question begs to be asked: what is terrorism and the attacks associated with it supposed to accomplish? What is it a means to? Terrorism does help the forces and people who commit the acts; 
instead it results in these forces being wiped out by the major 
super-powers in the world who will not stand for terrorist acts. 
Terrorism does not assist in the spreading of the purported "cause" of 
terrorist groups. In fact, nobody wants to hear about the reasons 
terrorists use to justify their atrocities. Violent intentional attacks 
which result in severe and significant loss of life are never going to be
 validated, for any reason. It serves no purpose, but to 
further perpetuate violence. Violence begets more violence, and more 
violence, and responsive violence. War begets war. It is a constant 
cycle. Nothing can be accomplished by bloodshed, except the smearing and spilling of 
more blood, most of which is innocent. Yet terrorists continue to act 
out in violence against innocent groups and innocent people. When 
considering September 11th for instance, one has to ask what precisely 
was accomplished by killing thousands of innocent people. One horrible 
atrocity did not in any way accelerate the cause of the terrorists who 
committed it. If anything it ended up in their group and their cause being wiped out, and thousands of innocent lives were lost. 
Terrorists even use religious writ as validation for their horrid cause.
 However, the religious ideas used by terrorists are usually twisted, 
sick, psychotic perceptions that don't even fit in with the original 
religious ideas which were skewed and misinterpreted to support the vile
 acts. One would
 think if these people have the intelligence to create complex plans of 
violence and bloodshed, they could use that same intelligence and means 
to get their grievances, whatever they might be, heard on an 
international scale. No, there will never be an excuse for terrorism! No matter how much you ask: "Why", the only answer that comes to mind is the answer that the butler Alfred gave to Bruce Wayne, in the movie "The Dark Knight".

"Some men...just want to watch the world burn". 

We must learn as a human race, if we are to create a pattern of peace and survival for our children, that bloodshed
 will never lead to peace. Bloodshed will only beget responsive 
bloodshed. War will only beget war. Terrorism is and never will be a acceptable, no matter the cause, reason, or opinion. It is sick and vile.

On September 11, 2011, we lost thousands of lives which can never be brought back. Lives which were innocent and did not deserve to die in such a brutal attack. We remember those lives lost and offer our sympathy, love, and condolences to those families, because we realize no matter how much time goes by...they will never forget. And we, as a nation, must never forget as well.

Ten years have gone by since that tragedy, and we have grown as a nation, slowly, but steadily. Times have changed, people have changed, ideas have changed, gradually. We each were reminded on that day that we are, collectively, only human, and were shown the depths of the human capacity for violence and evil. What we learned, and are still learning, is to move toward to heights of the human capability to be instruments of peace and beacons of lights. We have learned that only by harmony, and harmonious interaction, will we be able to continue as a human race. This is a timeless idea, one that has been preached over and over by those who came before us, but in our lifetime and in our generation, it took this tragedy to remind us.

Today, on the ten year anniversary of September 11, we remember those lives which were lost on that day, and the lives of the troops which were lost in the battles which followers. We offer our love and support to the families of those whose lives were lost, knowing that the space left behind by their loves one will never be replaced. Finally, we offer a prayer, a prayer that is without religious affiliation...a simple human prayer that each of us will learn that as a human race, it is only love, unity, and progression that will allow us to continue as a species and as inhabitants of the Earth.

T.C., Editor-in-Chief











Artist of the Day: Little Dragon


Posted: 2011-09-10 22:54:26 UTC-07:00




Our GlobeAwake Culture Corner Artist of the Day is Little Dragon. Little Dragon is a swedish electronic band formed in 1996. Comprised of Yukimi Nagano, Erik Bodin (drums), Fredrik Källgren Wallin (bass) and Håkan Wirenstrand. The group came to international prominence after their first single "Twice" was featured on an episode of ABC's Grey's Anatomy. They have since received much acclaim and recognition and continue to build a fanbase and following. Here are some of our favorite songs by the group:

Twice: 





Constant Surprises:





Stormy Weather:





After the Rain:





Here's some of the solo work from the group's lead singer Yukimi Nagano:

Summer Sun:











What do you think about them? Add your input and share your opinion!





Amy Winehouse's parents talk about her death and her legacy in interview!


Posted: 2011-09-10 23:01:52 UTC-07:00




TMZ shares video from an interview given by Amy Winehouse's parents regarding her death. Amy's death was such a tragic loss not only to her and friends, but to the world who she touched and who identified with her in a plethora of ways from her more serious struggles with drugs and alcohol, to her more common place struggles with love, life, and relationships. Amy touched people in a variety of ways, primarily because she was so very human and so very flawed; we each could see ourselves in her art in some kind of way.

We suggest taking a look at the interview, hosted by Anderson Cooper, for more information about Amy and what plan are for continuing her legacy in music and in the world. 





Shocker! Jackie Kennedy Onassis didn't like Martin Luther King!


Posted: 2011-09-10 23:01:19 UTC-07:00






video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player


Beloved Former First Lady & style trendsetter Jackie Kennedy-Onassis thought that civil rights activist and one of America's shining beacons of peace, Martin Luther King, was "terrible". This according to ABC News, who has released information from newly released interviews. "I just can't see a picture of Martin Luther King without thinking, you know, that man's terrible". Representative John Lewis, a legendary civil rights activist and a close friend of King's, says that the Former First Lady was against King primarily because of stories told to her by FBI Director, J Edgar Hoover, who told Robert Kennedy that King had made deragatory comments regarding President Kennedy's funeral. "He did everything possible to make Dr. King look like somebody from 
another planet. I cannot believe that Dr. King 
ever said anything in a negative manner about President Kennedy.  He 
admired, he loved … the Kennedy family."

Mrs. Kennedy-Onassis said, "He made fun of Cardinal Cushing and said that he was drunk at it. And 
things about they almost dropped the coffin and -- well, I mean Martin 
Luther King is really a tricky person.". She went on to say, "


Her daughter, Caroline Kennedy, defends her saying: "Obviously J. Edgar Hoover had passed on something that Martin Luther 
King said about my father's funeral, to Uncle Bobby and to Mommy. And 
obviously, she was upset about that. It shows you the poisonous activities of J. Edgar Hoover, and the 
idea that this is going on at the highest levels of government is really
 twisted. If you asked her what she thought of Martin Luther King overall -- I mean she admired him tremendously,".

Michael Beschloss, a historian, claims that Hoover was purposefully trying to turn the Kennedy's against Martin Luther King, by feeding her information that he knew would instantly anger her.

Mrs Kennedy-Onassis, did however say her husband refused to judge King based on what the tapes contained, stating: "He said what an incredible speaker he was during that freedom march thing".

Diane Sawyer will be leading a two hour special entitled "Jacqueline Kennedy: In Her Own Words which will air Tuesday, September 13, 2011 at 9:00 p.m. Eastern.

Stories like this are a sad reminder of a country's racist and prejudiced past, and an even sadder reminder that some of the people who are most admired from generations past and who have become icons, were still party to the negative ideas of the time. What is your opinion? Was Mrs. Kennedy-Onassis really sharing her own opinion on King...a real opinion. Or was she in fact under the poisonous misinformation of J Edgar Hoover.

Chime in with your thoughts!





Family doesn't want pictures of whale-trainers death released


Posted: 2011-09-10 21:56:55 UTC-07:00
Dawn Brancheau was a Seaworld Orlando trainer who was attacked by killer whale Tilikum, during a show on February 24, 2010. The Orlando Sentinel is now reporting that her mother, brother, and sister are fighting against U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration to prevent them from releasing copies of videos or pictures depicting her death or the attempts to revive her. Her lawyers say the photos and videos are of no value to the public. Her lawyers say the family have a "deeply personal and intimate privacy interest" in protecting the videos from the public. They previously won an injunction against the Orange County Sheriff's Office, to prevent them from releasing photos and videos taken on the scene.

We can't understand why anyone would want pictures or videos of her brutal attack and death, or attempts to revive her, released to the public. Obviously authorities may need the videos or pictures to file the case in future situations, and we can imagine that scientists who work with whales or aquarium planners might observe the video to try to figure out what went wrong and how to protect trainers in the future, but we can imagine a reason for these images or videos to be available to the general public.

What is your opinion? Is the release of these videos and pictures acceptable? Or is the family absolutely right and should the privacy of their loved one be respected. 





Tiger kills mate in a "love triangle" of the animal kingdom!


Posted: 2011-09-10 21:35:51 UTC-07:00


Photo credit: AP


 Fits of pique and jealousy ending in the doom of a lover are not only limited to the human species. It even happens in the animal kingdom as well. 

Yahoo is reporting that a female tiger, a 3-year old Malaysian tiger named Seri, killed her mate, 6-year old Wuzi. Both tigers were lent to El Paso Zoo as part of American Zoo Association's Species Survival Plan, designed to save critically endangered species through captive breeding. Originally there had been believed to be no signs of aggression leading to the attack reported. However, it is now being reported that in June, zoo authorities recognized what they terms a "tiger love triangle" between Wuzi, Seri, and the much older 15 year old female Meli.

Wuzi, the male, liked both females Seri and Meli. However, Seri and Meri did not like each other, with zoo authorities calling them "jealous". Doesn't sound like something to different from the human species. We've heard of and seen several instances of jealousy between a young beautiful lady and a older, more experienced "cougar". Occasionally, there's a man involved, and there have been instances when things have turned violent.

Seems like humans and animals are not that different at all. What are your thoughts?





Adele is Making Talent Cool Again


Posted: 2011-09-10 20:54:23 UTC-07:00
Pop radio in these days are at all time low. With every song being a dance record of sorts, one could literally sing the lyrics of four separate songs within the Hot 100 and not realize they are all indeed different songs. Heavy synthesizers, fist pumping bass lines, and auto tune vocals make records these days quite predictable. And then there is Adele.Adele reached success with "Chasing Pavements" on her first album "19". With her voice strong, and almost squeaky in a sense, the British singer won the hearts of many. She relies on belting out astonishing phrases of witty self-pinned lyrics coming only from true experiences. But even with such an abundance of raw talent, many wouldn't expect Miss Adkins to become the-dare I say-'pop star' she is now.She simply does not fit into the cookie cutter of such a title. There is no gimmick within the "Rolling in the Deep" singer's act. She wears black everyday. Her videos are always in a grayish tone . And her live performances consist of her standing at a mic, and sending her audience into a trance of memorized trances by doing nothing other than singing. The success of her latest LP is undeniable. While breaking global music records, with only two singles, "21" is surely a classic album to be remembered for all time.  Pure music is her aim.  Adele is more than a breathe of fresh air. She is the first gust of wind newly released prisoner feels upon becoming free. He knows that such movement of air hitting his face is real, yet not always promised. Adele intrigues me, as she does many-simply because she has shown true talent can shine through the polluted airwaves of the radio. She excites me for the future of the music industry. Just think of how the industry itself works. One iconic-ish pop star creates tremendous sucess, while many labels try to emulate one of their own to compete.  It has happened with Madonna, Janet Jackson, Lauryn Hill, Beyonce, Britney Spears, and countless other influential icons in music. The record labels must be taking notes.I for one am excited of the idea of record labels searching for talented, humble, and sexually conservative acts. What do you think? Will Adele's overwhelming success bring music industry back to..well..music?





Music Corner: Jodeci, H-Town, and Pretty Ricky combine to create an outdated, over-sexed megazord!


Posted: 2011-09-09 15:49:37 UTC-07:00




No words:






Apparently they were bridging the gap between old school sex-obsessed r&b groups and new school sex-obsessed r&b groups. We can't imagine any women who are actually turned on by this though.

Now, all we need to see is a Bobby Brown & Omarion video...to complete the shudder factor.





Terrorist Threats put the nation on edge again! What is our response?


Posted: 2011-09-11 14:01:29 UTC-07:00



The Washington Report shares that security has been tightened in New York and Washington DC after threats of a vehicle-born bomb on the 10th Anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. US officials received a "credible, but unconfirmed" threat of an attempt to use a car bomb in New York or Washington D.C. Checks of bridges, tunnels, airports, bus and rail sites, buildings, and landmarks have increased, coupled with checkpoints and location sweeps, as well as the removal of unauthorized or illegally parked vehicles. Officer presence has increased on the streets and in locations suspected to be a potential target, with some officers working 12 hour shifts. Staten Island's New York 1 News covers the checkpoints in a video story.

The threat is believed to have originated from a source in Afghanistan who has provided reliable information to authorities before. U.S. intelligence further says that a number of individuals, one of whom may even be a citizen of this country, may have entered as a part of the plot, but cannot confirm the validity of this possibility. 

Law enforcement agencies on the East Coast are running with this information, although is in unconfirmed, and doing the best to create a plan to deal with the situation should it in fact arise. Worry has spread across the country though, as nationwide coverage of the situation has caused slight panic.

It makes us wonder will these threats arise every time the anniversary of September 11th comes around. Or during other times of the year.

And now ten years since one of the most vile acts, there are people still looking to kill or threaten innocent people. It's a tragic affair.

What is your opinion. Is our country's response to terrorism diligent enough. Will terrorism ever end? Will there ever be a global response big enough to deal with this?

Share your opinion? How should our country deal with terrorist threats and actions? How do you feel knowing that threats of terrorism still haunt us? Chime in with your opinion and thoughts.





Get the perfect body and maintain it during the lazy winter season!


Posted: 2011-09-09 14:06:59 UTC-07:00




Staying in shape is one of the obsessions of most people in America. Everybody wants a beautiful body. Women want to be slim and in-shape like the Hollywood beauties they see on television, and men want to be rugged and masculine like the Adonis types spotted in Abercrombie ads. Yet we rarely put in the work necessary to get into the shape we desire. The fall and winter seasons make it even harder to maintain good shape, as people wear more and more form-hiding clothes and therefore feel less of a need to stay in shape. Yet, they regret that decision when they take their clothes off at home and are still confronted by a body that's not desirable. So here's 10 simple ways to achieve the perfect body during the fall and winter:










Develop a healthy body image and perception. The first and most important step to maintaining a good outer physical appearance is altering your internal physical perception to something that is realistic. No matter how amazing your workout session and diet is, if your internal mindset is not a healthy one, you will never be pleased by what you see, which defeats any efforts you put into yourself. This includes clearing your mind of the unrealistic standards of beauty or style displayed by celebrities. Famous people have access to photoshopping, airbrush, lighting, makeup, and other photographic tricks that allow them to look much better than the average person could ever hope to...simply because it's not realistic. Don't believe us? Just check out any candid shots of some of your favorite celebrities and see what they look like without the lights, make up and air brush. And we mean actual candid shots, not the per-rehearsed ones with the perfect outfit and "natural" makeup. You must first accept yourself for who you are and build from where you are, without placing an unrealistic, impossible standard as your goal to attain. Doing that will never allow you to accomplish the body you're looking for.
 
Eat to survive, not to please, gorge, or cover. Here is another major problem. How many of us have seen people fill their plates with food at home or at various get-togethers or restaurants. After stuffing themselves with food, they wonder the weight won't go down. Food can become an addition. It stimulates and pleases the body, and anything that stimulates and pleases the body can, in fact, become addictive. We end up using food as a source of physical pleasure, because of how addictive the pleasure of taste is, and how good it feels to be stuffed to contentment. Food can even become an emotional masking agent. People use the pleasure of food, like a drug, to hide their emotional lack or discontent. How many times have we heard of people stuffing their faces with food when they are unhappy for any number of reasons. We must remember food is NOT meant to be gorged upon like a glutton. Food is not meant to cover emotional unhappiness. Food does have a pleasing effect, but it should not be used for pleasure alon,e like a drug. Eat only enough to survive; to give the body energy to get through your day. Limit your portions. Instead of getting two or three huge spoonfuls, get one. Instead of two or three pieces of meat, try a single piece. Instead of trying everything on the table or at the buffet, limit yourself to a meat, a vegetable, and a bread product, with a dairy product or tea to drink. It may be hard at first as the body becomes addicted to food in huge portions, but wean yourself down to smaller portions. Eat to live, not to glutton.
  






Avoid products heavy on fat. That's not to suggest that you eat only products with "no fat" or "low fat" because most of those products are making unrealistic claims. However, do limit the amount of fat you take into your body. Prefer only lean meat and fish. Avoid red meats and pork, which typically have a higher fat content, and have even been linked to cancer. Avoid meats that are covered in fat or have a high fat content in general. Stick with lean chicken breasts and lean turkey breasts, which have the most lean meat content of the body parts and can be used in a variety of ways from strips to portions to pieces. For fish go for fish with little to no fat. And avoid fish that's been drench-cooked in oil. Try baked. Pay close attention to the fat content of the starches and oiled food you're taking in. You may have to lose some of your favorite foods...but they weren't good for you anyway. 
Limit meat intake. To add to the post above, you might want to limit your meat intake altogether. Believe it or not, those crazy vegetarians 
have a good point. Meat has a much higher fat content than veggies. 
Medical science has also proven that too much meat intake has been 
linked to cancer. Don't believe us? Check it out for yourself at US News.
 Now, we're not saying you must avoid the meat, poultry, and fish altogether, but it might 
be wiser to limit your intake. Instead of huge amounts of meat, take one
 piece. Dont't it all the time. If you use meat in food, use it sparingly.  
Avoid products heavy on sugar. Everyone loves soda/pop. We don't. It has huge amounts of acid and sugar. Too much sugar adds to the body's fat content. The sugar combined with unnecessary amounts of acid also give you greasy, oily, pimple-covered skin. Soda/pop is also highly addictive because of the amount of caffeine in it, so some find it a hard habit to break. Get rid of it though. It's not a natural product, it's processed. And it's not a good source of anything. Wean yourself off and try teas. Preferably green teas (which come in plain green tea flavor or fruit varieties if you need taste) or white teas (which are very light, refreshing and delicious). Also try juices, but stick to natural juices, not juices from concentrate. Removing soda from your diet will leave your skin smoother, remove unnecessary sugars from your body, lower your caffeine level (which is dangerous to blood pressure and the heart), and also leave your feeling lighter and more airy (heavy amounts of sugar make you feel groggy, and all that acid leaves you feeling bloated/heavy). A diet of green/white teas and juices will have you on cloud 9. Trust us. Also limit deserts and candy. Go for more healthy deserts with less sugar. Avoid candy altogether, and replace it with fruits.
Do not leave out certain food groups. This is a problem we all have. We want meat, but no vegetables. Or vegetables but no meat. Or all starch. Or all sweets. It's not good. You typically want to have something from all the food groups or at least the major beneficial ones. That means meat, vegetable, bread, dairy. Since we're taking small portions, if you have small portions of all the food groups, you'll still get a nice meal so you can eat to LIVE and not to gorge. And don't leave out the milk (although we recommend 2% or skim). Unless you're lactose intolerant.  








Don't believe the diet hype. People are killing themselves, literally, to try and get the perfect figure. These crash diets don't work, mainly because when you try to starve your body the body goes into survival mode and limits the amount of fat it burns as it thinks it is in danger of actual starvation. By limiting the fat it burns, the body keeps itself alive by making it's fat a reserve, instead of an available resource. So the crash diet hype is just that...a hype that ends in a crash. Starving yourself isn't healthy, and these crazy diets claiming they can help you lose so many pounds by eating their amazing product or pill are foolishness as well. All you need to do is limit the fatty foods you eat, eliminate over-abundance of sugars, caffeine, and acid, and eat in small portions, using food as life source not as a drug. You'll be well on your way to healthily dropping pounds. Weight loss must be gradual and steady, otherwise even after loosing pounds you'll gain them right back because the body won't be accustomed to the necessary eating habits, and the body's internal mechanism won't shift to more healthy calorie consumption/fat burning. 
Get off your tuckus and walk more. Vehicles like cars, trains, and buses have made the need for humans to use their body to get around distances beyond their house almost impossible. We leave our house, and get in a car to drive around the block...a distance we could have walked that would have given our legs and even upper body the workout it needs to burn some of the calories and fat we have taken into our bodies. We take buses to go a mile away. A mile...barely 8 city blocks. Sure, if you're in a hurry or elderly it might not be wise to walk a mile. But every now and then a few city blocks won't hurt you. We have become so dependent on machines that we rarely use our bodies to do anything. So get off your tuckus and do something. Instead of driving to the store...walk to the store. Instead of getting delivery to carry those bags, carry them yourself, or take your grocery stroller. Instead of driving to the places you go in your every day life, try walking sometime. Limit your usage of cars, buses, and trains to distances over a mile. If you can walk, do so. 
Use your whole body to walk. Most people just use their legs to walk, while everything from the hips or even thighs up is slumped, motionless, and lazy. Stop that. Correct your posture when you walk. Keep a straight back, chest up and up, shoulders back, head up. Activate the entire body when walking, so as to avoid having developed legs, but a weak, large upper body. Believe it or not, changing your walk to a stride versus a drag will help keep your entire body active and well developed. 
Exercise. This is the main problem. Most people sit on their bums all day waiting for a magical machine to come along and do the exercise for them. Tip: only elderly people and those in hospitals or hospice get that. So do it yourself. Now you don't have to be a psycho fitness guru who screams "NO PAIN, NO GAIN" before launching into 500 push ups, 1000 crunches, and using every machine at the gym. Just do a few exercises. Light jumping jacks. Arm circles. Bend over touch your toes. Spread your feet far apart and stretch your inner legs. Try some high kicks. Run in place or jog (very effective). Try a few light backward bends. Try a sit up or two...or ten. Try a push up or two...or twenty. Do some floor stretches, like sitting with your legs in front of you and trying to touch your toes. You can also try yoga, which is an amazing way to get the body in shape and also bring harmony and peace to the body and mind. Need something more. Try Pilates. More? Get a membership to your local gym. Believe us, you will quickly learn how to use the machines. But please, exercise your body. Otherwise, non-use and atrophy of the body's muscles will cause fat gain and sloppiness.


Is this helpful to you? Give us your opinion. Will you try some of the suggestions here? Do you disagree? Do you have a system that works for you?

Any amazing weight loss stories? Or simply stories of keeping in shape on the daily basis. Share them with us. Give us your insight and comments.

Live Healthy and happy!








Chris Brown likes to shred: Skateboarder Chris


Posted: 2011-09-09 12:46:59 UTC-07:00


We've gotten accustomed to hip hop skateboarders, those urban shredders who are blending urban hip hop rawness with punk rock style. Pharrell and Lil Wayne have been doing it for a while now. Add a new one to the list: Chris Brown



He was spotted at LAX heading out to the first stop of his tour, Toronto, Canada. We wonder if he's any good on that board?











What is Mel Gibson's obsession with race?


Posted: 2011-09-09 12:42:45 UTC-07:00




Mel Gibson started his career as one of Hollywood's brightest shining stars and eventually went on to become tinsel-town's leading man. Now, he is universally perceived as a racist and a bigot. If there was merely one instance of prejudice or racism, it could possibly dismissed (as most things in Hollywood are) as a momentary lapse in an otherwise perfect public figure. However, time and time again Gibson has associated himself with the most vile forms of bigotry. We all remember the psychotic anti-semetic rant he went on after being arrested. Did you forget? Get a reminder here: Gibson goes nuts! We all remember him telling his wife that she would be "raped by a pack of n*ggers"...and that is recorded in audio form.

So with what can be interpreted as a clear hate of the Jewish people & African Americans, why on Earth would Gibson decide to volunteer his services as director and perhaps even star of a movie based on the life of Jewish hero Judah Maccabee. 

Rabbi Marvin Heir perhaps best captured the sentiments of most of us with his statement to The Hollywood Reporter: "Mel Gibson has shown nothing but antagonism and 
disrespect to Jews. First of all there were the anti-Semitic remarks he 
made, his portrayal of Jews in The Passion of Christ. I’m 
talking about those Jews who did not accept Christ, they were all 
portrayed as idiots, buffoons or people who were tyrants, with a very 
unfair portrayal. He’s had a long history of antagonism with Jews. 
Casting him as a director or perhaps as the star of Judah Maccabee is 
like casting Madoff to be the head of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, or a white supremacist as trying to portray Martin Luther 
King Jr. It's simply an insult to Jews.". He continued "Warner Bros. is making a terrible mistake. Most
 of the people that are going to come to a film about Judah Maccabee are
 the Jewish community. Surely they know the Jewish communities are not 
going to come to this film."

 He continues: "Has he shown any sensitivity to Jews after those 
incidents? Has he gone out of his way to write an editorial to explain 
himself, to do some outreach and to understand better the implications 
of the Holocaust or maybe on one of his visits to Europe to stop at a 
concentration camp and show some sensitivity? Nobody would say a person 
doesn’t deserve another chance. There’s no question about that. But he 
has not shown any of that evidence at all. I am sort of appalled by such
 a portrayal, because it’s a complete misfit for the role of Judah 
Maccabee, one of the greatest Jewish heroes in all of history to be 
portrayed by someone who has shown nothing but antagonism and anti 
Semitism toward Jews.".

 What are your opinion on the subject? Is Mel Gibson truly a racist and a bigot. Or does he just have a bad habit of speaking when he's intoxicated.

And is it right for him to be filming a movie on a Jewish hero when he has made several disparaging comments against the Jewish people through the years and shown nothing but disdain for that community? Chime in with your opinion.





Anderson Cooper wants to hear from Amy Winehouse fans


Posted: 2011-09-08 18:20:01 UTC-07:00




Only a short while ago it was announced that one of music's brightest and most unique new stars died tragically in her home. The talent was named Amy Winehouse. Much coverage has been given to the situation, and now Anderson Cooper joins the journalists covering the hole left behind in music and in the hearts of her fans. 







If you are one of the fans who want to be involved, Cooper's show is asking that you send in a video of yourself stating your name and why you were a huge fan of Amy's. Send it to kristin.pisarcik@andersoncooper.com

Thanks to Amy Winehouse Net 





Bears steals car...Full Stop!


Posted: 2011-09-08 18:08:51 UTC-07:00
Bear steals car. We don't feel we need to add anything more to that. That pretty much highlights the point we're trying to get across in this post. Bear. Steals. Car. That's about it. See for yourself.













Woman spent 10 years in depression and mental breakdown after 9/11 events!


Posted: 2011-09-08 17:51:28 UTC-07:00
The New York Post interviewed a woman today whose life hit rock bottom after the terrifying events of 9/11. It's a day that our nation will never forget. We all have seen the terrible and uniting legacy of 9/11 from a Big Picture view, but it's surprisingly rare for those of us who were not in it or who don't have family members who went through it, to understand it from a specific, personal view. It's a challenge to put a face on 9/11 unless the face is close to you.

Marcy Borders is the face behind this iconic image:




A woman, confused, distraught, and covered in dust after the collapse of the North Tower of the World Trade Center in 9/11. Before the events of 9/11 she was working a comfy desk job. After being trapped in the suffering of 9/11, she went through severe depression, drug addiction, paranoaid, and a mental breakdown.

She's just gotten her life back together and tells her story to the New York Post. Stop by there to figure out how she got her life on track: Read It

Were any of our readers involved in the events of 9/11. Did you suffer similar mental and emotional paralysis. Or have you been involved in any situations in life that have kept you mentally and emotionally trapped and forced your life itself to a halt, driving you into a dark hole you couldn't escape from. Share your stories.





BREAKING NEWS! 1.4 million customers out of power in San Diego!


Posted: 2011-09-08 17:26:12 UTC-07:00
1.4 million people are out of power in San Diego, after a widespread power outtage has affected the entire San Diego and Orange County area.  Homes, businesses, offices, stores, are completely without power. Airport traffic has been brought to a complete halt stranding thousands of commuters. Even Sea World is at a standstill.

Twitter is ablaze with comments right now.  San Diego Gas and Electric tweeted that all of their 1.4 million customers were currently without power.Others are tweeting about being stuck in gridlocked traffic. The spokeswoman for San Diego's major airport Lindbergh Field, said stated that all outgoing flights have been cancelled. SDGE states "Hot days in a row like we have had create lots of power flowing.  Could have had an impact." in another update tweet. They also warn fans to prepare to stay in tonight without power and be safe. 

Police have not reported any major incidents yet, but remain vigilent 





TRAGIC! 9th grader's throat slit during school rally! High School on Lock down!


Posted: 2011-09-08 11:37:49 UTC-07:00
NBC4i news reports that West  High School, located on 179 S. Powell Ave. in Columbus, Ohio went into Level 2 lockdown after one student slit another students throat during a school assembly! What is the world coming to. Apparently the students had an argument over something unspecified before the stabbing. During the assembly one of the students walked up to the other and sliced their throat. The student stood up, holding his throat, and ran out of the gym, with a trail of blood running behind him. The victim was taken to Nationwide Children's Hospital. The student suspected was taken into custody.

What is the world coming to. What are your thoughts on this? What causes our young people to react like this. Chime in. We'll update this story as more news becomes available.





Racist Fox Sports Show Cancelled


Posted: 2011-09-08 11:28:13 UTC-07:00


Fox News show "The College Experiment" will be cancelled effective immediately for airing a racist segment that mocked Asian students. In the video, a comedian approaches Asian students asking them to give an "All American welcome" to the Universities of Utah and Colorado on joining the Pac-12. They students' accents are then mocked. Fox removed the video as soon as it became aware of it and cancelled the show, effective immediately, says Fox Sports Network spokesman Lou D'Ermilio. D'Ermilio also issues the following statement: "We sincerely apologize to the Asian and Asian American communities, and  to everyone else who found this video offensive, and again to the  University of Southern California, which was the unfortunate setting for  the video".

It's a shame we live in a world where race is still such a big factor, and ignorance of the offensiveness of certain forms of comedy add to it. Are there are people who are still stuck in boxes of ignorance. Where exactly was the humor? Aren't we all familiar with the varying accents and cultures of the world? Is this still schtick for silly comedy, and did no one take the time to think that such an idea couldn't possibly end well when displayed on a nationwide network.

Your thoughts? Was the move to cancel the show an over-reaction to something that wasn't that big a deal? Or were they right and was this racist, intentional or not. Give us your opinion.





T.I. went back to jail for violating the terms of his release


Posted: 2011-09-08 10:33:37 UTC-07:00
T.I. can't seem to keep his nose clean...and we mean that literally. We must warn you...we're not on the T.I. support parade team. T.I. has proven himself to be a notorious career criminal whose success in music seems as much a fluke as a gift which he continues to toss by the wayside. Since the age of 14 he has been consistently back and forth to jail from charges of assaulting a female officer, selling drugs, carrying concealed illegal weapons (like three machine guns and two silencers)...you name it. His music might be good to some audiences, but the man himself has some serious problems.

After just getting out of jail over a year ago for gun possession he ended up back in jail for traveling around town in a car full of drugs with his wife, while their children were at home. He ended up having to serve even more time. Surprising right. After being released last month, less than a day later, T.I. was back in jail. The reason has been revealed now.

According to TMZ, the reason T.I., real name Clifford Harris, ended up back in jail was because when he was released (and picked up from the jail by his personal tour bus, no less), he was only supposed to travel with his wife. Instead his manager was on board as well, along with two VH1 producers. They were discussing his new reality show and book. This violated the rules of his release. He was headed to a halfway house to serve the remainder of his 30 days, but he was strictly prohibited from releasing . No word yet on if this will change.

We wonder what this VH1 show will be about? Will it be like the last one where he warns children to stay out of jail and not to be like him and he shares his revelations and epiphanies, while still promoting drug usage and violence to a hungry young generation through music. What will the book be about? Perhaps the same, but more badly written, with assistance from a writer who cares nothing about the subject and is simply making his quota.

We're sorry, but T.I. does absolutely nothing for us. We like him, and want to see him do better, but he has made a career of violence, weapons, and drugs. We simply can't support it. Share your thoughts on him. Are you a supporter of T.I.? Or does his existence in the music industry anger you?





San Clemente High Evacuated After Bomb Threat


Posted: 2011-09-07 16:18:14 UTC-07:00


Students and staff of San Clemente High gather outside of the school after bomb threat. Photo Credit: AP


Daniel Morgan, a Navy Corpsman went AWOL this morning and left a note in his barracks claiming that he had planted explosives at San Clemente High School. When army personnel noticed he was gone and searched his barracks the note was found, resulting in the evacuation of over 3,200 student and 180 personnel members at San Clemente High. A search of the school turned up no explosives.

Master Sergeant Mark Oliva says Morgan turned himself into to a hospital located on Camp Pendleton, which frighteningly is a short distance away from San Clemente High. Oliva says Morgan is being interviewed and could face military charges.

It's heartbreaking to see our troops who are under pressure or who have previous mental conditions break under the mental strain associated with their line of duty. It's even more tragic when people suffer because of this. It would have been catastrophic if something had happened to those innocent young people and staff member, and this close call serves as a chilling reminder of the delicacy of life and the possibility of danger that we face every day.

Your thoughts? Should Morgan be charged or should he get mental help and assistance?





AWWWWW! Photos of Bow Wow's adorable daughter!


Posted: 2011-09-07 15:51:33 UTC-07:00


It wasn't that long ago that Bow Wow was Lil Bow Wow, the precocious, pint-sized rapper that made little girls everywhere swoon with his Jermaine Dupri and Da Brat produced hits. Well Mr. Wow is grown now, and has a precocious, pint-sized sweetheart of his own: his daughter Shai with video model Joie. Here's one of the pictures, which Joie herself tweeted to the world, of the cutie:







Rapper Big Sean faces charges in sex assault case


Posted: 2011-09-07 14:43:23 UTC-07:00

Sean Anderson, professionally known as Big Sean, is facing sexual assault charges, barely a year after his career took off. Last month he was arrested after a concert when a female fan claims he assaulted her in a private encounter after a show. He faces charges of forcible touching, unlawful imprisonment, and sexual abuse. A gag order was issued on the case because the alleged victim is only 17, says AllHipHop.com

Anderson's lawyer released the following statement: "Both men were charged with misdemeanors and they both vehemently deny  the allegations. I am confident, that after further investigation, both  men will be vindicated."

All of this begs the question: What is wrong with rappers and sexual assault cases? So many rappers have seen their areers come to a grinding halt or at least a temporary stand-still because of sexual assault related cases. Is it an issue of over-zealous groupies getting more than they bargained for? Is it young ladies with ulterior motives looking for a lawsuit? Or are so many young rappers suffering from entitlement issues, after making their first big check and getting a taste of fame. Are some rappers falling under the impression that they are entitled to treat a woman anyway they desire to, especially in a predominately misogynist hip-hop landscape where a majority of rappers (not all of them!) have reduced women to "bitches" and "hoes". 

Chime in and tell us your thought.





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


