
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH




FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY




Arbor Day Poster ContestTree TalkProject Learning TreeStudentsTeachersMission
Conservation Education




Economic Development


Ecosystem Services






Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program
Forest Genetics




Forest Inventory and Analysis


Forest Legacy


Forest Taxation





Forest Conservation
Jones Forest Conservation CenterHeritage Forests






InsectsDiseases & Invasive PlantsMiscellaneousPest Coop
Pest Management




Reforestation


Seedling Nursery






AwardsProgramsWildlife Management
Stewardship




Timber Price Trends






Arbor DayBig Tree RegistryCommunity Forestry AwardsCommunity Inventory and ReportsPartnership Grants
Urban Forestry




Water Resources


Wood Technology


DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry





Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry



FOREST

CONSERVATION






[ Overview
 | 
Staff
 | 
Publications
 | 
FAQs
 | 
Links ]


Jones Forest Conservation Center

[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




1. How did Jones State Forest come to be and how has it evolved?
In 1926, a tract of forestland was purchased in Montgomery County by the State of Texas to establish 1 of 4 research/demonstration areas spread throughout the richest timber producing portions of East Texas. In 1958 the tract was renamed after W. Goodrich Jones. Known as “the father of forestry”, Jones has been credited for establishing the Texas Forestry Association and was instrumental in the establishment of a state forestry service, now known as Texas Forest Service.
2. Why is there a need for funding for a state owned forest?
Although university studies have documented a need for more public open space and educational institutions in the area are increasingly looking for outdoor educational venues, budget constraints have prevented the construction of the conservation center. Some local foundations have made contributions to this project; however, the Texas Forest Service has not received enough sponsorship to complete the project.
3. How will the center contribute to environmental learning?
Indoor and outdoor discovery areas will be located in the forest and adjacent to living, functioning, and sustainable demonstration areas. Also, there is opportunity for research, historical exploration, and social services outreach.
4. What is the Texas A&M Foundation and what is their relationship to the project?
Because the Texas Forest Service is a Member of the Texas A&M University System, TAMU's Texas A&M Foundation, a private, 501(c)(3) organization was chosen to solicit, receive, acknowledge and manage the money for this project as they do with other such education, research and service programs. It serves donors (individuals, corporations, and organizations) and the university (administrators, faculty, staff, students, and state agencies within the system).
5. How will volunteers be involved?
Initially volunteers may be involved with fundraising. Eventually, volunteers will serve as nature guides, facilitators, reception desk assistants, and demonstration area managers.
6. How will a Jones Forest Center benefit the greater Houston area and the entire State of Texas?
There are 41 institutions of higher learning within a 90-mile radius of the forest. There are over one million students enrolled in the two public school service areas adjacent to the forest.
7. What is the development plan?
The overall project is estimated to cost $20 million, and plans for a phased approach to this project have been developed. The first building phase will cost approximately $4.6 million and will include:
• Construction of Headquarters Facility - $2.5 million
• Construction of Outdoor Interpretive Trails - $500,000
• Construction of 5 Permanent Indoor/Outdoor Exhibit Areas - $25,000
• Endowment to Maintain Headquarters Facility - $500,000
• Endowment to Maintain Interpretive Trails - $100,000
• Endowment to Maintain Exhibit Areas - $100,000
• Endowment to Support Educational Programs - $300,000
• Endowments to Support 5 Exhibit Areas - $300,000
• Marketing Materials and Identity Development - $275,000 
8. What are the naming opportunities?
Gifts of any size are gratefully appreciated, however the items listed below will be considered for naming only at the levels specified. Future additions to this list, such as naming opportunities for individual rooms in the headquarters facility, will be included as formal design plans are finalized. All donors will have the opportunity to be recognized by gift levels on a recognition wall in the headquarters building. Naming donors, at their discretion, may be recognized in publications and public meetings about the center.
Headquarters Facility - $2.5 Million
Entire Complex - $10 Million
Headquarters Endowment - $500,000
Educational Discovery Areas – 2 indoor/ 3 outdoor - $85,000 each
Outdoor Walking/Interpretive Trails - (10 Handicap Accessible Trails - $20,000 each; 5 Medium Length Interpretive Trails - $35,000 each; 3 Long Walking/Hiking Trails - $75,000 each)
Educational Program Endowment - $300,000
Marketing and Branding Fund - $275,000
9. When will construction begin?Construction of the first phase will begin when the first phase is fully funded.
 






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



