10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war against terrorism:                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war against terrorism:     Karāchi :  Pakistan
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By muhammedashfaque            7 0      
Views: 119
       New York/Washington: The report said even after ten years of 9/11 a terrorist attack on WTC, America is not hopeful that it would win the war against terrorism. In Afghanistan, it is looking for a negotiated settlement that could restore peace without actually handed over victory to Taliban. American’s relations with Pakistan, a key ally, are in a shambles. The US President Obama at home is struggling with ailing economy and rising unemployment which threaten to undermine his bid to secure a second term in office. A day before the 10th anniversary of Sept 11, 2001 attacks both New York and Washington are on high alert following a tip from a source in Pakistan that terrorists may be planning an attack during the memorial observation. The ceremonies will be attended in New York by President Obama and former President George W. Bush who was America’s commander-in-chief in 2001.         1 of 1        
Image of 9/11 event.
    
muhammedashfaque is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (60.6%) Nepal (9.1%) Portugal (9.1%) Canada (7.6%) 4 other countries (9.1%)           READ MORE: America, president obama, President, terrorism, attack, IST, terrorist, NBS, terrorist attack, Terror   More News From: Karāchi :  Pakistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 11            Reply  Posted By     John-mak
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
I do like your stile of news reporting. Your work must be rated up.
            Reply  Reply By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing and appreciating.
            Reply  Posted By     vauldine
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
They seem not be sure of anything to be honest. Rated up!
            Reply  Reply By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for your comments and feedback.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an interesting report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     SyedBakhtawar
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing...rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Asim Mukhtar
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Yes you are rite american not win war against terrorism.
            Reply  Posted By     GoharAli
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
nice reporting ..tnx for sharing... rated up
            Reply  Posted By     taophuyen
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
September 11 anniversary was held with representatives throughout the U.S.. truly a sad day for America.Thanks for sharing...rated up
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
21 minutes
ago
  
very nice report,keep it next dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
            Reply  Posted By     911avenger
|
11 minutes
ago
  
In memory of my cousin, Jack Connolly, who died in the North Tower of the WTC on 11 September 2001 and all the thousands of other innocent people murdered in this inhuman, barbaric attack.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions           Obama has pledged that the U.S. will not waver one bit in the fight ... By: muhammadjusuf       
 Obama has pledged that the U.S. will not waver one bit in the fight against
United States President Barack Obama has pledged that the U.S. will not waver one bit in the fight against terrorism.The same is conveyed his predecessor that the U.S. will never forget the tragedy of September 11 and the heroes who helped defend the ...  about 2 hours ago     Pakistan reaches out to US on 9/11 anniversary By: SANA_NEWS      WASHINGTON/NEW YORK: As a solemn nation observes the 10th
anniversary of the Sept 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, Pakistan made a
feeble attempt on Saturday to reach out to the American public, telling
them that it was a victim, not perpetrator of terrorism.
In
Washington, President Barack Obama said the attacks had made America
stronger. &...  about 3 hours ago     Obama participates in the commemoration of the September 11 attacks, ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Such as his participation on Sunday in the tenth anniversary of the attacks of 11 September / September, according to the program begins in New York City and includes the town of Shanksville in Pennsylvania, in addition to Washington, DC, visited President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia, ...  about 3 hours ago     War on terror: Pakistan suffered $70 billion loss By: javedsgd      Nineteen of the 11 September 2001 al-Qaeda militants hijacked four U.S. ships. World
Trade Center's twin towers in New York, probably in two planes rammed
the Pentagon building in Virginia and the third one was hit. Pennsylvania was the fourth plane crashes. At least 3,000 Americans were killed during terrorist attacks. The then U.S. President ...  about 6 hours ago     225000 people lost their lives after 9/11 By: HAZRATUSMAN      
The September attacks (called
9/11) were a series
of four coordinated suicide attacks upon the US.
 
On that morning 19 terrorists hijacked four passenger
jets. The hijackers intentionally crashed two planes into the Twin Towers
of the W.T.C in New York City.
 
Hijackers crashed a third plane into   about 6 hours ago     'The 11 / 9 as a stronger America' By: taophuyen      Barack Obama called America a "national resilience" and said they were more powerful than 10 years after the terrorist attack took place 11 / 9. "Thanks to the tireless efforts of military forces, intelligence, law enforcement and homeland security, America is growing stronger while the Al-Qaeda is on the mortal," BBC quoted President ...  about 11 hours ago     Obama 9/11 Line: Subject State, Individualised Disadvantage By: kensai      
Pedagogue - Searching for identity nightlong vanished since the day terrorists astonished Usa, Chairwoman Barack Obama module recognize someone repercussion and advert symptom families when he gives the important style of his Sept. 11 commemorations.
 
Obama faculty righteousness victims at each of the sites where nearly 3,000 people were ...  about 15 hours ago     Obama rules out a repeat of an attack such as the 11-S By: abdelfattah      President
Barack Obama today honored the memory of the victims of the terrorist
attacks of September 11, 2001, on the eve of its tenth anniversary, and
declared the imminent defeat of the perpetrators, the al Qaeda network.Saturdays
In his message, Obama said that America is a safer country for 10 years
of attacks and considered ...  about 18 hours ago      Sept-11 and NATO Oil Wars in Mideast By: abdulruff       
 Sept-11 and NATO Oil Wars in Mideast
-DR. ABDUL RUFF
__________________________________
I- European Colonialism, US imperialism  & Fascist Media
America is trying its best to prove that is as much a fanatic terrocracy as its allies like Israel and India are. Although it is evident that Sept-11  1 day ago     Terror Plot: Can al-Qaeda strike NYC and DC on Sept. 11? By: StephenManual      
US officials have reportedly received threats of terrorist attacks by militants on the eve of the tenth anniversary of September 11, when the two skyscrapers of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon building were razed to the ground in terrorist attacks that killed hundreds of people. The plot has been reportedly hatched in tribal areas ...  1 day ago     Obama calls for unity to 10 years of 11-S  By: kingston23      The
New York Times released unpublished conversations of air traffic
controllers, as well as errors and lack of coordination on the day of
the terrorist attacks
,A
few hours of the events that will mark the tenth anniversary of the
terrorist attacks on America, President Barack Obama today launched a
call for unity and said that after ...  2 days ago     Most American Muslims support Obama and are satisfied with his ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
A poll released on Tuesday that the majority of Muslim Americans are satisfied with the direction of the state to reverse many of the Americans, believed only a few Muslims that there is support for Islamic militancy in the United States.  With the approaching tenth anniversary of the al Qaeda attacks on New York and the Pentagon found ...  12 days ago     Obama calls for return to the spirit of unity of September 11th By: ZohaibAnwer       
WASHINGTON  - President Barack Obama called on Americans to recapture the spirit of unity that characterized the country's response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
"It can be a lasting basis," he said. "Not only one day, but every day."
The president made his call during his weekly radio address two weeks before ...  14 days ago      Arab League Behind NATO Fascism in Islamic World: Focus on Sovereign ... By: abdulruff       Arab League Behind NATO Fascism in Islamic World: Focus on Sovereign Libya
-DR. ABDUL RUFF
--------------------
NATO Fascism in Sovereign Libya Must End!
 
It is now apparent that Arab nations are promoting and party financing NATO terror operations in Muslim nations for specific purposes.
 
The illegal war on   18 days ago     Obama: individual terrorism is a next threat. By: mohamedabdelfattah      
U.S. President Barack Obama  said that
the risk of future threat to his country no major attacks carried out by the
organizations, but individual acts similar to what happened in Norway
recently. we should not fear of a "major terrorist organization and"
more of a process carried out by the "lone wolf", before the days of
the ...  24 days ago     Obama: Solo terrorist biggest threat By: zeeShan446      Despite the approaching tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks in the United States sees the president Barack Obama, a lone terrorist, like mass murderer in Norway, as a greater threat than a large-scale terror attack by Al Qaeda.
A person who is mentally ill or driven by an ideology full of hate can cause great damage and it is much harder ...  25 days ago     10 years after 9/11, did bin Laden or America win? By: preemi_suleman2008      Osama bin Laden
is gone, but 10 years after the September 11 attacks the United States
is still entangled both by his legacy and the impact of its own avenging
actions after the 2001 terror strike.The horror unleashed in
New York and Washington traumatized the public and sparked a "war on
terror" that would stretch the legal system, send ...  26 days ago     Al-Qaeda called for attacks to avenge the U.S.  By: taophuyen      Al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri yesterday urged Muslims to attack America in order to avenge the death of Osama bin Laden. SITE Intelligence Group, based in the United States criticized a video posted on Islamist forums suggests, the new leader of Al-Qaeda terrorist group play appeal of radical Islamist organizations targeting the United ...  26 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Obama urges service, unity on 9/11 anniversary  
The Tribune
 For presidents, the legacy of Sept 11 has no end For presidents, the legacy of Sept 11 has no end The country has moved on...Obama to speak at cathedral concert on 9/11 Obama to speak at cathedral concert on 9/11 The White House says President Barack...    Obama: Come together now  
China News
 Obama and his wife, Michelle, planned to participate in a service project Saturday afternoon in the Washington area. New York City, Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and the Pentagon - before delivering evening remarks at a memorial event at the Kennedy...    Obama Reflects On 10 Years Since 9/11  
KSAZ
 President Barack Obama said Saturday that the US became stronger and safer in the decade since 9/11, as he used his weekly address to reflect on the terrorist attacks of 2001. "Thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our...    Terror threat clouds 9/11 ceremonies  
News 24
 Pennsylvania where former president George W Bush and current Vice President Joe Biden will unveil a memorial to those who died aboard hijacked United Airlines Flight 93. Terrorism will never win' Even as US intelligence agencies chased down what...    Obama urges service, unity on 9/11 anniversary  
Arizona Daily Sun
 Summoning the nation to unity and service, President Barack Obama paid tribute to America's resilience and the sacrifice of its war dead Saturday as the country prepared to mark 10 long years since the horrors of 9/11. A day before the anniversary...    Obama: US stronger 10 yrs after 9/11 attacks  
News 24
 President Barack Obama said on Saturday the United States was stronger 10 years after the September 11 2001 attacks and Americans would "carry on" despite continued threats against their safety. Marking Sunday's 10th anniversary of the "9/11" attacks...   More Related Stories     Images    >         10 years after the event of 9/...    10 years after the event of 9/... Image Source: allvoices Image of 9/11 event.      More Related Images    More From Karāchi          There a video surfaced of kidnapped 30 Pakistani Youth         PM seeks international help for flood relief        Sindh Chief Minister expressed sorrow over the losses caused by the Rains        Pakistan post moon soon cotton out look         one man died from electric circuit...        Nawaz urges govt to expedite relief efforts for flood victims        Long-term prediction not possible        Pakistan reaches out to US on 9/11 anniversary          Gilani sends out a global rain-relief sos        Karachi traffic thrown out of gear by rain       Pakistan needs world help for rain-relief        SHOAIB AKHTAR          pakistan army one of the best army in the world Kayani                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302472          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 13       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 1       Comments: 11    11       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302472), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302472 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302472 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war against terrorism: ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302472-10-years-after-the-event-of-911-america-is-not-sure-it-would-win-war-against-terrorism.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         