Katia Gets Company with Forming of Tropical Storm Maria in Atlantic  - Urban Christian News


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE
















































Katia Gets Company with Forming of Tropical Storm Maria in Atlantic 


September  7, 2011  2:48 PM





Maria is forecast to pass north of Puerto Rico on Sept. 11 as a tropical storm. (NOAA)Tropical Storm Maria formed in the Atlantic, the 13th named system of the 2011 season, as Hurricane Katia weakened on its path around Bermuda.








Email


Print





Twitter
Facebook
MySpace
Yahoo! Buzz
Blogger
FriendFeed
Gmail
Google Buzz


Delicous
StumbleUpon
Digg
Fark
Favorites
Mixx
Technorati
Wordpress



More Destinations...



 




Maria developed about 1,305 miles (2,100 kilometers) east of the Lesser Antilles with maximum winds of 50 miles per hour, moving west at 23 mph, according to an advisory from the National Hurricane Center at 11 a.m. Eastern time."We got the 13th named storm of the season and it's in an environment that isn't conducive to explosive strengthening," said Dennis Feltgen, a spokesman for the hurricane center. "In fact, we have it as a tropical storm through the end of the five-day forecast period."A low-pressure system over the southwestern Gulf of Mexico off the Yucatan Peninsula is showing "signs of organization" and has a 70 percent chance of becoming a tropical depression within two days, according to the center. An Air Force Reserve hurricane hunter aircraft is scheduled to investigate the system today.That disturbance would have the greatest near-term threat to oil and gas interests in the Gulf, said Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at the commercial forecaster MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.Crude oil and natural gas futures climbed in New York as the system threatened to reduce U.S. production from the Gulf.Gulf EnergyThe Bay of Campeche, where conditions are conducive for spinning up strong storms, holds rigs and platforms owned by Petroleos Mexicanos. The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5 percent of the country's natural gas production.The statistical peak of the six-month Atlantic hurricane season comes in three days, and this year has produced storms at a faster rate than 2010, when a total of 19 named systems roared through the basin. The 13th storm didn't form until Sept. 23 last year.Feltgen said the activity is in line with pre-season forecasts for an above-average storm season. A typical season produces 11 named systems, according to the hurricane center.Since 1995, when the Atlantic entered a warming phase, the seasonal average has been 15, said Jeff Masters, co-founder of Weather Underground Inc. in Ann Arbor, Michigan.Click here to continue reading.SOURCE: BloombergBrian K. Sullivan and Sherry Su








Categories:

National, Weather



Tags:

Atlantic hurricane season, Bay of Campeche, Bermuda, Dennis Feltgen, Gulf of Mexico, Hurricane Katia, Lesser Antilles, National Hurricane Center, the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Maria, Yucatan Peninsula









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.













 




Evangelical Leaders Encourage Unity Among All Religions Ahead Of 9/11 


9/11: Away from Ground Zero, Flight 93 Heroes Remembered 


New York, D. C. On Alert Over 9/11 Anniversary Threat 


Thousands in Russia Mourn Plane Crash Victims 


Hunger Programs at Risk of Being Slashed Under Budget Ax 


After Embassy Storming, Ties Strained Between Egypt and Israel 


45 Dead, Hundreds Missing in Tanzania Ship Sinking 


Justin Bieber Hopes to Start a Family by 25 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










