
	Texas Forest Service











PLANNING THE URBAN FOREST WORKSHOP STRESSES VALUE OF TREES









[ Print | 

 ]



May 25, 2011 — WACO, Texas — You know trees are important, but just how much are they really worth to you and your community?You can find out at the Planning the Urban Forest workshop scheduled for Thursday, June 2, 2011, at the Waco Convention Center.“This workshop will help communities put a dollar value on their trees and green infrastructure,” Texas Forest Service Urban Forester Jim Carse said. “We can help you discover the economic, environmental and social benefits provided by your urban forest in your city — and why they’re important.”Created by the American Planning Association and hosted by Texas Forest Service, the workshop is designed to help communities plan and conserve their urban forest. It’s based on a 2009 report developed by the American Planning Association, International Society of Arboriculture, American Forests and U.S. Forest Service. Considered a pilot program, the workshop is first being unveiled in Texas. Future workshops are planned for other states. The Planning the Urban Forest workshop is geared toward community planners, landscape architects, engineers, public works managers, elected officials and civic leaders statewide. It aims to help officials learn how to integrate urban forestry with community and regional comprehensive planning processes."The intent of this workshop is to help planners and allied professionals and tree advocates reposition trees as a strategic public investment rather than the cost center they have been perceived to be,” said Jim Schwab, a senior research associate with the American Planning Association and project manager for the 2009 Planning the Urban Forest report. “The urban forest returns numerous quantifiable benefits."Carse agreed. For example, he said, trees reduce stormwater runoff and, as a result, the need for related infrastructure costs. They also shade roads and homes, reducing both heating and cooling costs and ambient air temperature inside a city. That information, Carse explained, is pertinent to a comprehensive plan.And that’s not to mention the social benefits provided by trees, Carse said, adding that they encourage outdoor recreation, which helps combat medical issues such as obesity, skin cancer and asthma."At the workshop, you’ll learn how to realistically account for urban tree benefits in your own community,” Carse said, noting that attendees could learn from industry experts as well as their peers. “You’ll learn how trees impact your economy and the character of your city.”Attendees will earn 4.25 hours of Certificate Maintenance through the American Institute of Certified Planners. Planning the Urban Forest Workshop Date: Thursday, June 2, 2011Time: 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.Location: Waco Convention Center in Waco, Texas Forest ServiceRegister online at www.isatexas.com or by contacting Forester Jim Carse at jcarse@tfs.tamu.edu or 512-339-4618.### Contact: Forester Jim Carse512-339-4618, jcarse@tfs.tamu.eduWriter:Communications Specialist Holly Huffman979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 








