
	Texas Forest Service











WILDFIRE ACADEMY WRAPS UP IN LUFKIN









[ Print | 

 ]



May 27, 2011 – LUFKIN, Texas – Over the past few months, more than 2 million acres of Texas land have burned – and volunteer firefighters were the first to respond, risking their lives to save others from harm.Many of those volunteers – who make up nearly 80 percent of Texas’ firefighting force – receive valuable training at wildfire academies offered annually by Texas Forest Service, including the 14th Annual East Texas Interagency Wildfire and Incident Management Academy, which ends today in Lufkin. More than 130 students – including 30 Texas Forest Service employees – attended this year’s academy, which offers classes such as dozer operations, GPS orientation, resource ordering and firefighter training at beginner and advanced levels. Fire Prevention Specialist Melanie Spradling took Basic Incident Command System, Intermediate Incident Command System and Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior. The incident command classes detail a standardized method for managing a disaster safely and effectively.“It was helpful to put the pieces together and understand what everyone’s job is when we’re on an incident,” said Spradling, who joined Texas Forest Service in January. “We did interactive group exercises, and in one of them, I was planning section chief so I had to run a briefing. It helped me understand why everyone’s position is necessary.” Bob Koenig, Texas Forest Service’s chief response training coordinator, said the courses are vital for personnel responding to wildfires. Classes offered at the academy are part of a standardized, national training curriculum developed by the National Wildfire Coordinating Group, an organization that facilitates coordination between participating wildfire management agencies. “Particularly in East Texas, the majority of initial attack is done by volunteer fire departments,” Koenig said. “It’s really important for them to be trained. They’re on the forefront.”James Barrie, regional fire coordinator for the Beeville area, said the courses offer an opportunity to receive certifications that are valuable in career advancement. Barrie, a former firefighter and law enforcement officer, joined Texas Forest Service about a year ago and attended the Firefighter Type I course last week. “I believe this course is a baseline of where a regional fire coordinator should be,” he said. “There are a lot of firefighters that take this course because they want to make the transition from structural fires to wildland. There are a lot of differences, and this type of training is fundamental.”Barrie said it’s important for Texas Forest Service to have a presence at the academy by teaching classes as well as taking them.“The firefighters see us cooperating and also taking classes,” he said. “It gives us merit. They see us out on fires and they know how committed we are. They gravitate toward the schools that we’re involved in.”A second academy is scheduled for Oct. 14-27 in Bastrop. Check the Texas Interagency Coordinating Center website for registration information.  Contacts:Jan Amen, Fire Prevention Specialist936-546-1004, jamen@tfs.tamu.edu Meredith McNeil, Academy Registrar979-458-7330, mmcneil@tfs.tamu.edu Writer:April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6606, asaginor@tfs.tamu.eduTexas Forest Service communications staff can be reached after hours at newsmedia@tfs.tamu.edu. 








