At Least 100 Dead In Zanzibar Ferry Disaster                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              At Least 100 Dead In Zanzibar Ferry Disaster    Zanzibar :  Tanzania
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By dunite            2 0      
Views: 229
        The MV Spice Islander ferry was carrying 500 people on board, transporting them from the islands of Unguja and Pemba in Zanzibar, Tanzania, East Africa, from holidays to celebrate the end of RamadanRamadan when it capsized killing at least 100 people and many more missing, globalpost said. Some 260 people including 60 children have been rescued and were being transported to an emergency center that has been set up in the main harbor of Stone Town. According to BBC, Zanzibar authorities were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster they were asking for foreign help including from South Africa and Kenya. Zanzibar is famous for its beaches and historical buildings and Stone Town was listed as a UNESCO heritage site. http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/regions/africa/110910/africa-tanzania-stone-town-zanzibar-ferry-disaster-mv-spice-islander        1 of 24        
Zanzibar was asking for foreign help because it was overwhelmed by the scale of the ferry disaster.
     
dunite is based in Manila, National Capital Region, Philippines,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (52.5%) Tanzania (22.9%) Portugal (5.1%) Germany (4.2%) 11 other countries (11.9%)           READ MORE: ferry, Spice Island, dead, Zanzibar Ferry Disaster   More News From: Zanzibar :  Tanzania      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Nice update, thanks for sharing it. Rated!
            Reply  Posted By     dunite
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
thanks Adebanjos for your comment and rating up!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Hundreds die as ferry capsizes off Tanzania By: Samantha86       
Hundreds of people died as an overcrowded ship sank off mainland Tanzania on Saturday. Reuters reports that at least 192 people are dead and hundreds more are missing.
It has been estimated that there are at least 606 survivors.
The ferry was known as the M.V. Spice Islanders. According to witnesses and survivors, the ferry was overcrowded. ...  about 18 hours ago     Breaking News!!!!! Hundreds Dead In Zanzibar Ferry Disaster By: Sophia000      10th Sep 2011: Today atleast 192 people have been killed after a ferry sank over the Tanzanian coast the ferry was carrying 600 passengers when it sanked into the sea.Some spice islanders sank in the area of deep sea, the ferry was trvelling between Zanzibar's main island, Unguja and Pemba the popular tourists destinations.
Almost 100 of the ...  about 19 hours ago     Zanzibar ferry disaster:163 dead, several missing By: safdarjaved      
A ferry sank in river on Friday night resulting  163 people have been killed and over one hundred are still missing in Zanzibar island of Tanzania on Friday night.
Atleast 550 people were on board and ferry was overloaded.
At least 40 people's bodies were found in the waters off the island of Zanzibar on Saturday and over 325 people have ...  about 23 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Zanzibar to probe ferry disaster  
BBC
 Zanzibar launches probe into ferry disaster Victims of the disaster were taken to Stone Town in Zanzibar The government of Tanzania's Zanzibar islands has said an investigation will be held into why a ferry capsized, killing nearly 200 people. The...    Scores dead, 300 missing in Zanzibar ferry accident  
Mail and Guardian
 At least 43 people died when a ferry capsized off the coast of Zanzibar, but around 300 people are feared still missing, a minister in the semi-autonomous archipelago said on Saturday. "So far we have recovered 43 people who died, but we have rescued...    Dozens Die, Many Missing, After Ferry Sinks Off Zanzibar  
International Business Times
 Get summaries of the top business news from a global perspective Sample The emergencies minister of Zanzibar reported that 325 passengers have been rescued thus far. Rescue efforts were frustrated because the ship capsized at night. This is believed...    Tanzania: Grief Sweeps Spice Islands After Ferry Disaster  
Africa Headlines
 Unguja and Pemba yesterday as their residents tried to come to terms with a fatal dawn marine accident at Nungwi, 72 kilometres from Unguja, which claimed over 180 lives. The Zanzibar President, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, who visited the scene of accident...    Over 100 drown after ship sinks off coast of east Africa  
The Globe & Mail
 At least 107 people drowned when a ferry capsized in rough waters off east Africa as it sailed from Zanzibar to Pemba island, a doctor said on Saturday, the worst disaster in the archipelago's recent history. Witnesses fear the death toll could rise...    Zanzibar ferry sinks: At least 20 dead, hundreds missing  
The Hindu
 Johannesburg, September 10, 2011 Twenty people were confirmed dead and hundreds were missing after a ferry sank in the Zanzibar archipelago, off the coast of Tanzania Saturday. An official from the Tanzania Red Cross told the German Press Agency dpa...   More Related Stories     Images    >         zanzibar ferry disaster    zanzibar ferry disaster Image Source: allvoices Zanzibar was asking for foreign help because it was overwhelmed by the ...        Women carry goods in Stone ...    Women carry goods in Stone ... Image Source: www.afp.com Women carry goods in Stone Town in the Zanzibar archipelago        Rescuers carry the bodies of ...    Rescuers carry the bodies of ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Rescuers carry the bodies of victims from a ferry tragedy near Zanzibar ...        Tanzanian residing on the ...    Tanzanian residing on the ... Image Source: www.afp.com Tanzanian residing on the Island of Zanzibar wait at a beach to identify ...        Tanzanian rescuers carry a ...    Tanzanian rescuers carry a ... Image Source: www.afp.com Tanzanian rescuers carry a body on a beach of Zanzibar Island        Members of the police force ...    Members of the police force ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Members of the police force move the body of a victim after a ferry ...      More Related Images    More From Zanzibar          (Video Dramtic) 200 drown as overloaded ferry sinks        At Least 100 Dead In Zanzibar Ferry Disaster        Ferry with more than 800 people sinks in Tanzania: 198 dead         Begin three days of official mourning in Zanzibar          Two Churches Burnt Down in Zanzibar Island, Tanzania         Malaria - The most Dangerous Infectious Disease in the World (see vedio)        British Cruise Ship Escapes Attack By Somali Pirates        Zanzibar hosts Sauti ya Busara music festival          The general election to chose a newly President on Sunday held in Tanzania.        EU naval forces foil pirate attack on tanker         180 killed in ferry sank in Tanzania        Hundreds feared dead in Tanzania ferry accident          At least 200 died in Zanzibar ferry disaster                 Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302221          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 12       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 28       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302221), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302221 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302221 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “At Least 100 Dead In Zanzibar Ferry Disaster” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302221-at-least-100-dead-in-zanzibar-ferry-disaster.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         