California Presidential Debate to Test Perry, GOP Field  - Urban Christian News


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE
















































California Presidential Debate to Test Perry, GOP Field 


September  7, 2011  3:15 PM





Rick Perry preps for tonight's presidential debate (POLITICO)It is fitting that Rick Perry will take the stage in his first presidential debate just a short drive from Hollywood.








Email


Print





Twitter
Facebook
MySpace
Yahoo! Buzz
Blogger
FriendFeed
Gmail
Google Buzz


Delicous
StumbleUpon
Digg
Fark
Favorites
Mixx
Technorati
Wordpress



More Destinations...



 




After a quick and relatively easy ride to the top of the GOP field in less than a month, the Texas governor now has to perform. And for many conservatives, the Reagan Presidential Library is a solid scene-setter for a classic California western. Make that a wild west shootout for Perry, who will probably see attacks coming from all sides.Look for Perry's main rival, Mitt Romney, to repeat his not-so-subtle caricature of Perry as a "career politician" who has spent much of his adult life working in government.Watch out for fellow Texan Ron Paul, who likes to remind Republican voters that Perry was once a Democratic "cheerleader" for Al Gore's 1988 presidential campaign.The moderators at tonight's debate, NBC News anchor Brian Williams and Politico editor John Harris, will have a chance to question the governor's recent comment labeling any actions by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to boost the economy amid a presidential race as "treasonous."Then there's Perry's controversial anti-Washington book, "Fed Up." Its passages referring to Social Security as a "Ponzi scheme" may be catnip to former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman, who has tried in recent weeks to position himself as a moderate alternative in the race.GOP strategist Karl Rove has already seized on the book as a potential liability. Rove called Perry's Social Security comments "toxic" in an interview Wednesday morning on ABC's "Good Morning America.""They are toxic in a general election environment, and they are also toxic in a Republican primary. If you say Social Security is a failure and ought to be replaced by a state-level program, then people are going to say, 'What do you mean by that,' " Rove said.And don't forget Michele Bachmann -- much of Perry's support in recent polls appears to have come at her expense.Click here to continue reading.SOURCE: CNNJim Acosta








Categories:

National, Politics



Tags:

Brian Williams, Fed Up, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, GOP field, John Harris, Jon Huntsman, Karl Rove, Michele Bachmann, Mitt Romney, Reagan Presidential Library, Republican voters, Rick Perry, Ron Paul









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.













 




Evangelical Leaders Encourage Unity Among All Religions Ahead Of 9/11 


9/11: Away from Ground Zero, Flight 93 Heroes Remembered 


New York, D. C. On Alert Over 9/11 Anniversary Threat 


Thousands in Russia Mourn Plane Crash Victims 


Hunger Programs at Risk of Being Slashed Under Budget Ax 


After Embassy Storming, Ties Strained Between Egypt and Israel 


45 Dead, Hundreds Missing in Tanzania Ship Sinking 


Justin Bieber Hopes to Start a Family by 25 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










