




Customer Reviews







        171 of 175 people found the following review helpful:
      

 
They're moderately helpful, but Superfeet is a little whack on their sizing advice..., March 24, 2009


By Your Role Model (from parts unknown)  - See all my reviews


I work out a lot, but I'm built kinda like a linebacker, and find that after doing stairmaster or treadmill, my feet are usually pretty sore in the arch area. So, I'm a prime candidate for needing more arch support, something that Superfeet are supposed to give you. 
 They do cup your heel just about right and follow the shape/last of the shoe well. Properly-sized, they will give you MODERATELY more support/less soreness, though they certainly don't eliminate soreness- they're no magic bullet. Still, better than other inserts I've tried.
 The one thing I don't like (aside from them being a bit pricey for what they are) is that Superfeet's idea of what is a high or low-arched foot is a bit off. No matter what it says on the box, the various Superfeet models actually work out like this (as of their early '09 lineup):
 Green- SUPER high-arched insoles, only good for ppl with REALLY high arches, will be torture for anyone else who has 'em on their feet for more than a few minutes. Gitmo-approved. o_0
 Blue- It says "ideal for low to medium-arched feet" on the back of the box, but its more like 'ideal for medium to high' arches, actually. I have fairly low-arched (but not flat) feet, and while the blues felt okay in the store, after using them for a few days it was quite obvious that these were *not* it. I felt like I was walking around in high heels or something... definitely TOO MUCH arch support, to the point of being mildly painful. Not good.
 Black- These are allegedly for 'flat or sensitive' feet. I'd say instead they're the TRUE Superfeet product for low-arched feet. These are the ones that ultimately ended up working for me, but I am annoyed that I wasted money on the blues. In fact, the salesperson had tried to talk me into the GREENS at first, even after seeing my feet, but a few laps around the store showed me the horror of that. WTH? 
 Basically, what I think is going on is that what Superfeet is trying to sell you is SUPPORT, so they want to get you into the highest/'most supportive' insoles they can, so that you go, "Gee, wow, what a difference, so much support."
 The problem with that, of course, is that you end up basically KILLING your feet, because going too high in the arch on these things will just mess you up, ESPECIALLY if you're heavier-than-average, like me. What feels about right in the store will seem TOO HIGH after a few days, trust me.
 In short, these are moderately helpful, and deserve kudos for being better than most other insoles out there, but go one support/height level LOWER than what the box tells you, particularly if you're heavier than average (muscle or fat). 
 Again, IGNORE THE BOX, the REAL sizing is: 
 - greens for very high arches
- blue for medium or high arches 
- blacks for low arches (anything even slightly below medium, really) 
 Flat feet, I dunno, likely just a *shoe* with good arch support, no special insoles. 
 Hope this is helpful.
      
Help other customers find the most helpful reviews 
 Was this review helpful to you? 
 

 Report abuse
 | Permalink Comments (4)







        25 of 26 people found the following review helpful:
      

 
The best if you want to pay for it, August 31, 2006


By Jaewoo Kim "OB-Wan" (Santa Monica, CA)  - See all my reviews

  

  

  





I tried Dr Scholls and Orthpidics shoe insoles and Superfeet is far superior to both. But it is also 2-3 times the cost of either one.
 I am an avid golfer and I like to walk the golf course as an exercise. Becuase walking through an 18 hole golf course is equivalent to walking 2 miles in 4 hours, the foot can be very sore afterwards. To allevitate my footpain, I decided to use Superfeet in a very comfortable Nike golf shoe.
 Superfeet was way more comfortable than either Dr Scholls or Orthipidics in the same shoe. Furthermore, my foot was hardly sore after an 18 holes of golf. 
 The only downside of these soles is they are slippery, so your foot tends to slide within the shoe. But this can be ameliorated by tying the shoe little more tightly.
 The bottom line: if substantially reducing footpain from a long arduous walk is your primary concern, then these are the best if you want to pay for them.

Help other customers find the most helpful reviews 
 Was this review helpful to you? 
 

 Report abuse
 | Permalink Comment







        13 of 13 people found the following review helpful:
      

 
Helped me..., February 29, 2008


By D. R. Allison (Dallas, TX USA)  - See all my reviews

  





Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)


I was recommended these by my podiatrist for some joint issues in my foot. They've improved the way I walk immensely in the month that I've had them, and I'm in the latter half of marathon training. They hold up well, but they are not designed for wide feet. I'm a 2E-4E, and they don't take up the whole width of the shoe in the toe-box area. It isn't too bad, but is noticeable if I move my big toe the right way. Why, why, why not make the insole about a 1/2 wider at the end so this wouldn't be a problem? Just a heads up... this is not a cushiony insole. It's designed to force your foot to roll correctly.
      
Help other customers find the most helpful reviews 
 Was this review helpful to you? 
 

 Report abuse
 | Permalink Comment (1)








  Share your thoughts with other customers:
  

› See all 40 customer reviews...

