 VOA Breaking News



















About VOA
																								|
																Contact VOA News





 






Sunday, 11 September 2011



Obama, Former NYC Mayor Giuliani Remember Sept. 11
Afghan Suicide Bomber Kills 2, Wounds Scores
Tropical Storm Nate Weakens in Mexico
NTC Forces Hammer at Gadhafi Stronghold of Bani Walid
Egypt Announces Emergency Measures Following Embassy Attack 






Select Your Language
Afan Oromo
Albanian
Amharic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Azeri
Bangla
Bosnian
Burmese
Cantonese
Chinese
Creole
Croatian
Dari
English to Africa
English Worldwide
French
Georgian
Greek
Hausa
Hindi
Indonesian
Khmer
Khmer (English)
Kinyarwanda
Kirundi
Korean
Kurdi
Kurdish
Lao
Macedonian
Mandarin
Ndebele
Pashto
Pashto - Deewa
Persian  
Portuguese
Russian  
Serbian
Shona
Somali
Spanish
Special English
Swahili
Thai
Tibetan
Tigrigna
Turkish
Ukrainian 
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Zimbabwe - English
 




News

Programs
Video
Learning English
About Us


																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																								
						Live Streams:
																				Latest Newscast
																					|
														Africa Live
																					|
														Global Live
 




News  USA  Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East American Life Arts and Entertainment  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																	More Topics						   Economy Education Environment Health Human Rights and Law Lifestyles News Analysis Religion Science and Technology Sports    Web Features  Special Reports Photo Galleries Going Green  Money In Motion Now You Know Off the Beaten Path The Link  Web Services  Podcasts RSS Mobile Newsletter Webcasts  Links  About the US Editorials RFE/RL RFA Pronunciation Guide 








Latest News from Around the World
Posted Thursday, August 4th, 2011 at 4:54 pm



 Posted in Uncategorized 





EU Envoy Says Burma Wants Peace With Ethnic Groups
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 7:15 am

A European commissioner said Sunday that Burma's new government has vowed to pursue peaceful solutions to its decades-old conflicts with ethnic minority groups.
Speaking in Bangkok Sunday, Kristalina Georgieva, the European Union commissioner for humanitarian aid, told reporters that Burma's minister of border control strongly believes there must be peace, and that it can be achieved only by fair treatment of ethnic minorities and by providing development opportunities for them.
Georgieva was in Burma Friday and Saturday.  She met with Border Affairs Minister Thein Htay and other ministers of the government that took office on April 1.
The new government's policy towards ethnic minorities has not yet been made clear.

Tags: Burma, Eu Posted in East Asia Pacific 





Afghan Suicide Bomber Kills 2, Wounds Scores
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 6:35 am

NATO-led forces say a Taliban suicide truck bomber has attacked a coalition outpost in central Afghanistan, killing two Afghan civilians.  
The coalition said Sunday that 77 NATO personnel and nearly 25 Afghan civilians received non-life-threatening injuries in the blast on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks against the United States. 
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack. 
The international alliance said the truck exploded at the entrance of the Combat Outpost Sayed Abad in Wardak province.  It said the brunt of the explosion was absorbed by the protective barrier at the entrance. 
The attack came hours after the Taliban lashed out at Washington, calling the 2001 U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan that followed the September 11 terrorist attacks “a permanent stigma on the face of Western democracy.”
The Taliban accused the U.S. of using the terrorist attacks as a pretext to martyr innocent Muslims.

Tags: Afghanistan, Blast, St, Upd Posted in South Asia 





Tropical Storm Nate Weakens in Mexico
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 6:20 am

The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Tropical Storm Nate has lost strength as it moves toward landfall in Mexico.
Forecasters say Nate's winds have dropped to 95 kilometers-per-hour, with little change in strength expected before hitting land Sunday.
A hurricane warning has been replaced by a tropical storm warning along part of the Mexican gulf coast .  Still, considerable rain is expected over the state of Veracruz.
The Mexican navy and state oil company teams had been hoping for calmer waters as they search for 10 oil workers missing off Mexico's gulf coast.  Oil company Pemex said it had evacuated 473 workers from platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.  The 10 missing workers had to abandon their disabled lifeboat for an enclosed life raft Thursday.

Tags: Mexico, Nd, Storm, Upd Posted in Americas 





Sweden Arrests Four Suspected Terrorists
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 5:30 am

Swedish police in the southwestern city of Gothenburg say they have arrested four people suspected of plotting a terror attack.
The arrests were announced after hundreds of people were evacuated from Gothenburg's Roda Sten building late Saturday.  The building is the venue of the city's biennial art exhibit.
Arts center officials said police ordered them to evacuate the building, then conducted a search of the building.  
Police did not give details about the four arrested or the circumstances of the arrests.
It was not clear whether the arrests were linked to the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States.

Tags: Sweden, Terror Posted in Europe 





Iraq Cleric Orders Followers to Stop Attacks
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 4:45 am

An anti-American cleric in Iraq has called on his followers to stop their attacks on U.S. troops because he does not want the Americans to have an excuse to remain in the country. 
Shi'ite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr said in a statement on his website late Saturday that he has ordered his militias to let the Americans leave peacefully.  However, Sadr warned that he will step up attacks against the U.S. forces if any stay past the end of the year. 
Fewer than 50,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq, all of whom are set to withdraw by the end of this year.  However, Iraq's political leaders are currently negotiating with the United States on whether to keep some U.S. military personnel on as trainers beyond 2011.  
U.S. and Iraqi officials have said Iraqi forces are capable of maintaining internal security, but need training in using heavy weaponry to defend the country's borders, airspace and territorial waters. 
Sadr's Mahdi Army militia fought U.S. troops in Iraq until 2008 when he disbanded the force and focused his movement on Iraq's political process. His Sadrist party is a key faction in Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's coalition government.

Tags: Iraq, US Posted in Middle East 





Forecast Says Nate May not Become a Hurricane
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 4:31 am

The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Tropical Storm Nate's chances of becoming a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico are declining Sunday.
Forecasters say Nate is not gaining strength and will likely not be a hurricane when it comes ashore.
However, a hurricane warning remains is in effect in Mexico from Tuxpan to the port of Veracruz.  The warning means people in the area should be finishing up preparations to protect themselves and property.
By late Saturday, Nate had winds up to 100 kilometers-per-hour.  
The Mexican navy and state oil company teams are hoping for calmer waters as they search for 10 oil workers missing off Mexico's gulf coast.  Oil company Pemex said it had evacuated 473 workers from platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.  The 10 missing workers had had to abandon their disabled lifeboat for an enclosed life raft on Thursday.

Tags: Mexico, St, Storm, Upd Posted in Americas 





Guatemalans Vote in Presidential Election
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 3:16 am

Guatemalans head to the polls Sunday to select a new president.
Candidates have been running on promises to cut the country's rampant crime rate.
Recent public opinion polls in Guatemala indicate retired general Otto Perez has a sizable lead, but may not get the majority of votes needed to avoid a runoff in November.  His main rival is businessman Manuel Baldizon, followed by Eduardo Suger.  All three are right-leaning candidates.
The campaigns have focused on who will do the best job in controlling crime, primarily linked to drug trafficking.
The winner will take over in January, replacing President Alvaro Colom, who has been criticized for not lowering crime in Guatemala.

Tags: Election, Guatemala Posted in Americas 





Missing Indonesia Rescue Helicopter Safe
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 3:11 am

Indonesian authorities say a rescue helicopter that disappeared Saturday and was feared to have crashed, made a safe emergency landing in the remote province of Papua.
The military said Sunday that the chopper had been searching for the Australian and Slovakian pilots from a Susi Air aircraft that crashed.  Bad weather forced the helicopter to land Saturday and it lost contact with its base.
Authorities said all five helicopter crewmen are safe and the helicopter is in good condition and might resume its mission.
Susi Air's single-engine Cessna was carrying fuel and food when it crashed Friday.  Rescuers have spotted the wreckage and do not believe the two pilots survived.

Tags: Helicopter, Indonesia Posted in East Asia Pacific 





Afghan Suicide Truck Bomber Attacks NATO Post
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 2:30 am

NATO says a Taliban suicide truck bomber has attacked a coalition outpost in Afghanistan. 
The international alliance said Sunday the truck exploded Saturday at the entrance of the Combat Outpost Sayed Abad in Wardak province.  NATO says the brunt of the explosion was absorbed by the protective barrier at the outpost entrance. 
A NATO statement says there were a “significant number of injuries.”  The statement said none of the injuries is immediately life threatening.
The Associated Press says two civilians were killed in the blast. 
The attack came hours after the Taliban lashed out at Washington, calling the 2001 U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan that followed the September 11 terrorist attacks “a permanent stigma on the face of Western democracy.”
The Taliban accused the U.S. of using the terrorist attacks as a pretext to martyr innocent Muslims.

Tags: Afghanistan, Blast Posted in South Asia 





Actor Cliff Robertson Dies
Posted Sunday, September 11th, 2011 at 1:43 am

American movie actor Cliff Robertson, who won an Academy Award for his portrayal of a mentally disabled janitor in the 1968 movie Charly, died Saturday, a day after his 88th birthday. 
Robertson's long career began in the mid-1950s and continued into the 21st century.  His later roles included kindly Uncle Ben in the Spider Man movies. 
In 1963, Robertson starred as Lieutenant John F. Kennedy in the naval war film PT 109 about the military days of the young man who would become a U. S. president. 
Robertson created a string of impressive performances in television and on Broadway, but always saw his stage roles played in films by bigger names.  His TV performances in Days of Wine and Roses and The Hustler, for example, became movies starring Jack Lemmon and Paul Newman, respectively. 
Robertson was determined that would not happen with his role in the TV story The Two Worlds of Charlie Gordon.  He bought the movie rights, changing the movie title to Charly.  Robertson won an Oscar for his portrayal of the mentally disabled man who is transformed into a genius in an experiment, only to regress to his former self. 
Robertson is also remembered for exposing powerful Columbia Studios chief David Begelman, who had forged the actor's name on a $10,000 check in the late 1970s.  The ensuing scandal saw Robertson essentially blacklisted in the film industry until the early 1980s. 
Robertson's second wife was actress and heiress Dina Merrill, daughter of financier E.F. Hutton and Marjorie Merriweather Post, heiress to the Post cereal fortune and one of the world's richest women. 
Robertson died on Long Island, New York.

Tags: Obit, Robertson Posted in US 




Page 1 of 9091
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
...
909
>





 Top Stories from VOATropical Storm Nate Weakens in MexicoAfghan Suicide Bomber Kills 2, Wounds ScoresActor Cliff Robertson DiesObama, Former NYC Mayor Giuliani Remember Sept. 11USS New York: An Enduring Reminder of the World Trade CenterTagsAfghanistan
Africa
Asia
Australia
Britain
Burma
China
Commodities
Corrected
Correction
Debt
Early
Economy
Egypt
Europe
Global
Greece
India
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Japan
Libya
Markets
Mexico
Nd
Obama
Pakistan
Politics
Rd
Russia
Somalia
South
St
Sudan
Syria
Talks
Th
Turkey
UN
Upd
Update
US
Violence
Yemen
Calendar
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


Archives 
September 2011 (844)
August 2011 (2717)
July 2011 (2694)
June 2011 (2834)

Categories 
Africa (847)

Americas (662)

Asia (2974)

East Asia Pacific (1698)

South Asia (1262)



Economy (1219)

Europe (1242)

Latin America (3)

Middle East (1660)

Sports (21)

Uncategorized (1)

US (1054)


VOA BlogsAfrican Music Treasures ( 50 posts )AzeriDiaspor ( 89 posts )Bizbize ( 24 posts )Comité de estudiantes ( 88 posts )Crossroads Cambodia ( 4 posts )Day in Photos ( 61 posts )Digital Frontiers ( 121 posts )Ferhadoglu ( 16 posts )Georgian America ( 6 posts )Georgian Forum - ფორუმი ( 2 posts )Gokkusagi ( 41 posts )Hayatımız Egitim ( 12 posts )Jazz Beat ( 30 posts )Living Green ( 10 posts )Made in USA ( 31 posts )Motosikletli Kız ( 28 posts )Musings on Cambodia ( 28 posts )News in Brief ( 181 posts )Pojokan DC ( 15 posts )Russia Watch ( 40 posts )Sağlamlıq və tibb dünyası ( 12 posts )Science World ( 57 posts )Sonny Side of Sports ( 123 posts )SƏRBƏST KÜRSÜ ( 15 posts )Talabalar shaharchasi ( 30 posts )Ted Landphair’s America ( 197 posts )Vaşinqtonun Nəbzi ( 61 posts )VOA Breaking News ( 9089 posts )VOA Student Union ( 325 posts )Voz de América ( 13 posts )Washigntonname ( 17 posts )Washington Notlari ( 6 posts )Yeni Ekonomi ( 22 posts )Ziman û Jîyan ( 8 posts )«Стоп-кадр» - фотоблог ( 20 posts )İDMAN ( 32 posts )АМЕРИКА: ЗДЕСЬ ВАМ НЕ ТАМ ( 6 posts )Альма-матер ( 15 posts )Депеша из США ( 7 posts )Культ культуры ( 24 posts )Под знаком $ ( 26 posts )Пресса под прессом ( 13 posts )Россия глазами американца ( 9 posts )СРОЧНО И КОРОТКО (  post )США - Россия: глобальный контекст ( 74 posts )بابه‌تێک بۆ گفت و گ ( 19 posts )بیرو بۆچونت ده‌رببڕه‌   کرمانشان: ( 20 posts )کاروانسه‌رای هونه‌ر ( 11 posts )
 
 








VOANews:
News
Programs
Video
Learning English
About Us


Web Services:
Podcasts
RSS
Mobile
Newsletter
Webcasts


About VOANews.com:
Terms of Use and Privacy Notice
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Link to Us
FAQs
Contact VOANews
Job Opportunities




























