A New Kind of Presidential Debate  - HUMAN EVENTS 










GO

Follow Human Events »










Home

RedState

Guns & Patriots

Family Events

Uncommon Knowledge

Ann Coulter

Newt Gingrich

Pat Buchanan



 





Share
Tweet

Print
Forward






A New Kind of Presidential Debate


									by 
									Maggie Gallagher


			09/07/2011
		








Comments


The goal of the APP Palmetto Freedom Forum on Monday in Columbia, S.C., was a different kind of debate that would break new ground.    Boy, did it succeed.    Sen. Jim DeMint of South Carolina, Congressman Steve King of Iowa and the founder of the American Principles Project, Princeton professor Robert George, asked the questions. (Full disclosure: Professor George is also the founding chairman of the National Organization for Marriage, which I co-founded).    Five major GOP candidates stood nakedly on the stage, taking deep questions about constitutional principles -- without a podium or a reporter in sight -- for 20 minutes.    Strong new and newsworthy commitments emerged from almost all the candidates on social issues, aka "civil rights."    For the first time, presidential candidates were asked: Does the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection apply to unborn human beings, and if so, doesn't Congress have express constitutional authority to enforce this guarantee?    (Herman Cain told me afterward that this was the one question that surprised him.)    Michele Bachmann opened ground on the life issue by saying "yes," while Mitt Romney showed he understood George's question by saying he would decline to create a "constitutional crisis" over the issue by confronting the court and instead would pledge to appoint justices who would interpret the Constitution correctly.    Ron Paul retreated to his Maginot Line of "states rights." Murder, he points out, is a state issue and so should abortion be. Well, yes, pointed out George, unless and until some state decides to deprive a whole class of human beings of the protection of their lives, in which case the 14th Amendment expressly authorizes Congress (not the courts) to step in to remedy this gross violation of civil rights.    Also newsworthy: For the first time, all the major contenders (except Texas Gov. Rick Perry) have pledged to nominate a vice presidential candidate who supports life and marriage. Romney at first left himself some wiggle room, but in the end firmly committed to a pro-life, pro-marriage veep: "These are important enough issues that the person I select would share my views," he promised.    And for the first time, major presidential candidates committed to protecting people and religious organizations in danger of being excluded from the public square because they do not support gay marriage or gay adoption.    George raised the issue of Catholic and Protestant adoption and foster care agencies in Illinois that are being excluded from participating in helping children because they do not place children with same-sex couples in civil unions.    Romney lived through this kind of thing in Massachusetts, where he was one of the few public voices standing up for Catholic Charities' rights to help orphaned and abused children -- and he was eloquent about the principles involved:    "I believe in religious tolerance and religious liberty," Romney said. "That means, to me, we are not going to force people of faith to violate their faith in order to practice their professions ... I'm not one of those who says get rid of the conscience protections," thereby forcing people to do things that violate their faith.     Romney went on: "I would say in Massachusetts, about half of adoptions were being placed by Catholic Charities. And they were excluded because they would not place children in homes with same-sex couples. That's a mistake; we should permit people to apply their faith," especially when there are many other agencies who can deliver services.    Two people were missing in Columbia: Perry, who was drawn away by the urgent wildfires spreading across Texas, and former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.    As arguably one of the more principled conservatives in the race, I missed hearing what Santorum could have added to the debate over the powers of Congress under the 14th Amendment to guarantee equal protection to unborn human beings.    But thanks to the APP Palmetto Freedom Forum, he, like Michele Bachmann, has an opportunity to pick up the 14th Amendment gauntlet Mitt Romney deemed too hot to handle.



				Maggie Gallagher is co-founder of the National Organization for Marriage.
						

			 
			


Sponsored Content





 


			Reader Comments: ()
		

				Welcome to our comments section! In addition to requiring readers to 
				register - which we trust will not be too much of an imposition - we 
				will also be moderating comments 24/7. This will allow us to ensure that 
				users stay on topic and treat each other with respect. Who knows, we may 
				even produce a new product that features you our loyal audience. Let us 
				know what you think.
		











Related Articles

Never Forget 9/11--Or Al-Qaeda’s Allies on Campus
by Patrick X. Coyle


College Threatens to Nix 9/11 Tribute As Too American
by Jason Mattera


The 9/11 'Overreaction' Nonsense
by Charles Krauthammer


Suspicious Minds: Tougher Questions for Bill Keller & The New York Times
by Nancy Pearcey


Ten Years After
by John Stossel






More by This Author

Obama Sabotages Defense of Marriage Act
by Maggie Gallagher


Marriage Wins Big at the Ballot Box
by Maggie Gallagher


Jerry Brown Tries to Sink California Marriage Amendment
by Maggie Gallagher


Prop. 22 Can Save Traditional Marriage in California
by Maggie Gallagher



















Subscribe | Store | Advertise | About Us | Manage Your Account | Privacy Policy  
				
				Copyright 2011 HUMAN EVENTS. All Rights Reserved.
			












