Egypt says it is in deep crisis                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Egypt says it is in deep crisis    Cairo :  Egypt
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Ranasafdaralikhan            8 0      
Views: 91
       The Egyptian information minister said the country was in deep crisis, and the activists who attacked the embassy of Israel Friday had flagrantly violated the law. The minister said the violence hurt Egypt's position in the world and warned that those responsible would be tried in emergency security courts. Minister of Health of Egypt reported that the attack on the Israeli embassy in Cairo resulted in three people dead.        1 of 30        
Egyptian protesters shout slogans against Israel during a protest in front of the Israeli Embassy in Cairo
     
Ranasafdaralikhan is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (64.4%) Pakistan (11.9%) Portugal (10.2%) Canada (3.4%) 4 other countries (5.1%)           READ MORE: Minister, Israeli Embassy, embassy, attack, IST, Protesters, said, Egyptian, protest, Egypt   More News From: Cairo :  Egypt      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     junaid1990
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Hats Off For Your Work. Great Work . Rated Up!!
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
A nicely compiled and informative report – rated this up as well!
            Reply  Posted By     mus1423
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
thanks for sharing this info......!!!!!!!rated up
            Reply  Posted By     saadkhan
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing it,,,,rated up must be rated up
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
Nicely composed this article. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Ranasafdaralikhan,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an interesting report.Who is to be blamed for it? Rated up.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Egypt and Israel try to mitigate the consequences of attack on ... By: crown62      The authorities
in Egypt and
Israel are working to contain the effects of the crisis in relations triggered by the attack on the Israeli embassy in Cairo. The Egyptian government has promised to be hard to civil unrest after a mob assaulted the embassy on Friday. The attack lasted 13 hours. Six Israeli security guards had to be rescued by ...  about 5 hours ago     Israeli PM condemns embassy attack in Egypt By: darjee      Israel's Prime Minister  Netanyahu on Saturday condemned the overnight attack on his country's embassy in the Egyptian capital, saying the incident inflicted a "severe injury to the fabric of peace with Israel and its ally's." The attack on the nerby Nile-side embassy in Cairo significantly added to the already growing tensions between ...  about 20 hours ago     Egypt on high alert after deadly attack on the Israeli embassy in ... By: YawarNaqvi      Egypt is on high alert after an attack by hundreds of protesters on the
Israeli embassy in Cairo left three people dead and hundreds injured.
The Israeli ambassador and other diplomatic staff were forced to flee the
country after the attack in which petrol bombs were met with tear gas from
the security services as demonstrators ...  about 21 hours ago     Tension in the Egyptian capital after Israeli embassy incident By: saadkhan      Egyptian
police today maintained tight security around the embassy of Israel in
the capital, after clashes between protesters and riot that caused some
400 wounded and 17 arrested.Authorities
confirmed that the Prime Minister Essam Sharaf, called its crisis team
to an emergency meeting on Saturday, while the holder of the Interior,
...  about 24 hours ago     Israel asks U.S. to provide protection for the embassy in Cairo By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Israel ask  the United States to provide protection for the Israeli Embassy in Cairo following the storming of a number of protesters at the Embassy, ​​said in a statement issued by the Department of Defense Minister Ehud Barak's request during the call he had with his U.S. counterpart, Leon Panetta and the U.S. presidential envoy ...  1 day ago     Egypt on alert after Israel embassy stormed in Cairo By: tayab      
Egypt has declared a state of alert after protests on the streets of Cairo, following the storming of the Israeli embassy on Friday.
Security forces fired tear gas and drove armoured vehicles at protesters throwing stones and petrol bombs. At least two people died, officials said.
The protesters broke into the embassy building, entering ...  1 day ago     Protestors in Egypt attack Israeli embassy in Cairo By: hkbadal      Protestors have stormed Israel`s embassy in Egypt's capital Cairo and destroyed important documents Friday night.
Sources in Cairo said protestors broke down one of the embassy walls and threw thousands of documents through the embassy`s windows.
They also replaced the Israel's flag with their own after entering the embassy compound.
The ...  1 day ago     After Attack on Israeli embassy Egypt Declared State of Alert  By: ahq26       
After the attack of the Israeli embassy on Friday Egypt has declared a state of alert after protests on the streets of Cairo.
It is reported that the security forces fired tear gas and troop armored vehicles at protesters, it is also seems that they responded by throwing stones and petrol bombs. Hundreds were injured.
Live TV pictures in ...  1 day ago     Two dead after the embassy was stormed By: alibux4      
Two demonstrators have been killed in the unrest in Israel, Cairo Embassy, ​​said medical sources in Egypt said. Security sources say 28 people have been arrested.
Hundreds of Egyptians stormed on Friday the Israeli Embassy in Cairo. Mission staff and security guards - according to Israeli data to AFP ...  1 day ago     Israeli Ambassador Leaves After Cairo Embassy Attack In Private Jet By: saleh1966      The Israeli Ambassador Yitzhak Levanon to Cairo, his family, and his staff have been flown by private jet to Israel after Egyptian protesters stormed the building housing the Israeli mission to Cairo late Friday night, Egyptian state television reported.
Hundreds of Egyptian activists have stormed the building housing Israel's embassy in Cairo. ...  1 day ago     Israeli diplomats evacuated from Cairo By: rshah      
Senior staff along with the Israeli ambassador will not be
seen working any more in Egypt as the high command of Israel has evacuated them
from this currently in crises country. This step from the Israeli higher
authorities has been taken only after protesters stormed the building where
Embassy of Israel had been established in Cairo.
This ...  1 day ago     Obama expressed his concern to Netanyahu By: crown62      
The U.S. president,
Barack Obama,
contacted the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, to express concern for the assault on its embassy in Egypt. The White House said in a statement that the telephone conversation by Obama and Netanyahu, the President conveyed his "deep concern about the status of the embassy." Obama asked
the ...  1 day ago     Israeli Minister Plenipotentiary To Egypt Went Home After Embassy ... By: jamespabalan      Israel flew its ambassador home after Egyptians stormed the building housing the Israeli mission in Cairo, plunging Egypt's ruling army deeper into its toughest diplomatic crisis.
The violence started when Egyptian protesters throw embassy documents and the Israeli flag from windows. Police disperse the crowd using teargas.
Protesters did not ...  1 day ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Egypt says it will try those behind Israel mission violence  
Jerusalem Post
 After protesters force Israeli ambassador to leave Cairo and return to Israel, Egyptians say offenders will face legal action at emergency state security court; Germany, UK, US condemn attacks on embassy. Egypt said on Saturday it would send those...    Egypt to try those behind Israel Embassy violence  
Yedioth Ahronoth
 Egypt to try those behind Israel Embassy violence Egypt said on Saturday it would send those who incited or took part in the violence targeting the Israeli embassy in Cairo to an emergency state security court. Information Minister Osama Hassan...    Protesters re-attempt Israel embassy break-in  
Jerusalem Post
 Security forces on high alert after demonstrators in Cairo try to breach embassy; report says military council rejected Egyptian PM resignation; Israel ambassador evacuates Cairo. Security forces in Egypt are on high alert Saturday after protesters...    Egypt Declares ‘State of Alert’ After Attack on Israeli Embassy  
International Business Times
 Get summaries of the top business news from a global perspective Sample The Egypt ian government has declared a state of alert' following the anti-Israel disturbance. Security forces used tear gas against protesters who threw stones and petrol bombs...    PM: I am glad we avoided danger in embassy attack  
Jerusalem Post
 Netanyahu grateful for US, Egyptian help in rescuing Israeli guards; Opposition leader Livni: we need to preserve peace with Egypt. Prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu responded on Saturday to the previous night's attack on Israel's embassy in Cairo,...    Israel Reacts Strongly to Cairo Embassy Attack  
Voice of America
 September 10, 2011 Israel Reacts Strongly to Cairo Embassy Attack Robert Berger Jerusalem Photo: AP Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (file photo) Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has condemned the attack on the Israeli embassy in Cairo.   More Related Stories     Images    >         Egyptian protesters shout ...    Egyptian protesters shout ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Egyptian protesters shout slogans against Israel during a protest in front ...        Some protesters have torched ...    Some protesters have torched ... Image Source: www.afp.com Some protesters have torched Israeli flags outside the Jewish state's ...        Hundreds have demonstrated at ...    Hundreds have demonstrated at ... Image Source: www.afp.com Hundreds have demonstrated at the Israeli embassy in Cairo denouncing the ...        Egyptian demonstrators climb ...    Egyptian demonstrators climb ... Image Source: www.afp.com Egyptian demonstrators climb up the Israeli embassy building in Cairo        The attack on the embassy was ...    The attack on the embassy was ... Image Source: www.afp.com The attack on the embassy was the worst since Israel established its ...        Egyptians burn an Israeli flag ...    Egyptians burn an Israeli flag ... Image Source: www.afp.com Egyptians burn an Israeli flag during a demonstration outside the Israeli ...      More Related Images    More From Cairo          Egyptian Commandos Save Israelis From Cairo Mobs’ Embassy Raid        'Egypt to fully enforce emergency law'        UNREST IN EGYPT, IN WHAT HAS CHANGED?        Egypt: More military trials since the revolution than during Mubarak's entire reign          Yitzhak Levanon at Cairo airport waiting for a flight to return to his country         Egyptian people bear sole authority        Egypt and Israel try to mitigate the consequences of attack on embassy        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid Attack on the Embassy          1000s tried in Egypt military courts        Egyptian Professional is a penalty Deppen         Muslim brothers take up arms against Bikinis         In the Mubarak trial. A senior officer confirmed the use of excessive force against demonstrators          Egyptian economy achieved modest growth and the continuing unrest is causing damage                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10300062          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 10 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Breaking: Tornado hits Auckland suburb, NZ By: solarp
| about 8 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 16       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 30       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10300062), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10300062 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10300062 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Egypt says it is in deep crisis” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10300062-egypt-says-it-is-in-deep-crisis.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         