Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh    Karāchi :  Pakistan
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Ammaduddin            8 0      
Views: 125
        Saturday, September 10, 2011 KARACHI: Rain-caused flash floods continue to cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh and other parts of the country.Flooded canals and drains inundated many more villages in interior Sindh, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless. Water-borne viral diseases are on rise in the flood-ravaged districts. Torrential rains and breaches developed in canals and saline water drains have made more than four million people homeless whereas displaced families are in dire need of help.Terrible situation is being witnessed in Badin, Mirpur Khas, Nawabshah, Tando Mohammad Khan and other areas where thousands of villages are under flood water. No arrangements are being taken to rescue people or to provide food supplies.The MNV Drain and FP developed breaches causing destruction in Johi, Dadu. Several villages flooded in Naushahro Feroz where affected families seek for the help.The situation is also miserable in Nawabshah and according to reports road links with more than 100 villages is disturbed. Like Sindh, torrential rains lashed low lying parts of Chichawatni town of Punjab’s Sahiwal district. Several areas of the city have turned into rivers and lakes.        1 of 8        
Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh.
     
Ammaduddin is based in Islamabad, Federal Capital Area, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (71.9%) Portugal (12.5%) France (3.1%) Canada (3.1%) 5 other countries (6.2%)           READ MORE: rain, flood, rains, Sind, people, Sindh, IST, Affected, torrential rains   More News From: Karāchi :  Pakistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     safdarjaved
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
Really good job it is an informative report rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Vicky247
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for this important news rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     X-REPORTER
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
ITS REALLY VERY BIG DESTRUCTION RATED UP
            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Its a very tragic news. Anyway Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Ammaduddin.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
A nicely compiled and informative report – rated this up as well!
            Reply  Posted By     junaid1990
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Nice reporting. Good Job. Rated Up!!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: aalees      Rain-caused flash floods continue to cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh and other parts of the country.Flooded canals and drains inundated many more villages in interior Sindh, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless. Water-borne viral diseases are on rise in the flood-ravaged districts. Torrential
rains and breaches ...  about 22 hours ago     Sindh floods: Homeless count crosses 4 million By: Ammaduddin       Saturday, September 10, 2011
KARACHI: Torrential rains and breaches developed in canals and saline water drains have made more than four million people homeless whereas displaced families are in dire need of help.Water born and viral diseases are spreading in most parts of affected areas of lower Sindh.The worst situation is reported in ...  about 23 hours ago     Sindh floods: living rough count crosses 4 million  By: aalees       Torrential
rains and breaches developed in canals and saline water drains have made more
than four million people homeless whereas displaced families are in dire need
of help,
Water born and viral diseases are spreading in most parts of affected areas of
lower Sindh.
The worst situation is reported in Badin, Mirpur Khas, Nawabshah, ...  about 23 hours ago     In Different Areas 24 people killed in Sindh  By: mairaa      
Rain devastation continued in different parts of Sindh as 24
more people lost their lives in various incidents.
 In view of the rising level at the Left Bank Outfall Drain
(LBOD), the floodwater has entered many villages on the either side, damaging
crops on hundreds of acres of land, a private news channel reported.
 As a ...  1 day ago     Pakistan floods: several Sindh districts devastated after rains  By: KhAmmarAhmed1      After heavy rain lashed Sindh, the number of those affected keeps increasing,
A number of families have migrated from the flood-hit areas while thousands are still waiting for the help.
Rain spell has started again in Khairpur and adjoining areas meanwhile in Khairpur district 6,000 villages have been inundated due to flooding.  5 days ago     LAHORE: Eastern Sindh, Southern Punjab and Balochistan`s Kirthar Range ... By: habibashrafmughal      The monsoon low, which was spotted over the Indian state of Chhattisgarh a few days ago, moisture from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal and a westerly wave have been generating widespread rains, especially in Sindh since Aug 28.The continuous rains have generated urban flooding, claimed lives of over 50 people and destroyed crops over a vast ...  6 days ago     Flood warning: Nawabshah in danger of being flooded  By: izabel       
KARACHI: Rains
continue to wreak havoc in Sindh as a breach in a seasonal water drain
caused Nawabshah to be the next city in danger of being flooded, Express 24/7 reported on Sunday.
The Pakistan Army and Navy have begun rescue operations and are transporting provisions to those marooned on dry land.
70 millimeters of rain ...  7 days ago     HYDERABAD: Thousands of people have been affected and crops over vast ... By: karoria       
According to reports by Dawn correspondents, the death toll in rain-related incidents soared to 57 as three more people were killed in Naushahro Feroze district when roofs and walls of their houses collapsed and two people drowned in Mirpurkhas district.
Thousands of cattle heads were either washed away or died because of non-availability ...  7 days ago     45 deaths in three days of Sindh, Balochistan downpours By: FahadASami      In Karachi at least 45 persons have died in  three days of
torrential rains that lashed many parts of the country including Sindh
and Balochistan.Mr. Ali Nawaz Wah and
Pandraho Wah canals in Faizganj area of district Khairpur developed 50
ft wide each reaches covering eight villages. In a roof collapse near Garhi Pul a child, 8 died and 6 ...  7 days ago     Heavy rains and flood in Sindh/Balochistan 70 dead  By: safdarjaved      More than seventy persons have been killed in the last three days of torrential rains that lashed many parts of the country including Sindh and Balochistan. Sindh stands devastated by the recent heavy rains and flood across the province. 
Several villages and standing crops on vast areas in Sindh including Badin, Thatta, Nawabshah and ...  7 days ago     11 more killed in rain-hit Sindh By: junaid1990      Torrential monsoon rains continued to batter Sindh on Saturday with 11 more people killed in rain-related incidents during the last 24 hours bringing the death toll to 66.Breaches were developed in two canals in Khairpur district on Saturday inundating a large number of villages and standing crops.The metrological department has forecast more ...  7 days ago     Flood unfolding more miseries countrywide in Pakistan By: aalees      
BADIN: spark
floods caused by heavy showers wrought disaster in various areas of the
country, as four other villages were inundated of late in Balochistan district
of Khuzdar,
One among the devastated areas of Sindh is Sanghar
where the flood-hit people are sitting by roadsides under open skies.
Also, over 200,000 acres of agricultural ...  8 days ago     38 perish in three days of Sindh, Balochistan downpours By: taimur1      
KARACHI: Nine people died in separate incidents when roofs collapsed due to heavy rains in Shahdat Kot, Mirpurkhas and Pad Eidan.
Dozens sustained injuries as 700 homes in Dadu collapsed due to heavy showers.
The ongoing rain severely affected the communication system as well as the railway tracks.
Four villages were inundated as a ...  8 days ago     Pakistan: Monsoon and floods kill 18 people By: kingston23      The province of Sindh in southern Pakistan, saw the deaths of at least 18 people due to strong monsoon and floods caused by torrential rains. The defenses against the water had been severely damaged since the devastating floods last year. Government critics say the government had not properly rebuilt. The reports say that millions of people have ...  8 days ago     SIND, Heavy rains lash interior By: farooq8      DADU: Heavy rains lashed Dadu district and other areas of Sindh province, displacing a large number of people, and sending low lying areas inundated.
Flooding also affected vegetable and rice crops in Dadu. Some colonies were under six feet of water
 
According to correspondent, at least 100 villages in Johi were cut due to over flooding. ...  9 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     24 more killed in various rain-related incidents in Sindh  
Pak Tribune
 Rain devastation continued in different parts of Sindh as 24 more people lost their lives in various incidents...As a precautionary measure, the administration has started shifting people to safer places from the nearby 10 union councils. Meanwhile...    New monsoon spell to hit Sindh from Sunday: Met  
pakistantimes
 The Met office has predicted that a new monsoon spell will hit Sindh on Sunday, a private television news channel reported on Friday. Heavy rains are expected in the flood affected areas of the province. Director Met office, Muhammad Hanif said rain...    Sanghar in Sindh declared as calamity hit  
pakistantimes
 DPO Sanghar Abdullah Shaikh has said that District sanghar has been declared calamity hit as water level is rising and people are suffering more day by day. Talking to media on Friday, He said, we have established relief camps in schools and provided...    Streets flooded as heavy rain hit Karachi  
pakistantimes
 Many roads and streets in the city went inundated as heavy rains lashed Karachi on Saturday afternoon, creating traffic jams and widespread power outages in various areas. The intensity of the downpour caused visibility issues for many drivers and...    Almost 120,000 pregnant women affected by floods: NDMA  
pakistantimes
 These women face a risk from water borne diseases and several of them have been living without shelter...This task force will work together with the international and federal health agencies    Karachi rain: Nine die of electrocution  
pakistantimes
 At least nine people lost their lives when they were electrocuted during rain in the city, a report said on Saturday. Five members of the same family including a mother and daughter were among those killed. Heavy rain lashed Karachi this afternoon...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Torrential rains, floods cause ...    Torrential rains, floods cause ... Image Source: allvoices Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh.        Monsoon: Torrential rain in ...    Monsoon: Torrential rain in ... Image Source: www.afp.com Monsoon: Torrential rain in tropical regions        Landslides in Abidjan caused ...    Landslides in Abidjan caused ... Image Source: www.afp.com Landslides in Abidjan caused by torrential rains killed at least 11 people ...        Torrential monsoon rains have ...    Torrential monsoon rains have ... Image Source: www.afp.com Torrential monsoon rains have triggered massive floods affecting a fifth of ...        China's weather authorities ...    China's weather authorities ... Image Source: www.afp.com China's weather authorities warned Monday torrential rain that has ...        Vehicles drive through a ...    Vehicles drive through a ... Image Source: www.afp.com Vehicles drive through a street flooded by torrential rain in central ...      More Related Images    More From Karāchi          There a video surfaced of kidnapped 30 Pakistani Youth         PM seeks international help for flood relief        Sindh Chief Minister expressed sorrow over the losses caused by the Rains        Pakistan post moon soon cotton out look         one man died from electric circuit...        Nawaz urges govt to expedite relief efforts for flood victims        Long-term prediction not possible        Pakistan reaches out to US on 9/11 anniversary          Gilani sends out a global rain-relief sos        Karachi traffic thrown out of gear by rain       Pakistan needs world help for rain-relief        SHOAIB AKHTAR          pakistan army one of the best army in the world Kayani                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10298892          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 10 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Breaking: Tornado hits Auckland suburb, NZ By: solarp
| about 8 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 8       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 11       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10298892), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10298892 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10298892 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior Sindh” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10298892-torrential-rains-floods-cause-widespread-devastation-in-interior-sindh.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         