Human chain in New York in memory of 9-11                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Human chain in New York in memory of 9-11    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Ranasafdaralikhan            7 0      
Views: 144
        Residents and tourists in New York participated in a human chain in memory of the victims of September 11, 2001, one of the events commemorating the tenth anniversary of the attacks. The chain began to form in Battery Park at the southern tip of Manhattan at 8:47 am, the time the first plane struck the north tower of World Trade Center. Participants were then asked to leave messages on the wall of remembrance in the park, some of which will be used later in the Museum of 9-11. In his radio address on Saturday, President Barack ObamaBarack Obama called on citizens to look to a more secure future. Obama said that with the death of Osama bin Laden at the hands of a U.S. command last May in Pakistan, Al Qaeda was on his way to total defeat.         1 of 24        
People gather to celebrate the death of Osama bin Laden at the construction site at Ground Zero in New York
     
Ranasafdaralikhan is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (70.4%) Portugal (9.6%) United Kingdom (4.8%) Pakistan (4.8%) 7 other countries (7.2%)           READ MORE: September 11, Bin Laden, President, osama bin, attack, attacks, IST, Pakista, akistan, tenth anniversary   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Intelligently written, well done job rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     junaid1990
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Hats Off For Your Work. Great Work . Rated Up!!
            Reply  Posted By     mus1423
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Good job must be rated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Really good report here – rated it up as well!
            Reply  Posted By     Surya Gaire
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
I found your article interesting to read, you are rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Ranasafdaralikhan,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Maximum alert in the U.S. for the 09/11 By: abdelfattah      The
U.S. president, Barack Obama, will not change tomorrow plans to visit
the main memorials of the attacks of September 11, 2001 despite the
terrorist threat "concrete, credible, but not confirmed" it was revealed
yesterday.This was stated by his
spokesman, Jay Carney, told reporters traveling with the president to
Virginia, where one ...  about 18 hours ago     BKA warns of attacks on 9/11-Jahrestag  By: nabeela2001      The Federal Criminal Police fears in a secret document that terrorists in the vicinity of the 11th September attacks commit. Especially of individual perpetrators of grave danger goes.
The suspected terrorists, Hani N. and Samir M. sitting in detention . The 28 and 24 year old men are suspected of having prepared a ...  about 20 hours ago     NEW YORK REINFORCED BY THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ATTACK. By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ      New York is shielded as they are numerous threats of attacks.Public services are on high alert as they have detected signs of a more than likely attack.The police are more evident than ever on the streets of New York. I checked everything, but everything: streets, bridges, tunnels, ports, airports, subways, car parks and buildings in New York. ...  1 day ago     September 11: Ten years later, the Americans begin a weekend of ... By: lalag      For the Americans opened Saturday morning a weekend of commemorations of the tenth anniversary of Sept. 11, marked by a patriotic fervor, the cult of those who fell in the fight against terrorism and fear "credible" but "not confirmed" a new attack.The commemorations will begin Saturday at 12:30 (18:30 GMT) with George W. Bush and Joe Biden in ...  1 day ago     Americans fear an attack for September 11 By: lalag      The United States reported Thursday a bomb threat "credible but unconfirmed" around the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, prompting the mayor of New York City described as Washington, to enhance security at three day of the commemoration of the attacks."The New York Police Department will deploy additional resources around the city and take other ...  1 day ago     Pakistan warns plan to free bin Laden family  By: kingston23      KARACHI
- Pakistan warned on Friday that the Taliban plan to abduct a senior
government official to offer in exchange for the family of terrorist
leader Osama bin Laden.
A U.S. naval commando killed bin Laden in his stronghold in May in Pakistan. They
took the body, but left at least two of his wives and several children
at home, later ...  1 day ago     Terror Plot: Can al-Qaeda strike NYC and DC on Sept. 11? By: StephenManual      
US officials have reportedly received threats of terrorist attacks by militants on the eve of the tenth anniversary of September 11, when the two skyscrapers of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon building were razed to the ground in terrorist attacks that killed hundreds of people. The plot has been reportedly hatched in tribal areas ...  1 day ago     U.S. investigate threat 'credible' attack to Sept. 11 By: egyjan25      The U.S. government is investigating reports "specific and credible, but unconfirmed" about possible threats of attacks for the tenth anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2001, on Sunday.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a statement confirming the suspicion, but without giving details.According to a source quoted by CNN, the ...  1 day ago     Biden: no evidence of attacks, but remain alert By: junaid1990      Vice President North America, Joe Biden, said on Friday that there is clear evidence of a terrorist threat to New York or Washington, but confirmed that authorities are investigating a possible attack. "We have clear evidence, but we talk about the possible use of a car bomb, for example," Biden told the ABC. "We were told by a reliable ...  1 day ago     U.S. believes a “credible” terror threat ahead of the 10th ... By: mahlina       
The September 11, 2001 attacks are etched in the brains of people of America and the level of nervousness has risen ahead of the 10th anniversary of the historic tragedy.
U.S. President Barack Obama has ordered the redoubling of security as the 10th anniversary of September 11, 2001 attacks lie in wait. The President has asked for the ...  1 day ago     Joe Biden: authorities investigating a possible suicide car bomb By: faraway      
Vice President Joe Biden said Friday that there was no "compelling cues" of a threat to New York or Washington around the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 but confirmed that authorities were investigating a possible suicide car bomb.
"We have no evidence but we are talking about flagrant use of a car bomb," Biden said on ABC television.
 
...  1 day ago     U.S. receives threats as 10th anniversary of 9/11 approaches By: wendyzachary      
Today, armed cops were seen swarming in New York City after U.S. officials said that a terror threat had been received by the new al-Qaeda chief. It should be noted that the threat is timed to coincide with the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took place in 2001.
Officials said that the threat has been issued by the new al-Qaeda ...  1 day ago     Obama calls for unity to 10 years of 11-S  By: kingston23      The
New York Times released unpublished conversations of air traffic
controllers, as well as errors and lack of coordination on the day of
the terrorist attacks
,A
few hours of the events that will mark the tenth anniversary of the
terrorist attacks on America, President Barack Obama today launched a
call for unity and said that after ...  2 days ago     U.S. alert on the anniversary of the September attacks By: mohamedabdelfattah       
the Pentagon lifted the state of preparedness on military bases within the United States on the eve of the tenth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks / September 2001 by al Qaeda, an organization of Defence Minister Leon Panetta that much weaker in the past ten years, but is still planning attacks.  And Pentagon spokesmen said George ...  3 days ago     TENTH YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11 WITHOUT OSAMA BIN LADEN BUT STILL ... By: dhreff       
TENTH YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11 WITHOUT OSAMA BIN LADEN BUT STILL HAUNTING AMERICANS IN AMERICA AND
BY
dhreff
Olongapo City, Philippines
 
 Americans at home and in overseas will soon celebrate the tenth year anniversary of heinous attacks on the USA pin blamed on Osama Bin Laden led terrorist networks, Al-Qaeda and Taliban...  4 days ago     U.S. government warns citizens about the 11th anniversary September By: ZohaibAnwer       
The U.S. government has with regard to the tenth anniversary of the September 11 September 2001, all U.S. citizens in the world called for increased attention.There was no specific threat, but the terrorist network Al Qaeda has "shown his interest and his ability to perform attacks against the United States and its interests in the ...  8 days ago     This ended with Osama Bin Laden By: alibux4      The documentary 'Bin Laden Targeting "includes an interview with Obama to explain the death of al-Qaeda leader
The U.S. efforts to kill Osama Bin Laden and how the operation was conceived that ended his life will be portrayed in a television program that features interviews with President Barack Obama and senior officials responsible ...  9 days ago     Obama: individual terrorism is a next threat. By: mohamedabdelfattah      
U.S. President Barack Obama  said that
the risk of future threat to his country no major attacks carried out by the
organizations, but individual acts similar to what happened in Norway
recently. we should not fear of a "major terrorist organization and"
more of a process carried out by the "lone wolf", before the days of
the ...  24 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Obama says 9/11 made US stronger  
BBC
 Every year, I kind of, don't handle it, but it's the 10th year and so I felt like it was important to make a statement," one woman, Juliet Di Frenza, told Reuters. "It was the worst day of my life."...He will be joined in New York by former President...    Osama Bin Laden Dead Picture an Internet Hoax [GRAPHIC PHOTO]  
Muncie Free Press
 As happened with Snoop Dogg death rumors over Labor Day weekend , another Internet hoax surrounding a picture of a dead Osama bin Laden is making the rounds this weekend. As the September 11 ten year anniversary approaches, the phrase is trending on...    'Never forget': Preparations underway for tenth anniversary of 9/11 as New ...  
Mail Online UK
 The NYC Memorial Field, part of a five-day installation, was erected to give New Yorkers a public place to gather in remembrance of those who were killed in the horrific acts of September 11, 2001. It is among dozens of memorials, vigils and events...    Al Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri wants '9/11' of his own  
The Economic Times
 Ayman al-Zawahiri , the successor to Al Qaeda's founder Osama bin Laden, on the 10th anniversary of the deadly 9/11 strike has ordered an attack to "cement his control" over the terror outfit, a media report said. The 60-year-old al-Zawahiri...    Obama: US stronger 10 yrs after 9/11 attacks  
News 24
 President Barack Obama said on Saturday the United States was stronger 10 years after the September 11 2001 attacks and Americans would "carry on" despite continued threats against their safety. Marking Sunday's 10th anniversary of the "9/11" attacks...    Obama to visit all 3 Sept. 11 crash sites  
United Press International
 President Barack Obama will visit all three crash sites of hijacked jets that terrorists used 10 years ago to attack the United States, White House aides said. His schedule wasn't altered despite a flurry of reports Friday that U.S.   More Related Stories     Blogs    >    Avengers (And Stan Lee) Assemble In Photos From New York City ...  
spinoff.comicbookresources.com
 Filming of The Avengers moved from Cleveland, which doubled as Stuttgart, Germany, and New York City, to the real New York City, where scenes were shot over the weekend in midtown. Photos from Central Park provide us with a look at the ...    All Nine Remaining Designers on Project Runway Showed Today ...  
wheretobuyjeansonline.com
 ... title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week'new york fashion week/a, a href=/tags/new%20york%20fashion%20week%20spring%202012 title=Read all posts tagged 'new york fashion week spring 2012'new york fashion week spring ...       Images    >         People gather to celebrate the ...    People gather to celebrate the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People gather to celebrate the death of Osama bin Laden at the construction ...        People in New York celebrate ...    People in New York celebrate ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People in New York celebrate after Al Qaeda leader bin Laden was killed        People gather to celebrate the ...    People gather to celebrate the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People gather to celebrate the death of Osama bin Laden at Ground Zero in ...        People watch a TV broadcast of ...    People watch a TV broadcast of ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People watch a TV broadcast of U.S. President Obama announcing the death of ...        New York City Mayor Michael ...    New York City Mayor Michael ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg speaks about Osama bin Laden with ...        Man carries American flag ...    Man carries American flag ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Man carries American flag outside World Trade Center site in New York after ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at U.S. Open Semifinals (Video)        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Aircraft suicide to kill enemies        Pack of drills preceded 9/11 attacks          Shock can not forget        World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        Miss Universe 2011 - The Bikini         Nadal sets up dream US Open final with Djokovic          Djokovic vs. Nadal in US Open Finals        Make A Fashion Statement With Designer Shoes        Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA        Mrs. Obama visits U.S. Open           Secrets of Michael Jackson tumble out                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10299937          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 10 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Breaking: Tornado hits Auckland suburb, NZ By: solarp
| about 8 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 26       Blog Posts: 2       Videos: 10       Images: 24       Comments: 6    6       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10299937), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10299937 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10299937 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Human chain in New York in memory of 9-11” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10299937-human-chain-in-new-york-in-memory-of-911.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         