Waco, Strange but True: Football had tentative start at Baylor | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Sunday, September 11, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco Today 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS






Please enable JavaScript to view this site



Waco, Strange but True: Football had tentative start at Baylor
By Randy Fiedler
Thursday September 23, 2010

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	

Today, Baylor University’s football team is a member of a powerful regional athletic conference. It trains in state-of-the-art practice and conditioning facilities and competes before tens of thousands of fans in Floyd Casey Stadium. It’s difficult to imagine how different things were more than 110 years ago when the first intrepid Baylor athletes picked up a pigskin and prepared to do battle.
During Baylor’s first dozen or so years after moving to Waco in 1886, the administration was wary of the rough-and-tumble game of football that was spreading like wildfire from one college campus to another. By 1894, other prominent Texas schools such as the University of Texas and Texas A&M were fielding teams. But Baylor’s faculty –– including President Rufus C. Burleson –– were not convinced that creating a team at the state’s premier Baptist university was prudent.
Baylor administrators allowed various classes and student organizations to occasionally pick teams and play informal games of football on campus. But even after the university’s crosstown rival, Add-Ran College (later known as Texas Christian University), began playing intercollegiate football in Waco in 1896, Baylor officials refused to follow suit.
Burleson became Baylor’s president emeritus in 1897. During the next two years, as trustees searched for his permanent replacement, the movement to bring football to Baylor gathered momentum. Interested faculty and students formed an athletic association at Baylor in January 1898.
Baylor Coach Archie Webb held a football camp five miles north of Waco.   When trustees elected Oscar Henry Cooper as the new president the following year, they hired a leader who believed that college football could be a good thing. Just two days after Cooper delivered his inaugural address on Sept. 6, 1899, the Baylor Athletic Association (with Cooper’s blessing) appointed a committee to hire a football coach and organize a team.
On Oct. 19, 1899, Baylor’s new football squad played its first game –– probably more like a scrimmage –– against Toby’s Business College. The small commercial preparatory school also was located in Waco. Although they were most likely eager to compete, the men who lined up against each other that fall day were a far cry from today’s football players.
The earliest football teams wore uniforms that carried little or no padding or other protection. Helmets, if worn at all, often were barely more than thin caps made of leather. But what’s not so widely known is how much smaller and lighter football players were back then.
On that first team Baylor fielded, the players weighed an average of slightly more than 170 pounds. That’s no misprint –– 170 pounds. The heaviest Baylor player — the biggest man on the line — didn’t even top 200 pounds, weighing just 196. The smallest Baylor player tipped the scales at an anemic 136 pounds. Despite all this, Baylor held an advantage over the poor Toby’s College players, whose average weight was only about 150 pounds.
By contrast, according to the 2010 football roster, 11 Baylor players top 300 pounds. The heaviest tips the scales at 340 pounds, twice the average player’s weight in 1899.
Baylor won its first football contest against Toby’s, 6-0, and would go on to defeat them again the next month, 20-0. Between those games with Toby’s, Baylor initiated what is now its oldest surviving football rivalry (with TCU) by playing Add-Ran College. The result was a scoreless tie in a game on the Baylor campus before a large crowd.
As it has so often during the past 111 years, Texas A&M University refused to play nice, meeting Baylor during the final game of its inaugural season and handing the young team its first loss by a score of 33-0. The Waco Times-Herald tried to put the game in a positive light by reporting that, “For an eleven many of whose players did not know the shape of the oval until this season, Baylor put up a fair exhibition.”
During that first season, Baylor’s team was not known as the Bears because the university had no official mascot. Local newspaper accounts, for reasons I have not been able to discern, most often referred to the team as the Baylor Bulldogs. But every now and then they were referred to in print simply as the Baptists.
Baylor wouldn’t adopt the bear as its official mascot until 1914, after students chose the name in a campus vote. If another one of the suggested choices had garnered more votes, we could now be cheering for the Baylor Buffaloes, Antelopes, Frogs, Ferrets or (this is the real fear-inducer) the Baylor Bookworms.
After its inaugural year of play, Baylor began adding new gridiron rivals, such as Austin College in 1900 and Oklahoma and Texas in 1901. In 1902, a new football home called Lee Carroll Field was built on the Baylor campus, about where the Bill Daniel Student Center now stands.
The athletic field greatly improved playing conditions, although it began as a somewhat primitive sports facility. Before a fence was built around the complex in 1905, fans would simply stroll up to the edge of the field to watch a game. Or they’d sit atop their horses or carriages on the sidelines for a better view. A grandstand wasn’t added until 1915.
At some point after the fencing was erected, Carroll Field’s turf was kept in shape thanks to a small herd of sheep. Instead of trying to keep the grass cut with a mechanical mower, Baylor officials allowed the sheep to graze at will when the field wasn’t in use. A newspaper account reports that once a pack of wild dogs apparently broke through the fence at night and killed all the sheep. This required Baylor students to take over lawn maintenance duties, at least temporarily.
Baylor’s teams kept getting more experienced each year. But before the 1906 season got under way, the university’s football fans were dealt a shocking blow. On May 29, Baylor trustees granted President Samuel Palmer Brooks’ request that football be banned on campus. Among the reasons given: Football games included unnecessary roughness and there was a growing tendency for teams to use foul play to win.
After they heard the news, Baylor students used their collegiate gift for satire to hold a mock funeral on campus to “bury the pigskin,” interring a football under a headstone covered in flowers and bearing the inscription, “Here lies our dear foot-ball, Long may his ashes rest; He died by vote of the trustees, And not by our request.”
Baylor trustees, who possibly spent the fall of 1906 attending other schools’ unnecessarily rough games –– or playing checkers –– apparently weren’t prepared to spend more than a single school year without football. During the summer of 1907, they voted to reinstate the sport on campus. Except for a two-year hiatus during World War II, Baylor has fielded a team ever since.
There’s never been a shortage of charismatic football coaches, and Baylor had a few during its early seasons. In 1905, Baylor’s new coach was Archie Webb, who had been a football star at Brown University. Soon after he arrived in Waco, Webb devised what one newspaper called a “deeply laid plot” for the team’s preseason training camp.
The camp –– which really earned its name, since participants had to sleep on the ground in tents and cook outside over a fire — was to be held at Day’s Lake just north of Waco. After the Baylor players had assembled downtown and loaded their luggage on a train, Coach Webb “so managed affairs as to have all the men but one get left.” He then informed his surprised players they would have to get to camp by walking the five miles to Day’s Lake in the August heat, which they did.
Coach Enoch J. Mills led Baylor’s 1908 and 1909 teams. 
Another colorful early coach was Enoch J. Mills, who led the 1908 and 1909 Baylor football teams. During his first season, Mills created controversy by conveniently ignoring the fact that his place was on the sidelines and not on the field.
On Nov. 7, 1908, Baylor played a football game against Tulane University in New Orleans. Neither team scored during the first half, but Baylor began to pick up steam in the second. The game took an interesting turn, however, after the Tulane coach noticed that the man quarterbacking for Baylor was not a student athlete but Coach Mills. He wore no headgear or nose guard as he ran plays.
The game was stopped and Mills and Tulane officials began a long argument on the field. Tulane threatened to keep Baylor’s share of the receipts if Mills didn’t leave the game and substitute a qualified student at quarterback. Mills finally gave in, and Baylor ended up losing to Tulane, 10-2.
Coach Mills later admitted to playing quarterback for about five minutes before being discovered. He explained in his defense that Tulane was not a member of any athletic association and therefore was not bound by intercollegiate rules. He said Tulane was using a player who had exceeded the maximum four years of eligibility, and who had been blacklisted by intercollegiate organizations. Mills said he entered the game in protest only after Tulane refused to remove the illegal player.
If the game against Tulane left Baylor fans with a bad taste in their mouths, it was nothing compared to what they witnessed three days later in Baton Rouge. Louisana State handed Baylor what is still the worst football defeat in its history –– an 89-0 flogging. If there was a bright spot, it came two weeks later when Tulane visited Waco. Baylor managed to get revenge by winning 6-0 on Carroll Field before an enthusiastic home crowd.
Baylor football thrived in next few decades. The team played in a new athletic conference and made exciting appearances before government officials and movie stars. I’ll tell those tales in the concluding part of this story next month.
When he isn’t researching Waco history or trying to learn to play the ukulele, former broadcast journalist Randy Fiedler works as a communications specialist with Baylor marketing and communications. He can be reached at fied103@yahoo.com.
 




  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO TODAY »


















 






Be our fan on Facebook!
 








 






Fabulous! prizes:
• Yoga Life — 10 yoga lessons ($70)
• Bloomingals — $50 floral arrangement
• Pinwheel Kids — MadPax backpack
• Schwartz Design Center — $50 gift card
HERE’S HOW TO WIN:
Ballots available at participating stores. Each entry good for that store location’s prize.
 
One ballot per person, per week, per store. (No purchase required)
 
Drawings to be held Sept. 20. Winners will be announced on Waco Today Facebook Page!

 
 







 
Fiction




 
Check out our new series A Watch in Time, written by local author Golden Keyes Parsons.

Read Part 3: "A new mystery unfolds"
Read Part 2: "A mysterious watch from the past"
Read Part 1: "From 2011 to 1861 — in an instant"

 







 
Virtual Waco Today





View the whole magazine in virtual form.







 
More stories





Back to the Waco Today homepage



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




