Conservative Blog & Conservative News Source for Right of Center Activists | RedState













About
Contribute
Contact
Advertise Here
Help




Conservative News, Books, & Views
Conservative Book Club
Regnery Books




RedState.com
                : Conservative Blog and News
                






















Hot Topics: Barack Obama
 • debt ceiling
 • Obama
 • 2012
 • politics
 • Rick Perry
 • Coffee and Markets
 • Morning Briefing
 



Recent Posts
Log In
Sign Up

















California caves on Amazon tax.  For now.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 8:07PM EDT					
7 Comments 


The can has been kicked for another year.
Lawmakers on Friday sent Gov. Jerry Brown a compromise bill that delays California’s effort to force online retailers such as Amazon.com to collect the state’s sales taxes while retailers lobby Congress for national rules governing online sales taxes.
Essentially, California legislators passed a bill earlier this year that ‘exploited’ a loophole in federal case law that would have required Amazon.com (and others) to collect sales tax on purchases made by California residents.  Amazon.com (and others) promptly ended the affiliate program that provided the loophole.  California legislators blinked with surprise, because apparently they completely missed noticing that Amazon.com always does this (except in New York, where they’re fighting the law in court).  Shockingly, California legislators have now apparently gotten a rush of oxygen to the brain and delayed ‘implementation’ of the tax until September of 2012; this time is supposedly to allow Amazon.com and other online retailers to petition Congress to straighten out national sales tax guidelines (something that Amazon.com has been pushing for, actually). Assuming that Governor Brown signs off on this – and, given that the original bill has pretty conclusively been already shown to be wildly if not insanely optimistic in its estimated revenue*, he’d have to be extremely dumb not to** – Amazon.com will turn its affiliate program back on.
Read More → 

Category: affiliate, amazon tax, California, compromise, nexus 

























Good News: Oil Drilling Off Florida Begins Nov. 1.  Bad News: It’s in Cuba.






						Posted by Steve Maley (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 1:00PM EDT					
6 Comments 


Hunting for Cuban oil. (Adalberto Roque/AFP/Getty Images)
While it’s been the subject of rumor, gossip and misinformation for the last several years, this time it’s real: drilling off the north shore of Cuba is scheduled to begin November 1. Six wells are planned to be drilled with this rig by the various international companies who own exploration rights off the north shore of the island.
…Spanish energy company Repsol and its partners are now bringing the Chinese-built [drilling rig] Scarabeo 9 to a site off Cuba’s northwest coast, where it aims to drill as soon as November at a depth of more than 5,500 feet, deeper than the blown-out well that spewed 5 million barrels of crude into the Gulf last summer.
The [rig's] journey to Cuba will take two months, and once it arrives it will be put into operation almost immediately, said the official, who asked not to be identified. It will be used first as an exploratory well for a consortium led by Spanish oil giant Repsol YPF, which drilled the only offshore well in Cuba in 2004 and said at the time it had found hydrocarbons. [Source.]
The current trade embargo requires the operation contain less than 10% U.S. content. Of the major components, only the blowout preventer (BOP) is an American product (Cameron International).
Read More → 

Category: Cuba, Drill Now!, Energy, Repsol YPF, Taladro de perforación aquí ahora! 

























Where’s the new [stimulus] bill Mr. Obama?






						Posted by Dan Spencer (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 11:30AM EDT					
32 Comments 


After promising time and time again to focus on jobs.
After promising time and time again to pivot to jobs.
After promising time and time again to give a jobs plan speech right after his Martha’s Vineyard vacations.
After promising new fresh proposals, not a rehash of plans he has pitched previously.
After demanding time and time again before a joint session that Congress pass his [stimulus] bill.
After demanding time and again at a campaign rally in Richmond that Congress pass his [stimulus] bill.
President Obama hasn’t yet provided Congress the [stimulus] bill.
Read More → 

Category: 2012 Elections, Barack Obama, Economy, Focus, Jobs, Martha's Vineyard, Pass, Pivot, Promise, Stimulus, Unemployment, Vacations 

























Liberals Continue Push for Job-Killing Agency and Regulations






						Posted by Brian Darling (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 9:00AM EDT					
3 Comments 


Last year, Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) sent the President a letter raising concerns about 191 pending regulations that costs American business billions of dollars a year.   The President ignored the letter, so Speaker Boehner sent him another one.  The potential cost of these Obama regulations will be devastating to an already sputtering economy and constitute a massive hidden tax on all Americans.
The only way for Senators to stop regulations in the short term is to block the work of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  This bureau will be a regulation creating machine and an entity that will slow economic growth — much like Obama’s 191 pending regulations.  The only way for Senators to stop the bureau from mass producing new regulations is to refuse confirmation of the president’s nominee to head the Bureau, Richard Cordray.
Read More → 

Category: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Richard Cordray 

























Democrats facing electoral disasters in NV-02, NY-09?






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 8:30AM EDT					
12 Comments 


But before we start talking about implications, let’s review the situations.

NY-09.  This D+5 seat was vacated by Anthony Weiner after pictures surfaced… and I don’t need to end that sentence: it’s never good for a politician’s career when the phrase ‘pictures surfaced’ is used to describe his or her situation.  The race thus is between Republican Bob Turner and Democrat David Weprin… and Democrats are even now going frantic.  They’re going frantic because an independent pollster now shows Turner in the lead (which has been consistent with other polling trends); they’re going frantic because Tuner has picked up several key endorsements from prominent New York Democrats (over Weprin’s – really, President Obama’s – Israel policy); and they’re going frantic because the entire Weprin campaign effort seems to be infected with incompetence, starting at the local level* and working all the way up to the DCCC itself.  The Democrats have dumped half a million dollars in this race, and are right now grimly contemplating the possibility that this half a million is buying them bupkis.
NV-02.  Meanwhile, this R+5 district is increasingly looking like a retention for the GOP.  Dean Heller vacated the seat after being tapped to become Senator John Ensign’s replacement (Ensign, as you probably remember – and you probably were happy to forget – left office under what we shall charitably call ‘under a cloud’); Republican Mark Amodei will be facing Democrat Kate Marshall.  The DCCC has  essentially written this district off, at this point: their primary strategy, if you’ll pardon the pun, was to get Democratic Secretary of State Ross Miller (elections have consequences, people) to sign off on a winner-take-all election (which would have splintered the Republican vote), only to be told no by the courts.  Since then, Marshall hasn’t been able to make anything stick – including linking Amodei with Paul Ryan’s Medicare reform plan – and Amodei is favored to win.  Incidentally, the Right has put about 750K into this race, including about $500K from the NRCC.

Read More → 

Category: bb turner, david weprin, kate marshall, mark amodei, Nevada, New York, nv-02, ny-09, special election 

























Tech at Night: Amazon makes peace with CA Dems, Patent “reform” passes, Who’s funding the left?






						Posted by Neil Stevens (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 10th at 3:00AM EDT					
2 Comments 



Friday has come and gone at last, and in fact we’re well into Saturday now unfortunately, due to my needing to have covered so much this time.
Additionally, at long last it looks like the ongoing saga of California vs Amazon is coming to an end.  Amazon had already floated the idea of compromise with the Democrats on their unconstitutional plan to try to bully Amazon with respect to California’s high sales tax rates.
But now it looks like the firm got cold feet. Having already put itself on the line with a plan to lobby for a national law on the matter, with a promise to pay the tax if now law is passed in two years, they caved and cut the “safe harbor” down to one year.  As you might guess from how I said that, I disagree that Amazon was wrong to play hardball. I think  Amazon was wrong to give in after playing hardball, because if things go wrong they risk victor’s justice.
Joe Mathews says Amazon has given an example of “how not to do business in California.”  At this point, I don’t see why anyone should do business in California, with all the corruption and corporatist socialism going on in this one great state.
This matters if you don’t live in California, by the way, because of the next steps.
Read More → 

Category: Amazon, America Invents Act, Anonymous, AT&T, Barack Obama, California, Copyrights, Cybersecurity, Department of Justice, Dick Durbin, Eric Holder, Free Press, George Soros, Google, Harmonized Sales Tax, Harold Ford, Jr., National Sales Tax, Open Society Institute, Patents, Patrick Leahy, PROTECT IP, Regulation, Sprint, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile, Talking Points Memo, Tech at Night, Wal-Mart 

























Obama’s ‘pass this [stimulus] bill’ speech






						Posted by Dan Spencer (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 7:30PM EDT					
8 Comments 


Unfortunately, except for the price tag, President Obama’s big jobs stimulus speech was nothing new and all too familiar and repetitive.

It really was that repetitive. Obama used some version of “pass this bill” — 17 times in his stimulus speech.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, Economy, Elections 2012, Jobs, Stimulus, Unemployment 

























The Debate.  The Speech.  And More #EERS #CNNTEAPARTY






						Posted by Erick Erickson (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 6:40PM EDT					
7 Comments 


I’m on live tonight from Carroll County, Georgia where I’ll be speaking tomorrow at a huge gathering of tea party activists from around Georgia.  Then I’m off to Tampa, FL for the CNN-Tea Party Express GOP debate.
Tonight, we’ll go in depth into the President’s speech, look more at the last GOP debate, and preview next week’s CNN-Tea Party Express GOP Debate.  The show starts at 7:05 p.m. ET.
You can listen live at http://wsbradio.com and call in at 1-800-WSB-TALK.
Consider this an open thread.


Category: Erick Erickson Show, WSB 

























The Solyndra Green Recovery That Wasn’t



					No One Messes With Joe!				


						Posted by Aaron Gardner (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 3:15PM EDT					
29 Comments 


With news this past week of Solyndra’s bankruptcy, firing of 1,100 employees and federal agents now raiding the homes of the executives, I thought it would be instructive for all to go back to where this began.  Two years ago on September 4th of 2009, Vice President Biden was live via satellite to praise a little known solar company that was going to help America and the Obama administration win the future. 
Part of our plan — part of our plan is to make sure that as we create these jobs, we creat jobs of the future, like the ones you’re creating, jobs you can raise a family on, green jobs, jobs that will serve as a foundation for a stronger American economy, which is why it’s sp important we — we — we invest in Solyndra and invest in what Solyndra is doing, not just to get us through today, but to power our way to a much brighter tomorrow.
…
And I’m really happy, along with the secretary, to announce today that we’ve closed a $535 million loan guarantee for Solyndra, more than a half a billion dollars.  This is the first in what the secretary’s going to be announcing the Department of Energy will be making available for more than $30 billion in loan guarantees the recovery act is providing and will provide to American companies that are leading the way to a new clean energy future.
Back in the salad days of the Obama administration, when hobbits were still only fantasy and the Democrats controlled all the rings of powers, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act glided through Congress and was signed by a gleeful President.  All were confident that they now had the power and the plan to turn the economy around and fix the environment in the process.
Green Jobs were here to stay.  Our very salvation depended on it.
Read More → 

Category: ARRA, Bankruptcy, Barack Obama, Department of Energy, Green Jobs, Joe Biden, Solyndra 

























The American Jobs Act of 2011: Lather, Rinse, Repeat and Fail.






						Posted by Repair_Man_Jack (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 1:30PM EDT					
11 Comments 


As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.
 – Proverbs 26 (HT: Kingjbible.com)

It’s fortunate that all our Elected Leader promised us was a Job’s Plan.  Because the plan he presented last night looks like a cribbed version of Christine Roemer’s failed effort from 2009.  The President’s proposed American Jobs Act features the same boondoggles, the same EBT Cards, the same targeted tax relief and undoubtedly; the same result.

Like the rest of Barack Obama’s Presidency, this bill will be smaller than the failure bomb detonated in 2009.  He intends to only add $447Bn worth of “paid for” spending to the deficit this time.  The last time out, the price tag was $787Bn.  So, outside of a $342Bn concession to the results of the 2010 Midterm Election, President Obama has learned positively nothing from the last 2.5 years.  
Read More → 

Category: American Jobs Act of 2011, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Boondoggles, It's for Free! Swipe your EBTs!, Pokulus II - Smaller Shorter and Sadly Un-Cut 

























Senate Dems approve another $500 billion debt limit increase



					Senate Dems out-game Republicans -- avoid veto				


						Posted by Dan Spencer (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 12:01PM EDT					
25 Comments 


Senate Democrats gamed Republicans and saved their unpopular President from issuing a veto to get his request for another $500 billion in the national debt.
Last night, after Obama’s “pass this bill” speech, 52 Senate Democrats voted not to consider the Resolution disapproving President Obama’s request to increase the national debt.
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress disapproves of the President’s exercise of authority to increase the debt limit, as exercised pursuant to the certification under section 3101A(a) of title 31, United States Code.
One Democrat, Sen. Ben Nelson (Neb.), voted with the Republicans. Two Republicans, Sens. Bob Corker (Tenn.) and Scott Brown (Mass.), voted with the Democrats.
This was the vote Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid scheduled to force GOP attendance.
If the resolution of disapproval had passed, Obama would have had to veto it to get the debt limit increased to $15.19 trillion.


Category: Barack Obama, Debt Limit, Increase, Senate, Veto 

























The President Moves on to Jobs






						Posted by Erick Erickson (Profile)											

						Friday, September 9th at 11:34AM EDT					
7 Comments 


Yeah, let’s roll the tape again.



Category: Barack Obama, Jobs 














« Previous Entries













Get Local

Colorado
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania



Select state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming





















			
            COMMENTS
            
							

								COMMENTS
							







I do think that quitting her job was fatal in terms
by Mike gamecock DeVine


Gardasil (Perry's flub)
by LiveStronger


"Phony pretense of neutrality"
by Leon H. Wolf


BTW
by lomein


A contrast: Dem's vs Republicans
by lastgopinillinois


Google?
by lomein


Thank you for admitting you are dumb.
by mbecker908


Gee, that really speaks well of his influence.
by mbecker908


yeah, no kidding, right?
by lomein


Shriner.
by mbecker908


But I thought...
by lomein


I find people making complete fools of themselves
by mbecker908


Ummm.........what?
by Jake W


Palin's approval in AK before the media's lynching:
by gt80


I'm sure we all harken back to
by lastgopinillinois


Isn't that WHY he demamded 2.4Trillion
by lastgopinillinois


I won't watch the undefeated.. even though I helped pay for it. 
by snowshooze


The fact that Jane Wyman would not comment on Reagan
by rickbull


Exactly GC!
by civil truth


Rinse...Repeat
by TopGun


My personal policy...
by Bill S


Bored now. [nt]
by Moe Lane


NYT cover story tomorrow: dems worried about BO
by carolina


TooBurnedToWriteDown
by notpropagandized


Yep
by DerKrieger


Stay classy there, Scope nt
by aesthete


1 year won't get them the 7000 jobs amazon
by carolina


I think there is more to it than that......
by carolina


ps-  Ron Paul's people
by Scope


Thank you Mikey
by Scope


SGT Treat-  If that is how you feel
by Scope


I came reallllllly close to adding a DOOM. tag...
by Moe Lane


Perfect example of crony capitalism
by carolina


Perfect example of crony capitalism
by carolina


I'd suggest that
by aesthete


Sadly true
by aesthete


Yep, and there are several other good things she has going for her
by snowshooze


Chicago school.
by acat


100% agreed nt
by aesthete


I forgot
by DerKrieger



























RECOMMENDED DIARIES
								
RECOMMENDED DIARIES








I am a Republican
						by 
							Loren Heal
						


Palin Supporters Are Now Fair Game
						by 
							tomtflorida
						


I Am a Real Democrat, Therefore I Now Vote Republican
						by 
							colegrayson
						


Palin...
						by 
							J. Leg
						


Romney's "That's a nutty idea, Pierre" moment
						by 
							Freedoms Truth
						


The Tragedy of Red State
						by 
							abierubin
						


What the heck's up with Sarah Palin?
						by 
							azaeroprof
						


Is Sen. Sherrod Brown's (D-OH) newspaper reporter wife campaigning on the Plain Dealer's dime?
						by 
							Paula
						


Yep, "Social Conservatives" need to Sit Down and Shut Up. Maybe "FiCon Moderates" have a Solution Here...
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						


Perry Edges out Romney in Republican Debate
						by 
							libertygirlusa
						

























REDHOT









                  Neil Stevens: "I, BARACK OBAMA, ... do hereby proclaim September 11, 2011, as National Grandparents Day" http://t.co/Zags6he #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh The Tenth Year. http://t.co/LKOJePq



                  Dan Spencer: And they should. NY Times: Democrats Fret Aloud Over Obama’s Re-election. http://t.co/f2a8fpO #2012 #tcot #RSRH



                  Jake Walker: Muslim protestors in London will “will make as much noise as possible” during 9/11 moment of silence. http://t.co/n6rw6NX #tcot #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh The great PBS/Obama/Lincoln kerfluffle. http://t.co/FMPXBJn



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh Post-surgery recovery: kind words, clear fluids, and drinking my enemies' pain. http://t.co/L0Dl2jV



                  Dan Spencer: North Korean electronic attack forced US military recon plane to make an emergency landing during US-ROK drill. http://t.co/MxvPWzV #RSRH



                  Jake Walker: Social issues and the race in NY-09. http://t.co/GZyk7PV Fascinating, though not unexpected. #tcot #rsrh



                  Jake Walker: Weprin (D) won't be voting for himself b/c he doesn't live in NY-9. Won't commit to moving there either. http://t.co/eSaxqKP #tcot #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh Well, that was fun... http://t.co/UPTnjlb























GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL
								
GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL












Delivered by FeedBurner






















MEMBER DIARIES
								
MEMBER DIARIES






9/11: We win by Finrod
Coulter v. Hoffa Jr., Obama: "Pass This Bill" - PCW Week in Review by politicalchampionshipwrestling
Muslim protestors in London will “will make as much noise as possible” during 9/11 moment of silence by Jake W
Obama's Five Pinocchios by alandlugash
One More Unmemorable Speech. by Skip MacLure
Palin: Run or Ride, She's America's Paul Revere by mollybwizer
Obama Promised Five Times to Cut Government Waste by littletboca
[monotone] Bad Mayor Emanuel.  Bad. by Moe Lane
Democrats Excel at Faking It by scipio62
Obama as Lincoln or Reagan? Hell No; Welcome Back, Carter! by The Rat
Obama's Job "Plan" Justifies S&P's Downgrade by scipio62
Obama Apologists Propel Mudslinging, Clash of Republicans During Reagan Debate by lithamcongal91
The Youth Vote by RightinSanFrancisco
The Green Inquisitors by philliesfan
Contagion Shows the Limits of the State by Dan Perrin
Ted Cruz: A 12-step plan to get America Working by Freedoms Truth
Ken Bucking the 2012 POTUS Election by silentcal2012
A Counter To The Definition of Insanity by colegrayson
Won't Get Fooled Again by tbrickert
Real Hope for a Change by drrobertowens
Rick Perry's Strategic Debate Blunders by kevinaw2
Obama, Republicans & Democrats Interested in "Cow Burps" by littletboca
Holocaust Survivor Irving Roth Comes to San Diego September 14th by lithamcongal91
Post by agconservative
Hillary's Secret Diary: Should I or Shouldn't Run? by Myra Adams
911, God, Texans, Great Depression II, and The Georgia Game by Mike gamecock DeVine
GOP Primary Rankings by chrysostom15 
Graph: Compare National Economy, Before and After Federal "Stimulus" by Benjamin Hodge
1/24/75, 9/11/01; Terrorism as seen by one American Family by Joe Connor
Walter Williams: Government must stick to its limited and legitimate role by Bob Weeks
IS OBAMA’S BLATANT PRO-LABOR STANCE RESPONSIBLE FOR UNION VIOLENCE? by The Rat
Where were you ten years ago? by yoyo
Say It Ain't So by gregorysstewart
1/24/75, 9/11/01; Terrorism as seen by one American Family by Joe Connor
Perry Edges out Romney in Republican Debate by libertygirlusa
Bob Turner In the Lead: Poll by proudgop
He Forgot The Peas by tbrickert
Déjà vu: Stimulus 2.0. by griffinelection
9/11 - Ten Years After by Nikitas3
The Apolitical Church and the Fall of America by R. Clayton Strang






















SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE
								
SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE







Front Page
Recommended Diaries
Member Diaries
Red Hot
Morning Briefing























RECENT JOBS
								
RECENT JOBS









View All Jobs


Post a Job



			Get your job site at SimplyHired.com


Jobs by Simply Hired














 RedState on Facebook











About
Contact
Contribute
Help




Eagle Publishing
Conservative Book Club
Conservative News, Books, & Views
Regnery Books



                Generated at: 12:15:45 pm UTC                    © 2011 Redstate, Inc., 2008 Eagle Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved.
                Legal, Copyright, and Terms of Service.
        
















