

The Twilight Awards: TwiFicBites

























skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



































Home
News & Events

Fandom Calendar
Contests News
Awards News
Fandom Events
Moved Fics
Pulled Fics


Reviews & Recs

Guest Reviews
Twi-Lite Reviews
Under the Radar
Weekly Fic Picks
What the Writers are Reading


Features

Spotlight Interviews
The Published Fandom
TwiFic Bites Teasers
WCs


Fanfic Library

Fandom Faves
Finished Fics
Must Read Fics
One-Shots


About Us

About the Site
Our Staff
Notable Mentions
Affiliates & Partners
FAQs


Forms

Submit a Contest
Submit an Awards Round
Submit a Fandom Event
Submit a Change
Submit a Teaser
Send in your Under the Radar Fic
Add Your Fic to Our Tweets
Be a Guest Reviewer
Become an Affiliate
Join Our Staff


Contact

















Need a beta?













Submit a Teaser

      



Click
HERE to submit your teaser.


Show Some Love!

 Click to open and save!


Followers











































Teasers: Wednesday September 7th


Posted on 9/07/2011 08:00:00 PM



Midnight Romeo by SimplyMrsWhitlock
M, R, MA, or NC/17

banner credit to fates-loves-queen
Bella

I could feel the blood in my body run cold as I stood frozen mid-dance move. Even though it was dark and the eyes weren’t focused on me, I knew they were red and not just red contacts. They were the same eyes that haunted my thoughts and dreams up until five years ago. Eyes of a vampire, and not just any vampire either.

A human drinker.

In my time, I’ve only ran into three, all of which who wanted to drink my blood themselves. Apparently, my blood was more potent to all vampires, but it stuck out the most to one, him. Fortunately, two of my pursuers were dead. On the other hand, one of the dead ones had a mate who was out to avenge his murder and had been for the past five years. She’s out there somewhere, planning her revenge. How will she do it? By killing me and drinking my blood, and for some reason, I didn’t think it’ll be quick. No. I knew it wouldn’t be quick.

The eyes I was still staring at suddenly met mine, obviously sensing that I was looking at him. My fear increased by a ten fold as he stared intently at me. He was gorgeous from what I could see, but then again, all vampires were gorgeous, even sadistic ones who want to have me for dinner. It was pretty dark in the room and I could only see quick glimpses of the vampire’s face when the lights flashed. Of course the thing that kept my attention was his eyes which were growing darker by the second. Not a good thing.

A hand landed on my shoulder, causing me to shriek and jump, turning around to see that it was only Sydney. Of course it wasn’t vampire since I was staring him at him when the hand touched me. 

I heard Sydney yell, but I wasn’t in my right mind enough to understand what had been spoken.

Taking a glance over my shoulder, I noticed the vampire was gone, making my heart beat faster in my chest. Where was he?available on Fanfiction.netFollow her on Twitter: @audiobots
The Stench Wars by BookishQua
M, R, MA, or NC/17
Aro waited just until Jake was eyeing us to pat and squeeze my ass at supersonic speed. “Hurry up, the dark Master awaits our next offering. We must prepare our dear virgin for the ceremony.” He licked his lips. Douglas who decided to make an appearance was sitting on Aro’s shoulder, waving his tail at Jake.

Jake ran. He planned on warning Bella as soon as he got home that we intended on sacrificing her to Satan. Idiot. 

Douglas gave chase. He waited until Jake was in the produce section to cannon ball into a display of walnuts, sending them rolling in an avalanche to the floor under Jacob’s mammoth sized feet.available on Fanfiction.netFollow her on Twitter: @BookishQua
Beautiful Depths by branchirps
M, R, MA, or NC/17
Just then I see Jasper motion to the door and holler, “Cullen.” My eyes follow, and I nearly lose my balance on the tiny perch I occupy at the bar. Oh-my-freakin’-god-how-small-is-this-world? I feel trapped, the exact way I felt in high school biology class, like this bar is suddenly a teeny tiny Petri dish. I loathed biology.

As he confidently makes his way through the crowd, I lose any hope of the evening I had previously planned. The seventeen year old that made an unwelcomed, unsolicited, appearance this morning has now reared her ridiculous traits, and my face begins to feel the warmth of the red rising to the surface. 

“Leave it to you Jazz an hour in my city and…” He stops speaking abruptly as we make eye contact. Those green eyes beckoning me, he breaks contact first only to scan my entire length quickly and resumes the unspoken dialogue between our eyes.

“Looks like Cullen knows, Miss. Bella.” Jasper indicates to Alice.available on Fanfiction,net Follow her on Twitter: @branchirps
Love & Loss by Saverina
K, T, or PG-13
BPOV

The endless flame raged on.

But, for the first time in days, I felt lighter. A sense of control grasped the tips of my fingers. Thoughts clashed within my head, overwhelming me, yet I was able to understand them all.

I could remember. I could remember the events that led to my suffering. I could remember why I wouldn't – shouldn't – give in to this torture. I could remember why I was fighting against the burning fire inside my body.

Noises filled my sensitive ears. A small cough to my left. A soft whisper to my right. And, a heart-wrenching cry beside me.

"Take the half-breed out of the room," whispered a harsh voice.

Half-breed?

"No," replied another voice. "I believe it is best if she remains here."

A snort. "Of course, it is best for the child to watch her mother writhe in agony."

Child? Mother?

"You know that's not what I meant."

"Well, it seemed like it did."

What is going on?

One strained sigh. "You're not helping at all. I believe you should-" The voice stopped. "Did you hear that?"

"Hear what?"

A pregnant pause. "Her heart."

Oh!

My heartbeat picked up. The organ pulsed rapidly, punching against my bruised ribs. The flame gathered in my chest, the pain growing at an astonishing rate. It became more severe, more intense, more powerful. A tortured gasp escaped my dried lips. The scorching inferno pulled my body upward, my back arching in response.

"Call Marcus," commanded the first voice. The sound of footsteps drifted into my ears, but that did not distract me from the blistering pain.

My heart sprinted towards the end. Faster. Harder. Hotter. The fire rushed into my heart. It burned. But, suddenly, a hollow thud echoed in my chest. The organ stuttered. Once. Twice. And then, it stopped.

My eyes opened.available on Fanfiction.net

The Ass Wolf: Rachel's Story by nessyness90210
M, R, MA, or NC/17


banner credit to @_Aers
"Okay," he said as he sat down on the log next to me. "Do you remember the legends of our tribe, about how we are descendants of wolves?"

Of all the things for him to talk to me about, I had never thought it would be about legends that dad told us when we were kids.

"Yes, I remember them," I told him truthfully. "Isn't it about the Cold Ones, when they enter our land it would cause the Quileute men to change into wolves?"

"Yeah, that's about right," he told me, still not looking me in the eyes.

"Well, what does that have to do with anything?

"What if-" Paul began but stopped to take a deep breath, "What if I told you that the legends are true Rachel, what if the Quileute men could change into wolves?"

I stared at Paul as if he belonged in an asylum. "I would think you are a crazy person as well, because first off, those legends aren't true, and second, I think you're an ass for trying to get me to believe such crap."

"Rachel, please look at me, I know this sounds crazy, but it's the truth. There are such things as vampires and the people on the reservation can phase into wolves, there's about-"



"No!" I snapped as I stood up from the log. "I don't want to listen to this any longer."available on Fanfiction.net and MyVampFictionFollow her on Twitter: @nessyness90210

Dating in the Dark by Twicrak83
M, R, MA, or NC/17EPOV

I hurriedly threw on my shirt and pants then chased after the poor crew member who was sent to fetch me. In my haste, I left my shirt untucked and failed to button it correctly, leaving the bottom askew. Haphazardly running my fingers through my hair in an attempt to tame the wild, I went up to the producer and offered my apologies.

“I don’t give a crap* why you’re late,” he grumbled and slouched in his chair, taking a drag from his smoke, his pot-belly dangerously close to falling off his lap. “You needed to be here ten minutes ago, so now we only have time for one take.” He paused, looking me up and down with a disgusted look on his face. “Kids these days,” he mumbled before giving me further directions.

Really? This middle-aged, nose-picking, comb-over wearing, knuckle sucker* had the audacity to give me a disgruntled look and proceed to march me around the premises like I was a piece of crap* for ruining his schedule. Well, I was the best thing to happen to this show since it started, and I was gonna have him groveling in the shadow of my awesomeness before the take was over.available on Fanfiction.net and The Writers Coffee Shop and Twilighted
The Breakers by les16

M, R, MA, or NC/17She presses her lips together and waits until she can talk before she says anything. I'm just getting more pissed and more embarrassed by the second. "He doesn't hate you and he's not going to kick your ass. We talked. Things are fine," she tells me as she unfolds her legs and sits up, but really that doesn't help.

At all.

"Yeah, well, wait until he finds out where I've been the last seven years," I mumble.

I turn around and face the fireplace, bits and pieces from our conversation Sunday night flying through my head. I keep hearing Carlisle tell me that I need to tell her. I keep imagining Peyton's disappointment when she finds out her best friend went to prison for armed robbery. I picture Bella's face when I tell her I watched someone get shot right in front of me and left for dead and then she tells me to go and never come back.

She scoffs behind me and when I turn around, she's shaking her head. When our eyes meet, she shrugs her shoulders and says, "You've been in Boston, what's wrong with that?"

I stare at her. I open my mouth and shut it. I break out into a sweat and I can feel the half cup of hot chocolate I just drank try to make a reappearance as my stomach roils and lurches. My chest tightens and my heart slams painfully in my chest.

When I don't say anything Bella just goes on. "I'm sure you were busy working and stuff. Hanging out. I know you said you kept to yourself and that you were alone, but I'm sure you had at least a few friends you spent time with. I mean Boston's so big and you lived there for a long time, you had to know some people." She's nervous and getting more so the longer I keep standing there, unable to move. She gets up, and reaches down to pick up our cups, saying, "I don't see what Xavier can be upset about. That all seems pretty normal to me."

"I was in prison for the last seven years," I blurt out, unable to keep it from her any longer.available on Fanfiction and The Writers Coffee Shop Follow her on Twitter: @les_sh_16


The Lady of Spain's Twilight Drabbles by Lady of Spain
K, T, or PG-13“Okay, Bells, all done. We can go to the movies now.” He reached for a rag to wipe off his hands, then led Bella to the house. “What are we seeing tonight anyway?”

“It’s a new one, called Abducted. Taylor Lautner’s starring in it.”

Rolling his eyes, Jake groaned in disgust. “Oh, God, not him again.”

“I thought you liked Taylor.” 

“He’s okay, I guess. I just get tired of people teasing me, saying I look like him. Let’s face it, I’m a lot hotter.”

“Geesh, vanity, thy name is Jacob . . .” She laughed.

“C’mon, Bells, seriously, what’s he got that I haven’t, besides money, and a good haircut?” 

“Well he can act, for one.”

“I can act too; I do a great imitation of a wolf. I really get into character.”

“Ha, ha, very funny. Now that I think about it though, you do act pretty stupid sometimes.”

“Wait a minute, that’s no act . . . Crap, that didn’t come out right, did it?”

They got to Jake’s bedroom and he told Bells, “Can you please get my red pin striped shirt from my closet while I go shave? And my ‘Black’ slacks too.”

Bella couldn’t believe her ears. She stood by the closet door with her mouth open. “You have got to be kidding me. You’re going to shave now? We’re going to be late for the movie!”

“It’ll take me two minutes. I don’t have that much hair on my face. Jeez, you don’t have to freak out over it.”

“All right, I’m timing you. And if we’re late for that movie, you’re not getting kissed for a week.”

Bella searched for the shirt and pants out of the jumbled mess he called a closet. She felt like throwing in a grenade and shouting, fire in the hole! By the time she found them in that disaster, he was already out of the bathroom.

“See—told ya’, Bells. I’m all clean shaven and kissably smooth.”

Bells sidled up to him and ran her palm along his jaw. “Ooh, that is nice.”

“Wanna try it out?” He ran his tongue over his bottom lip seductively.

Scowling, Bella announced, “We don’t have time for that. We’ve got to get going.” 

“Don’t have enough time to do it up properly, huh? Now there’s a come-on if I ever heard one,” he grinned.

Placing her hands on her hips, Bella glared at him. “I’ll be in the kitchen. Now hurry up and get dressed.”

~oOo ~

Jacob came out dressed and ready, and looking like a male model.

Bella had to smile. “Now, you really are his doppelganger. I hope no one bothers you for an autograph.”

“Hey, that’s a good idea. I could charge two bucks a piece. Maybe I could get more, ten bucks a pop. Whaddya think?”

“I think you’re letting this go to your head. C’mon, let’s go.”

~ oOo ~

The movie was great and even Jake had to admit that he liked it. Then there were a few girls at the theater gazing at him and whispering among themselves, which he liked even better.

He took Bells back to his place so she could pick up her truck. They made a detour at his couch first.

Jacob had his arms around her, holding her tight. “Tell me something, Bells, do you really think that Taylor is sexy?”

Her head jerked up in surprise at his blunt question. “Without a doubt!!”

“Well, since I’m his doppelganger and all, does that make me sexy too.”

“You’re just fishing for compliments aren’t you?”

“Just answer the question for me. I’ve gotta know if my girl finds me sexier than Taylor. I wanna hear you admit it.”

“Jacob Black, you are and ever will the sexiest man alive as far as I’m concerned. Now, can I please have your autograph?” She pretended to look through her skirt pockets. “Crud, I don’t think I have ten dollars on me.”

“I don’t have a pen either. How about a lip print, will that do?”

He started to sign his autograph when there was a knock at the door.

“Crap, who could that be?”

When he opened the door, he was amazed to see three young ladies standing there giggling. “You can’t hide from us; we know who you are. Would you sign your autograph for us please?” the spokesman of the group said.available on Fanfiction.net and The Writers Coffee ShopFollow her on Twitter: @Lady of Spain 7

Royal Bliss by DAWalls
M, R, MA, or NC/17

banner credit to rk_ash
I was interrupted by a knock at the front door.
“Jake that’s the door can you hold on one second?” I asked sitting the phone down on the bed before he could answer.
I opened the door not even bothering to ask who it was, which after the past three days I have had I probably should have.
“Edward, what are you doing here?” I asked shocked to see him at my door and nervous because I was on the phone with Jake at the same time.
“We need to talk,” he said walking into the room.
“Now really isn’t a good time, can you come back later?” I said looking from him to the phone on the bed.
“No, I cannot come back Isabella, do you know how it felt to pour your heart out to someone and fall asleep with them in your arms and to wake up and they’re gone and just left a bloody note? What was that? I thought you agreed we shared something.”
“I – I can explain, if you’d just come back later.” I said walking over to the bed.
“No, you’re going to explain now unless you have a bloody damn good reason why you weren’t in bed when I woke up this morning.”
I held up my index finger to Edward asking him to give me one moment and picked up the phone.
“Jake?” I asked to a dial tone he had hung up…
I hung the phone up and sat it down on the bed. I turned around to find Edward starring at me, f**k my life.available on Fanfiction.net and authors blogFollow her on Twitter: @DAWallsSins of My Mother by yesmrcullen
M, R, MA, or NC/17"Hey, Rose," I called out.

"Bella?" She replied as she walked out of the bathroom, wrapping a towel around her torso.

"I'm in deep shit." My voice slightly faltered, and I slumped onto the bed, throwing my arm over my face.

"Jesus, are you all right?" Rose rushed to my side. "What happened? Is it Charlie?"

I shook my head and took a couple of deep breaths.

"Edward," I breathed out and met her eyes, "I just met Edward."

The realization dawned on her flawless face, and she lit up like Christmas morning, grinning from ear to ear.

"You are so screwed."

"I am so screwed," I repeated.available on Fanfiction.net Follow her on Twitter: @yesmrcullen


You Belong to Me by twidictedbyrd
M, R, MA, or NC/17

banner credit to RPattzScene
BPOV

“Bella Swan, It’s been a long time. I don’t know if you remember me or not, I’m Jacob Black.”

“We used to play together when we were 5. We were in Jr. High together for a little while, too,” he added.

As I look this handsome stanger in the eyes, I suddenly remember a little long haired boy, playing in the mud. He had such an infectious smile, you couldn’t help but be in a happy mood. Any time we were playing together as children and I had one of my many accidents, all it took was the sweet look in his kind, dark eyes and that smile and I instantly forgot about the new injury to my overly clumsy body.

“Jacob, yeah, I remember. How have you been?” He still had the nicest smile I’d ever seen. Jacob’s cute dimples don’t hurt much either.

“I’ve been good. So, my dad tells me you’re going to be with us for the rest of the school year. If you want, I can show you around and introduce you to people.”

“Thanks, Jacob. That would be great.” It was nice to at least know someone here. Maybe things were finally starting to look up for me. I still missed him with every breath I took, but maybe Jacob would help distract me from my self-imposed torture.

I started looking around the student area and noticed that there were people walking by us, pointing and smiling.

“Uh, Jacob... Why are they looking at me like that?” I always hated to be the center of attention and it was like there was a spot light straight on me shouting “Look at me! Look at me!” I wanted to crawl in a cold dark hole and be by myself.available on Fanfiction.net and authors blogFollow her on Twitter: @twidictedbyrd
Homework by his den of sin
M, R, MA, or NC/17He reads the whole poem without any hesitation, in a beautiful and velvety voice. It is so sensual I can't relate it to the shy boy currently sitting in front of me. I'm just stunned and it's my turn to gape like a goldfish.

I finally gather my wits and clear my throat.

« Edward, it was...great. » God, what a brilliant reaction. « Have you studied this poem before? » I ask. I realize with shame that I'm breathless.

Edward understands that he has to look at me. As he raises his head, his hood lowers and the little air I had left in my lungs disappears. Before me is the most magnificent and angelic human being I have ever seen. Beautiful messy bronze hair, sharp cheekbones, a jaw I could use to cut glass and last but not least, a pair of expressive eyes, a shocking green I've never encountered.

« Yes, miss. I spent the last summer in Paris and I took litterature classes. » His eyes meet mine for a few glorious seconds but as soon as he's done speaking, they find their way back to the ground.

Still, it's enough for me to be absolutely positive about three things.

One, I just met the most interesting student of my career.

Two, Edward Cullen is the most delicious male specimen on this Earth. As I look around, I notice all the girls either drooling or swooning and all the boys exchanging worried glances.

Three, he is 17 years old.

Oh yeah I forgot something...I'm f**ked.available on Fanfiction.net
Swords of Roses by Paradisekiss053
K, T, or PG-13

banner credit to SparklesXD
“Isabella dear… Come in” I opened the old wooden door carefully. 
I walked to him and after a proper stand I told him in a firm tone. 

“Aro. It is Bella. B E L L A” I spelled out each word again out of habit whenever he calls me that. 

“Yes dear” he said in a strange tone. 

“Now we told you that we are letting you meet your father. Yes that is true. But as you must have already figured out, Corrin is going with you so the visit wont be simply pleasant.” My eyes widened at first but then realization flowed quickly through them. 

“We are sending to for some work” I nodded composing my face. 

“The Olympic coven or the Cullens as they are locally called apparently live in the town as your father does. They have a permanent residence there” A sudden worry for my father flowed through my veins. 

“The members of the coven are extremely skill full. Carlisle their creator happens to be a doctor… and he was a part of the Volturi long ago. But apparently he didn’t like our diet so he went away and now feeds on… animals” he said the word ‘animals’ a bit too disgusted. At least they were more humane than the other vampires throughout the world. I defended them internally. 

“They are seven of them. Carlisle and his mate Esme. Rosalie and her mate Emmett, Alice and her mate Jasper and Edward” he blurred out. 

“I want Alice, the one with foresight. Edward the mind reader. And Jasper would follow his mate. He has the power to control and understand emotions” he said in a matter- of- fact- tone. 

“Yes” I uttered bowing a little. He smiled and I turned away. 

“Wait” he said again. I turned back a little surprised. 

“This time I must warn you” I looked at him blankly at his statement. He had never warned me before about any mission, however dangerous it was. 

“You might be overconfident young one, but do not underestimate them. Each and everyone of them has powers that can surprise you.” he said shaking his head. 

“Go to Forks, meet new people and enjoy the time of your life there.” He said in a different tone. It sounded somewhat sarcastic. 

“But remember your mission. You must meet the Cullens, get to know them and how they interact with the others. I want a detailed report of it when you are back. Corrin will ask the questions. He knows what he has to do. And you just do what is needed-” I cut him off with an appropriate reply. available on Fanfiction.net and Authors blog

Searching for Daylight by Lacrimosa Moon
M, R, MA, or NC/17

banner credit to Sunray16
Alice POV

Bella stood against the wall, trembling in fear, the pounding of her heart crashing against my ears as she watched Jasper and Edward circling each other in a dance to the death. The fresh bite marks that littered Edward’s arms were visible through his torn clothes. His hand rubbed his neck, nursing his wound, as he crouched low to the ground, staring intently at Jasper, studying his every move. 

Jasper’s growls rumbled in his chest, arms spread wide exposing the hundreds of old scars on his bare chest, badges of proof of his skill in combat. His lips curled in a sneer that exposed his razor-sharp, canine teeth, making him look like a rabid dog, crazy with hate and ready to kill at the first opportunity. 

“Come on, you prick! Bring it on!” Jasper growled, daring Edward to attack.

“Jasper, don’t!” I cried, but his eyes never left Edward’s face; it was as if I didn’t exist.

"With pleasure," Edward snarled.

“No,” whimpered Bella, tears streaming down her face.

Edward, distracted by Bella’s cry, turned, and it was at that moment that Jasper lunged at him. As if moving in slow motion, realization of what was happening passed over Edward’s face and he moved to the side just as Jasper was about to tackle him, sending Jasper crashing into Bella. A loud crack followed by the sound of shattering bones filled the air as the force of the impact crushed her beneath his weight.

I screamed in horror at the sight of Bella, the light in her eyes vanished as she lay in a heap on the floor. I yelled her name over and over again as her heart slowed down, growing weaker, but Edward and Jasper just stood there as if they heard nothing, deep in their own grief. 

Her heart gave one final thump and then there was silence. available on Fanfiction.net and TwiWriteFollow her on Twitter: @LacrimosaMoon1
Masen Days by purelyamuse
M, R, MA, or NC/17We all work quietly on our papers. Angela and Embry take a break and return suspiciously happy. Embry’s fauxhawk has been maimed. I shoot a look at Masen, and he quirks an eyebrow in response. 

“We’re done researching, so . . . bye.” Angela leaves with Embry in a rush. I can’t stifle my laughter, and Masen joins me. We get hysterical, tears streaming down my face as the librarian gives us a reproachful glare.

“She needs to get laid,” he says. 

“Maybe Embry can take a quick cat nap after Angela. He can do them both.” We lose it again, laughing and holding our sides to keep ourselves together. It’s the cutest thing watching Masen sigh through his giggles. He’s adorable. He shifts in his seat and leans back, searching my eyes.

“What is it about you?”

“What is what about me?” He says nothing, and I tap my pencil impatiently. I’ve never been a patient person, but he seems to need it. Unconditional patience or secrecy or something. So, for Masen, I manage. There’s something about him too.available on Fanfiction.netFollow her on Twitter: @purelyamuse





















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz













Older Posts




































Subscribe via email

Enter your email address to get all the latest in fandom news, reviews, and more delivered daily to your inbox!



























 



TwilightAwards is a fansite run by women who are so obsessed with the books that they've resorted to fanfiction. TwilightAwards is in no way affiliated with Stephenie Meyer, Summit Entertainment, or Little Brown Publishing. Site Administrators, owners, and staff are not responsible for the accuracy of dates/events listed on TwilightAwards.com, nor are we responsible for content of linked sites. All publicly recognizable characters, settings, etc. are the property of their respective owners. No copyright infringement is intended.
TheTwilightAwards website and original content © 2008 ysarWordPress Theme Design by New WP Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha | Modified by ysar











