

The Twilight Awards: Reviews

























skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



































Home
News & Events

Fandom Calendar
Contests News
Awards News
Fandom Events
Moved Fics
Pulled Fics


Reviews & Recs

Guest Reviews
Twi-Lite Reviews
Under the Radar
Weekly Fic Picks
What the Writers are Reading


Features

Spotlight Interviews
The Published Fandom
TwiFic Bites Teasers
WCs


Fanfic Library

Fandom Faves
Finished Fics
Must Read Fics
One-Shots


About Us

About the Site
Our Staff
Notable Mentions
Affiliates & Partners
FAQs


Forms

Submit a Contest
Submit an Awards Round
Submit a Fandom Event
Submit a Change
Submit a Teaser
Send in your Under the Radar Fic
Add Your Fic to Our Tweets
Be a Guest Reviewer
Become an Affiliate
Join Our Staff


Contact

















Need a beta?













TwiFic Bites

      



Click
HERE to submit your teaser.












 

Subscribe

Enter your email address to get all the latest in fandom news, reviews, and more delivered daily to your inbox!











Featured Authors



22Blue


abstract way


AddiCakes


Addicted2Twylyte


Aleeab4u


AlexaET


AliceEl1zabeth


alwaysyourflightlessbird


Amelie Gray


Amethyst Jackson


AmoreBella88


AMusefan77


AmyZini


Ancora Imparo 83


Andrew'sAmy


angela4148


AngelGoddess1981


AnonySwan


Antevorte


araeo


ArcadianMaggie


Arizona Hale


Auburn.One


Axl'sAngel90


AydenMorgan


Aylah50


ayngyl22


badjujube


Becky Boodles


Belindella


belladonna1472


Bellaflo


BelleDean


Belli486


Bethesda Gray


Bevall486


bicoastaltwigirls


BLilTXgirl


blindedbysun134


bonesybabe


bonnysammy


BoydBlog


breakfastatbella's


Browns


buhbeesgirl


buildmeapyramid


BurntCore


Cakes4547


Camoozle


ccmaja


Cecelia1204


chels926


cherry.blossomz


Chicklette


Chipper


ChiTwiGal


Cilla1970


cinnamonscars


CitizenCullen25


cmaus1216


confettirainfall


Conversed


CorrinaTFF


Cosette Cullen


CourtRose


CrimsonIceGoddess


CyraBear


daisy3853


Dandiegoose


dangerkitty


Dariachenowith


Dazzledin2008


deb24601


DeJean Smith


dellaterra


Dennycullenlutz


Derdriu oFaolain


Detochkina


DiamondHeart78


Dinx


DivineInspiration


DizzyUpTheGirls


dorothy’s ruby slippers


DoUTrustMe


DreamOfTheEndless


DreamsofEdward1


drotuno


Ealasaid77


Edward M Masen


edward-bella-harry-ginny


edwardsisobel


Eila


ElleCC


EllTeeEm


Elyse Gaines


Emmanuelle Nathan


EnigmaLynne


enjoyyourjacob


Esquimel


Eun Hye


faerie kitten


FangMom


FarDareismai2


FFReaderRW


FigSk8ingAngel


First Blush


flubbles


fngrcufs


FoxxyJ


Franny


GemGirl65


gemini13me


GeorgeGlass


georgeygirl


ginger1983


ginginlee


gkkstitch


glitteratiglue


graffiti4


Hawkins


hayboo


HeartOfDarkess


heavyinfinity


HelenahJay


Hibbleton78


hmmille


HoochieMomma


HopeReborn


husmcn


HypnoticMemories


I-Want-To-RENT-Jacob-Black


iamamy


IdPattThat


ImHereToReview


Irish-Sidheseer


IrishLoveForever


isakassees


ItHappened


Ivy Kelley


jackiejones


jarielynn


jarkin33


Jasperizzy


Javamomma0921


jayhawkbb


JBugNR


jdbeaner


Jendonna


Jenn1987


Jenndur


jesicka309


JessicaLG717


Jessypt


Jezunya


jol27


josabbimommy


JRParz


julesames


Just4Ale


JustForkIt


justjenn


karry4harry


kas90


Katbug86


katiecav


KatieJane4815


kay0913


Kayla Cullen


KCerena


kdc2239


Kelsismom


Kiki-twilight-ever


kimmydonn


Kisbydog


KitsuShel


Kiva Johns-Adkins


KiyaRaven


kleepalmer


krismom


KristenLynn


ksjojo


KzintiKiller


La.Tua.Cantante.83


ladauphine


Lady Gwynedd


LadyExcalibur2010


Lattecoug


LauraLoo7


LaViePastiche


leahtheweary


leannelrh


Lehava


Lemon Muffins


LifeInTheSnow


lilmissweetsin2380


LisaDawn75


Little Miss Mionie


Little Miss Whitlock


Littlestar300


Littlevic


LittleWing2


Live720


llynn20


lola-pops


LolaRosa


Lolashoes


Love’s to Blame


lulabelle98


Lulu M


Lumedog7


Lunar Siren


lyricalkris


m244robp


m7707


Mac214


Maddux


Magnolia822


Mamasutra


Manderbetis


manywords


mary2816


maxandmo


maxipoo1024


mcc101180


McGee42


MDealsWithIt


MDiva22


MellieB40


mephis1


miaokuancha


Michelle M. Marie


middlewife


MissAnnBlack


MissyPooh


mkystich


mopstyle


MoreThanMyself


mouse555


MPG


Mr.Evie


MrsShortHand


mrsyt31


ms-ambrosia


mw138


My name is Seren Dipity


Myg


MyGoldenEyedAngel


mylittlebakersdozen


Mymunkyman


Nachos4Children


Nauticalmass


NeonMonkeys


nise7465


Nitareality


Nolebucgrl


Nostalgicmiss


nowforruin


Nyomixx


OhMyWord


OliviaMK1218


outofmytree


Owenic


PachasPickMeUp


Paige Parkker


pange


parismylove


PashasPickMeUp


pbswimmer


Pemberly Rose


phoebespromise


Phoenix Rising


Picklewinkle


PiedPiperOSIB


PinkHoodie85


pkmarita


Poptarrts


Purelyamuse


QuantumFizzx


queenofgrey


QuestionXisting


RachelxMichelle


Raggdoll of Twilight


rags88


RainyGirl1978


RasXputin


Reagan O'Connor


realgirl-imaginarylife


RenaBug1


RobotMoose


robssexhair


Rosalynn


rote-kirsche


rpgirl27


Sailor Angie


sam.the.amateur


samrosey


Sare Liz


Scorp112


secamimom


Serendipitous


Shakespeare's Lady


Shasta53


shelieksthesound


ShellWrx


Shorthappylife


Shpwitney


Silk and Steel


Simone and Marie


smexy4smarties


SoAdorkable


SoapyMayhem


solareclipses


sowrong


Sparkling Wand


ss10


Stacie-Diane603


Stephk0525


Stoney


Stoney Angel


StupidSuckedinReader


sugarbucket


summer35


Sunsetwing


SuperstarNanna


SusanAshlea


suzie55


SuzsPetals


Suzybear


SwedenSara


SweetestLady-2030


sweetvenom69


TalulaBlue


tanglingshadows


TaraBear029


Tat2Missy


Tawxil


TayBee


teacupsNmints


TeamBella23


teamedwardalways


TheBondGirls


TheHeartOfLife


theswandive


tiffanyanne3


TKegl


todream


Tropical Sorbet


Twicrack83


Twilight-Alagaesia


twilightheaded23


TwiliteAddict


twimamma


TxBirdie


Vale-46-4eva


VanPireNZ


venis-envy


verucasin


Virginia May


VirginiaMay


Wannabe Charlotte


WickedCurveBall74


WIndchime


wmr1601


wmrcaz


Word Ninja


Writerinmydreams007


WutheringBites


wytchwmn75


xlavendermoonx


xNimC


xrxdanixrx


XTailoredDreamsX


YBorJen


yellowglue


yesyov


Yogagal


ZephyerSky


Zhivago3


Zigster













Fics by Pairing



Carlisle/Bella


Edward/Bella


Edward/Jacob


Edward/Jasper


Edward/Leah


Edward/OC


Edward/Rosalie


Embry/OC


Emmett/Bella


Emmett/Rosalie


Felix/OC


Jacob/Bella


Jacob/Renesmee


James/Victoria


Jared/Kim


Jasper/Alice


Jasper/Bella


Leah/OC


Leah/Renesmee


Quil/Bella


Renesmee/OC


Robert Pattinson/Bella


Robert Pattinson/OC













Fics by Category



Action


Adventure


AH


Angst


AU


Canon


Comedy


Death


Drama


Family


Femmeslash


Friendship


History


Horror


Humor


Hurt/Comfort


Mystery


Poly


Rated M/MA


Rated T


Romance


RPF


Sci-Fi


Slash


Supernatural


Suspense


Tragedy


Wolfpack
















































Under the Radar: Undercover in Miami by Jojo45


Posted by maxipoo1024 on 9/08/2011 02:58:00 PM











Undercover in Miami 
by Jojo45
Main Character(s): Edward/Bella
Genre: AH, Romance, Mystery, Action, Crime
Rating: M
Status: WIP

Summary: After Bella's best friend dies in her arms after a drug overdose in college, she vows to get even with all the pushers, sellers and dealers. She later joins the FBI to stop illegal drug smuggling and goes undercover . . . but little does she know she falls in love with the one she's trying to put away.
Warning: Rated M for language, illegal activity, sex, drug use and violence


Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.

I love crime/romance stories and have had this plot idea for awhile now. I’ve never tried my hand at fanfiction before and thought it’d be a good forum for me to write my story.

I’ve read over 75 stories on fanfiction and I haven’t read anything quite like mine. There are a few similar stories about crime and FBI agents, but I really tried to make mine unique. There’s a little bit of everything from sadness, growing up too fast, rags to riches, violence, action and using people along the way, to finding your one true love. It covers many emotions and topics. Hopefully readers will see that and come back to read more!

The Twilight characters are unique. Although I did love Bella’s shyness and introverted style, I wanted to make her a stronger character with more self-confidence. This is the same for Edward. Being forever seventeen in the book, I still wanted to convey him as a little tortured. In my story, his rough childhood with his mother explains why he is that way. Once matured, he’s strong, ruthless and hops in bed with any beautiful woman who will have him. However, when he’s with Bella, his persona is child-like and compassionate. He really wants to do right by her. The difference with Edward’s character is he has taken the wrong path morally due to his hard - knock life growing up. In the end, he tries really hard to make up for it – even though it may be too late.

Edward grows up a lot in this story. He has no choice if he wants to win the love of his life. What will he choose? Money, fame, a stress-free life full of love and promise? Bella is forced to look at her life as well. Is being an FBI agent the only thing that drives her? Is her career the only thing that matters anymore like it used to? Both of these characters realize in the end that everything they thought that mattered most to them really didn’t matter much at all.

If readers like mystery, romance, action and intrigue, they will definitely enjoy this story!


 ~ Jojo45 



 
@jojostahl 

Find Jojo45 on:
FFn
Twitter


Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar?  Looking for a way to tell the world about it?  Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!



Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration.  While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.








0
comments

















Labels:
Action,
AH,
Crime,
Jojo45,
Mystery,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Under the Radar









Under the Radar: Twilight Reflected in Brown Eyes by Mcgt


Posted by ysar on 9/06/2011 06:38:00 AM



Twilight Reflected in Brown Eyes
by Mcgt
Main Character(s): Edward & Bella
Genre: Hurt/Comfort/Romance
Rating: M
Status: Complete

Summary: Bella Swan is in for the shock of her life when her path crosses with Edward Cullen 7 years after graduation. Can the scars from her past be healed by the reclusive musician, or will she shut him out like she has everyone else since the accident 4 years ago.


Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.When I first began reading fan fiction, I stumbled across a story called “Stay” by CrimsonMarie. It was a story in which Edward was an overworked actor who met and fell in love with a small town girl named Bella. It captured my heart and made me want to attempt to write my own story. I liked the idea of a famous Edward and a small town Bella, but obviously I didn’t want to try and rework something that had already been done. After mulling it over for a while, I remembered once dating a radio DJ and came up with the premise of Edward and Bella having grown up together, and as the years passed, Edward went on to become a famous musician while Bella experienced a tragedy that shook her self confidence and she found herself in radio. Eventually, Edward came on to her radio show to promote his new album and was able to reconnect with her. The basic story may sound familiar, but I think the backstories of both Edward and Bella are fascinating. Add in a crazy stalker, and I think it becomes a rather uniquely told story.

When writing this fic, I really wanted to portray Edward as the kind of guy who was vulnerable and honorable; the sort of man you really, really want to take home to your mother. Bella is a shell of the popular girl she once was, the polar opposite of the one Edward knew in high school. I liked that they flipped roles in adulthood; Edward now the famous, popular one, and Bella the mousy, nervous one. They grow and change throughout the story to meet what I envisioned was both of their full potential as human beings. I love the mystery woven into the story in regards to Bella and Edward’s pasts, which in my opinion, really completes this tale. Throw in a little evil Victoria, and you have what I feel is a page turning story.

When it comes to my reviewers, I have many who are simply glad the story is now over so they don’t have to wait for me to resolve the cliffhangers at the end of some of my chapters. They also tend to love my Edward, many calling him ‘swoon worthy.’ One of my most appreciated reviewers commented on my character development; I didn’t have them jump right into bed or fall in love after the first chapter, but allowed them and their love to grow and change over the course of the story. Hearing that one little compliment has made writing my little fic completely worth it. I adore the reviewers who leave one after every chapter, making me feel like I’m reading it right alongside of them, hearing all of their thoughts and theories on what’s going to happen. I’ve learned a lot about my writing over the course of those twenty some chapters, and I hope that more people will read what I truly think is a heartfelt and well written story.
~ Mcgt @mcgt2008 Find Mcgt on:
FFn
Twilighted
TWCSLibrary
LiveJournal 
Twitter
Blog
Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar? Looking for a way to tell the world about it? Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration. While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.







0
comments

















Labels:
AH,
Comfort,
Hurt,
mcgt,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Twilight Reflected in Brown Eyes,
Under the Radar









Under the Radar: Fox Fire by Woodlily


Posted by maxipoo1024 on 8/18/2011 04:21:00 PM






Fox Fire 
by Woodlily

Main Characters: Edward and Bella
Genre: AU, Romance, Supernatural
Rating: M
Status: WIP

Summary: Edward's Twilight, but not Midnight Sun. AU detours/missing moments. The slow burn begins with his flight to Alaska. 


Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.





Fox Fire was born before I knew about Midnight Sun. I read the Twilight series in '09 after shying away from it for several years. It’s just not normally my type of literature, and to tell you the truth, it still isn't. If you check out my profile, you’ll see why.
Although I identified with clumsy new girl Bella at first, Edward just refused to leave to leave my head once I’d finished reading the series. I just felt that I completely understood this proud, intense, ridiculously noble person. So much so, that I was moved to start writing creatively again for the first time in years.

I'd already written several chapters before I discovered a link to the "First Sight" character development on Stephenie Meyer's website. Had I scrolled up the page, I would have seen the post about the leaked draft and probably abandoned this project entirely, but I'm glad that I didn't. Writing the story (almost) from scratch gave me time to get to know the Edward-in-My-Head. The more that he develops his unique voice, the more I enjoy communing with him.
I still haven't read the rest of Midnight Sun, and nor do I plan to until I'm finished with this story. When I do, I'll be very interested to see where it converges with Fox Fire, and where my imagination has led Edward down different paths. For now, I'm delighted to have rediscovered a love for writing that I thought I'd lost, and I thank Edward for bringing it back.







Read more »




0
comments

















Labels:
AU,
Edward/Bella,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Supernatural,
Under the Radar,
Woodlily









Guest Review: Dr Cullen, I presume?


Posted by Alby Mangroves on 7/30/2011 12:35:00 AM



Dr Cullen, I presume?
by Persephonesfolly
Main Character: Carlisle
Genre: Mystery / Adventure
Rating: T
Status: Complete

Summary: When a patient goes missing, what's a vampiric doctor to do? Consult the celebrated detective, Sherlock Holmes, of course.

An interesting take on Twilight fanfiction, 'Dr Cullen I presume?' by persephonesfolly takes us to London at the time of Holmes and Watson. It’s a London where they co-exist with all the vampires we've come to know, love and - at least in the case of the Volturi – hate.

A patient of Carlisle's has gone missing, forcing him to turn to one of the few human detectives he thinks he can trust and who has a snowball's chance of solving this perplexing case. The answer, following an introduction from Dr. Watson, is a visit to 221B, Baker St.

Joining forces with the great Sherlock Holmes, Carlisle finds himself following the trail of his missing patient across London, from Southwark to Charing Cross. From Holmes's comfy bachelor pad to the seediest corners of the London Docklands, they pursue the case of the missing person with all the persistence and guile Holmes is renowned for.

Of course, having a vampire in his corner this time is sure to help. The case continues to puzzle Holmes, and Carlisle finds himself responsible for the missing mother's child - a painful responsibility due to his 'alternative' eating habits!

Persephonesfolly has woven Holmes and Twilight brilliantly. In fact, having read a few Holmes stories, I found myself believing this could have been written by Conan Doyle himself; it was that good. Her language is clear and unambiguous, while at the same time she manages to get across the anxiety and suspense of the missing person’s case with alacrity - so much so that I was on the edge of my seat while reading this.

Finally, her ending is a well thought-out piece of work that had me wishing I could've been there - and makes me feel like I was there in spirit. If not for the fact that I refuse to award perfect scores on principle, I would give this 10/10. As it is, it still gets an 'A', and I ended up reading the two sequels she has posted on her FFN account, and I enjoyed those almost as much as this one!

I don't know if this author plans more VampFic in the future, but if so I will probably find myself hooked on it as well. With thanks again to persephonesfolly for a great story, this reviewer will say ta-ta for now.
~review by @Noble_Korhedron

Is there a fic you're dying to tell the world about?  Sign up to be a guest reviewer!







1 comments

















Labels:
Adventure,
AU,
Guest Reviews,
Mystery,
PersephonesFolly,
Rated T









Under the Radar: Blank Page by pineapplesrock


Posted by Janine on 7/25/2011 02:37:00 PM




Blank Page
by pineapplesrock

Main Characters:  Edward/Rosalie and later Edward/Bella
Genre:  AH, Romance, Drama, Angst, Humor
Rating:  M/MA
Status:  WIP

Summary:  When she was sixteen, she fell in love with the wrong guy. And thus begins her journey of self-discovery through the blank pages of her diary.

Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.
When I first started writing Blank Page, I didn’t have a specific plot in my mind. In fact, this story was pretty much what happened when I was younger. But, as the plot started developing in my mind, I thought, “why the hell not?”

I am and always have been a big fan of diary-like books, which is why I started publishing on FF.net. If I enjoyed it, then maybe someone else would, too.

I don’t find my fics better than others (clearer, yes, maybe), but not better. Different? Yes, it’s different. Especially because Bella has a screwed-up life and because she wants someone she can’t have – her brother’s best friend, which seems to be way out of her league. It sucks – and maybe we’ve been all in that position; I know I have – and she tries to cope with it through words, through her diary. It’s therapeutic, and it’s relaxing. So she does it.

With this story, I think we’ll learn more about giving a second chance to someone who has hurt us before, even if it means getting hurt again.
~ pineapplesrock@pineapplesrock1
Find pineapplesrock on:
FanFiction.net
Twitter

Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar?  Looking for a way to tell the world about it?  Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!
Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration.  While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.







0
comments

















Labels:
AH,
Angst,
Edward/Bella,
pineapplesrock,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Under the Radar









Under the Radar: Any Love by ChloeCougar


Posted by Janine on 7/22/2011 02:40:00 PM




Any Love
by ChloeCougar

Main Characters:  Bella / Edward
Genre:  AH, Romance
Rating:  M - for language and one lemon
Status:  One-shot

Summary:  Eight months after her break up with Jake, a chance encounter under the blistering hot Greek sun causes Bella to realize that she is ready to love once more. Set against a backdrop of tracks from the Luther Vandross album "Any Love."

Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.
This story was inspired by my own personal experience - in a sense! I have visited the Greek island of Agistri three times, and each time I was totally awestruck by the beauty of the place. It truly is a hidden gem. My first two trips there were with my *then* boyfriend, the third (and last) was after we broke up, and I decided to go back with a girlfriend. Suffice to say, the last trip was the best! And it just so happens that I was listening to Luther Vandross's album "Any Love" on repeat that year... I wanted to capture the magic of this place: the heat, the basic beauty, and the magic of being in another country / another space entirely, where feelings can run amok, unhindered by everyday life. But I wanted there to be a link with day-to-day goings-on too. One person's holiday is another person's job, if that makes sense.

Judging by some of the reviews I've had, not everyone agrees with my ideas about this Edward. Perhaps I need to revisit his characteristics in a sequel... I wanted him to come across as being professional, but at the same time lonely. His loneliness was meant to be an undercurrent. I think perhaps I played it down so much that readers didn't notice it at all. On the whole, I like how Bella has turned out. She's independent, yet thoughtful; conscious of what she ought to be doing, yet listening to her heart. She planned a week's break, getting away from it all, and really hadn't factored what she thinks is merely a holiday romance into the scheme of things. Little does she know... ;-)

I'm not normally one to blow my own trumpet, but I like to think that my grammar, punctuation and writing style are pretty good. I read an awful lot of fan fiction, and one thing that totally puts me off is bad grammar. It really spoils my enjoyment of a story. Any Love may not be completely error-free, but I'd like to think that my choice of words, sentence structure and adherence to reality mean something to my readers.

This story has had only a handful of reviews (hence my looking to you!), but I guess my favourites so far have been the following:
~ DangrDafne said: “Gah! A cliff hanger for a one shot? You are killing me! And I love every second of it. Goodness gracious who doesn't dream of this happening to them. The greatest part of this story is I just recently added Greece to my must see before I die list! Now if we can arrange for this Edward to be there, well I will leave tomorrow! Excellent writing, excellent visuals. I felt the warmth of the sun and the breeze was just right. This was just a beautiful story of falling in love. I love it. Thank you for sharing it with us.”

~ SweetDirtyDraco said: “Please, please continue with it, simple, tender, wonderful, romantic, sex elegant, warm, but detailed with good taste, so you can let us not, please continue with it.(sic)”I really have no idea how to pimp this fic - I'd have done so many times over otherwise. Maybe it's just not that good. I'd like to think that it is. Hence me turning to you!
~ ChloeCougar@ChloeCougar
You can read Any Love on FanFiction.net and the Inspired by Lemons Blog.


Find ChloeCougar on:FanFiction.net
Twitter
Inspired by Lemons Blog

Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar? Looking for a way to tell the world about it? Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!
Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration. While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.







0
comments

















Labels:
AH,
ChloeCougar,
Edward/Bella,
Rated M,
Romance,
Under the Radar









Guest Review: Take My Hand


Posted by Alby Mangroves on 7/22/2011 01:39:00 AM



Take My Handby Koko23catMain Characters: Jasper and AliceGenre: AH, Angst, Family, Romance, Hurt/ComfortRating: MStatus: WIPSummary: It's been eight years since Jasper left his family; darkness surrounds him when he returns and he struggles to find his place. Alice is his ray of light but is she strong enough to show him the way or will their combined demons consume them? AHYou know when you stumble across a fic, you start reading, and before you know it, you’ve devoured all available chapters? You know that drop in your stomach when you realize there’s no more...you’ve exhausted the supply? It’s like a form of panic...that fear that the wonderful story you’ve just become addicted to won’t be continued.I felt that fear with this fic. I first came across it when it was up to chapter 14 and the cliffy at the climax of that chapter...holy hell...I would’ve died if it hadn’t been updated the very next day!But, I digress... let me start at the beginning.It was Jasper who drew me to this fic, and the reputation of the author from her previous work, Brothers Past. She wrote a good vampire Jasper there, and I was intrigued as to how she would approach her first foray into the AH world.I wasn’t disappointed. From the get go, Jasper was as tortured, masculine, brooding, and gorgeous as we all love him to be. Stephenie Meyer missed a trick when she failed to expand on his personality, but in a way, it’s all the better, because it’s meant we can create our own. Koko23cat has done it perfectly here.Picture this... Jasper, 26 years old, is the youngest Captain serving in Special Forces in Iraq. He’s gravely injured, and loses his best friend in battle. Three months later, he’s on a plane travelling back to a town he hasn’t set foot in for years.On that plane is Alice, in the seat next to him no less.Their first meeting sets the tone for the beginning of a delicate and beautiful friendship, and this is made possible by koko23cat’s stunning portrayal of Alice.Gone is the hyper, annoying shopaholic she is often depicted as. In her place, we get a beautiful, vibrant woman who has suffered a dark trauma of her own. Alice is truly wonderful in this story; she is mature, gentle, and so wise for her twenty four years. She is the balm to Jasper’s wounds.Some of them, anyway.Jasper is special in this story. There’s far more to him than you first realize. Carlisle discovers a few chapters in that Jasper has a degree in foreign languages, and we learn later that Jasper is a gifted linguist, with skills in Arabic, Urdu, French...the list goes on. But it’s not just that. Somehow, the author has managed to incorporate Jasper’s original vampire gift into his personality. He is perceptive, magnetic, and charismatic in such a subtle way...it’s so so so clever.In chapter 20, there is a particularly moving scene involving Jasper and some traumatized children. It’s amazing, and really opens your eyes.The other Cullens appear in this story, too. Rosalie is the most interesting. She is Jasper’s sister. Their mother died when they were young, leaving them in the care of their alcoholic father. I won’t spoil the plot too much, but it does become apparent as the story goes on, that there are major issues between Jasper and Rosalie, and there was far more to the reasons Jasper left than she could have ever imagined.I’m not gonna lie, she is kind of a bitch, but right from the beginning, you understand her pain. As far as she’s concerned, Jasper left her without a reason; he just walked away and never looked back. It’s not until chapter 12 the reasons he left begin to emerge, and as the story goes on, it just gets worse and worse.This story is told from multiple POVs, and aside from Alice and Jasper, Emmett, Edward and Carlisle take major roles. Emmett in particular has been nailed. He is just awesome. Koko23cat has taken him so far beyond his usual class clown depiction...it seriously makes you reconsider your whole view of him. And, the dynamic between him and Jasper is brilliant. They’re old school best friends so they are often rather funny together, but at the same time, it’s tinged with sadness. Emmett just wants his friend back, and Jasper doesn’t know how to be that guy anymore.Carlisle and Edward are as you’d expect them. They’re both doctors, and as caring and compassionate as they’ve ever been. But what’s also interesting, is the dynamic between Jasper and Carlisle. It’s clear from the beginning that Carlisle and Esme love Jasper as their own son, but they struggle to get close to him when he returns home. Like everyone else, he keeps them at arms length, and it leads them to wonder if they missed something when he was a child... something important.It’s complicated further by Carlisle’s role as Jasper’s doctor... and we discover Jasper has a phobia... a serious one, and the cause of it is utterly heartbreaking, for all involved.I had a conversation with the author a while ago, and she told me that this story was born of a desire to showcase the impact of war, not only on the soldiers themselves, but their families too. This comes across throughout the story. We have flashbacks of Jasper’s time away, and the author has spared us nothing here, we are left in no doubt that Jasper has been through hell. And we also have Jasper’s continuing struggles to overcome his devastating injuries.His health is never far from the picture, and it is a stark reminder to the reader, that life is not like the movies. Jasper was shot, and I think as the story goes on, you begin to see that he will never be the same again.His mental health is also an issue, and one that is handled with extreme care and skill by the author. Jasper has nightmares, flashbacks, and periods of depression. Sometimes, you just want to shake him, and beg him to talk to someone, but you know he won’t... this is Jasper we’re talking about.Jasper’s relationship with Alice is wonderfully crafted in this story. Yes, there are lemons, but not many, and they are beautifully written. What I love the most is Alice’s ability to calm Jasper with a simple touch, and Jasper’s complete oblivion to his effect on her. The relationship is magical, and it’s made all the more so by its secrecy.You see, here’s another twist...no one knows they’re together. Not because they’ve deliberately hidden it, but because of their natural discretion. They live together, but to the outside world, Jasper rents a room in Alice’s house. Most of the others don’t even realise they’re friends.It takes something awful to finally reveal them, but I’m not going to give that away. So there you have it, the tale of the tortured warrior and haunted artist.I can’t put into words how wonderful this story is. You only have to look at the review count to see that others agree. Nearly 2000 for a J/A story...unheard of... and it’s not over. So far, we’re up to chapter 46, and I’m reliably informed there are still 20 chapters remaining.The quality of writing in this story is very good, and it gets better as the story goes on, you get the sense of a journey for the author as well as the characters. The author is quick to point out at the beginning of every chapter that she’s had help from a beta, and that beta, Calliopes Poem, pops up from time to time with a written contribution, most notably in chapters 14 and 28. I defy anyone to read the letter from Peter to Jasper in chapter 14, and not cry...it’s a stunning piece of work.This story was updated every Thursday like clockwork for 45 weeks, but has recently moved to a two week schedule. I’m fine with that, and I’d just like to point out, there isn’t a nicer author in this fandom than koko23cat.You may see her name from time to time on the works of others; I know she is a beta and prereader for a couple of other amazing stories.But what stands her out from others, is her connection to her readers, every review is answered, and from time to time, stalwart readers are rewarded with the most wonderful outtakes, and deleted scenes.There is also a blog for this story which contains some heart stopping pictures of soldiers in action, and the most beautiful header I’ve ever seen. This was created by the hugely talented Frozen-Soldier. It’s amazing what happens when talented ladies come together!The author posts teasers and other random tidbits from time to time, and it just adds to the experience.I’ve found this story thoroughly educating. Never again will I watch the news and not take a moment to think of the impact of war on both sides. The detail and knowledge ploughed into this story is staggering.If you’re looking for a Jalice romance...this ticks all the boxes. If you’re looking for a cracking broody Jasper...again, CHECK! Romance – Check. Sex – Check. Angst – Check. Humor – Check. Cullens – Check. Honestly, it’s all there!This story has a hardcore base of stalwart fans, it is the kind of story others want to write fanfiction for, but above all, if you’re looking for a truly magical, hard hitting story you’d pick up and buy in a shop, then this is the one.This is true Jalice magic at its absolute best.Harri.~review by Harry AugustIs there a fic you're dying to tell the world about?  Sign up to be a guest reviewer!







1 comments

















Labels:
AH,
Angst,
Family,
Hurt/Comfort,
Jasper/Alice,
Koko23cat,
Rated M,
Romance









Under the Radar: A Second Chance by WellMadeMistake


Posted by Janine on 7/11/2011 06:00:00 PM




A Second Chance
by WellMadeMistake

Main Characters:  Edward/Bella
Genre:  AH, Romance, Humor, Sports
Rating:  M for Lemons and Locker room talk
Status:  WIP

Summary:  A chance meeting and one night of passion many years ago changes Edward and Bella's lives forever. When they find each other again they discover that old feelings die hard. Can their obvious chemistry sustain them longer than a one night stand?

Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.


First of all, I should say that this story is an expansion of a one-shot I had just written on the fly. One of my favorite fics of all time revolved around a hockey playing Edward, and I've found that Hockeyward is one of the most underused characterizations in the fandom. Being that I am a huge hockey fan, it was only fitting that I combine two of the things I love the most; writing fiction and hockey. What I love about these characters is that they are very real. Bella is driven and attractive but also has the same hangups and insecurities as other women. Edward is athletic, successful, and famous but wears his heart on his sleeve. People who have read this fic have said that they really enjoy the sweetness and genuineness of their relationship; the slow breaking down of Bella's walls and the honesty of Edward's affection despite the outward reputation of someone in his profession. 

Through the course of this fic, I hope to test the limits of their relationship while bringing them closer together, and at times pulling them apart. There is no such thing as a storybook romance, and my goal is to portray these two in as real a fashion as possible. 

I try to update every other Friday.
~ WellMadeMistake@HotsyTots
Find WellMadeMistake on:
FanFiction.net
Twilighted
Twitter

Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar?  Looking for a way to tell the world about it?  Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!
Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration.  While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.







0
comments

















Labels:
AH,
Edward/Bella,
Humor,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Under the Radar,
WellMadeMistake









Under the Radar: Breakfast in Bed by Shpwhitney


Posted by Janine on 6/27/2011 06:00:00 PM




Breakfast in Bed
by Shpwhitney

Main Characters:  Bella/Edward
Genre:  AH, Romance
Rating:  M/NC-17
Status:  One-shot

Summary:  Bella decides to serve Edward his favorite dish on their first morning in their new home, but Edward decides he wants her for breakfast instead!

Our Under the Radar Fics feature allows authors with quality yet under-recognized fics a chance to tell us about their stories. All fics in this feature have been validated for quality by our discerning feature coordinators to ensure that we only offer you the best in new fics for your reading lists.

This story was actually the first fanfic piece that I wrote! I had been trying to find the courage to start writing fanfic for a while, but wasn’t sure how to start. I saw an offer for authors to participate in DirtyCheekyMonkeys’s "Squeeze My Lemon" challenge in an author’s note for Chartwilightmom’s story The "Late Late Show With Edward Cullen" and decided to check out the blog. I was immediately inspired by the picture prompt I chose and started writing!

I love that Edward and Bella are sweet and fun, yet sensual and frisky! I love the place they’re in as a couple: at the beginning of embarking on their life together. I also love that there’s room for them to grow! 

I think this story is different because you get a lot of background on these characters, where they come from, and what they want out of life in terms of setting up a one-shot. I also think it’s different in that you get to see two people after all the trials and tribulations it took to get together and makes you wonder about their journey.

My favorite reviewers have said things like:
“I actually read this on DirtyCheekyMonkeys's "Squeeze my Lemon," but I wanted to find your profile to see if you've done anything else. This was a great fic. If you ever feel the need to keep writing, I think you can build off of this. The idea outlined in this story would make for a good multichapter fic…Excellent story.” ~tds88

“Wooooh *fans self* that was sooooo hawt it’s hard to believe this is your first. You carry on writing and I'll carry on reading :D” ~blackrose1901

“This was great, especially for a first timer; I am impressed! It was hot and sexy and fun and tender and even had some element of plot and back story on Edward and Bella, which made this more interesting...thanks for sharing!” ~KatsFlowergirls

“Hmm was lovely and sensual. I really enjoyed this. You wrote with a rare sensuality. Good job and keep on writing. I'm glad I read this.” ~ElvirinaThis is a one-shot right now, but I am in the process of outlining a prequel to the story. Since it would be a prequel, the direction of the new story is really about finding out how these characters got to this place in their lives. I plan on detailing the events of their courtship, but also exploring their lives as university students and as young people growing and taking those first steps into true adulthood. I love them and I think you will too
~ Shpwhitney@shpwhitneyfic
You can read “Breakfast in Bed” on FanFiction.net, TWCS Library, and Squeeze My Lemon Contest Page.

Find Shpwhitney on:
FanFiction.net
TWCS Library
FreeWriters and Readers
Twitter

Is your well-written fic still flying under the radar?  Looking for a way to tell the world about it?  Sign up to participate in our Under the Radar Fics feature!
Stories included in our Under the Radar feature can have no more than 30 reviews per chapter and 750 reviews in total at the time the story is submitted for consideration.  While we make every effort to validate the stories and post the reviews as quickly as possible, this is our most popular feature, and there is often a slight delay, during which the author may post new chapters and receive additional reviews.







0
comments

















Labels:
AH,
Edward/Bella,
Rated M/MA,
Romance,
Shpwitney,
Under the Radar









Guest Review plus Author Interview: The Path Not Taken by KzintiKiller


Posted by Alby Mangroves on 6/25/2011 05:19:00 AM



The Path Not Takenby KzintiKillerMain Characters: Edward and BellaGenre: AU, Drama, RomanceRating: TStatus: CompleteSummary: Bella gets a firm wakeup call in this alternate universe to Eclipse. Definitely Team Edward territory.How many of you were annoyed with portions of ECLIPSE?  With the way that Jacob kept throwing thoughts at Edward to hurt him; with the way that Bella didn’t take that seriously; with the way that Charlie seemed to support Jake, even when he kissed his daughter without her consent?  If you found yourself trying to mentally fix those portions, then you should read THE PATH NOT TAKEN by KzintiKiller.  He has “fan fixed” the storyline in a way that made me stand up and CHEER!The Path Not Taken starts out with this quote and author’s note:"Many of us crucify ourselves between two thieves – regret for the past and fear of the future." – Fulton OurslerA/N  Just a little primer. This story is an AU for Chapter 6 (Switzerland) of Eclipse. It's an alternate 'day after' for Bella's little foray to La Push.The first third of the story killed me, and when I got to this paragraph I wondered if I could continue reading:"All I had wanted was to see Jacob. I hadn't meant for any of this to happen when I'd made my mad dash for the border. I had needed to see Jacob. Why couldn't Edward understand that? "And why couldn't you understand that he was afraid?" a small voice whispered in the back of my mind. Why indeed. I had known that he didn't want me to go. That he feared for my safety. And when Edward had feared for my safety, he had been prone to panic. I cringed internally as I realized that I was using the past tense. I knew that he was dead. The house wouldn't have burned while he lived."I had already read “Wish Granted” and the author’s profile, so persevered and read on.  I’m glad I did.  KzintiKiller wrote what I wish had happened in ECLIPSE.  He held true to the characters, the characters that we had come to know and love.Rick actually has Bella asking the questions she should have asked in the first place.  He has Edward answering honestly and fully.  He has the Quileutes in on the Volturi danger.Try not to chew your nails over the first third of the fic and then sit back and enjoy the rest.  You won’t be disappointed.  KzintiKiller has three one shots and a WIP, THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT.  Do check them all out and tell Rick that I sent you!~review by katmom@GuardingKatmomInterview with KzintiKiller@TwiHusbandA couple of weeks ago I was spending time on twitter and saw a conversation between @Chrisska and @ange_de_laube.  They were chatting about this writer who really wrote the way that ECLIPSE should have gone.  They mentioned the author’s name and how they LOVED the profile and the author’s notes.  Then @Chrisska mentioned that the writer was a GUY.  I had to rush over to FFN and check HIM out.I then proceeded to read all three of his one shots and read his WIP, THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT.  I totally fangirled and sent a multitude of reviews, which he answered promptly.  Also, I asked him if he was on twitter.  He is, as @twihusband.As a TEAM EDWARD fan, I agree with @Chrisska and @ange_de_laube.  He DOES get it.  His, THE PATH NOT TAKEN, is what should have happened in ECLIPSE, at least in my opinion.From the Author's FFn profile:Most people put a bio in here somewhere, so I thought that perhaps in was time (02/16/11) that I did so. There's little enough to tell. The most startling fact would be that I'm a guy. Yes, in the lexicon of the fandom, I'm a unicorn. A male Twilight fan. A middle-aged, very married, very sappy and romantic male Twilight fan. My previous fandoms include Buffy, Babylon-5, Roswell, Star Trek, and The West Wing; with strong strains on a dozen other fandoms on the side. I adore crossover fic. My wife and I came late to the table for Twilight. It was the movie Twilight that got us first, turning us first into Twilight fans, and then eventually into Robsten fans. The books came the very next day. And yes, I'm Team Edward, like my lovely wife. The idea of Bella with the Dog drives me straight up the wall. What she did do with the Dog made me want to turn her over my knee for Edward's sake. He deserved better than whatever love she could graciously spare him from being (heavy sarcasm) "in love" with Jacob "I'm a self-serving home-wrecking manipulative jackass" Black.What brought you to the Twi-verse? My wife. It's funny, we met online on a (wait for it) Buffy the Vampire Slayer discussion board...and BtVS wasn't even being shown in her television market at the time. It was so totally unlikely, and improbable. To make matters more interesting, we married 11 years ago while the parents we were looking after lived at opposite ends of a 4 1/2 hour drive. So we commuted, seeing each other perhaps once a month, and talked on the phone every night.In any event, I resisted getting involved in Twilight for a long time on the basis of the "young adult" genre label...and the anti-Twilight buzz that I kept running into. Twilight! Bah! Ptui! Then, on one of my visits, my wife produced a DVD of the first movie. She'd seen it in the theater once, and watched the DVD once. She kinda liked it, but wasn't hooked yet. When she suggested that we watch it I said okay…I will do anything for my wife.  (grins) So we watched it. Then I suggested that we watch the make-out scene again…and again…and a couple of more times. Then my wife watched it after I went to bed. Then we watched the whole movie again the next day. Then I bought her the first book. I had to head back north, but she finished Twilight in record time, bought the rest of the Saga, and demanded that I buy them too so we could talk about them. The rest, as they say, is history.  (snickers) If anything, I'm a bigger Twi-geek than she is now. Oh, and we're both Robsten fans. ;-)How does it feel to be one of only a handful of MEN who write for the Twiverse? Lonely. They call us unicorns for a good reason.Did I read that you had been propositioned? Not as such, in Twi-fandom. My being a male in a heavily female fandom leads to a certain amount of teasing, but none of it is serious, however, in two of my previous fandoms I had women drop hints that they were interested if I was interested. I wasn't.SM had a dream, where does your muse come from? From a place of anger, largely on Edward's behalf. I'm a "fix-it" writer. When I write I take the position that, should I ever drop through a hole in space-time and end up in a reality where I have to look my characters in the eye and be held accountable for what I put them through, I can do so with a clear conscience. That's more than SM can say.Do the chapters come easy, or is it difficult to get into? It's stop and go. When I'm on a roll I can really crank it out, other times it can be like giving birth to a porcupine. Most times though it's just a matter of finding the time to write. Looking after my mother was time consuming. Now, dispersing her estate is even more time-consuming.How long does it take you to write a chapter? The actually writing only takes a few days, but those days can be spread out over a week.Do you have an outline? I tried that, but I kept wandering away from it. For short one shots I sit down with a concrete idea of what will appear on the page. However, the longer a story becomes, the more free-wheeling I will get. When the characters take over and start writing dialog you know that you're in deep trouble. "The Path Not Taken" is three time longer than planned because Edward and Bella insisted on "talking it out". Who am I to argue when they get results for me?Who's your favorite SAGA character? Easy…Edward, with Alice as a close second.Least favorite? Likewise easy. Jacob, the greedy, self-absorbed, manipulative, wannabe home-wrecker, and daughter-stealer. How Meyer can promote that particular character over Edward the way that she does is totally beyond my comprehension. My wife and I can debate a lot of things, but we agree on that.What question do you wish I'd ask? "What question would I ask one of the characters at any point in the Saga, if I could…and why?" It would be Bella, and it would be..."What were you REALLY thinking in Eclipse?" Because she was so totally OOC in the entire run of that book. The mature, wise beyond her years, intelligent, perceptive young woman of Twilight and New Moon had take a powder. What we had left looked like Bella and talked like Bella, but acted like a ditz. Jacob Black wasn't the sharpest tool in the shed. Emotionally and intellectually Bella was way out of his league, and yet he managed to play her like a two-dollar banjo. How was that possible? (sighs) I guess the real question is to ask Stephenie Meyer what the hell she was thinking when she turned Bella into her sock puppet o' love for Jacob in that book.What do you think was the actual BUTTERFLY moment in TBE? When Kat wrapped her arms around Edward's leg in the hospital. It threw Edward's whole game plan off stride and changed everything that came after it. He's now in love with two girls, not one; albeit a different kind of love. He'll be in deeper much sooner. He'll be a "father" much sooner.Do you have any teasers you'd like to share with us for THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT? Laurent will die on the baseball field, at their first meeting. And here's a bit of dialog I plan to incorporate in some form…"Charlie claws at his holster for his service pistol upon learning where Edward spends his nights...Alice: Charlie, you know that gun won't work on him, right?Charlie: Yeah, but it'll make me feel better when I mess up those pretty clothes...."Which is your favorite of the stories that you've written? Hmm, toughie. I'm prouder of "The Path Not Taken".Why? Because of the dichotomy in it. It's a verbal roller-coaster. First I scare the bejeezus out of my unwitting reader, and then I take him/her in for a soft-landing and some sweet Bella and Edward romance. I break it, then I fix it. Unlike SM who just breaks several times, doesn't fix it, and then relies on a deus ex machina to pull her chestnuts out of the fire.Note: That's not to say that I'm not fond of "The Butterfly Effect". That's been a successful experiment so far. Seeing if an old geezer can write cute kid fic. ;-) It's been a lot of fun too.What stories/authors do you drop everything to read when an alert comes out? Ooooh. "The Day the Earth Stood Still" by Sare Liz, "Seeing Bella" by sherryola, "Resurrection" by TwilightMomofTwo, "Reboot" by Diana Law…and, should either "Innocent, Vigilant, Ordinary" or "The Vampire in the Basement" ever start burning out chapters again, I may just fall down on my knees in gratitude.Life should NOT be a journey to the gravewith the intention of arriving safelyin an attractive and well preserved body,But rather to skid in sideways,chocolate in one hand,wine in the other,body thoroughly used up,totally worn out and screaming"WOO HOO what a ride!"Do go and enjoy his work, tell him I sent you!~interview by katmom@GuardingKatmomIs there a fic you're dying to tell the world about?  Sign up to be a guest reviewer!







1 comments

















Labels:
AU,
Drama,
Edward/Bella,
Guest Reviews,
KzintiKiller,
Rated T,
Romance










Older Posts





















Fic of the Day

Beautiful Savageby vampiremama*brought to you by The Writer's Coffee Shop



Weekly Wolf Fic

The Neighbor: Anytime Any Place by ArtsBeatsLifeon FF.net or JBNP
*brought to you by JacobBlack-n-Pack



Facebook Fic Rec

The Long Walk Home
by Lulabelle98
*Selected from our "Got a fic to pimp?" Facebook discussion


Popular Reviews




Under the Radar: Undercover in Miami by Jojo45
        Undercover in Miami    by Jojo45  Main Character(s):  Edward/Bella  Genre:  AH, Romance, Mystery, Action, Crime  Rating:  M  Status:...










Under the Radar: Twilight Reflected in Brown Eyes by Mcgt
Twilight Reflected in Brown Eyes  by Mcgt  Main Character(s):  Edward & Bella  Genre:  Hurt/Comfort/Romance  Rating:  M  Status:  Complete  ...





Under the Radar: Beautiful Sorrow by DreamOfTheEndless
 Beautiful Sorrow  by DreamOfTheEndless   Main Characters:   Edward/Bella/Carlisle  Genre:  AH, Angst/Drama/Romance  Rating:  M  Status:   W...






























Show Some Love!

Click here for all our buttons!
























Followers






































 



TwilightAwards is a fansite run by women who are so obsessed with the books that they've resorted to fanfiction. TwilightAwards is in no way affiliated with Stephenie Meyer, Summit Entertainment, or Little Brown Publishing. Site Administrators, owners, and staff are not responsible for the accuracy of dates/events listed on TwilightAwards.com, nor are we responsible for content of linked sites. All publicly recognizable characters, settings, etc. are the property of their respective owners. No copyright infringement is intended.
TheTwilightAwards website and original content © 2008 ysarWordPress Theme Design by New WP Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha | Modified by ysar











