
	Texas Forest Service











EASTERN WILD TURKEY









[ Print | 

 ]



As with most species of wildlife, eastern wild turkeys require habitat that provides the basic components for life: cover, food and water.
Cover - Cover in close proximity to food and water is important for turkeys. Turkeys need cover for shelter from weather, roosting, escape from predators, nesting and brood-rearing (especially important for young turkeys).

Roosting Cover - Unlike other subspecies of turkeys, such as the Rio Grande, that occupy areas where roosting is limited and traditional roost sites receive continued, frequent use, eastern turkeys tend to roost in the first available suitable roost sites in the area when nightfall occurs. If suitable roost sites are well dispersed throughout their range, they do not necessarily utilize the same sites more than a night or two at any one time. Large, full-canopied pines are preferred because they provide better shelter from the elements than do hardwoods, especially during inclement weather. An entire flock will not necessarily roost in the same tree, but can be scattered among several suitable roost trees within an area up to an acre or more in size.
Escape Cover - Turkeys rely on their eyesight as their primary means of defense against predators, and as such, occupy habitats that offer good sight distances. However, good turkey habitat should include areas of denser vegetation that they can escape into when danger threatens. Large timbered stands, dense grassy areas and thickets provide escape cover.
Breeding, Nesting and Brood-rearing Cover - Grassy or brushy nesting and brood-rearing cover is probably the most important cover requirement for eastern turkeys. Hens nest in clumps of grass, generally within a clump of low-growing brush or at the base of a tree. Areas that provide nesting cover are open woods, timber/openings edges, fallow fields, pastureland and brush land. After the young turkeys (poults) hatch, the hen needs to be able to lead them to areas that provide suitable feeding opportunities and protection. Brood-rearing areas need to be in close proximity to the nesting cover, especially early in the poults' lives. Grassy/weedy openings provide the habitat needed for brood-rearing. Male turkeys also use these open areas to display for hens during the breeding season in the spring.

Food -The diet of turkeys varies seasonally. Seasonal nutritional needs and food availability determines habitat types used by turkeys. The vegetative parts (leaves, stems) of a wide variety of herbaceous plants (grasses, forbs) are eaten throughout the year depending on their availability. Other types of foods are required or are available only during certain times of the year.

Fall and Winter - In the fall and winter, hard mast (oak acorns) is important food. Mature stands of pine/hardwoods or hardwoods, especially bottomland hardwoods, are prime habitats that can provide the acorns needed to sustain turkey flocks throughout the winter.
Spring and Summer - After poults hatch in the late spring they grow fast, requiring a diet high in protein. Insects are higher in protein than plants and young poults eat numerous kinds of small insects and spiders. Insects are more abundant in sunny, open areas vegetated in herbaceous plants than in closed canopy, shady woodlands. During the first few weeks after poults hatch, hens lead their foraging broods through vegetation dense enough for the poults to hide when threatened but low enough for the hens to look over to watch for predators. By mid-summer, as poults become larger, the broods can use openings with sparser vegetation, such as pastures, to catch insects. Later in the summer, as protein requirement diminishes, the seeds of grasses and forbs become important foods for juvenile turkeys, as well as adults. Again, sunny openings provide a greater abundance and variety of seed producing plants.
Soft Mast - Soft mast, such as blackberries, dewberries, American beautyberry, grapes and dogwood fruits, is relished as the fruits mature at different times throughout the spring, summer and fall. 

Water-Good turkey habitat includes ample water. Live streams are best and this type of water source is seldom limited in East Texas. However, man-made ponds may provide an important source of water in drier areas or during dry years. Where feasible, ponds should be located near woody cover to encourage use by turkeys.
Habitat Diversity-The best habitats are those that provide all the necessary components well dispersed within the range of a flock of turkeys, which can be as large as 1,000 acres or more. This is not to mean that each individual tract within a flock's range has to provide all the components. A tract of bottomland hardwood within the range may provide the necessary wintering range while adjacent tracts may provide the nesting and brood-rearing habitat. When assessing the quality of the habitat of an individual tract, the habitat components provided on surrounding lands need to be taken into consideration. A good habitat would be one with at least half the area in mature timber, with openings and water sources interspersed throughout. Good forested habitat includes a variety of hard mast producing hardwood trees, an open to moderately open understory with an abundance of herbaceous ground cover and a midstory with a variety of soft mast producing plants such as dogwood and beautyberry. The required openings can be provided by pastures, fallow fields, clearcuts, roadways, powerlines and pipeline right-of -ways, forest clearings, etc.
Habitat Losses-Previous losses of suitable habitat for turkeys in eastern Texas and future threats come from reservoir development, strip mining, urbanization and conversion of mixed pine-hardwood forest to extensive pine plantations, cropland and pasture.
Habitat Management

Forest Management - Eastern turkeys are dependent on forests to meet a large portion of their habitat requirements. Forest stand characteristics such as size, age class distribution, species composition and density determine the habitats suitability for turkeys, as do forest management practices such as rotation length, type of timber harvest and stand regeneration, controlled burning and thinning. · Small (less than 100 acres), irregularly-shaped stands with maximum "edge" are better for turkeys than stands in large blocks. · Very young stands (regeneration areas) generally contain a diversity of plant species important for nesting and brood-rearing. · Adjacent timber stands should be different in age by at least 5 years to provide a diversity of different aged stands. A balanced distribution of age classes, from young, newly regenerated stands to mature stands, assures good interspersion of food and cover. · When regeneration areas become older and too dense for turkeys to see predators well, they are avoided. Herbaceous vegetation production is limited under closed canopies. Thinning of stands at 5 to 10 year intervals, beginning with precommercial thins and continuing through the time the stands are to be regenerated, opens the stand and allows a herbaceous understory to develop. · Controlled burning enhances the variety, abundance and quality of foods and maintains the open understory required by turkeys. However, burning severe enough to eliminate hardwoods is detrimental. Winter burning cycles of 3 to 5 years are recommended. · When stands are regenerated, strips of pine-hardwood or hardwoods, called streamside management zones, should be retained along permanent and intermittent streams. These serve as winter habitat and travel corridors. · Key hardwood areas should be managed for winter habitat and mast production. Harvest rotation ages for hardwoods should be greater than 70 years. Hardwoods can be harvested single-tree or group selection management.
Opening Maintenance - An area managed for turkeys should contain 10-50 percent of well-dispersed openings maintained in native and introduced herbaceous plants. Openings 1-5 acres in size are better and should be shaped for maximum edge effect (long and narrow) to limit long movements of hens with broods.


Mowing and other maintenance practices should be limited or avoided from April through June when turkeys are nesting to minimize nest disturbance and destruction.


Planting supplemental food plants in openings can enhance turkey habitat, especially in marginal habitat. Plantings can supplement natural foods and concentrate turkey movements in an area. However, food plantings should not be considered a cure-all to correct habitat deficiencies. Plantings should be considered as supplements to well-managed natural habitats.


A plant commonly used for turkeys is chufa, an introduced nut sedge which produces clusters of underground nutlets relished by turkey during the fall and winter. Chufa is especially beneficial to turkeys in years of poor acorn production. Chufa is also relished by hogs and raccoons and in areas where they are common chufa plantings should be large enough to allow for depredation by these other species and have enough left for turkeys. Chufa is planted in the spring on sandy loam soil. It will not tolerate much livestock grazing during the growing season.


Plantings of small grains will also be used by turkeys when they ripen in late summer until gone. 


Locate food plots away from human traffic especially where illegal hunting may be a problem.


Overseeding introduced and native grass pastures with cool season legumes, such as clovers, or cereal grains can increase their value to turkeys. Turkeys readily use these cool season plants in the winter and the spring.

Legumes are a group of plants that are members of the Fabaceae plant family. Most legumes produce an abundance of high quality forage that is readily used by many species of wildlife. Turkeys utilize legumes by feeding on the leaves and flower heads, and insects and other invertebrates that live on the plants. Clovers are the most common legumes planted for wildlife purposes.










