
	Texas Forest Service











STREAMSIDE MANAGEMENT ZONES - SMZS









[ Print | 

 ]



Protecting Water Quality
Texans in the forestry community currently have the opportunity to protect the quality of East Texas’ waters without unnecessary government regulation.
The Texas Forestry Best Management Practices (BMP’s) are state-of-the-art, non-regulatory (voluntary) methods designed to prevent erosion and protect water quality during and after forest management activities, including timber harvesting.
Streamside Management Zones (SMZ’s) are perhaps the most crucial Best Management Practice. Also called buffer strips, green strips, stringers, or riparian zones. SMZ’s are crucial to protecting the waters of East Texas.

What is an SMZ?
A Streamside Management Zone (SMZ) is a forested strip or area next to a creek or stream that is managed with specific attention to instream and downstream water protection. SMZ’s should be maintained around both intermittent and perennial streams, lakes, ponds, naturally flowing springs, and reservoirs. Forest management activities within an SMZ should leave the forest floor essentially undisturbed with minimum soil exposure. Mechanical site preparation, logging decks, skid trails, and firelanes are restricted within an SMZ. Similarly, roads should not be constructed within an SMZ, except at designated crossings (see Stream Crossing Alternatives below). Roads should cross the stream at a right angle. Drainage structures such as wing ditches, water bars, and cross drain culverts should vent their runoff before they enter the SMZ.
Why are SMZ’s important?
Functioning as buffer strips, SMZ’s are very effective in filtering sediment (soil particles) from surface runoff. The water in the runoff can and should reach the stream, but the vegetation in the SMZ filters sediment and other suspended solids resulting from the forest management activity. This filtering process may also lessen any negative effects that pesticides may have on water quality. The trees immediately adjacent to the water provide woody debris to benefit aquatic organisms. The trees also provide shade to the stream, preventing any unnatural changes in water temperature. Direct sunlight can drastically raise water temperatures, which may lower the oxygen content of the water and make it difficult for fish and other aquatic organisms to survive.

When is an SMZ recommended?
As previously states, SMZ’s are recommended on perennial and intermittent streams, as well as on other water bodies. A perennial stream is one that flows throughout the year, except during temporary drought conditions. An intermittent stream usually has a well-defined, continuous channel, although it may be dry for up to eight months of the year. It generally flows throughout the wet season of the year. Ephemeral streams or drains (ephemeral means short-lived) are rain-dependent and carry water only during and for a short time after a rain. Therefore they do not require SMZ protection. However, since these water courses do flow at times, they are sensitive and a SMZ may be prudent.
Determining SMZ width
The Texas Best Management Practices for Silviculture handbook states that SMZ width should be not less than 50 feet on each side of the stream. However, the actual width needed is site specific. A forester or other qualified professional can make a determination based on soil type, slope, vegetative cover, volume of flow, and stream classification. To enhance wildlife habitat, SMZ’s may need to be significantly wider than 50 feet.
Does wildlife benefit?
Streamside Management Zones not only help protect water quality, but also provide excellent habitat for many wildlife species. They function as travel corridors and nesting sites and provide food and cover. Within a young pine plantation, SMZ’s create edge and habitat diversity, two important requirements for wildlife species. As travel corridors, SMZ’s can join otherwise isolated populations of a species. In general, as SMZ width increases, so does use by wildlife species such as squirrels, wild turkey, amphibians, and reptiles. One study on wildlife use of SMZ’s suggests that they should be about 100 feet wide for maximum benefit.
Will SMZ’s affect timber income?
SMZ’s can be thinned for increases timber income without;damaging the integrity or function of the SMZ. The BMP handbook recommends that a minimum of 50 percent of the original canopy be left in the SMZ. Selective logging, when done correctly, will not harm the filtering effects of the SMZ, nor will it significantly damage the remaining trees. Enough cover should be left to provide adequate shade for the stream, lessen erosion caused by raindrop impacts, and filter runoff washing toward the stream. Any logging debris (tree tops or limbs) should be immediately removed from stream channels and other water bodies.
SMZ’s also yield non-monetary benefits such as wildlife, clean water and aesthetics. If a dollar value were assigned to these benefits, any loss of timber income from selective cutting could easily be offset.
Stream crossing alternatives:
Too often, streams are crossed by simply pushing dirt and other debris into the stream channel. Because this can lead to serious water quality problems, Best Management Practice guidelines recommend avoiding this type of crossing. If used, however, the fill material from the crossing should be removed and stream banks restored immediately to their original condition. Fortunately, alternative crossings, designed to prevent stream sedimentation do exist and are listed on the following pages.
Culverts
Culvert installations are common stream crossing methods that can help prevent harmful impacts to stream quality. When sized to proper diameter and length for the stream drainage area, culverts can provide access across streams without increasing stream sedimentation. It is often necessary to install erosion control measures such as rip-rap or large stone to minimize sedimentation and erosion at culvert inlets and outlets.
Different types and sizes of culverts are available for various installations, ranging from 18-inch diameter galvanized steel to 10-foot diameter railroad tank cars (with ends cut out for use as a culvert). For longer culvert life or use in corrosive soil and water, aluminum, plastic, polymer-coated, and other types of culverts may be used. There are also different spiral-types and gauges (thickness) of metal that can affect the strength of the culvert. It may be useful to contact a qualified individual to determine which type of culvert is appropriate.
Bridges
Crossing very large streams may require installations of a bridge. Railroad flat cars, wooden timbers, and iron I-beams are among the materials from which bridges can be constructed. Strength, load-capacity, and safety engineering are important factors when designing and installing bridges. Contacting qualified individuals in recommended for bridge construction.
Geoweb
Geoweb, manufactured by Presto Products, Inc., can provide a permanent, low-water crossing or ford that minimizes stream sedimentation. The plastic material forms a honey-comb mat that is filled with soil or gravel to form a solid road base. Best used in streams with flat approaches to the stream, properly-installed Geoweb allows permanent access across a stream even for fully loaded log trucks. (Use of trade names does not imply endorsement by the Texas Forest Service.)
Timber Mats
Many loggers are now using 4 foot by 20 foot or longer timber mats, or dragline mats, which are portable bridges that consist of rough-cut 8 inch x 8 inch timbers bolted together. Normally two or three mats are placed side by side to span the width of the stream channel. These timber mats are easily transported by loggers on the same trailer used for other equipment transport.
More information is available
SMZ’s should be used in conjunction with other sound land management practices that stress the use of BMP’s for sediment and erosion control. Landowners or land managers who have questions about SMZ’s stream crossings, forestry BMP’s, and possible cost share assistance for implementing these practices should contract their nearest Texas Forest Service office.
Copies of the complete set of non-regulatory BMP’s for water quality protection are available in the handbook entitled Texas Best Management Practices for Silviculture. In addition, Texas Forest Service circulars, Forestry Best Management Practices for Water Quality and Forestry, Wetlands and Water Quality, provide a summary and outline of BMP’s and water quality in non-technical terms. All three publications are available free of charge from any office of the Texas Forest Service.








