
	Texas Forest Service











WHITE-TAILED DEER MANAGEMENT









[ Print | 

 ]



TEXAS PARKS AND WILDLIFE - Guide For Wildlife Management Associations and Co-ops
General
The key to producing a productive and healthy white-tailed deer population is dependent upon the quantity, quality, and variety of food plants produced by the habitat or range. Food availability can be improved by:

harvesting deer, including does, to maintain total deer numbers at or below the capacity of the habitat;
not stocking with exotic big game animals, or keeping their numbers at a low level, since exotics compete with white-tailed deer for browse, forbs, and mast;
stocking the range with a moderate number of domestic animals (preferably species that do not directly compete with deer) and utilizing some form of a deferred-rotation system of grazing, and;
controlling invading "noxious" woody vegetation, such as cedar, not needed for cover or food to reduce competition and increase the production of grasses for cattle and the production and availability of browse and forbs preferred by deer.

Understanding food habits of deer is fundamental to management. Studies have shown that deer prefer forbs and browse (leaves and twigs from trees or shrubs). Grasses make up a very small portion of a deer's diet and they are utilized only when tender and green. Deer cannot digest mature grasses. Forbs are generally high in protein and important to deer size, antler development, and fawn production. However the production, quality, and palatability of forbs is highly dependent on rainfall and the season of the year. Forbs will be absent or unpalatable at least during portions of a year, typically during late summer and late winter.
Woody browse plants make up the majority of the annual diet of deer in the Pineywoods. Preferred browse plants include greenbriar, rattan vine, Carolina jessamine, honeysuckle, blackberry, sassafras. Other important browse plants are winged elm, American beautyberry, yaupon, poison ivy, dogwood, hawthorn, and red maple. Many woody plants also produce mast (acorns and fruits) that is readily eaten by deer, but mast production is erratic and therefore it is not as reliable as a food source as the foliage. Important mast producers are the oaks, hickories, beech, American beauty berry, dogwood, blackberry, hawthorn and grape.
A list of common east Texas woody browse plants and there palatability rating can be found below.
Antler development (main beam length, antler spread, basal circumference, and number of points) is dependent upon three factors: nutrition (quantity and quality of food), age, and genetics.
NutritionNutrition can be optimized by the methods discussed above: controlling the numbers of deer and exotic ungulates, utilizing a rotational system of domestic livestock grazing with moderate stocking rates, controlling noxious vegetation, and proper timber management. Supplemental feeding and supplemental plantings, in conjunction with the above practices, can be used to help meet the nutritional needs of deer. Both practices will be discussed in more detail in a later section.
AgeMaximum antler development of buck deer is attained at 5 to 6 years of age. Allowing bucks to reach older ages through selective harvest will allow them to attain their potential antler growth.
GeneticsSpike antlered bucks are the result of inadequate nutrition, genetics, or a combination of these two factors. Research has shown that yearling (1 1/2 year old) bucks have the potential to produce 4 to 8 points as their first set of antlers if nutrition is adequate and they have the proper genetic background. Conversely, bucks may only produce spike antlers as yearlings if they have "spikes genes", even with adequate nutrition. Although the subsequent sets of antlers of yearling spikes generally will not be spikes, their antlers tend to be inferior to those of bucks that were forked antlered as yearlings. Consequently, the incidence of inferior antlered bucks in the population should be minimized by the combination of optimizing nutrition (habitat management) and including spike antlered bucks in the total deer harvest. 
Cover RequirementsThe best cover for white-tailed deer is a pattern or mosaic of forestland interspersed within open areas comprised of native herbaceous vegetation (not tame pastures) at an approximate 2/1 ratio of open area to woody cover. Clumps or strips of brush should be wide enough so that an observer cannot see through them from one side to the other during the winter months when deciduous species are bare of leaves. Cover strips should be as continuous as possible to provide travel lanes.
Population CharacteristicsMaintaining the deer population density within the food supply is very important to prevent die-offs during extreme habitat conditions, such as during droughts. Maintaining deer numbers within the carrying capacity will improve fawn production and survival, increase body size and improve antler development, and prevent habitat deterioration from overuse. The rule-of-thumb winter carrying capacity for east Texas is 1 deer per 10 acres in bottomlands and 1 per 25 acres in uplands; however, these guidelines may vary greatly depending on the quality of the habitat and past management practices.
Overuse of preferred vegetation on habitat that is overpopulated with deer and/or overstocked with domestic animals on a long term basis can kill individual plants and prevent woody plant seedlings from being established, leading to a decline in the carrying capacity.
Records ManagementRecords should be kept to monitor the status of the deer herd and measure the success of management over time. As a minimum, record keeping should include:

annual deer population data (census data)
number of deer harvested annually 
biological data from deer harvested, to include: 


field dressed weight.
antler measurements: inside spread, number of points, main beam lengths, circumference of antler bases. The Boone and Crockett antler scoring system can be used to measure overall antler quality.
age: the manager can age the deer at the time they are harvested or the lower jaws can be removed from deer and stored for later aging by a biologist until the manager is proficient at aging.
presence or absence of lactation (milk production) of does (to supplement fawn production estimates).


Note: Weight, antler, and lactation data from a deer, without knowing the age of the deer, is of minimum value. Conversely, age without corresponding weight/antler/lactation data is of minimum value.
Palatability Rating of Browse Species For Deer of Eastern Texas
First Choice (Preferred)



St. Peterswort                                     

Alabama supplejack                                        



American cyrilla

Brook euonymus, strawberry bush



White ash

Carolina jessamine



Honeylocust

St. Johnswort



Georgia holly

Virginia sweetspire



Japanese honeysuckle

Blackberry



Sassafras

Greenbrier



American snowbell

Kentucky viburnum




Second Choice (Moderately Preferred)



Red maple                                     

Peppervine



Chokeberry

Common pawpaw



Azalea

Crossvine



American berry

Buttonbush



White fringetree

Flowering dogwood



Roughleaf dogwood

Hawthorn



Largeleaf gallberry

Deciduous holly



Sweetbay magnolia

Partridgeberry



Red mulberry

Black tupelo



Virginia creeper

Redbay persea



Flatwoods plum

White oak



Water oak

Willow oak



Smooth sumac

Black willow



Common sweetleaf

Poison sumac



Poisonoak

Elm



Mapleleaf viburnum

Possumhaw viburnum



Blackhaw viburnum

Rusty blackhaw



Muscadine

Yaupon




Third Choice (Least Preferred)



American hornbeam

Hickory



Florida chinkapin

Eastern redbud



Common persimmon

American beech



Two-wing silverbell

Common witchhazel



American holly

Eastern redcedar



American sweetgum

He-huckleberry



Southern magnolia

Southern waxmyrtle



American hophornbeam

Shortleaf pine



Loblolly Pine

Carolina laurelcherry



Black cherry

Bluejack oak



Southern red oak

Post oak



Blackjack oak

Flameleaf sumac



Dwarf greenbrier

Mexican buckeye



Blueberry

Carolina buckthorn













