
	Texas Forest Service











HARVEST TIMBER









[ Print | 

 ]



A timber harvest marks the completion of many years of growth and should be carefully considered. If done properly, the landowner will profit from the sale, and the site will be protected for the next management operation.
The forest landowner not only has an ethical responsibility to be a good steward of the land, but also bears a legal responsibility to protect the environment.  At present, the landowner shares the liability of protecting water quality and endangered species with the logging contractor, the consultant forester, and other involved parties.
Learn how to sell your timber.  Selling timber is a significant activity in the management of your property and one that is the culmination of many years of work and effort.  You are already doing the right thing in seeking out professional assistance on the topic before committing to any single decision.  The guiding principle in any management activity on your property needs to be to “Continually improve the resource” or practice good stewardship.  Good stewardship means that you are going to manage for the goals you have for the property while leaving it in a better shape than when you received it.  If you are ever confronted with a management activity that is going to degrade or damage your property seek out professional assistance to help you with proper management guidance.
Have a plan 
Problems that may arise from poor harvesting operations 
Use a professional forester 
Know what you are selling and what it’s worth 
Have a contract 
Know tax implications 
Forestry memberships 
Harvesting methods 
Timber selling scenario: Who made the best deal? 
Texas Forest Service established the Best Management Practices program to focus on minimizing threats to water quality from forestry activities. The program educates landowners, loggers and foresters about the threats to water quality and provides technical assistance on how to minimize those threats through the use of non-regulatory forestry BMPs.
Forestry Services Vendor Database
Professional Management Services Referral List
Texas Timber Price Trends








