
	Texas Forest Service











PRUNING YOUNG SHADE TREES FOR STRENGTH AND FORM









[ Print | 

 ]



Don't lead your tree in the wrong directionUsing pruning to increase the strength and form of your young treeYoung trees have a lot of potential. They offer the promise of cool shade on hot afternoons. Strong branches children can climb on or swing from. Even lush canopies where birds can make their home.But trees don’t mature overnight. And they often don’t grow into healthy trees without a little help. Trees need a little structure if they are going to live a long, productive life. Proper pruning is one of the keys to ensuring your tree thrives.

The beginning
Good branch structure starts in the nursery. Find a tree with a strong, dominant trunk and evenly spaced branches. Double leaders and low, slingshot crotches can create problems down the road.You shouldn’t have to prune the first year. Plan to start your yearly regiment before the second growing season and continue for its first five or six years. At that point, your tree should be developing a strong branch structure, allowing you to just stand back and enjoy for the next five to 10 years.  What to cut when it's time to prune
Double LeadersThe first six to eight feet of your tree should have just one, dominant trunk with no major fork. If the trunk does divide, determine which stem appears strongest and remove the others. Sometimes this must be done gradually over several years, simply cutting the stem back for the first couple years before removing it completely. The general rule of thumb is to prune no more than one-third of the crown each year, though you may be able to push that limit with younger trees.Rubbing BranchesOften one branch will grow back toward the interior of the crown and cross several other branches. Remove these and any other branches that rub or look as though they soon will rub against another branch. CrowdingGive each branch room to grow with minimal competition for sunlight. Major lateral branches should be evenly spaced along the trunk, eight to ten inches apart.Narrow Branch AnglesSometimes two branches form a narrow, v-shaped crotch. As the stems grow thicker, they may develop included bark, which means that bark is becoming trapped in between and preventing them from forming a strong bond. As a result, the branches are more likely to fall as a result of wind or ice. But the weather doesn’t have to be bad. Occasionally, otherwise healthy limbs on a mature tree will drop — sometimes with tragic consequences — on a clear day simply because the bark has become pinched.Sprouts and SuckersFast-growing sprouts that shoot out of the trunk or main limbs have a weak point of attachment. If they grow large enough, they can break during a storm and cause serious damage to the tree.Temporary BranchesWhile a tree is young, it may have small lateral branches along the main trunk. They will help the tree develop a thicker trunk during the first few years, but ultimately will need to be removed. Start at the bottom and remove one or two each year until you reach the desired height for the first permanent limb.The proper cut
The ideal pruning cut angles away from the main stem, just beyond the branch collar — a slight swelling where the base of the branch meets the trunk or main limb.  The finished cut should leave a little bump on the main stem, but not a pronounced stub.The weight of a large branch being pruned can cause it to sag and peel bark down the side of the tree. To prevent this from happening, you can use a simple, three-step method. First make a cut about one-third of the way through the bottom of the branch. Then make a second cut on top about an inch beyond the first cut. This helps remove most of the limb’s weight, allowing you to finish the cut by removing the remaining stub.Pruning paint is necessary only when pruning oaks in a community where oak wilt disease is a problem.









