
	Texas Forest Service











SOUTHERN PINE BEETLE CONTROL METHODS: CUT AND LEAVE









[ Print | 

 ]



Cut and Leave
Infestations of the southern pine beetle in East Texas can be treated by a method known as cut-and-leave to reduce losses from spot growth and proliferation.
The Texas Forest Service recommends application of the cut-and-leave procedure in situations where prompt salvage or other control alternatives are not feasible. The method is designed to disrupt spot growth in small to medium-sized spots by dispersing attacking beetles. Also, survival of developing broods in felled trees may be reduced. The treatment is simple, inexpensive and requires a minimum of manpower, equipment and training.
How to Apply
1. Identify, the active trees within the spot (the most recently attacked trees in an active infestation will have green.foliage). Fig.1

2. Fall all active trees toward the center of the spot. Fig. 2

3. Fall a horseshoe-shaped buffer of green, uninfected trees around the active head of the spot and leave them lying on the ground with crowns pointed toward the center of the spot. The buffer should be as wide as the average height of the trees in the spot (40’-60’ wide).
4. Old dead trees with no bark beetles remaining should be left standing to allow development of parasites and predators that help control beetle populations.
5. If possible, check the treated spot after two weeks for re-infestations (breakouts) around the boundary. Re-treat all breakouts.
The buffer strip of green trees must be included to assure effective control, particularly for spots treated during warm months.
When to Apply
Cut-and-leave treatment may be applied at any time of the year. However, the treatment appears most successful when applied during the summer months to spots with 10-100 active trees.
Prompt treatment after detection is recommended because experience has shown that large spots (100+ active trees) are difficult to control regardless of the treatment applied. On the other hand, spots with less than 10 active trees often are soon abandoned by the beetles and may require no treatment.
Salvage:
The most recommended method to treat infestations of the southern pine beetle in East Texas is the harvest and utilization of infested trees. If done properly, a prompt salvage operation has many benefits:

economic losses from beetle infestations are minimized by utilizing dead trees;
spot growth is disrupted by the removal of active trees and a buffer strip of adjacent uninvested trees; and
a portion of the beetle population is removed from the forest.

To adequately control southern pine beetle spots by salvage, the Texas Forest Service recommends the guidelines outlined below...
How to Apply
1. Identify all active trees within the spot (the most recently attacked trees in an active infestation will still have green foliage).
2. With tree-marking paint or flagging, mark the salvage boundaries to include a horseshoe-shaped buffer of green, uninfested trees around the active head of the spot (Fig. 1).

The buffer should be as wide as the average height of the trees in the spot (40-60’). The buffer is required to guarantee disruption of spot growth and dispersion of beetle populations from the infested area.
3. Salvage should begin as soon as possible after the harvesting boundaries are marked. Cut and remove trees within the buffer first to prevent further spot growth. Continue harvesting towards the spot origin until only those dead trees that have deteriorated beyond use remain standing (Fig. 2).

4. Do not deck infested logs against standing green trees since odors from the logs may draw beetles to adjacent green trees. Ideally, infested trees should be removed from the woods within a few days of felling to prevent the escape of emerging beetles.
5. Avoid scraping or damaging standing green trees along skid trails. Open wounds attract certain bark beetles.
6. After two weeks check the treated spot for re-infestations (breakouts) around the outer edge of the spot, along skid trails or around log decking areas. Re-treat all breakouts.
The buffer strip of green trees must be included to assure effective control, particularly for spots treated during warm months. If salvage operations are delayed, active spots may have to be marked again prior to harvesting to account for additional spot growth.
When to Apply 
Salvage may be applied at any time of year when ground conditions permit. Prompt treatment after detection is recommended. Any delay will mean additional timber loss from spot growth and proliferation. When salvage of a spot is not feasible, or must be postponed for prolonged periods, the Texas Forest Service recommends that active infestations be treated by the cut-and-leave method.
Cost of Application 
The cost of salvage application will vary with the total volume and size of trees to be harvested, their current market value, the type and efficiency of equipment used and other factors.
After steps 1 to 5 above are completed the Texas Forest Service recommends that additional uninvested trees be selectively thinned from the owners’ adjacent timber, if needed, to complete the final load or to offset the cost of the salvage operation.
Glossary of Terms
1. Southern Pine Beetle - Dendroctonus frontalis (Coleoptera: Scolytidae), a bark beetle that can be identified by the S-shaped trails it makes beneath the bark of attacked trees.
2. Spot - A group of dead or dying pine trees infested by the southern pine beetle.
3. Spot Growth - The natural expansion of untreated spots as additional green trees on the outer edge of a spot become infested.
4. Spot Proliferation - A new spot initiated by beetles escaping from controlled and/or uncontrolled spots, located at some distance from the immediate edge of the initial spot.
5. Spot Breakout - Infestation of green trees on the outer edge of a spot following a control treatment.
6. Active Head of Spot - That portion of the spot containing beetles in the process of attacking green trees.
7. Active Tree - A pine tree containing attacking adults or bark beetle broods (eggs, larvae, pupae, or new adult beetles).
8. Buffer - A group of green, uninfested pines adjacent to the most recently infested trees in a spot. Both the buffer and the active trees are felled to assure disruption of spot growth and dispersion of beetle populations.
 









