
	Texas Forest Service











HOW CAN I TREAT MY TREES IF THEY HAVE OAK WILT?









[ Print | 

 ]



There are two main recommendations that are generally given to treat oak wilt infection areas:

1. Stopping the spread through the roots 
Measures can be taken to break root connections between live oaks or dense groups of red oaks to reduce or stop root transmission of the oak wilt fungus. 
The most common technique is to sever roots by trenching at least 4 feet deep with trenching machines, rocksaws or ripper bars. Trenches more than 4 feet deep may be needed to assure control in deeper soils. Correct placement of the trench is critical for successful protection of uninfected trees. There is a delay between colonization of the root system by the fungus and appearance of symptoms in the crown. Therefore, all trees with symptoms should be carefully identified first. Then, the trench should be placed a minimum of 100 feet beyond these symptomatic trees, even though there may be healthy trees at high risk inside the trench. Trees within the 100 foot barrier, including those without symptoms, may be uprooted or cut down and removed to improve the barrier to root transmission. Tree removal should be initiated after trenching, starting with healthy trees adjacent to the trench and gradually working inward to include symptomatic trees.
Oak wilt centers are more easily suppressed when treated early, before they become too large. Untreated trees immediately outside the treated area should be closely monitored for several years. If the pathogen appears to have crossed the barrier, the same measures (new trenching and treatment of trees within the barrier) should be repeated while the diseased site is still small.


Open rock sawed trench

Six-month-old rock sawed trench

2. Fungicide treatment 
The fungicide propiconazole (Alamo) can be used as a preventative to reduce oak wilt symptoms in live oaks when applied before infection. Limited success may also be achieved in trees with therapeutic injections during the earliest stages of infection. The fungicide is injected into the tree’s water-conducting vascular system through small holes drilled into the root flare at the base of the tree. Treatment success depends on the health condition of the candidate tree, application rate, and injection technique. Injection should be done only by trained applicators.


Close-up of injection T’s

Live oak being injected
Fungicide injection does not stop root transmission of the fungus. This treatment, therefore, is used best in conjunction with trenching or to protect individual high-value trees in situations where trenching is impractical.








