
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH





    FEATURES


Attract Wildlife


Contact a professional


Control exotic species


Develop recreation


Generate income


Harvest timber


Keep forests healthy


Keep trees healthy


Order seedlings


Plant trees


Prevent timber theft


Prevent wildfire


Protect from pests


Protect from disease


Transfer land to heirs


    TOOLS


Ask the Experts


Landowner Survey


Forest Management Fact Sheets


Directory of Forest Products Industries in Texas





Landowners



IMPORTANCE

OF FORESTS AND YOUR PART TO PROTECT THEM








[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




What your forest means to our well being and how you can protect it
“The best friend from the earth for man is the tree.  When we use the tree respectfully
and economically, we have one of the greatest resources on the earth.”
-   Frank Lloyd Wright
Forests cover nearly four billion hectares of the earth's surface, roughly 30 percent of its total land area and 11.9 million acres of that exists in East Texas alone!
Trees and forests are vital to a healthy environment
 
Trees and forests serve the environment in many ways. They stabilize the climate and shape the landscape. Trees and forests purify water and air. They renew oxygen by absorbing and storing carbon. They work to regulate temperatures, filter water and manage surface water runoff, protecting the soil from erosion. Trees and forests muffle noises, buffer strong winds and filter dust and gas from the air.
Forests also help protect and sustain the biodiversity of nature; that is the diversity, or variety, of plants, animals and other living things in a particular area or region. It encompasses habitat, species and genetic diversity.
In addition to services to the environment, they also benefit people by being a source of wood, food, medicine, fresh water and shelter. People also rely on forests for livelihood, relaxation and recreation.
Forest management in Texas
Increasingly in Texas, forestland is owned by individual family landowners for various reasons (aesthetics, protection of nature, investment, home, farm, privacy, family legacy). This is a growing fragmentation trend away from the historically long-standing large parcels of industry-owned land for timber production. Diverse ownership of these smaller parcels of land pose many more management challenges for the forest ecosystem in Texas, compared to the previous large blocks of land being managed by fewer owners.
As more and more Texans acquire their piece of the “American Dream” by owning forestland, it is more and more important that we learn how to protect our forests and use them in responsible and sustainable ways. Having a sound land management plan and a working education on how to keep our forests healthy will help protect forestland from pests and disease, wildfire, deforestation, impact of natural disasters and aggressive development and urban sprawl.







 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



