FEMA: Cass and Marion Counties Added to Federal Disaster Declaration

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Cass and Marion Counties Added to Federal Disaster Declaration 

Release Date: September 19, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-011

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- Wildfire survivors in Cass and Marion counties can now register for federal and state disaster assistance, as those two counties were added Monday to a Sept. 9 major disaster declaration. Thirteen Texas counties are now designated for assistance under the declaration, said officials with the Texas Division of Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
The decision follows a state request submitted Friday to make state and federal Individual Assistance available to eligible homeowners, renters and business owners in Cass and Marion.
"We're pleased to be able to provide assistance to these Texans so they can also begin to recover from the terrible fires," said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes of FEMA. "Survivors in Cass and Marion, as well as in the previously designated 11 counties, should register with FEMA as soon as possible," he said.
Those counties are Bastrop, Colorado, Gregg, Grimes, Houston, Leon, Montgomery, Travis, Walker, Waller and Williamson.
Disaster assistance for eligible individuals may include:

Grants to help pay for temporary housing and home repairs to make a home habitable
Grants for serious disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance
Low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration for homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations to cover losses not fully compensated by insurance. 

Survivors can register for assistance online at www.disasterassistance.gov, via smart phone at m.fema.gov or by also calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. Those who use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services can call 1-800-621-3362. Operators are available by phone from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. seven days a week.
Preliminary Damage Assessments in other Texas counties continue, and additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the state and warranted by the results of the damage assessments.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Tuesday, 20-Sep-2011 13:22:41




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











