  Back-to-school shopping means deciding on gadgets — Tech60






 







Tech
Gadgets
Android
Apple
Microsoft
Mobile Technology
  







About








Home » Gadgets » Back-to-school shopping means deciding on gadgets
Back-to-school shopping means deciding on gadgets
By admin on 08/15/2011 3:55 am in Gadgets / no comments
 


The economy might be headed toward another dive, but students still need high-tech school supplies.

That’s what encouraged Joshua Gallagher, a home-schooled student from Okmulgee, to go to the Tulsa Hills Best Buy recently to find a faster computer.

“It’ll be good for typing papers or doing Internet research,” he said. “There’s Facebook too, but that’s not for school.”

Local electronic stores are once again seeing a rush of high school and college students  –  many with encouragement and funding from their parents  –  seeking to pick up tools they need to keep up with studies and supplies for dorm rooms.

Matt Porter, a digital technology specialist at Best Buy Tulsa Hills, said crowds have been keeping pace with years past.

“This last weekend was very hectic,” he said. “They’re definitely here.”

And, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, they’ll be spending more. In their 2011 report on back-to-school shopping, the retail association predicted the average student will spend $189.51 on tech for this school year, up from $181.61 the year previous.

When they just considered college students, the estimated 2011 average increases to $202.43.

Because college students have traditionally leaned toward lighter, portable devices, tablet computers are increasingly becoming the gadget of choice.

Porter said some buyers find them easier to take to class than laptops.

“We’re seeing students pull out a stylus and use them to take notes,” he said.

Katie Pham, manager of the Target at 1701 S. Yale Ave., said Apple’s iPad is popular year-round, so students might have buying competition.

“As soon as we get them in, they sell out,” she said.

Porter said the Asus Transformer, which is an Android tablet that can be transformed into a netbook with a full-sized keyboard dock, is also generating intrigue among college buyers.

Students looking to go even smaller are turning to e-readers. Pham said there’s multiple devices like the iRiver line, but Amazon’s Kindle remains far and away the most popular option.

Computers often need accessories, and many students are looking to easily transfer their papers and presentations from device to device. Pham said Target’s best-selling accessory by far is an 8GB flash drive, which can be inserted into a variety of devices with a USB port.

Porter said he’s seeing more students looking into networked storage devices, which can wirelessly transmit files from one computer to another.

In fact, interoperability is now a must, he said.

“Everything has to be able to talk to each other,” Porter said.

The ability to stream video is also getting more popular now that more and more movies and TV shows are coming available online. The Apple TV device, for example, is being sought out for its ability to stream video directly to televisions.

And game consoles like the Xbox 360 can directly stream video from Netflix and Hulu as well as personal videos, Porter said. Of course, the games themselves are always nice distractions.

“This time of year is one of the boom times for game systems,” he said.

Televisions also get somewhat of a boost due to students looking to finish out their dorm rooms, Porter said. Once again, students tend to look for smaller, lighter models that are easier to carry around.

That’s the philosophy Tobi Coker and Uche Okonkwo, both students living on-campus at Oral Roberts University, were taking as they browsed Best Buy’s TV selection last week.

“We’re looking for something that’s 22-34 inches, since we don’t want anything too big,” Coker said.

Although the new school year was the encouragement for the two to pick up new equipment, Okonkwo said portability isn’t their only priority.

“We don’t want to spend too much, so we’re looking for a good deal,” she said.


What are college students typically shopping for?
Computers: Laptops once again far outpace desktops for portability, though tablets like the iPad are becoming an attractive option.
Storage: Flash drives can transfer data to and from a variety of devices, as do networked hard drives.

E-readers: Increasingly, students can put all their required reading on a Kindle, Nook or similar device instead of lugging a weighty backpack.

Game systems: These study-break machines now double as video streaming devices.

Original Print Headline: Back-to-school shopping goes
Robert Evatt 918-581-8447 
robert.evatt@tulsaworld.com 

Article source: http://n-hub.com/back-to-school-shopping-means-deciding-on-gadgets/
 


Tags
Related Posts

No Related Posts 

 

 

 

 


Favourite Posts


House Democrats slam Cantor on jobs: "Half a loaf is not enough"
September 14, 2011 | no comments
 


Opponents bash casino plan as insider deal
September 14, 2011 | no comments
 


US Poverty Rate, 1 in 6, Is at Highest Level in Years
September 14, 2011 | no comments
 


 
CategoriesAndroid
Apple
Gadgets
Microsoft
Mobile Technology
Tech
 
  Recent Posts 
House Democrats slam Cantor on jobs: "Half a loaf is not enough"
Opponents bash casino plan as insider deal
US Poverty Rate, 1 in 6, Is at Highest Level in Years
Kennedys Quiz: Match the Jackie O. Snub to Its Subject
Rick Perry in the spotlight as Texas sets to work on controversial execution

 
 

 


Return to top of page

Copyright © 2011 Tech60. All rights reserved.




