Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People Missing





Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    











  



Live VideoWatch FOX Chicago News






Yellow Pages
Tilted Kilt
Fresh Recipes
Live Doppler
Job Shop
Contests
One More Thing
RSS





Home
News




News
Metro




Drew Peterson
Rod
Rahm Emanuel





Airport Status
Business
Crime
Editorials
Education
Elections


Fox Chi Sunday
Illinois
International




Royal Wedding





Investigative
Live Guests
Live Video
Most Wanted
National


News Team
News Tips
OffBeat
One More Thing
Politics
SciTech
Special Report
Vault





Weather




Weather
Live Radar
Radar Images
Webcams
Severe Weather
Winter Weather
Tropical
Closings


Airport Status
Forecasts
Futurecast
Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Gulf Oil Spill





Traffic




Traffic
Traffic Cams
Airport Status





Sports




Sports
NFL




Bears





Sports Column
World Cup
MLB




Cubs
White Sox





NBA




Bulls





Chicago Sky
NHL




Blackhawks






Local
National





Money




Money
Coupons
Job Shop
Ask Experts
Recalls





Good Day




Good Day
Deal of the
Contests





Health




Health
Dr OZ





Entertainment




Entertainment
Movies
Music
Television
TMZ
Contests
Travel
Station Sched


American Idol
Glee
X Factor
Big Bang
Anderson
TV Guide
Swift Justice
Wendy Williams


The Office
Celebrity News





Video




Video
Flashbacks





About Us




About Us
Twitter
Public File
Contact Us
Personalities
Work for Us
Mobile Site
Green Living


Food Drive










Autos
Jobs
+

 
WhatWhereLocal listings from all over 80,000 websites.

Home : News : 













Video
Photo










 Bastro wildfire. (MyFox Houston) 



Firefighters continue fighting a wildfire in Bastrop, Texas. (MyFOX Houston)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2





















Local News: Latest Stories



Lewis Implies She Swore at Rahm EmanuelIt now appears there was foul language on both sides during a …



Gadhafi's Son Seeks Niger AsylumA son of Moammar Gadhafi and three of his generals were trying …

Woman Accused in South Side Ax MurdersPatricia Myles, who is being held in a mental institution for stabbing a woman with a …



New Evidence Cites More BP Oil ErrorsA BP scientist identified a previously unreported deposit of …



Daughter Runs - Naked - To Escape…A 21-year-old woman ran naked along U.S. 20 in Portage, Ind., …



Asian Markets Edge HigherAsian markets made a promising start Wednesday, with both Japan…



Mariotti Sentenced to 5 Years ProbationFormer ESPN commentator and Chicago Sun-Times columnist Jay …



Liverpool Striker: 9/11 Not TerroristsLiverpool striker Nathan Eccleston was under investigation by …



Motorcyclist: Heroes Lifted CarThe university math students heard the crash, saw the smoke and…



Study: Dads Have Lower TestosteroneResearchers at Northwestern University have found that men's …




More Stories »



Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People MissingUpdated: Sunday, 11 Sep 2011, 3:28 PM CDTPublished : Saturday, 10 Sep 2011, 3:23 PM CDT


(NewsCore) - Texas officials were planning to allow more residents back into neighborhoods damaged by the largest of the state's devastating wildfires Sunday after announcing the Bastrop County blaze was roughly 50 percent contained, The Austin American-Statesman reported. But authorities said a number of people remained unaccounted for after the Bastrop blaze, which consumed roughly 34,000 acres, destroyed 1,554 homes and killed at least two people, The Statesman reported. They stressed, however, that does not mean any of the missing are dead. "We have about 17 people we have not heard from," Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said during a news conference Sunday, according to the newspaper. "Some of these people may have [been] on vacation, or whatever." That number was later revised to 22, made up of 12 individuals and five couples. Pickering asked anyone reported missing to contact the sheriff's department, so authorities can "check them off the list," The Statesman reported. The number of homes presumed destroyed by the fire also increased to 1,554 from under 1,400, The Statesman reported Sunday, citing Bastrop County Emergency Management Corridor Mike Fisher. He noted that the number is expected to rise even further. County officials told the newspaper Saturday evening that the Bastrop fire is now 50 percent contained, up from 40 percent earlier in the day. Two people have been confirmed dead in the fire located east of Bastrop, which is roughly 30 miles (48km) southeast of Austin. The first was identified as 48-year-old Michael Troy Farr. The second victim was identified Saturday as 58-year-old Vickie Faye Keenan, The Statesman reported. Meanwhile, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday that firefighters are making progress battling a massive fire north of Houston, which is now about 65 percent contained. "If the winds don't get any stronger, then things will be great for us," fire service spokesman Ralph Collum told the Chronicle. The fire had burned through 18,468 acres as of Sunday morning, the newspaper said, which is down from an earlier estimate of 21,619 acres. One business and 59 homes have been destroyed in that blaze, the Chronicle reported. A woman and her 18-month-old daughter also died in the wildfires that have rampaged across the state in recent weeks. They were killed Sept. 4 when they were unable to escape their home between Gladewater and Liberty City, 43 miles (69km) northeast of Houston. President Barack Obama declared Texas a major disaster zone on Friday, ordering federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the affected areas.     Read more:  Austin-American Statesman   



Share this:   Twitter  Facebook  Myspace  Google  Buzz  Digg  Fark More   Send us news tips















   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus











   















Follow @foxchicago



















EmailThis


Print this story


View Story on a Single Page












Latest News



Lewis Implies She Swore at Rahm Emanuel


Gadhafi's Son Seeks Niger Asylum


Woman Accused in South Side Ax Murders


New Evidence Cites More BP Oil Errors


Daughter Runs - Naked - To Escape Father







More News »






Advertisement

  












Rod Blagojevich Coverage



Blago Sentencing Might Be Delayed


Former Blago Trial Witness Sentenced


Blago Sentencing Date Tentatively Set


Blagojevichs Go House-Hunting


Blagojevich Requests New Trial







More Stories »






Advertisement

  

  










Suggested Search






















  





Home
News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Money
Good Day
Health
Entertainment
Video
About Us


Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
TV RatingsMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.













