EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT    Hyderabad :  India
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Leosdesk            2 1      
Views: 721
       In a very grotesque and avoidable accident Ayazuddin second son of former India cricket captain and incumbent Member of Parliament of India, Mohammed Azharuddin died in the Apollo hospitals, Hyderabad, India. He was taken along with Ajmal nephew of Azhar, pillion rider injured to the Apollo hospitals in semi_concious state, later proclaimed dead. He was also grooming to be a good cricketer, and was lately selected to play in the IPL (Indian Premier League). This comes as a shock to all the cricketing, sporting and of all the Hyderabad and Indian people. How ever the news is being kept under wraps for reasons unknown, and that Ayazuddin is on ventilator support system. It is said according to police officials, asking anonymity eye witnesses that this was a fall out of racing on the outer ring road of, Hyderabad, which often witnesses such races particularly, late nights and the wee hours. Such accidents have claimed many a lives of prominent cine, sports, industrialist and political personalities, hither too. Azharuddin who is in New Delhi for the Lok Sabha sessions is yet to reach the hospital. May his soul rest in peace, condolences to the family, friends and sporting fraternity, hoping such incidences do not repeat and parents motivate and spend more quality time with their wards. And my personal solace to Azhar who played and studied along side of me, in and for the Osmania University.Hyderabad,India.        1 of 2        
tragic that Azhar's son Ayyaz grooming to be great cricketer had died young
    
Leosdesk is based in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India,
and is Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  India (37.3%) United States of America (26.2%) Saudi Arabia (6.3%) Poland (6.3%) 23 other countries (18.7%)           READ MORE: Ayazuddin, MP, Parliament, IPL, BCCI, Leo Augustine, hyderabad, india cricketer, Parliament of India, osmania university   More News From: Hyderabad :  India      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Of course this is a very tragic news.
            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
Wonderful report, thanks for sharing it. Rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     nazish7
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
A great blow to Azharuddin.Allah helps him to bear the pain.
            Reply  Posted By     prabirghose
|
14 minutes
ago
  
suggest verify your facts before writing such incorrect reports ... Azhar's son is injured and in hospital - Azharuddin’s son critical after bike mishap, friend dieshttp://www.indianexpress.com/news/azharuddins-son-critical-after-bike-mishap-friend-dies/844898/
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Breaking!!! Video: Former Indian Skipper Azharuddin's Son Died in ... By: madn3wz       
HYDERABAD, India
(Sept. 11) – Star batsman and former Indian cricket captain Mohammed
Azharuddin's son died in a motorbike accident in Hyderabad today (Sunday, Sept.
11) morning about 6:30 am.
 According to details; the 19-year-old Ayazzuddin was on his power
motorbike and having a race with his friend, named as Adnan, near ...  about 2 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Azharuddin's son hospitalised after a bike crash  
Time of India
 Former India skipper Mohammad Azharuddin's son Ayazuddin on Sunday was critically injured in a road mishap, according to Times Now. It has been repoted that Ayazuddin is in serious condition after he crashed his motorcycle as he was going at a high...    Mohammed Azharuddin's son critically injured in accident  
Zee News
 Former Indian cricket captain Mohammed Azharuddin's son Mohammed Ayazuddin was critically injured in a road accident here in Andhra Pradesh Sunday, police said. The accident took place on Outer Ring Road on the city outskirts when the upcoming...    PIX: Azhar's son injured in mishap; nephew dies  
Rediff
 F ormer Indian cricket captain Mohammad Azharuddin's son Ayazuddin and his cousin sustained serious injuries when the motorbike they were riding skidded near Outer Ring Road in Hyderabad on Sunday morning. Later Ayazuddin's cousin Ajmal, 16,...    Azharuddin's nephew dies, son critical  
NewKerala
 Ajmal-ur-Rahman, nephew of former Indian captain Mohammed Azharuddin, died Sunday after an accident here in which the cricketer's son Mohammed Ayazuddin was critically injured, police said. Rahman, 16, and Ayazuddin, 19, met with the accident on the...    Mohammed Azharuddin's son critical after bike accident  
Daily News & Analysis
 Ayazuddin, the youngest son of former Indian cricket captain and Congress MP Mohammad Azharuddin, sustained serious injuries while his companion died in a road accident on city outskirts here today. The mishap occurred around 9 am near Puppalguda...       Images    >         EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN ...    EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN ... Image Source: allvoices tragic that Azhar's son Ayyaz grooming to be great cricketer had died young ...      More Related Images    More From Hyderabad         botha leads to Rajasthan        Don't save tigers       Team India hae Tayaar WORLD CUP 2011 uthane ko       EARTH QUAKE AT AoB IN INDIA         Andhra Bank Recruitment 2011 Clerk        THREE NOTORIOUS GANGS FROM IRAN ENTERED INTO HYDERABAD CITY IN SOUTH INDIA         NEW CABINET OF ANDHRA PRADESH IN CHAOS - APPEARS LIKE A SINKING BOAT        Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) changes its Chief Minister, no change in Bangaluru (Karnatak) and Patna (Bihar)         DRUGS TRAFFICKING FROM AFRICA TO POLITICALLY DISTURBED STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH IN INDIA        NIZAM OF HYDERABAD        NEW ZEALAND STARTS OFF WELL AGAINST INDIA ON FIRST DAY OF TEST MATCH IN CRICKET,SHEWAG REPLYS ON SECOND DAY        Call to build temple and mosque together in Ayodhya         Hyderabad blast kills 18 people                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10303180          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 5       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 1       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10303180), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10303180 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10303180 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10303180-ex-india-cricket-captain-azharuddins-son-dies-in-road-accident.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        