Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By manilatop10            4 0      
Views: 451
       Laraine Santiago, via the Santa Ana Celebrity Examiner, reports that Clarice Relucio Pempengco will be performing at this solemn event that rekindles memories of Friday Night football in Texas, USA after the events of September 11, 2001. Here is an excerpt from that report: "the tribute games were designed to appropriately commemorate 9/11 on a national level and what it represents to Americans.” Loyalties to various national interests are important in a competive world that is yet to achieve global understanding diba? Charice is a well known celebrity who continues to push into the consciousness of many with her amazing vocal talents and approach to trying new things, such as her upcoming movie, Here Comes The Boom. You may find visiting Charice PempengcoCharice Pempengco's Profile Page here on Allvoices a good launching point to appreciate the talents of Charice. Here is the link: Charice. To your success, however you measure it :) Note: I will add a link to the Tribute Game below. There are two games. One sees Tthe New York FOOTBALL Giants visit the Washington Redskins, while the night game will see the New York Jets host the Dallas Cowboys. Update: catch on Saksi tonight via GMA.        1 of 2        
Effusive attitude of a star :)
     
manilatop10 is based in Bacolod, Western Visayas, Philippines,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (51.9%) Philippines (15.3%) Canada (5.9%) Bulgaria (2.8%) 22 other countries (21.4%)           READ MORE: Charice, Clarice Relucio Pempengco, 9/11, NFL, sports-news, celebrities, Philippines, USA, manilatop10, Charice Pempengco, giant, Dallas, Washington, Jets, Giants, Redskins, Cowboys, world, football, George W. Bush   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By     vauldine
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Wonderful way to remember the occasion! Rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Very nicely compiled report. Thanks for sharing. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Asim Mukhtar
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Very well sports information i appreciate your work.
            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Wonderful report, thanks for sharing it. Rated up!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    NFL 9/11 Tributes-How Will NFL Honor 10th Anniversary of 911? | NowPublic News Coverage  Submitted By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
  NFL 9/11 Tributes-How Will NFL Honor 10th Anniversary of 911? Share: How is the NFL Going To Honor the 10th Anniversary of 9/11. Here is What the League Has Planned Most of the world will be focusing on the 10th anniversary of 9/11 this Sunday. That ...    New York Jets vs Dallas Cowboys Live: Online TV Channels, Reports, Radio ...  
PRWeb
 vs Cowboys Live 2011 NFL Regular season kicks off this week in in East Rutherford, NJ . New York Jets vs Dallas Cowboys Live Streaming NFL Regular Season Coverage starts at Sunday, 1:00 PM EDT...September 10, 2011 Jets vs Cowboys Live 2011 NFL...    David Moulton: On this somber 9/11 anniversary, let football be my therapy  
The Naples Daily News
 I found myself watching some 9/11 stories from various national newscasts earlier this week...But I could feel the dormant emotions beginning to work their way to the surface...As this day approached all I could think was, I don't want to be sad on...       Images    >         Charice Pempengco    Charice Pempengco Image Source: allvoices Effusive attitude of a star :)        Charice Fashion    Charice Fashion Image Source: allvoices If I had a hat like that ;)      More Related Images    More From New York City          Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at U.S. Open Semifinals (Video)        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Aircraft suicide to kill enemies        Pack of drills preceded 9/11 attacks          Shock can not forget        World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        Miss Universe 2011 - The Bikini         Nadal sets up dream US Open final with Djokovic          Djokovic vs. Nadal in US Open Finals        Make A Fashion Statement With Designer Shoes        Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA        Mrs. Obama visits U.S. Open           Secrets of Michael Jackson tumble out                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302589      Related People              Charice Pempengco          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 3       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 2       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302589), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302589 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302589 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302589-sensational-charice-will-be-perfoming-at-an-nfl-911-tribute-game-philippines-usa.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         