Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy    El Paso :  TX :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Orakul            8 1      
Views: 515
       In a bizarre turn of events a tiger at the El Paso Zoo was killed by a jealous female tiger.  A three year old Malayan tiger Seri turned on her mate Wzui. The exhibit was closed immediately after the incident was reported around 4:00 p.m. Thursday. veterinary staff was called and they pronounced Wzui dead. In June zoo officials observed what they termed a "love triangle" between Seri 3, Wzui 6, and a 13 year old female named Meli whom they acquired in 2001. Seri and Wzui were on loan from other zoos in a breeding program through The American Zoo Associations Species Survival Plan. The tigers had been playing earlier in the day and observers saw nothing to indicate a tragedy in the making. Wzui liked both females but the females did not like each other. The staff said they acted jealous of each other. Another male is expected to be acquired to replace the much loved Wzui.        1 of 2        
A Malayan Tiger not Wzui
     
Orakul is based in Chickasha, Oklahoma, United States of America,
and is Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (58.0%) Canada (8.2%) Philippines (3.1%) United Kingdom (2.9%) 34 other countries (24.6%)           READ MORE: tigers, zoo, Veterinarians, love triangle, Jealousy, el paso, Wzui   More News From: El Paso :  TX :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     bob etier
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
Maybe they should consider getting TWO more males!
            Reply  Posted By     Orakul
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Or fixing the 13 yr old female.. I am not sure how old that would make her in our years but she has to be old.
            Reply  Posted By     nikmahadi
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Fantastic news,tiger too as well suffer from "jeolosy syndrome",rated up
            Reply  Posted By     TaufanTasch
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Love tragedy, touching, good report, best regard
            Reply  Posted By     Orakul
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
thanks for the comments and the rates. Much appreciated.
            Reply  Posted By     Bea_Shaylee_Sayers
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
As sad as it is, it's also kind of funny. Jealous females are all the same: humans, tigers... Thank for sharing - rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
16 minutes
ago
  
very sad,keep it next dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Texas zoo: Tiger's killing of mate surprising  
AP Online
 Texas (AP) — Texas zoo officials say the killing of a rare Malayan tiger by his mate caught the zoo completely by surprise and that there were no warning signs.
El Paso Zoo director Steve Marshal said Friday that 3-year-old Seri and 6-...       Images    >         Malayan Tiger    Malayan Tiger Image Source: allvoices A Malayan Tiger not Wzui        Regal Wzui    Regal Wzui Image Source: allvoices Beloved tiger at the El Paso Zoo      More Related Images    More From El Paso          Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Fired dwarf barista gets $75,000 from Starbucks in a disability discrimination lawsuit        Miss USA, Arrested For Stealing A T-Shirt       Experts Say College Students are at an Increased Risk of Identity Theft          Remodeler Software       RemodelerPro Software        Five signs you need help with your debt        James Toney vs. Ken Shamrock fight in September          Security of the border requires regulation       Groups Call for Investigation of Raid on Juarez Human Rights Organization        Krispy Kreme gives free doughnuts today; National Doughnut Day       Own Flare Ball Gown Organza for Spring Collection          Fear Trumps Bravery: Mexico Police Chief Flees Post                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10299719          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 4       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10299719), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10299719 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10299719 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10299719-tiger-death-caused-by-jealousy.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         