What Is Genetic Engineering | ZME Science


Home
About
Archives
Subscribe
Blog on ZME
Authors
Contact
Advertise



A A






ZME Science







Subscribe: Posts / Comments / Email







Environment

Climate

Environmental Issues

Green Living

Pollution

Renewable Energy

World Problems



Health & Medicine

Alternative Medicine

Anatomy

Diseases

Genetics

Mind & Brain



Other

Campagins

Feature Post

GeoPicture

Great Pics

Offbeat

Reviews

Science ABC

Shorties

Videos



Research

Discoveries

Inventions

Studies

Technology



Science

Agriculture

Anthropology

Archaeology

Astronomy

Biology

Chemistry

Domestic Science

Geology

Mathematics

Nanotechnology

Neurology

Oceanography

Physics

Psychology

Robotics



Space

Alien life

Astronomy

Astrophysics

Hubble

Observations



Tech

Uncategorized









 



        Royal Observatory gives out annual awards for astronomy photography – Jupiter wins top prize        


 



        Birth control pills affect memory, study finds        


 



        India – Pakistan border is so bright it can be seen from outer space (shorties)        


 



        Invisible planet discovered        


 



        Behind today’s cyborg technology – reality more closer to fiction than you think        









      What Is Genetic Engineering    


         - Tue, Sep 25, 2007 
              
Post filled in:
        Genetics, Science ABC 




Tweet

Share








Tweet


Email
Tweet


Email


So according to Wikipedia it involves the isolation, manipulation and reintroduction of DNA into cells or model organisms, usually to express a protein to reach desired effects. The aim is to introduce new characteristics or attributes physiologically or physically, such as making a crop resistant to a herbicide, introducing a novel trait, enhancing existing ones, or producing a new protein or enzyme. So basically it is a genetic trick to make plants or animals or even umans adapt to the needs we have. It is say a way of tricking mother nature.What happens in it is that there is a set of technologies which is being used for changing the genetic makeup of cells and moving the genes across species boundaries to produce novel organisms. It is a very hard task and it involves genetic material and other biologically important chemicals.
This could happen in nature. A brown dog is bred with a white dog and you may get a puppy who has a totally different colour. But the colour is limited and it resembles brown and white. For getting a purple puppy you have to breed toward one only if the necessary purple genes were available somewhere in a dog or at least a near relative to dogs. A scientist has no such problems. He can take the gene which makes purple from a sea urchin or just a purple flower and use it and he could insert it and achieve the needed colour. But purple puppies fun as they may be are not of any real use and so there are other uses for genetic engineering.
The uses are practically unlimited. You can cure illnesses and conditions which are very dangerous. Alzheimer’s disease, heart disease, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, AIDS, and arthritis are easier to treat with genetic engineering. Also the food problem in some countries has been solved or at least postponed thanlks to it. n fact, about 60 percent of our food has some sort of biotechnology in it; that is not necesarily good. By taking traits from one organism and putting it into a food it can last longer, taste better, and grow faster and larger. It can also be designed to be more immune to certain diseases. Many industrial branches are using bacteria to produce chemicals and also many other uses. But there are risk. The food could be altered or it could lack vitamins. When used careless it could do more damage than good with certain diseases. But hopefuly people are going to learn how to control this type of technology and use it to aid mankind.










Follow ZME Science
Subscribe to ZME Science
Become a Fan on Facebook
Subscribe for free via e-mail




Written by
        Mihai Andrei 


        Andrei is no scientist, but from an early age, he has been fascinated by science; that's why he went to college, and signed up for Geophysics. Feeling that there's a huge gap between science and average people, he rallied TP, started ZME Science, and gave it a green twist too.        



      Andrei      has published
      1136      posts on 
      ZME Science      .
Contact the author



Other articles from our friends:





Loading...













Nanotubes seen inside living animals »    









S. Chandler



This picture is very detailed, I should say.
Im doing a presentation on a DNA structure, and this helped alot.
THANKS!










Tags: DNA technology, gene splicing, genetic engineering, Genetics



Subscribe for FREE!


 







Drop us a line!



 Tip us on news, scientific reports and studies, scientific advances, science art, interesting phenomena or any kind of science related material. Just write to andrei@zmescience.com.
        











Popular Stories




    The 10 most amazing unexplained artifacts


    Meet the world’s only immortal animal


    8 totally awesome natural phenomena you probably didn’t know about


    9 reasons why there wasn’t stress in the good old days


    The Sky Burial


































Blogroll

Bad Astronomy
Clasic Detritus
Daily Green
Environmental Graffiti
Forensics information
How stuff works
KQED Quest
Science Punk




















Latest Tech News




     New iPhone 5 scoop: the device will indeed be a dual-mode CDMA/GSM phone


     Facebook for Every Phone aims to expand Facebook reach to the entire world


     HP plans 64 GB white TouchPad release for August


     Facebook planning video chat integration with Skype


     MSI unveils new WindPad Enjoy 10 and 7







Facebook



























© 2011 ZME Science - All Rights Reserved.
      

Home | Contact | Privacy Policy | Commenting Policy | Advertise | Subscribe | Jobs | Authors | Sitemap 
The Network: ZME Music | ZME Science | ZME Travel | ZME Tech | ZME Life Tips 
















