Scientists call for end of deep water fishing | ZME Science


Home
About
Archives
Subscribe
Blog on ZME
Authors
Contact
Advertise



A A






ZME Science







Subscribe: Posts / Comments / Email







Environment

Climate

Environmental Issues

Green Living

Pollution

Renewable Energy

World Problems



Health & Medicine

Alternative Medicine

Anatomy

Diseases

Genetics

Mind & Brain



Other

Campagins

Feature Post

GeoPicture

Great Pics

Offbeat

Reviews

Science ABC

Shorties

Videos



Research

Discoveries

Inventions

Studies

Technology



Science

Agriculture

Anthropology

Archaeology

Astronomy

Biology

Chemistry

Domestic Science

Geology

Mathematics

Nanotechnology

Neurology

Oceanography

Physics

Psychology

Robotics



Space

Alien life

Astronomy

Astrophysics

Hubble

Observations



Tech

Uncategorized









 



        Royal Observatory gives out annual awards for astronomy photography – Jupiter wins top prize        


 



        Birth control pills affect memory, study finds        


 



        India – Pakistan border is so bright it can be seen from outer space (shorties)        


 



        Invisible planet discovered        


 



        Behind today’s cyborg technology – reality more closer to fiction than you think        









      Scientists call for end of deep water fishing    


         - Thu, Sep 8, 2011 
              
Post filled in:
        Environmental Issues 




Tweet

Share








Tweet


Email
Tweet


EmailIn recent years, fishing is going out of control, and deep water fishing especially has to stop, because it depleted fish stocks that take longer to recover than other species. This is exactly the conclusion of a paper published by an international team of marine biologists, published in Marine Policy.

The article describes how fishing operations in recent decades have targeted the unregulated high seas after stocks near shore were overfished. Describing the ocean as “more akin to a watery desert”, researchers argue that fishing vessels always deplete the fish and destroy deep-sea corals before moving to a newer area.
Another troubling issue is that certain species have become increasingly demanded as specialties, only to be totally destroyed by overfishing.
Elliott Norse, president of the Marine Conservation Institute and the paper’s lead author claims the world doesn’t even come close to realize how much deep water stocks take to recover.
“We’re now fishing in the worst places to fish,” Norse said in an interview. “These things don’t come back.”
Bottom-trawling can crush deep-sea corals, which can live for as long as 4,000 years, but take incredibly long to recover. Researchers also compared the situation with the mainland, where forests were mindlessly cut down in an attempt to gain more agricultural fields. But as always, money talks.
“Some of these habitats will probably be changed by fishing. Some of those corals will be gone,” Ray Hilborn, a University of Washington professor of aquatic and fisheries science said. “From a conservation perspective, maybe we shouldn’t fish at all, and the ocean should be left pristine. Where is the food going to come from?”
Daniel Pauly, a marine biologist at the University of British Columbia also points out that the costs of deep water fishing greatly outweight the benefits.
“It’s a waste of resources, it’s a waste of biodiversity, it’s a waste of everything,” Pauly said. “In the end, there is nothing left.”
Again, as always, we can only hope that the scientific world can impact the industrial world.
Via Washington Post










Follow ZME Science
Subscribe to ZME Science
Become a Fan on Facebook
Subscribe for free via e-mail




Written by
        Mihai Andrei 


        Andrei is no scientist, but from an early age, he has been fascinated by science; that's why he went to college, and signed up for Geophysics. Feeling that there's a huge gap between science and average people, he rallied TP, started ZME Science, and gave it a green twist too.        



      Andrei      has published
      1136      posts on 
      ZME Science      .
Contact the author



Other articles from our friends:





Loading...











      « GeoPicture of the week: Amazing Gold Crystals 

Astronauts spot Texas wildfires from the ISS »    









    http://eveningsecret.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/evening-secret-blog-fishing-heavens-lodging-guide-alaska/                            Evening Secret Blog – Fishing Heaven’s Lodging Guide – Alaska « The Evening Secret Fishing Blog



[...] competed an extensive analysis of deep sea fishing, and published their findings in the …Scientists call for end of deep water fishingZME ScienceScientists call for end to deep-sea fishingWashington PostReport urges end to deep sea [...]










Tags: deep water corals, deep water fishing, trawler



Subscribe for FREE!


 







Drop us a line!



 Tip us on news, scientific reports and studies, scientific advances, science art, interesting phenomena or any kind of science related material. Just write to andrei@zmescience.com.
        











Popular Stories




    The 10 most amazing unexplained artifacts


    Meet the world’s only immortal animal


    8 totally awesome natural phenomena you probably didn’t know about


    9 reasons why there wasn’t stress in the good old days


    The Sky Burial


































Blogroll

Bad Astronomy
Clasic Detritus
Daily Green
Environmental Graffiti
Forensics information
How stuff works
KQED Quest
Science Punk




















Latest Tech News




     New iPhone 5 scoop: the device will indeed be a dual-mode CDMA/GSM phone


     Facebook for Every Phone aims to expand Facebook reach to the entire world


     HP plans 64 GB white TouchPad release for August


     Facebook planning video chat integration with Skype


     MSI unveils new WindPad Enjoy 10 and 7







Facebook



























© 2011 ZME Science - All Rights Reserved.
      

Home | Contact | Privacy Policy | Commenting Policy | Advertise | Subscribe | Jobs | Authors | Sitemap 
The Network: ZME Music | ZME Science | ZME Travel | ZME Tech | ZME Life Tips 
















