Meteorites pummeled our planet with gold | ZME Science


Home
About
Archives
Subscribe
Blog on ZME
Authors
Contact
Advertise



A A






ZME Science







Subscribe: Posts / Comments / Email







Environment

Climate

Environmental Issues

Green Living

Pollution

Renewable Energy

World Problems



Health & Medicine

Alternative Medicine

Anatomy

Diseases

Genetics

Mind & Brain



Other

Campagins

Feature Post

GeoPicture

Great Pics

Offbeat

Reviews

Science ABC

Shorties

Videos



Research

Discoveries

Inventions

Studies

Technology



Science

Agriculture

Anthropology

Archaeology

Astronomy

Biology

Chemistry

Domestic Science

Geology

Mathematics

Nanotechnology

Neurology

Oceanography

Physics

Psychology

Robotics



Space

Alien life

Astronomy

Astrophysics

Hubble

Observations



Tech

Uncategorized









 



        Royal Observatory gives out annual awards for astronomy photography – Jupiter wins top prize        


 



        Birth control pills affect memory, study finds        


 



        India – Pakistan border is so bright it can be seen from outer space (shorties)        


 



        Invisible planet discovered        


 



        Behind today’s cyborg technology – reality more closer to fiction than you think        









      Meteorites pummeled our planet with gold    


         - Thu, Sep 8, 2011 
              
Post filled in:
        Chemistry, Geology 




Tweet

Share








Tweet


Email
Tweet


EmailYour earrings, your wedding ring, the platinum in your computer of phone – all of them might be alien artefacts. So send them over for future study. According to a team led by Matthias Willbold of the University of Bristol, U.K., gold, platinum, and other precious metals were brought to Earth by a massive meteor shower.

What happens is that certain metals, such as the gold, platinum, nickel, tungsten and iridium are attracted to iron; iron is the main ingredient in Earth’s core, so when our planet was still a molten mass, these elements should have migrated to Earth’s center, thus leaving our planet stripped of almost all its precious metals. However, the crust is riddled with them – how can this be?
Geologists have long theoretized that Earth was bombarded with meteorites between 3.8 and 4 billion years ago, studding the early crust with our favorite shiny metals. These metals then became incorporated into the modern mantle over time. The idea seems to be backed up by the existance of craters on the Moon, which date back to the same time, suggesting that the satellite was hit too by this slew of meteorites. Now, even more research seems to back this theory up.
Matthias Willbold and his team sampled ancient rocks from southwest Greenland that formed some of the Earth’s earliest crust, earlier than the bombardment and compared them with newer rocks from other places, representing the modern mantle. They found distinct differences in concentrations of tungsten isotopes.
“This is a sort of a time capsule that gave us the possibility to calculate how much material had to be added to the Earth to satisfy the tungsten isotopic composition that we find in the Earth today,” Willbold said. “It is so far the best isotopic or geochemical evidence that late bombardment ever happened,” he added.
This is indeed a major leap forward, and was applauded by other scientists as well.
“Our ability to measure these (isotopes) precisely enough to see these differences is just opening a totally new window into early planet formation,” said Richard Carlson of the Carnegie Institution of Washington who has also studied early Earth using isotopes.
According to their calculations, about half percent of the material in the mantle was added by those meteorites.
“That sounds like not really much, but it’s about 300 billion billion tons of material,” Willbold said. “All the precious metals that we find today — and probably also water — have been introduced to the accessible Earth from these late stage meteorites”.

However, these events were without a doubt devastating for that time’s planet, possibly delaying life by hundreds of millions of years. However, another possibility is that it created the conditions necessary for life to appear.
Carlson explained the early bombardment of meteorites would have been “a terrible event for life. It probably would have melted the planet, blown off any existing atmosphere.”, but he also adds that
“It’s possible that this late veneer brought in the goodies afterward and it brought them in gently enough that they stuck around. I don’t know that it brought in life, but it brought in maybe the constituents of it: the water, the right kind of surface temperatures, and the atmosphere that is conducive to life.”
Via Discovery










Follow ZME Science
Subscribe to ZME Science
Become a Fan on Facebook
Subscribe for free via e-mail




Written by
        Mihai Andrei 


        Andrei is no scientist, but from an early age, he has been fascinated by science; that's why he went to college, and signed up for Geophysics. Feeling that there's a huge gap between science and average people, he rallied TP, started ZME Science, and gave it a green twist too.        



      Andrei      has published
      1136      posts on 
      ZME Science      .
Contact the author



Other articles from our friends:





Loading...











      « Astronauts spot Texas wildfires from the ISS 

Incredible picture of Saturn taken by the Cassini probe (shorties). »    













Tags: gold meteorites



Subscribe for FREE!


 







Drop us a line!



 Tip us on news, scientific reports and studies, scientific advances, science art, interesting phenomena or any kind of science related material. Just write to andrei@zmescience.com.
        











Popular Stories




    The 10 most amazing unexplained artifacts


    Meet the world’s only immortal animal


    8 totally awesome natural phenomena you probably didn’t know about


    9 reasons why there wasn’t stress in the good old days


    The Sky Burial


































Blogroll

Bad Astronomy
Clasic Detritus
Daily Green
Environmental Graffiti
Forensics information
How stuff works
KQED Quest
Science Punk




















Latest Tech News




     New iPhone 5 scoop: the device will indeed be a dual-mode CDMA/GSM phone


     Facebook for Every Phone aims to expand Facebook reach to the entire world


     HP plans 64 GB white TouchPad release for August


     Facebook planning video chat integration with Skype


     MSI unveils new WindPad Enjoy 10 and 7







Facebook



























© 2011 ZME Science - All Rights Reserved.
      

Home | Contact | Privacy Policy | Commenting Policy | Advertise | Subscribe | Jobs | Authors | Sitemap 
The Network: ZME Music | ZME Science | ZME Travel | ZME Tech | ZME Life Tips 
















