Bush: No regrets about Sept. 11 policies - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals






			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Bush: No regrets about Sept. 11 policies 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

U.S. News



Bush: No regrets about Sept. 11 policies

        		Published: Sept. 9, 2011 at 12:04 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Slideshow


1 of 3
 



				President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush attended a solem ceremony at the base of Ground Zero to mark the five year anniversary of the terrorist attacks, in New York on September 10, 2006. The president and first lady laid a wreath in a small ceremonial pool.  Also on hand was New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, New York Governor George Pataki, and former NYC mayor Rudy Giuliani. (UPI Photo/G. Fabiano/Pool)  






Advertisement

WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 (UPI) -- George W. Bush said he is confident objective historians will view his policies to protect the United States after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks as necessary.
With the 10th anniversary approaching, former President Bush said he has no regrets about his decisions, USA Today reported Friday.
Bush said the war with Iraq and the use of controversial interrogation techniques that some labeled as torture were needed to protect the country.
He also said it was his administration that began the work that led to the discovery and death of al-Qaida leader Osama Bin Laden in May.
"The work that was done by intelligence communities during my presidency was part of putting together the puzzle that enable us to see the full picture of how bin Laden was communicating and eventually where he was hiding," the former president said. "It began the day after 9/11."
On Saturday, Bush and former first lady Laura Bush will lay a wreath at the Pentagon and speak at the dedication of the Shanksville, Pa. memorial to Flight 93.
On Sunday, Bush will attend the Sept. 11 ceremony in New York. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


Hurricane Katia races toward U.K.
LONDON, Sept. 10 (UPI) -- 
			Hurricane Katia raced eastward across the northern Atlantic Ocean Saturday, heading for the British Isles, forecasters said.
		
Maria and Nate menace Caribbean
Herman Cain sings 9/11 tribute
All-clear given after scare at Dulles
Texas' Balstop fire 50 percent contained


Entertainment News


Sokurov's 'Faust' wins in Venice
VENICE, Italy, Sept. 11 (UPI) -- 
			Aleksander Sokurov's "Faust" won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival Saturday night.
		
Cliff Robertson dead at 88
UPI NewsTrack Entertainment News
Amy Winehouse's dad says she was clean
Princess Beatrice graduates college




Business News


Auto Outlook: Saab's demise sign of times

			Swedish Automobile N.V., the owner of Saab Automobile AB, asked a Swedish court to protect the automaker from its creditors last week as it awaits new Chinese investors.
		
Employers look askance at jobs bill
California strikes Internet tax compromise
AT&T counters Justice Dept. suit
Price tag for Zagat: $125 million


Local News

Now Bottling in the Potomac: Swill Mineral Water
Maine's Acadia National Park is awash in peak experiences
EaterWire: Global Cuisine At 2941; A Very Booze-Filled Week At EatBar
With speech, Obama seeks to invigorate economy, presidency
Obama Aide: No Middle Class Without Unions






 


UPI News Photos

Egyptians raid Israeli Embassy in Cairo



Obama unveils jobs plan



U.S. Open 2011



The tenth anniversary of 9/11



Republican debate at the Reagan Library



Tropical Storm Lee soaks New Orleans



Military plane crash in Chile





Most Popular



1.
EU countries propose military headquarters


2.
Woman arrested for stealing library books


3.
Bush: No regrets about Sept. 11 policies


4.
Amputee forced to prove disability


5.
Indian attack chopper expected by year end





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 15
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Firefighters leave St. Patrick's Cathedral with American flags in New York Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011, during a ceremony to honor New York firefighters who were killed ten years ago in the attacks on the World Trade Center.   UPI/Seth Wenig/POOL		













 





"We look at elephants as just big cows"

The Romero Institute's UK branch reports that shockingly, embarassing behavior at office parties...

Man fires gun at snake, shoots self after both recoil

Piglet born with human head and OMG KILL IT WITH FIRE (w/pics)

Shriek Shriek Shriek Shriek, ...Mother, what have you done?

Bet you can't stay sober for 30 days. Okay, how about 31 days?


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















