World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            9 0      
Views: 346
        The world's largest free-flying flag has been unfurled to hang from the south side of One World Trade Center, also known as Ground Zero, the site of the 9/11 attack of 2011 and already on display on 10 September 2011 in New York City.  The massive 60-by-90-foot American flag, which the New York and New Jersey Port Authority reassures is the largest of its kind in the world, normally flies at the George Washington Bridge and only on major holidays but it was brought in to mark the 9/11 10th Anniversary observances. Another flag like it is also currently flying at the George Washington Bridge location. Meanwhile, a 1,776-foot centerpiece tower is currently under construction to replace the older construction.   Oh, by the way, unsure how I should categorize this report, I put it under “business” as the construction of the new tower will for all intents and purposes be a new business venture…        1 of 1        
World's largest free-flying flag hangs from the south side of One World Trade Center on 10 September 2011 in New York.
    
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (68.2%) Portugal (6.0%) Canada (3.0%) Pakistan (2.5%) 20 other countries (17.4%)           READ MORE: worlds largest free-flying flag, Ground Zero flag, One World Trade Center flag, Washington, 10th anniversary, world trade, American, NBS, attack, flying flag, largest free, ground zero, New York   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 5            Reply  Posted By     vutrongphu20
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
very post thank you! rate up!!!
            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Wonderful report, thanks for sharing it. Rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     TajdarHaider
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well committed work done.. keep it up...rated up...
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
Thanks Amber ,today, The Palestinian people remember with the American people and to the terrorists we say- never again! Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Bush heads start of events to mark anniversary of 11-S By: abdelfattah      
 United States today began two days of commemorations of the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11 under tight security in Washington and New York, under the shadow of a new terrorist threat.Former U.S. President George W. Bush led the ceremony as a reminder first depositing a wreath at the wall of the Pentagon ...  about 19 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     9/11 Ground Zero Memorial revealed in pictures for 1st time  
Mail Online UK
 The 9/11 Memorial at Ground Zero revealed in pictures for the first time Last updated at 5:29 PM on 10th September 2011 These are the first pictures of the 9/11 Memorial at Ground Zero, a site which millions once associated with death, devastation...    10 YEARS ON FROM 9/11 / 9/11 memorials set to open 10 years after attacks  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 Ten years after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a public corporation managed by New York City and other organizations continues to work on a reconstruction project for Ground Zero, a 65,000-square-meter site for memorials and new buildings. As...    New York, Washington ramp up security on 9/11 eve  
MarketWatch
 U.S. officials increased security in New York City and Washington, D.C. and scoured travel databases and airline manifests following credible intelligence earlier this week of a potential plot to mark the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks with...    Musco flies flag that hung from truck in N.Y.C.  
Des Moines Register
 Written by Filed Under One of the first flags to be flown 10 years ago over the wreckage at ground zero in New York City was unfurled Friday night at a high school football game in Oskaloosa...Musco Lighting based in Oskaloosa employs about 1,200...    9/11 observances in all shapes and sizes  
MarketWatch
 Across the U.S. and throughout the world, observances will take on a wide array of shapes and sizes when it comes time Sunday to commemorate those who lost their lives in the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. Preventing another 9/11 attack John Bussey...    9/11 anniversary: lockdown as New York prepares to mark fateful day  
The Guardian
 New York prepares to mark fateful day Citizens heed mayor's advice to keep calm as terrorism alert brings grim reminders of 2001 A woman reads 9/11 victims' names printed on a flag at Battery Park in Manhattan before Sunday anniversary services to...   More Related Stories     Images    >         largest flag    largest flag Image Source: allvoices World's largest free-flying flag hangs from the south side of One World ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at U.S. Open Semifinals (Video)        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Aircraft suicide to kill enemies        Pack of drills preceded 9/11 attacks          Shock can not forget        World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        Miss Universe 2011 - The Bikini         Nadal sets up dream US Open final with Djokovic          Djokovic vs. Nadal in US Open Finals        Make A Fashion Statement With Designer Shoes        Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA        Mrs. Obama visits U.S. Open           Secrets of Michael Jackson tumble out                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10301681          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 3       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 1       Comments: 5    5       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10301681), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10301681 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10301681 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10301681-worlds-largest-freeflying-flag-at-911-ground-zero.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         