CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died!                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died!    Cupertino :  CA :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            6 0      
Views: 293
        It has come to light that the Apple CEO Steve JobsSteve Jobs has been reported by CBS as having died. Tabloids are reporting that recently a tweet on Twitter was made earlier today that announced that the former CEO had actually died!!!  The announcement was made by CBS’s web series called “What's Trending,” which is hosted by Shira Lazar. The erroneous Twitter posting unleashed a frenzy over the Internet when it declared: “Result for Reports say that Steve Jobs has passed away. Stay tuned for more updates.” The misleading item has since been pulled but the text can apparently still be viewed on their website since countless people retweeted the message!  CBS has also apologized and said: “Reports of Steve Job's death completely unconfirmed” to cover themselves for any repercussions the careless dissemination of information may lead to! Understandably so…        1 of 31        
CBS reports via Twitter that Steve Jobs has died!
     
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (56.4%) Portugal (6.6%) France (6.6%) Canada (6.1%) 18 other countries (19.9%)           READ MORE: Steve Jobs death rumor, CBS reports Steve Jobs died, CBS Twitter rumor on Steve Jobs, Steve Jobs   More News From: Cupertino :  CA :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
As Mark Twain would say "Reports of my death are greatly exaggerated."
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
Rated up to your well written report.
            Reply  Posted By     TajdarHaider
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well committed work done.. keep it up...rated up...
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
9 minutes
ago
  
very nice report,keep it next dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions           Will it be the same with Tim Cook - what will the new boss mean to ... By: zeedzee       
As new day down in Cupertino, California it will be novel for silicon valley and Apple
 
Soon after Apple came out with A corporate surprise as Apple's fiscal second-quarter profit jumped by 95% According financial reports by released by Apple 's despite the recession in full spin.   15 days ago     Would Steve Job’s resignation cripple Apple? By: vauldine      There has been so much speculation concerning the future of Apple now that Steve Job has made his exit. One wonders whether there will still be Apple. From rumors being circulated it would appear that Steve Job was Apple and Apple was Steve Job; inseparable twins. One lesson which must be learnt from this experience is that no one is indispensable ...  16 days ago      Apple CEO Steve resigns the job By: mohsin11       Steve  resigned from Apple company,Apple is the world's second biggest company,and he was the CEO of that company from last 14 years. .Now Tim will take the position of Steve.Tim is the right person to be our next CEO ,said Levinson  16 days ago     Imagining Apple Without Steve Jobs  By: sharinaz      
WHO is Steve Jobs?WHO will succeed him at Apple?
WHAT is Mr. Jobs known for?
WHERE did Mr. Jobs work between his stints at Apple?
WHEN did Mr. Jobs first leave Apple?
WHY doesn’t he believe in market research?
HOW does the article chara  16 days ago     Steve Jobs resigns as Apple CEO By: SurajShinde      Latest report from the Apple camp is that Steve Jobs has resigned
from his post as the Apple CEO. He will be replaced by Tim Cook who was
the Chief Operating Officer at Apple till now.
Steve
Jobs has resigned but isn’t quitting Apple. Board of Directors have
elected him to be the Chairman of the company and Tim Cook is on the
...  17 days ago     Steve Jobs resigns as CEO of Apple and proposes to become the ... By: Samantha86      
Steve Jobs has finally handed in his resignation as CEO of Apple, after years of struggle with his health issues.
The announcement of the resignation was made by Apple on Wednesday, and now the resignation letter of Steve Jobs is available on the internet for all to see. In his resignation letter, Steve Job states that he had made it clear ...  17 days ago     Steve Jobs Resigns as Apple's CEO (Plus Special Video) By: ken_nic2009      The man behind the iPhone and iPad, Apple's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Steve Jobs, resigned on Wednesday, August 24, 2011, and said he could no longer meet his duties and expectations as the company's CEO. It could be mainly because of his health condition.
Jobs co-founded Apple Computer in 1976 in his garage. He is also a co-founder of Pixar ...  17 days ago     Steve Jobs Resigns, Tim Cook Is New Apple CEO By: catchsusmi      Legend, inventor and visionary Steve Jobs resigned as chief executive of Apple Inc in a surprising move that ended an era which began 14-years back when he co-founded Apple in a garage. Tim Cook has replaced him as new CEO of Apple. Read more...
To read the complete story click on the below link:
http://www.spectralhues.com/2011/08/steve-jobs-...  17 days ago     Steve Jobs’ Resignation Letter From Apple CEO Post  By: catchsusmi      Apple co-founder Steve Jobs resigned on Wednesday as chief executive officer of technology giant Apple Inc. The Resignation letter: Read more...
To read the complete story click on the below link:
http://www.spectralhues.com/2011/08/steve-jobs-resignation-letter-from.html  17 days ago     Apple CEO Steve Jobs resigns  By: dewegy      The U.S. company Apple Computer announced the resignation "immediately" its CEO, Steve Jobs, on Wednesday.This is the current number two computer giant, Tim Cook, the board appointed to succeed him, thus following the recommendation of the founder of Apple.In accordance with his wishes, Steve Jobs now chair the board of directors.The company, ...  17 days ago     (BREAKING NEWS) Apple CEO Steve Jobs Resigns, COO Tim Cook Takes Over By: jinkinpark      
Apple’s Steve Jobs has resigned
his post as CEO. He has named Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook as the new CEO while
he takes the Chairman of the Board position.
This announcement was made by
Apple’s Board of Directors early today. Effective immediately, Cook will join
the Board. According to Chairman of Genentech ...  17 days ago     Steve Jobs resigns as CEO from Apple! By: AmberCornelio      
It has been reported earlier today that Steve Jobs, the
founder of Apple and the company’s CEO, has resigned and Apple's board of directors has
named COO Tim Cook as the company's new CEO and chairman of
the board as of 24 August 2011. 
Per BusinessWire, Steve Jobs submitted his resignation letter
today to Apple's board of ...  17 days ago     Breaking News: Apple's CEO Steve Jobs, Resigns. COO Tim Cook Takes ... By: susievee      Apple Chief  Executive Officer, Steve Jobs resigns and will be replaed by the company's  Chief Operating Officer, Tim Cook.
This announcement was made late Wednesday evening.
According to CNN, Jobs will step down as 'head honcho' but will stay on as Chairman. In his resignation letter, Jobs said he always maintained that if the day came ...  17 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Steve Jobs Dead Tweet Causes CBS News to Drop Source  
International Business Times
 IBTimes Today's Headline Most important and popular Headlines Sample Sponsorship Link Steve Jobs has not died, according to reports -- it was just the mistaken Tweet sent by What's Trending. Twitter news moves fast, however, and the tweet caused...    'Steve Jobs has passed away': CBS network makes embarrassing error ...  
Mail Online UK
 Steve Jobs speaks during a special event to unveil the new iPad 2 on March 2, nearly six months before he stepped down as Apple CEO Moments after the gaffe, an apology appeared. 'Reports of Steve Job's (sic) death completely unconfirmed,' it read.       Images    >         CBS says Steve Jobs has died    CBS says Steve Jobs has died Image Source: allvoices CBS reports via Twitter that Steve Jobs has died!        File photo of Apple Inc. CEO ...    File photo of Apple Inc. CEO ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs introducing the iPad 2 on stage ...        File photo of Apple Inc. CEO ...    File photo of Apple Inc. CEO ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs during an Apple event in San ...        File photo shows Apple Inc. ...    File photo shows Apple Inc. ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo shows Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs speaking about the iPad during a ...        Combination file photos of ...    Combination file photos of ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Combination file photos of Apple Inc CEO Steve Jobs        file photo of Apple Inc CEO ...    file photo of Apple Inc CEO ... Image Source: www.reuters.com file photo of Apple Inc CEO Steve Jobs at the Apple Worldwide Developers ...      More Related Images    More From Cupertino          The New MacBook Air by Apple        Latest picture of Steve Jobs after resignation        Will it be the same with Tim Cook - what will the new boss mean to apple -         Good bye Steve - job well done -yet he will be there for apple as chairman          (BREAKING NEWS) Apple CEO Steve Jobs Resigns, COO Tim Cook Takes Over        Steve Jobs resigns as CEO from Apple!         Apple plans a Apple plans a UFO shape headquarters - futuristic  new office space for Apple -         Apple can buy out United States and French if it wishes now           Apple has U.S. $ 76,200 million to spend        New MacBook Air expected to hit the shelves by June End, iPhone 5 launch pushed until Christmas       Apple to pay licence fees to Nokia        Apple has second thoughts, most publishers' free           Apple: Does This Spaceship Make My Glass Look Big?                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10301923      Related People              Steve Jobs          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 2       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 26       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10301923), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10301923 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10301923 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died!” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10301923-cbs-reports-that-steve-jobs-has-died.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         