Indian attack chopper expected by year end - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals






			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Business News			 / Security Industry			/ Indian attack chopper expected by year end 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

Security Industry



Indian attack chopper expected by year end

        		Published: Sept. 9, 2011 at 6:17 AM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Advertisement

NEW DELHI, Sept. 9 (UPI) -- The Indian army will induct the attack version of the indigenously built advanced light helicopter into the army aviation corps this year, a defense official said.
The Rudra light combat helicopter is a "heavily loaded" version of the advanced light helicopter Dhruv. The Rudra is armed with an array of guns and rocket pods as well as air-to-air and anti-tank missiles, a report by the Press Trust of India said, without naming any army official.
The PTI report gave no other details or dates.
The Rudra first flew in March 2010.
India's army has been waiting for the armed version since the utility helicopter Dhruv, built by Hindustan Aeronautics, entered service in 2002. Around 160 are believed to have been ordered by the army and navy from the company's assembly plant in Bangalore.
Even the unarmed utility version, which also is available for civilian use, was a long time coming.
The Dhruv project was announced in 1984 when Hindustan Aeronautics began designing the aircraft with assistance from the German aerospace company Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blohm.
MBB was formed as the result of several mergers in the late 1960s and which in 1989 was bought by Daimler-Benz Aerospace. MBB is now part of EADS.
The Dhruv first flew in 1992 and has been exported first to Ecuador in 2008 for $50 million and then to Nepal and Israel.
Hindustan Aeronautics won the Ecuadorian order amid strong competition from Elbit, Eurocopter and Kazan.
"HAL's offer of $50.7 million for seven helicopters was about 32 percent lower than the second lowest bid from Elbit," a June 2008 Indian Ministry of Defense statement said.
But exports have suffered because of an accident in October 2009. One of the seven sold to the Ecuadorian air force crashed during a military parade, leaving two crew injured.
The helicopter veered off course while flying in formation with two other helicopters over an air force base near Quito and hit the ground nose first, the PTI reported at the time.
The Ecuadorian air force grounded the other six Dhruv until an investigation was completed. The investigation concluded pilot error was to blame.
In April, four Indian army personnel were killed in a Dhruv helicopter crash in north Sikkim state, near the Chinese border.
The Dhruv helicopter carries up to 12 passenger and two pilots sitting side by side, with a maximum takeoff weight of 12,125 pounds. Maximum speed of 180 mph is from two Shakti turboshaft engines or two Turbomeca TM 333-2B2 turboshaft engines. The service ceiling is around 27,500 feet.
The Rudra version has the two pilots sitting one behind the other. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints


Next Story: ATK tests rocket motor
or see all Security Industry stories



Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional Security Industry Stories



Energy Resources


Iraq seeks to harness vast gas reserves 
BAGHDAD, Sept. 9 (UPI) -- 
			Iraq is moving toward harnessing its vast natural gas reserves to fuel its power stations and export the surplus.
		
Canadian producers set fracking guidelines
Where's the oil, House asks Obama
House leaders want answers from Solyndra
Internal TNK-BP probe uncovers fraud


Security Industry


UAVs 'could end Israel-Turkey rift' 
TEL AVIV, Israel, Sept. 9 (UPI) -- 
			Israeli commentators believe that Turkey's pressing need for unmanned aerial vehicles as its conflict with Kurdish separatists flares anew may help mend the deepening rift between the onetime strategic allies.
		
Allies order medium-caliber cannons
BAE unveiling helo 'brownout' solution
U.S. funds anti-toxin development
Lockheed touts satellite performance




Real Estate


Obama Refinancing Plan a Work in Progress

			President Obama surprised some people by including a promise to launch a modest new effort to help homeowners refinance.  Among them, apparently, is the federal official who will be responsible for implementing it....
		
Summer Prices Fail to Warm the Double Dip Chill
Go Figure:  Record Low Rates AND Record Low Mortgage Apps
Seasonal Buying Drives June Prices
Fannie Mae's Defaults Sink to 2 Year Low


Analysis: Economic Outlook


Pure moxie

			U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's swipe at gridlock became clearer with proposals by his boss that sounded almost Republican.
		
Waiting for a breeze
Common cents
Mr. Thrifty
What revenue won't do







 


Featured Galleries

The tenth anniversary of 9/11



New photos from WWII-era America



Libyan Rebels take control of Tripoli



Moammar Gadhafi's rise and fall



2011: The War in Afghanistan 





Most Popular



1.
EU countries propose military headquarters


2.
Woman arrested for stealing library books


3.
Bush: No regrets about Sept. 11 policies


4.
Amputee forced to prove disability


5.
Indian attack chopper expected by year end





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 15
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Firefighters leave St. Patrick's Cathedral with American flags in New York Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011, during a ceremony to honor New York firefighters who were killed ten years ago in the attacks on the World Trade Center.   UPI/Seth Wenig/POOL		













 





"We look at elephants as just big cows"

The Romero Institute's UK branch reports that shockingly, embarassing behavior at office parties...

Man fires gun at snake, shoots self after both recoil

Piglet born with human head and OMG KILL IT WITH FIRE (w/pics)

Shriek Shriek Shriek Shriek, ...Mother, what have you done?

Bet you can't stay sober for 30 days. Okay, how about 31 days?


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Motivational Speaker 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















