(Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane     Yaroslavl :  Russia
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By ahmed ibrahem ibrahem Buray            2 0      
Views: 281
         They came by the tens of thousands to mourn, from world leaders to ice hockey stars to ordinary Russians, with flowers and tears and aching hearts. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on Saturday joined a reported 100,000 mourners gathered at the hockey arena in Yaroslavl to pay their respects to the local team who perished in a plane crash this week. Mourners including Prime Minister Vladimir Putin poured into the team's arena in the western city of Yaroslavl to lay flowers near coffins containing remains of players and staff of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl team. "For the first time in my life, I had trouble entering an ice arena," Vyacheslav Fetisov, a former NHL standout who is chairman of the KHL, said at the ceremony. "It's an inexplicable tragedy." Many of them dressed in Lokomotiv Yaroslavl jerseys and scarves. Buses of several KHL clubs were to be seen on the parking lot, as many players and club officials came to attend the ceremony. Lokomotiv were leaving the local airport about 300 kilometres (185 miles) north of Moscow Wednesday when their Yak-42 plane failed to gain altitude after take-off and went down in a small river, killing 43 on board. Wednesday's crash of a chartered Yak-42 jet killed 43 people and was one of the sports world's worst aviation disasters. Of the 45 people on board, 36 were Lokomotiv players        1 of 55        
Heartbreak in Russia as thousands mourn victims
     
ahmed ibrahem ibrahem Buray is based in Cairo, Kairo, Egypt,
and is Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  Canada (44.9%) United States of America (37.4%) Portugal (5.6%) Vietnam (2.8%) 6 other countries (5.6%)           READ MORE: President Vladimir Putin, Yaroslavl, hockey, Russia, plane, Plan, killed, plane crash, crash, Lokomotiv   More News From: Yaroslavl :  Russia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 1            Reply  Posted By     lethibichlan
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
The tragedy is heartbreaking, I feel sorry for talent because they leave too soon.Thank you for sharing information. Rated up!
  
Commented on the Video:
Heartbreak in Russia as thousands mourn                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Putin honored the deceased hockey player  By: tahirbubak      
Top team Lokomotiv Yaroslavl lost almost all their players before the series opened in Russia, as an aircraft of the Jak-42 crashed near the town of Yaroslavl on Wednesday.
Saturday was the dead honored during a memorial ceremony on the hockey team's home stadium in Yaroslavl.
Present were, among other things, Putin, and moved Prime ...  about 15 hours ago     Ceremony held for Russian hockey team after deadly plane crash By: alibux4       Thousands gathered in the Russian city of Yaroslavl to say farewell to members of the Lokomotiv ice hockey team who were killed in a plane crash earlier this week. 
 
The ceremony on Saturday marked the official end of a three-day mourning period for the 43 dead, many of them players or staff from the top-level professional ice ...  about 16 hours ago     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit      (Check It Out! 20+ Photos!) YAROSLAVL, Russia- Thousands of mourners filled the city's hockey arena on Saturday, September 10, to give respect on the funeral service of the 43 people who were killed on a plane crash including the 36 players, coaches and staff of the three-time Russian world champion Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey ...  about 21 hours ago     Stefan Liv honored in ceremonies today By: alibux4      The queues coiled length in front of the coffins with the requisite portraits of the deceased players of Lokomotiv.
One of those who came to say goodbye to the players was the Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. There were also many relatives on the spot.
The former HV-player Teemu Laine, who would have played against his former teammate ...  1 day ago     List of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Players Dead in Plane Crash By: webrahul      A complete list of crash victims has not been released.
On 7 September 2011, A passenger plane
carrying members of one of Russia's top professional hockey team (Lokomotiv
team from Yaroslavl) crashed shortly after takeoff, killing all of the team's
roster (plus four players from the Loko MHL junior squad) and coaching staff except
for ...  2 days ago     Ice Hockey suffers "darkest day" By: kensai      
A plane crash on Wednesday has killed players of leading Russian Ice Hockey team Lokomotiv Yaroslavl.
That has led International Ice Hockey Federation president Rene Fasel to declare Wednesday "the darkest day in the history of our sport".
A plane carrying the team to their opening league game of the season in Belarus crashed shortly ...  3 days ago     Russian jet crashed kills 43, Among them hockey players By: dewegy      Russian jet plane type Yakovlev 42 (Yak-42) crashed Wednesday near the airport of Yaroslavl, 300 km northeast of Moscow. The accident killed 43 people according to a report always provisional. Among them the hockey team of that city. The plane crashed while it was climbing a mile from the airport Tounochna said on its website the ...  3 days ago     Swedish hockey star among those killed in plane crash  By: nabeela2001      
Accident occurred in the industrial city of Yaroslavl in central Russia. The plane, a Jaak-42, one of the most common aircraft types in Russia, to have crashed shortly after takeoff. Two will have survived the crash, but the condition of both is described as serious.
Auge witness has told the plane collapsed straight down just after ...  3 days ago     Plane carrying Russian Lokomotiv ice hockey team crashes, 43 killed By: hkbadal      A chartered plane carrying Russia's ice hockey team Lokomotiv has crashed after taking-off near the central city of Yaroslavl, killing 43 people.
Russian emergency officials said there were some international players in the team including several players of National Hockey League veterans.
Seriously injured two people, Russian player Alexander ...  3 days ago     List Of Casualties From The Russian Plane Crash By: footfalls      A devastating plane crash near Varoslavl, Central Russia has killed at least 43 people. The majority of the dead were from the Kontinental Hockey League club called Lokomotiv.
All of Lokomotiv's main team and an additional 4 players from the youth team were on board. In an interview with the New York Times, Vladimir N. Malkov, Lokomotiv's ...  3 days ago     (In Pictures) Russian Plane with Hockey Team on Board Crashes, 43 ... By: marvendumaguit      (Check It Out! Photos!) MOSCOW, Russia- Here are aftermath images of a Russian Yak-42 jet plane which reportedly crashed into a river bank in northeast of Moscow while carrying Lokomotiv ice hockey team on Wednesday, September 7, 2011.
According to reports, 45 people are on board including 37 passengers and eight crews, 43 ...  3 days ago     Russia, plane crashes after takeoff, 36 dead  By: mus1423      
 A Russian airliner Yak-42 crashed on takeoff at Yaroslav, killing 36 people. The Interfax news agency writes.
It 'still alive in one of the 37 passengers and aircrew personnel.
Yaroslav is about 300 kilometers northeast of Moscow. Among the victims, there would be the entire hockey team Lokomotiv Iaroslav, said sources.
  3 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Tens of thousands mourn Russian crash victims  
Taiwan News
 Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has joined tens of thousands of people attending a memorial ceremony for the victims of the Russia n plane crash that devastated a top ice hockey team. Mourners poured into Yaroslavl's main sports arena to lay flowers...    Tens of thousands attend memorial ceremony for victims of Russian plane ...  
Macleans
 With flowers and tears, tens of thousands of people flocked to a memorial ceremony Saturday for the victims of the Russian plane crash that devastated a top ice hockey team. Mourners including Prime Minister Vladimir Putin poured into the team's...    Putin, thousands mourn plane crash victims  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 EDT About 35,000 people gathered for a memorial ceremony at Yaroslavl arena on Saturday to mourn the losses suffered by Lokomotiv . Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin was among the people who came to pay their tributes to the victims of that...    Thousands mourn crashed Russian hockey team  
Leader Post Online
 Russia A mournful crowd filled the hockey arena in the Russian city of Yaroslavl Saturday to pay their last respects to the local team who perished in a plane crash that killed 43 people this week. Three-time Russian champions Lokomotiv were leaving...    Lokomotiv to miss KHL season  
Russia Today
 The Russian Emergencies Minsitry has published a list of passengers and crew on board the Yak-42 that crashed outside of Yaroslavl, killing at least 43 people. Two people have survived and remain in critical condition at a local hospital. As...    Ice-hockey plane crash victims buried  
United Press International
 The bodies of 14 ice hockey players who died in a plane crash were buried Saturday in Yaroslavl, Russia. The 14 Lokomotiv Yaroslavl players, along with 29 others, died when the team's chartered jet crashed Wednesday traveling from Yaroslavl to Minsk,...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Heartbreak in Russia as ...    Heartbreak in Russia as ... Image Source: allvoices Heartbreak in Russia as thousands mourn victims        Thousands mourn Russian hockey ...    Thousands mourn Russian hockey ... Image Source: allvoices Thousands mourn Russian hockey team crash victims        Russia mourned the loss of 43 ...    Russia mourned the loss of 43 ... Image Source: www.afp.com Russia mourned the loss of 43 people when a private plane carrying a hockey ...        Forty-three people were killed ...    Forty-three people were killed ... Image Source: www.afp.com Forty-three people were killed when a plane carrying a Russian ice hockey ...        People pay their last respects ...    People pay their last respects ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People pay their last respects to Ruslan Salei, one of the players of ice ...        Russian Prime Minister ...    Russian Prime Minister ... Image Source: www.afp.com Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin lays flowers during the ceremony in ...      More Related Images    More From Yaroslavl          (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane         Russia Bids Farewell to Hockey Players Killed in Crash        President criticizes Russia's aviation safety         It is really difficult right now          Medvedev wants a specific investigation on the plane crash        Russia plane crash 44 dead       Russian President proposes to reduce the number of airlines following fatal accident        The use of poor quality fuel could be the cause of plane crash in Russia           Recover the bodies of 36 players of Lokomotiv (Images)        List of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Players Dead in Plane Crash        Few notes about Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, team will be rebuilt in time to take part in this year's KHL season        Russian plain crash : Medvedev calls for a "thorough investigation" after the crash of Yaroslavl               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302093          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 9       Images: 27       Comments: 1    1       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302093), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302093 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302093 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “(Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302093-photos-video-100000-attend-memorial-for-russian-hockey-players-killed-in-plane.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        