Astronauts spot Texas wildfires from the ISS | ZME Science


Home
About
Archives
Subscribe
Blog on ZME
Authors
Contact
Advertise



A A






ZME Science







Subscribe: Posts / Comments / Email







Environment

Climate

Environmental Issues

Green Living

Pollution

Renewable Energy

World Problems



Health & Medicine

Alternative Medicine

Anatomy

Diseases

Genetics

Mind & Brain



Other

Campagins

Feature Post

GeoPicture

Great Pics

Offbeat

Reviews

Science ABC

Shorties

Videos



Research

Discoveries

Inventions

Studies

Technology



Science

Agriculture

Anthropology

Archaeology

Astronomy

Biology

Chemistry

Domestic Science

Geology

Mathematics

Nanotechnology

Neurology

Oceanography

Physics

Psychology

Robotics



Space

Alien life

Astronomy

Astrophysics

Hubble

Observations



Tech

Uncategorized









 



        Royal Observatory gives out annual awards for astronomy photography – Jupiter wins top prize        


 



        Birth control pills affect memory, study finds        


 



        India – Pakistan border is so bright it can be seen from outer space (shorties)        


 



        Invisible planet discovered        


 



        Behind today’s cyborg technology – reality more closer to fiction than you think        









      Astronauts spot Texas wildfires from the ISS    


         - Thu, Sep 8, 2011 
              
Post filled in:
        Observations 




Tweet

Share








Tweet


Email
Tweet


EmailAfter hurricane Irene, the wildfires ravaging through texas are also visible for astronauts on the International Space Station, as these new pictures sent by them reveal.

It was especially sad for NASA astronaut Mike Fossum, because Bastrop State Park, one of the damaged areas, is a favorite spot of his. He specifically asked to be updated with the situation of the fires which have raged over thousands of acres in Central Texas during the past week. The fires are thought to have been spurred by winds from Tropical Storm Lee, and then spread like… well, like wildfire.
“Did you guys confirm that the state park Bastrop is one of the directly affected areas with the fire in that region?” Fossum asked from space on Tuesday.
Yes Mike, unfortunately that’s true,” capcom Jay Marschke replied from Houston. “The news agencies are reporting up to two-thirds of the park has been burned and hundreds of homes in the area have been destroyed.”
Fossum, who is an avid outdoorer, was absolutely stunned to hear this, but did not forget to send out his best wishes.
“Oh, wow,” he said. “Wow, that’s rough news. Thanks. We’re really thinking about all those folks through there.”
Garan and Fossum are currently living on the International Space Station along with one Japanese astronaut and three Russian cosmonauts, but the situation on the ISS is still unstable, so it remains to be seen if it will be abandoned for a few months or not.










Follow ZME Science
Subscribe to ZME Science
Become a Fan on Facebook
Subscribe for free via e-mail




Written by
        Mihai Andrei 


        Andrei is no scientist, but from an early age, he has been fascinated by science; that's why he went to college, and signed up for Geophysics. Feeling that there's a huge gap between science and average people, he rallied TP, started ZME Science, and gave it a green twist too.        



      Andrei      has published
      1136      posts on 
      ZME Science      .
Contact the author



Other articles from our friends:





Loading...











      « Scientists call for end of deep water fishing 

Meteorites pummeled our planet with gold »    













Tags: International Space Station, iss, texas wildfire



Subscribe for FREE!


 







Drop us a line!



 Tip us on news, scientific reports and studies, scientific advances, science art, interesting phenomena or any kind of science related material. Just write to andrei@zmescience.com.
        











Popular Stories




    The 10 most amazing unexplained artifacts


    Meet the world’s only immortal animal


    8 totally awesome natural phenomena you probably didn’t know about


    9 reasons why there wasn’t stress in the good old days


    The Sky Burial


































Blogroll

Bad Astronomy
Clasic Detritus
Daily Green
Environmental Graffiti
Forensics information
How stuff works
KQED Quest
Science Punk




















Latest Tech News




     New iPhone 5 scoop: the device will indeed be a dual-mode CDMA/GSM phone


     Facebook for Every Phone aims to expand Facebook reach to the entire world


     HP plans 64 GB white TouchPad release for August


     Facebook planning video chat integration with Skype


     MSI unveils new WindPad Enjoy 10 and 7







Facebook



























© 2011 ZME Science - All Rights Reserved.
      

Home | Contact | Privacy Policy | Commenting Policy | Advertise | Subscribe | Jobs | Authors | Sitemap 
The Network: ZME Music | ZME Science | ZME Travel | ZME Tech | ZME Life Tips 
















