(In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral Service in Russia                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral Service in Russia    Yaroslavl :  Russia
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By marvendumaguit            1 1      
Views: 1,551
       (Check It Out! 20+ Photos!) YAROSLAVL, Russia- Thousands of mourners filled the city's hockey arena on Saturday, September 10, to give respect on the funeral service of the 43 people who were killed on a plane crash including the 36 players, coaches and staff of the three-time Russian world champion Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team.  Fans and relatives including Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin were among who attended the funeral service. Wednesday, September 10, Lokomotiv ice hockey team are on board via Russian Yak-42 jet plane when it fails to produce altitude after take-off and went to crash down into the banks of the Volga River near the city's airport. Images courtesy of AP & Reuters. See Pics!!!        1 of 52        
Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia
     
marvendumaguit is based in Manila, National Capital Region, Philippines,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (60.3%) Canada (26.4%) United Kingdom (5.4%) Latvia (1.9%) 19 other countries (4.5%)           READ MORE: hockey, Lokomotiv, hockey team, crash, Ice hockey team, plane, ice hockey, plane crash, Russia   More News From: Yaroslavl :  Russia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 1            Reply  Posted By     nazish7
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Sush a devastating tragedy.My deep sypmathies to the families and the country.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Ceremony held for Russian hockey team after deadly plane crash By: alibux4       Thousands gathered in the Russian city of Yaroslavl to say farewell to members of the Lokomotiv ice hockey team who were killed in a plane crash earlier this week. 
 
The ceremony on Saturday marked the official end of a three-day mourning period for the 43 dead, many of them players or staff from the top-level professional ice ...  about 16 hours ago     Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews       
Dynamo Minsk’s hockey supposed to play against Lokomotiv Yaroslavl yesterday opener at Minsk hockey stadium but a heartbreaking memorial service greeted the eyes of the hockey fans. [via Puck Daddy]
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl vs Dynamo Minsk tickets were sold out long before the event but still the m  1 day ago     Man U reach out to Russia after plane crash kills 36 top ice hockey ... By: aniskhan26      Manchester United have written to Russian ice hockey club Lokomotiv
Yaroslavl to offer support and sympathy in the wake of the plane crash
that killed 36 people connected with the team and seven crew.Old
Trafford chief executive David Gill acted after hearing of a tragedy
that bears unsettling similarities to the Munich air disaster, which ...  1 day ago     VIDEO: Dynamo Minsk's heartbreaking tribute to Lokomotiv Yaroslavl By: madn3wz       
MINSK, Belarus – Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) season’s opening was postponed due to the gloomy incident in which 37 members of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl died in Wednesday's plane crash while on their way to Minsk to open the KHL season.
When the Russian Yak-42 jet aircraft   1 day ago     Hockey World Mourns Russia Crash By: khattar      It was a very very sad day for the Hockey world as well as for all sports lovers all over the world. In a split second one of the finest ice hockey team Lokomotiv Yaroslavl was completely gone from this world in a plane crash in Russia.
One could not have agreed more with the President of the World Ice Hockey, Rene Fasel when he said that&...  3 days ago     Russian plane crash kills nine former NHL players, most of Russian KLH ... By: GeorgeMcGinn      YAROSLAVL, Russia (Sept. 7, 2011) — A chartered plane carrying the Lokomotiv hockey team's main roster crashed after takeoff from the Yarolslavl airport in Russia, killing 44 and injuring two. Nine of the 44 had ties to the National Hockey League.
The Yak-42 crashed immediately after takeoff from the Yaroslavl airport, 150 miles from Moscow. ...  3 days ago     Plane carrying Russian Lokomotiv ice hockey team crashes, 43 killed By: hkbadal      A chartered plane carrying Russia's ice hockey team Lokomotiv has crashed after taking-off near the central city of Yaroslavl, killing 43 people.
Russian emergency officials said there were some international players in the team including several players of National Hockey League veterans.
Seriously injured two people, Russian player Alexander ...  3 days ago     The number rises to 43 dead in plane crash in Russia By: abdelfattah       A commercial plane carrying a team of ice hockey in Russia fell on Wednesday, killing 43 people. Witnesses said the plane caught fire shortly after takeoff from an airport in Yaroslavl, about 250 kilometers north of Moscow. Local researchers found the plane wreckage in the river Volga. The flight carrying members of the local hockey team ...  3 days ago     Russian hockey players 36 die in plane crash By: kingston23      Most players leading ice hockey teams in Russia were killed in a plane crash in northeastern Moscow. The chartered plane crashed in a river shortly after takeoff into the Belarusian capital, Minsk, where the team Lokomotiv Yaroslavl going to play a game on Thursday. A total of 43 people died. Only one athlete and one of the crewmembers survived, ...  3 days ago     Ice hockey team dies after Russian plane crash By: karasiwo      A Russian airliner full of ice hockey players crashed near the capital, Moscow, killing at least 44 dead.On Wednesday, a Russian plane crashed containing passengers athletes, who practiced the sport of ice hockey and belonged to the club Lokomotiv Yaroslavl.Indeed, the plane took off from the airport of the city where the computer belongs, ...  3 days ago     43 people Killed Of Plane Crash In Russia By: jamespabalan      Plane Crashed in Russia, 43 people killed including the Lokomotiv ice hockey team from Yaroslavl. The team has a schedule Thursday game against Dinamo Minsk in the opening game of the season of the Kontinental Hockey League. Only one wounded passenger survived.
The plane crashed after taking off an airport, because of this accident ...  3 days ago     Russia, plane crashes after takeoff, 36 dead  By: mus1423      
 A Russian airliner Yak-42 crashed on takeoff at Yaroslav, killing 36 people. The Interfax news agency writes.
It 'still alive in one of the 37 passengers and aircrew personnel.
Yaroslav is about 300 kilometers northeast of Moscow. Among the victims, there would be the entire hockey team Lokomotiv Iaroslav, said sources.
  3 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Tens of thousands mourn Russian crash victims  
Taiwan News
 Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has joined tens of thousands of people attending a memorial ceremony for the victims of the Russia n plane crash that devastated a top ice hockey team. Mourners poured into Yaroslavl's main sports arena to lay flowers...    Tens of thousands attend memorial ceremony for victims of Russian plane ...  
Macleans
 With flowers and tears, tens of thousands of people flocked to a memorial ceremony Saturday for the victims of the Russian plane crash that devastated a top ice hockey team. Mourners including Prime Minister Vladimir Putin poured into the team's...    Thousands mourn crashed Russian hockey team  
Leader Post Online
 Russia A mournful crowd filled the hockey arena in the Russian city of Yaroslavl Saturday to pay their last respects to the local team who perished in a plane crash that killed 43 people this week. Three-time Russian champions Lokomotiv were leaving...    Russians pay last respects to ice hockey players  
Russia Today
 The Russian Emergencies Minsitry has published a list of passengers and crew on board the Yak-42 that crashed outside of Yaroslavl, killing at least 43 people. Two people have survived and remain in critical condition at a local hospital...A Yakovlev...    Russia: Crash jet's engines 'were all working'  
The Scotsman
 The crash on Wednesday killed 43 people, mostly members of a top Russian ice hockey team.    Medvedev orders airline shutdown after crash  
The Times of India-Europe-World
 Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on Sunday ordered his government Sunday to shut down unreliable airlines after 43 people were killed in a chartered plane crash that wiped out a top hockey team. The decision came as the nation mourned the latest in...   More Related Stories     Images    >         1    1 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia        2    2 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia        3    3 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia        4    4 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia        5    5 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia        6    6 Image Source: allvoices Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey team's Funeral Service in Russia      More Related Images    More From Yaroslavl          (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane         Russia Bids Farewell to Hockey Players Killed in Crash        President criticizes Russia's aviation safety         It is really difficult right now          Medvedev wants a specific investigation on the plane crash        Russia plane crash 44 dead       Russian President proposes to reduce the number of airlines following fatal accident        The use of poor quality fuel could be the cause of plane crash in Russia           Recover the bodies of 36 players of Lokomotiv (Images)        List of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Players Dead in Plane Crash        Few notes about Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, team will be rebuilt in time to take part in this year's KHL season        Russian plain crash : Medvedev calls for a "thorough investigation" after the crash of Yaroslavl               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10298922          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 16       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 52       Comments: 1    1       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10298922), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10298922 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10298922 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “(In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral Service in Russia” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10298922-in-pictures-thousands-gathered-at-lokomotiv-hockey-teams-funeral-service-in-russia.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         