Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy            8 0      
Views: 354
       Cliff Robertson, an actor writer, director and producer whose career spanned the mid 50's to 70's blacklisted until the 80's and returned in 2002, died Saturday just a day after his 88th birthday. He died of natural causes according to his family. Robertson had quite a political background as a movie actor as he played a future President, John F. Kennedy and a presidential candidate at different times in his career. His role was especially significant as President Kennedy actually hand-picked Robertson for the part.  Robertson, won an Oscar for his portrayal of a mentally disabled man in "Charly." Everyone's life is full of ups and downs and Robertson was no exception as in 1977 he discovered his name had been forged on a check that wasn't his and refused to keep quiet about it. His boldness blacklisted him from Hollywood because the check forger was the studio head of Columbia, David Begelman, according to the Los Angeles Times. From 2002 to 2007, Robertson played the kind old Uncle Ben in Spiderman which he said caused him to have a whole new crop of fans.        1 of 2        
Feb. 29, 2004 file photo, actor, writer, director and producer Cliff Robertson at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' official New York Oscar Night celebration of the 76th Academy Awards in New York.(AP Photo/Tina Fineberg, File)1975 photo provided by ABC-TV, Cliff Robertson plays a mentally retarded man who falls in love with his teacher in ''Charly.''
    
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (66.7%) Canada (7.5%) Netherlands (4.5%) France (3.4%) 19 other countries (15.0%)           READ MORE: Cliff Robertson, cliff robertson dies, robertson played Kennedy   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     Surya Gaire
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
I found your article interesting to read, you are rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     ANILKUMAR RANA
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
My dear friend, Please, watch my attached image of Actor.Please, try to send me comment, regarding my posted news, image and video.Have a good day.Thank you.Yours sincerely.
  
Commented on the Image:
Actor.                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Cliff Robertson Dies By: Sherrill_Fulghum      
Award winning actor Cliff Robertson died Saturday afternoon
– September 10, 2011 – from natural causes in Stony Brook, New York at the age
of 88 only one day after his birthday.
 
He was born Clifford Parker Robertson III in Los Angeles on
September 9, 1923 to a ranching family. 
When the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor ...  about 9 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Film actor Cliff Robertson dies  
BBC
 US film actor Cliff Robertson dies aged 88 Cliff Robertson died one day after his 88th birthday, his secretary said Hollywood actor Cliff Robertson has died at the age of 88. He played a young John F Kennedy in the biographical 1963 film PT-109 and...    Oscar winner Cliff Robertson dies in NY at 88  
AP Online
 Cliff Robertson, the handsome movie actor who played John F. Kennedy in "PT-109," won an Oscar for "Charly" and was famously victimized in a 1977 Hollywood forgery scandal, has died. He was 88.
His secretary of 53 years, Evelyn Christel,...    Cliff Robertson dies; Oscar winner for 'Charly,' Uncle Ben in 'Spider-Man'  
The Dish Rag
 Oscar and Emmy winner Cliff Robertson , whose career as an actor spanned more than half a century and included roles as a young John F...Robertson died Saturday (Sept. 10), one day after his 88th birthday, at Stony Brook Medical Center in New York,...    5. Oscar-winning actor Cliff Robertson dies  
The Star
 Veteran actor Cliff Robertson, who won an Academy Award for his portrayal of a mentally disabled janitor in the movie "Charly," died Saturday, according to news reports. Robertson, who was 88, died at Stony Brook University Medical Center in New York...    Spider-Man's 'Uncle Ben' dies  
Wellington Dominion
 Kennedy in PT-109, won an Oscar for Charly and was famously victimised in a 1977 Hollywood forgery scandal, died Saturday (today, NZ time)...His secretary of 53 years, Evelyn Christel, said he died in Stony Brook of natural causes a day after his...    Cliff Robertson dead at 88  
United Press International
 Dashing leading man Cliff Robertson , who won an Oscar for "Charly," died Saturday on New York's Long Island at age 88, a family member said. Donald Saunders told The New York Times his father-in-law, who lived in Water Mill, N.Y., died at Stony...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Cliff Robertson 1    Cliff Robertson 1 Image Source: allvoices Feb. 29, 2004 file photo, actor, writer, director and producer Cliff ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at U.S. Open Semifinals (Video)        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Aircraft suicide to kill enemies        Pack of drills preceded 9/11 attacks          Shock can not forget        World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        Miss Universe 2011 - The Bikini         Nadal sets up dream US Open final with Djokovic          Djokovic vs. Nadal in US Open Finals        Make A Fashion Statement With Designer Shoes        Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game Philippines USA        Mrs. Obama visits U.S. Open           Secrets of Michael Jackson tumble out                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10301951          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 12       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 3       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10301951), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10301951 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10301951 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10301951-cliff-robertson-dies-at-88-with-a-whole-new-crop-of-fans.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        