US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony    Wellington :  New Zealand
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy            4 0      
Views: 262
       New Zealand hosted an emotional 10th anniversary of Sept. 11 ceremony where the US Eagles rugby team attended a church service just a few hours before the World Cup match against Ireland.  Sounding much like an outburst from a game, Saint Andrew's Presbyterian church, filled with fans dressed in the team's colors, gave the Eagles a standing ovation and broke into applause as they entered the religious facility.  Marching in formation, the US Marine Corps band moved the attendees when they performed The Star Spangled Banner and joined with local firefighters to escort the US and New Zealand flags into the church. People across the world are hosting 9/11 commemorations while world leaders invite clergy to pray, communicate sorrow of the past and hope for the future. But there will be no mention of God, prayer or church in New York during the ceremony held for the United States as Mayor Michael Bloomberg refuses to have any religious leaders participate in the 9/11 commemoration as he "doesn't want to cram religion down anyone's throat" while petitioners and former Mayor Guiliani tried to sway his decision.  Author's Note:  Bloomberg's determination to disallow clergy to pray or speak hope for the US ceremony is quite opposite of the behavior exhibited directly after September 11, 2001, as I had never before witnessed our country come together as one nation, under God, mourning for the loss of our brothers and sisters in such a powerful way.        1 of 7        
United States 10th remembrance ceremony will be without prayer.
     
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (66.7%) Netherlands (6.1%) Australia (3.5%) Portugal (3.0%) 19 other countries (17.2%)           READ MORE: no go in US, 9/11 no God, US Eagles Sept 11 ceremony, 9/11 ceremonies, no god allowed, In God We Trust, Ireland, church, US ceremony, clergy, religious leaders, Rudy Guilini, Under God, united we stand   More News From: Wellington :  New Zealand      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By     pollard
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Apparently Bloomberg has forgotten his own roots.
            Reply  Posted By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
I think you are right Pollard, after all our money says it all.
            Reply  Posted By     vauldine
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
It is such a pity that we have lost sight of God! America was bulit under a tradition of relgious sensitivity! If my people would humble themselves and pray I will heal their land says Christian scripture. We need a mighty lot of healing up in here right now! Rated up!
            Reply  Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
My dear Vauldine, I must agree with you...I love the Word of God and don't want to cram it down anyone's throat but do believe there is a God and this country must humble themselves and pray or we will be prey to the evil one!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     US players commemorate 9/11 at Rugby World Cup  
Merced Sun-Star
 Huebner was one of only two people to speak during the service, paying tribute to the people who were killed and to the those who helped in the rescue of the injured and in the recovery in the 10 years since the attacks on New York and Washington. "...    9/11 memorial service boosts US Eagles  
Wellington Dominion
 Just hours before they take the field against Ireland in the Rugby World Cup tonight, the US Eagles were given a psychological boost at a 9/11 memorial service in New Plymouth this morning. St Andrew's Presbyterian Church hosted a moving memorial...    Emotional 9/11 memorial for US rugby team  
Sydney Morning Herald
 Story continues below The US ambassador to New Zealand David Heubner said September 11 was a day "to commemorate the triumph of the human spirit" and he made special mention of prominent US rugby players Mark Bingham and Jeremy Glick who battled...    Rugby: September 11 a big day for US side  
The New Zealand Herald
 The team will commemorate the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks this morning with a ceremony at St Andrew's church in New Plymouth before they play Ireland at 6pm. The service will be attended by the full Eagles team as well as the...    9/11 remembered in worldwide ceremonies  
The Boston Globe
 Marines carries their national flag past a man wearing a stars and stripes shirt during a special service to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, at a church in New Plymouth, New Zealand, Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011. The US...    Ireland start rugby W.Cup campaign against US Eagles  
France24
 This combo file picture shows USA captain Todd Clever (L) and his Ireland's counterpart Brian O'Driscoll. USA will play Ireland in their first 2011 Rugby World Cup pool C match on September 11, in New Plymouth. USA match on September 11 AFP - Ireland...   More Related Stories     Images    >         9/11 sad    9/11 sad Image Source: allvoices United States 10th remembrance ceremony will be without prayer.         New Zealand All Blacks rugby ...    New Zealand All Blacks rugby ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New Zealand All Blacks rugby team players attend an official welcome ...        New Zealand All Black fans ...    New Zealand All Black fans ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New Zealand All Black fans attend an official welcome ceremony for the ...        New Zealand All Blacks fans ...    New Zealand All Blacks fans ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New Zealand All Blacks fans with painted faces attend an official welcome ...        New York City mayor Michael ...    New York City mayor Michael ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg speaks during a ceremony to ...        New Zealand's Prime Minister ...    New Zealand's Prime Minister ... Image Source: www.reuters.com New Zealand's Prime Minister Key and Australian High Commissioner Daiuth ...      More Related Images    More From Wellington          US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony        World Rugby: Beware the trap for the French, Japanese        HAPPY Feet may be missing New Zealand after all.         Has ‘Happy Feet’, the Emperor Penguin lost his way?          A LOCK OF NAPOLEON'S HAIR DCISCOVERED AT SIR WALTER SCOTT'S HOUSE.        Happy Feet, the lost penguin, heads back home to Antarctica        ‘Happy Feet’ is a happy penguin once again        Happy Feet goes to see his           "HAPPY FEET" GOES HOME        Hold your breath folks – it’s snowing in New Zealand        "Happy Feet" has no desire to snow         Man sucked into plane engine          Stray penguin will soon return to Antarctica                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302608          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 9 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal? By: AmberCornelio
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 7       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 1       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302608), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302608 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302608 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302608-us-eagles-kick-off-911-in-churchno-god-in-us-ceremony.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         