DogTipper.com: Dog Tips, Dog Giveaways, Dog Product Reviews & News










Wednesday, September 14, 2011









DogTipper.com Tips for Dog Lovers, by Dog Lovers










Home
About
Contact
For Bloggers

Free Dog & Cat Stock Photography
Pet Blog Directory


Our Book!
PR Friendly
Press

Press Kit


Rescue!

Dog Breeds
Submit An Adoptable Dog of the Day Photo!


Shop

DogTipper Book Club


TV






Bloggie

For Bloggers



DIY

Dog of Day

Submit Your Dog's Photo



Festivals

Giveaways

News

Celebrity Dog News

Dog Contests

Facebook Friday



Our Reviews

Apparel

Books

Cleaning products

Collars & leashes

Dog Beds

Dog Food

Dog supplies

Dog Toys

For Dog Lovers

Grooming Products

Treats & Chews



Reader Reviews

Recipes

Saving $

Tips

Adopting a dog

Budget Tips

Children & Dogs

Cleaning Tips

Grooming

Health

Holidays & Your Dog

Puppies

Safety

Shelters

Training

Ask the Dog Trainer





Travel
















Tip of the Day

Ask Alecia: Books to Help Children Train Dogs?
If you're new to DogTipper, you might want to subscribe to our email updates or our RSS feed! And be sure to bark at us on Twitter and Facebook, too...woof, woof!Dear Alecia,
Are there any books/videos that show how to include elementary school kids in the training process?  Something at the elementary school level? My sister got a dog from the shelter. ... [Read more of this post]

Read more Tip of the Day articles




Our Giveaways!

Sept. 12 Winner
Congratulations to Kelly Ann, the winner of the Eukanuba Pink Pack! Her entry was selected at random out of 251 total entries!
Don’t forget to enter our other giveaway! Here’s a list of our giveaways underway right now (and stay tuned for more this week!)

Mhu Ghu L.E.D. Leash from HollyWOOF Bag This leash has L.E.D. lights so you and your... [Read more of this post]


Giveaway: Mhu Ghu L.E.D. Leash from HollyWOOF Bag
As the days are getting shorter, you find your evening’s dog walk a little bit more in the dark every night. You want to make sure you and your dog are seen by cars. The answer? An L.E.D. leash.
One lucky DogTipper reader will win a Mhu Ghu L.E.D. lighted dog leash, one featured in the recent HollyWOOF bag given to dog-loving celebrities.
The... [Read more of this post]


Giveaway: Very Vintage Pet Collar

Are you in search of a new collar for your dog to celebrate the coming fall season? Check out the handmade collars by Very Vintage! These retro and vintage designs utilize organic cotton and are available in a wide variety of styles. One lucky DogTipper reader will win the Very Vintage collar of their choice! (And be sure to enter to win a Very Vintage... [Read more of this post]


Giveaway: Very Vintage Hand-Stamped Pet Tag

Are you looking for a stylish tag for your pet? Very Vintage offers lots of super cute styles to add a little bling to your dog’s collar! One lucky reader chosen from all the entries on DogTipper and CatTipper will win their choice of Very Vintage pet tags! (Be sure to enter to win a Very Vintage dog collar in our other giveaway!)
How to Enter
We’ve... [Read more of this post]


Giveaway: Win a Eukanuba “Pink Pack” CLOSED

**This giveaway is closed. Congratulations to Kelly Ann; her entry was selected at random out of 251 entries as our winner!**
In these dog days of summer, some lucky dogs are taking to the water for the Surf Dog Surf-a-Thon sponsored by Eukanuba, taking place in Del Mar, California on September 11. (Note: event has been posted until Sept. 25.)
If you’re... [Read more of this post]


Sept. 3 Winners of Shutterfly Photo Books!
Congratulations to our Shutterfly photo book winners! We had 10 winners in this fun giveaway for a free 8×8 hardcover photo book. (Our book of Irie and Tiki is on its way; we received notice that it had shipped so we can’t wait to see it!)
Here are our 10 winners. We have emailed each of you your coupon codes so please check your email for... [Read more of this post]


Giveaway: DogTuff Toys!

Is your dog tough on toys? (We know ours are!) If you’re looking for some toys that will hold up to your dog’s play, we’ve got a whole pack of toys  from DogTuff.com to challenge even the toughest chewers. One lucky DogTipper winner will receive the Ultimate Pack including:

Ultimate Ring Large (your choice of  11” or  JR : 7”)
Ultimate... [Read more of this post]

See more of our giveaways!




Dog News

Paul Mitchell Co-Founder Helps L.A.’s Homeless Pets

Well-coifed canines and cats at L.A. shelters are looking forward to a fresh start... Read more...


Celebrities Pay Homage to 9/11 Hero Dogs

In remembrance of the dogs whose sense of duty, devotion, courage and compassion... Read more...


Celebrity Pug Phoebe Rose Meets Gloria Estefan

A celebrity-loving Spot with an ear for a tail-wagging tune, the chance to meet... Read more...

Read more posts from Dog News




Product News & Reviews

Review: Scout & Zoe’s Natural Antler Dog Chews

Product: Scout & Zoe’s Natural Antler Dog Chews
What It Is: organic dog... Read more...


Review: Holistix from Holistic Select

Product: Holistix
What It Is: Healthy dog snack biscuits
Manufacturer: Holistic... Read more...


Book Review: The Dog Who Knew Too Much
Book: The Dog Who Knew Too Much: A Chet and Bernie Mystery
Author: Spencer Quinn
Publisher:... Read more...

Read more Product Reviews & News




Dog of the Day

Video Dog of the Day: Leyla Marie, Boxer Mix

  Please upgrade your browser

 
My Dog’s... [Read more about this Dog of the Day]


Dog of the Day: Mochi, English Bulldog
My Dog’s Name: Mochi
Age of My Dog: 14 weeks
Breed:... [Read more about this Dog of the Day]


Adoptable Dog of the Day: Toby in Maryland

Meet Toby, an adult male Fox Terrier/Rat Terrier mix.... [Read more about this Dog of the Day]

See previous  Dogs of the Day




DIY

DIY Doggie Crown

Is your dog a king or queen in your house? Crown your... [Read more about this DIY project]

See previous  DIY projects




Dog Festivals

Furr-Ever Friends Fall Fest, Leander, TX, Sept. 17, 2011
On Saturday, September 17,  the Humane Society of Williamson County will sponsor... Read more about this event

Read about more Dog Festivals




Dog Travel News

Fairmont Pittsburgh Adds Canine Ambassador
We love the Canine Ambassador program in place at many of the North America Fairmont... Read more...

Read more posts from Dog Travel News




Pet Blog Directory

Pet Blog: A Place To Love Dogs

Blog Name: A Place To Love Dogs
Complete Blog URL: www.aplacetolovedogs.com
General category (dog, cat, all, other): dog
Blog description: At A Place To Love Dogs, we love dogs of all kinds and aim to bring you the best photos, videos, stories and quotes from around the world all in one place. We wish to provide a heart warming experience and enjoyment... [Read more of this post]

Read more entries from the Pet Blog Directory




Fidos Faves: Reader Reviews

Winners Gallery: PetSmart Gift Card
My Dog’s Name: Schooner and Skipper
Giveaway prize my dog won: PetSmart Gift... Read more...


Winners Gallery: First Aid Kit and Water Bowl
My Dog’s Name: Preston
Giveaway prize my dog won: First Aid Kit and Water Bowl
What... Read more...

View more Reader Reviews




Saving Money

Pedigree Extends Dogs Rule Gear Discount

A couple of weeks ago, we told you about the special BlogPaws discount Pedigree was offering on its “Dogs Rule” gear (everything from super... [Read more]

See More Saving Money posts




Bloggie: Behind the Scenes at DogTipper

Please Take Our Reader Survey!

At BlogPaws and BlogHer, one of the recommendations for better knowing reader interests was to conduct a survey; ever since then, we’ve been hard... [Read more about Bloggie]

See More Bloggie entries







Welcome...Join Our Pack!

Woof! We're Paris  & John, a husband-wife team of professional writers and pet parents to Tiki and Irie. We love sharing dog tips, products, news, photos and more on the 5,000+ pages of DogTipper! Learn more


						Sign up & receive our daily email!






Or subscribe to DogTipper Lite (summary only!)
Or subscribe on your Kindle!
Subscribe to our RSS feed
Follow @dogtipper


Visit Our Sponsors!  



How to advertise here



Enter This Week’s Giveaways! Mhu Ghu L.E.D. Leash from HollyWOOF Bag!
Ultimate Pack of dog toys from DogTuff.com!
Very Vintage dog collar! (your choice of styles)
Very Vintage hand-stamped pet tag! (your choice of styles)
Previous winners: enter a photo of your dog & your prize in our new Giveaway Gallery for a chance to win more prizes!
Subscribe to DogTipper.com Giveaways by Email!


 

 What’s New? 
Furr-Ever Friends Fall Fest, Leander, TX, Sept. 17, 2011
Please Take Our Reader Survey!
Paul Mitchell Co-Founder Helps L.A.’s Homeless Pets
Pet Blog: A Place To Love Dogs
Winners Gallery: PetSmart Gift Card




 




Grab Our Badges! 







More badges! We have "Reviewed In," "As Seen In, "Dog of the Day" badges & more!







 


Meet DogTipper! 
Aug. 25-27, we'll be attending our 3rd BlogPaws!


At BarkWorld Expo, Paris will be speaking on a book publishing panel!


 













August’s Top Referring Pet & Frugal Blogs 
Shortywood.com 
CatTipper 
NY Daily News Pets 
Dog New Headlines 
All Things Dog Blog 
BlogPaws
Better Buddies
FIDO Friendly blog 
Will My Dog Hate Me 
Online Pet Store 








Quick Links Advertising
Disclaimer 
Disclosure 
FAQ 
Giveaway FAQ 
Privacy 
Sponsoring a Giveaway 
For Pet Bloggers
Free ebook 
For your blog
Submit your blog to our Pet Blog Directory






 






 








Copyright 2008-2011 ©   All Rights Reserved by LT Media Group LLC  

















