Brady Bunch Star To Attend Precious Paws Fundraiser | DogTipper.com










Wednesday, September 14, 2011









DogTipper.com Tips for Dog Lovers, by Dog Lovers










Home
About
Contact
For Bloggers

Free Dog & Cat Stock Photography
Pet Blog Directory


Our Book!
PR Friendly
Press

Press Kit


Rescue!

Dog Breeds
Submit An Adoptable Dog of the Day Photo!


Shop

DogTipper Book Club


TV






Bloggie

For Bloggers



DIY

Dog of Day

Submit Your Dog's Photo



Festivals

Giveaways

News

Celebrity Dog News

Dog Contests

Facebook Friday



Our Reviews

Apparel

Books

Cleaning products

Collars & leashes

Dog Beds

Dog Food

Dog supplies

Dog Toys

For Dog Lovers

Grooming Products

Treats & Chews



Reader Reviews

Recipes

Saving $

Tips

Adopting a dog

Budget Tips

Children & Dogs

Cleaning Tips

Grooming

Health

Holidays & Your Dog

Puppies

Safety

Shelters

Training

Ask the Dog Trainer





Travel













You are here: Home / News / Celebrity Dog News / Brady Bunch Star To Attend Precious Paws Fundraiser
Brady Bunch Star To Attend Precious Paws Fundraiser


September 10, 2011 by Grace Sydney    Filed under Celebrity Dog News, News


Leave a Comment



If you're new to DogTipper, you might want to subscribe to our email updates or our RSS feed! And be sure to bark at us on Twitter and Facebook, too...woof, woof!A part of pop culture history, Susan Olsen has long since traded in Cindy Brady’s pigtails for the love of wagging tails as a member on the board of directors of Precious Paws, and on September 16, 2011 fans of Fidos, felines and The Brady Brunch can dine with the former child star for a philanthropic cause.
In celebration of the combined birthdays of Precious Paws’ President Georgyne La Lone and vice president LeAnn Moen, people with a passion for compassion are invited to join Susan Olsen and Lisa Lillien (the founder of Hungry-Girl.com) at Theresa’s Family Restaurant for a fundraising feast, with 25% of dinner sales between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. that day donated for the continued care of canines and cats at Precious Paws.  A silent auction– featuring four VIP tickets to The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and brunch for four at House of Blues Sunday Gospel Brunch– will also benefit the Encino-based animal rescue.
When: September 16, 2011 from 4 p.m. – 10 p.m.
Where: Theresa’s Family Restaurant at 1520 W. Olive Avenue in Burbank, California
For more information:

visit www.preciouspaws.org

The following Precious Paws video clip from 2009, which includes an appearance from comedienne/animal advocate Elayne Boosler, the founder of Tails of Joy– showcases Susan Olsen’s devotion to pet rescue:

Photo Credit: Precious Paws
You might also like these posts:NFL Great Marshall Faulk Helps American Dog RescueOur July 13 Winners!What Do You Think of the Worlds Ugliest Dog Contest? 




Tags: Precious Paws, Susan Olsen





Bark About What's On Your Mind
Tell us what you're thinking... and if you'd like your photo to show with your comment, fetch a gravatar!

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website









Share Your Facebook Comments






Welcome...Join Our Pack!

Woof! We're Paris  & John, a husband-wife team of professional writers and pet parents to Tiki and Irie. We love sharing dog tips, products, news, photos and more on the 5,000+ pages of DogTipper! Learn more


						Sign up & receive our daily email!






Or subscribe to DogTipper Lite (summary only!)
Or subscribe on your Kindle!
Subscribe to our RSS feed
Follow @dogtipper


Visit Our Sponsors!  



How to advertise here



Enter This Week’s Giveaways! Mhu Ghu L.E.D. Leash from HollyWOOF Bag!
Ultimate Pack of dog toys from DogTuff.com!
Very Vintage dog collar! (your choice of styles)
Very Vintage hand-stamped pet tag! (your choice of styles)
Previous winners: enter a photo of your dog & your prize in our new Giveaway Gallery for a chance to win more prizes!
Subscribe to DogTipper.com Giveaways by Email!


 

 What’s New? 
Furr-Ever Friends Fall Fest, Leander, TX, Sept. 17, 2011
Please Take Our Reader Survey!
Paul Mitchell Co-Founder Helps L.A.’s Homeless Pets
Pet Blog: A Place To Love Dogs
Winners Gallery: PetSmart Gift Card




 




Grab Our Badges! 







More badges! We have "Reviewed In," "As Seen In, "Dog of the Day" badges & more!







 


Meet DogTipper! 
Aug. 25-27, we'll be attending our 3rd BlogPaws!


At BarkWorld Expo, Paris will be speaking on a book publishing panel!


 













August’s Top Referring Pet & Frugal Blogs 
Shortywood.com 
CatTipper 
NY Daily News Pets 
Dog New Headlines 
All Things Dog Blog 
BlogPaws
Better Buddies
FIDO Friendly blog 
Will My Dog Hate Me 
Online Pet Store 








Quick Links Advertising
Disclaimer 
Disclosure 
FAQ 
Giveaway FAQ 
Privacy 
Sponsoring a Giveaway 
For Pet Bloggers
Free ebook 
For your blog
Submit your blog to our Pet Blog Directory






 






 








Copyright 2008-2011 ©   All Rights Reserved by LT Media Group LLC  












 




