Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale - ConcoursBlog





ConcoursBlog
Collector car news and personal perspective





Events Calendar
About
Contact
 
Posts





Concours d’Elegance

Concorso Ferrari
Fairfield County
Palos Verdes
Pebble Beach
Rodeo Drive
Villa d’Este


Auctions

Barons
Barrett-Jackson
Bonhams
Gooding & Company
Historics
Mecum
RM


Auto Shows

Beijing
Detroit
Frankfurt
Geneva
Los Angeles
Paris
Shanghai


Origins
 













Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale

6:13 am                            0 Comments


ShareLamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale
Yes, it’s true. The production version of the Sesto Elemento is not Lamborghini‘s big Frankfurt surprise. Instead, Sant’Agata is still trying to massage some life out of the Gallardo before it’s replaced and has instead brought the  lightest, fastest and most hardcore baby Lambo yet to come out of the factory.
This Gallardo swan song (unless they end up needing a couple more) is based on Lamborghini’s series racers and will be limited to 150 units. Despite clearly being built with track days in mind, the Super Trofeo Stradale is indeed road legal – Though with a rear wing like that, I’m not sure anyone with much taste would take it out cruising through Beverly Hills anytime soon.
Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale
Follow the jump for the full press release.




			[Show as slideshow]		




			[View with PicLens]		





























































[Source: Lamborghini]
Press Release
12/09/2011 Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale – The most extreme Gallardo ever 
Stephan Winkelmann, President and CEO of Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A., is presenting at the Volkswagen Group Night in Frankfurt the most extreme Gallardo ever: the Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale. Automobili Lamborghini is bringing motor racing excitement directly to the road. This new and most extreme top model in the Gallardo lineup is based on the successful race car from the Lamborghini Blancpain Super Trofeo, the world’s fastest single-make series.
The car will be produced in a limited run of 150 numbered units.
The Lamborghini Blancpain Super Trofeo championship brings professional racers and gentlemen drivers face-to-face in fiercely fought battles on Europe’s most challenging racetracks such as Monza, Silverstone and Hockenheim. There are many similarities between the racing and road versions of this super sports car. For example, they both share the same V10 powerplant, which is used in the racing version with no modifications.
An enormous and manually variable rear spoiler for increased dynamic load
Right from first glance, these similarities are even more evident in the new Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale. In fact, it is equipped with the same rear spoiler that offers greater aerodynamic load – reaching in the best aerodynamic condition 3 times the load of the Gallardo LP 560-4 – for increased dynamic stability during tight, high-speed driving. As in the race cars, the rear spoiler can be varied manually in order to let the driver optimize the car’s performance according to the track or road characteristics.
Another element taken directly from the racing version is the removable engine hood with quick-release system. Both the spoiler and the hood are of course made of carbon composite material, as are a host of other components on the SuperTrofeo Stradale. Together with aluminum, carbon fiber is the basis behind the extremely lightweight construction of Gallardo’s new top model.
Lightweight construction through consistent use of carbon fiber.
The Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale boasts a maximum dry weight of 1340 kilograms. It beats the already lean Gallardo LP 560-4 by 70 kilograms, which gives the Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale a stunning power-to-weight ratio of 2.35 kilograms per HP for breathtaking performance. It sprints from 0 to 100 km/h in a mere 3.4 seconds and reaches 200 km/h just 10.4 seconds later. Its forward thrust finally tops out at 320 Km/h.
“Rosso Mars” stands for Italy’s racing tradition
The Gallardo Super Trofeo Stradale sports a brand new “Rosso Mars” finish that underscores the special connection between ultimate race track performance and Lamborghini’s “Italianness”. The “Rosso Mars” color symbolizes Italy’s traditional racing red, as established at the beginning of last century in motor racing, when the home nations of the competitors were indicated by the color of the paint on the vehicles. Dark green stood for Great Britain, blue was for France, white (and silver later on) represented Germany, white and blu stripes for USA, and red was the color of all race cars from Italy.
Red, black and carbon fiber characterize the exterior
The exterior appearance of the Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale is perfectly accentuated by a matte black finish on the large rear spoiler, the engine hood and the front air intakes, which contrasts with the “Rosso Mars” paint. The forged wheels are painted in high-gloss black, a color that is also available on the roof as an option. The rocker panel covers, impressive rear diffuser and outside mirror housings are made of carbon fiber polished to a high gloss, while the brake calipers are accented in red for the first time on a Lamborghini. It’s a perfect match with the exterior color and racing concept of this new super sports car. And besides the historically suggestive “Rosso Mars”, the new Gallardo Super Trofeo Stradale is also available upon request in “Grigio Telesto” or “Bianco Monocerus” with the roof available in gloss black as an option, as mentioned above.
Minimalist sporty interior
Black and red, the perfect combination of sporty minimalism, are the dominant shades inside the Super Trofeo Stradale. The most broadly used materials are Alcantara – in “Rosso Mars” on the underside of the dashboard, the central part of the seat cushion and the backrest – and extremely lightweight carbon fiber. Black Alcantara with contrasting red top-stitching is used to finish the other parts of the interior. The steering wheel is upholstered in black suede and also features red top-stitching. The door panels, the monocoque racing seats and the center console cover are made of carbon fiber, the construction of which Lamborghini has achieved a world-leading expertise. Discreet sporty accents are provided by dark chrome visible metal parts.
Upon request, an interior layout including elements made of carbon fiber, such as the handbrake frame, the middle of the center console, the lower rim of the steering wheel, the decorative frames around the main and secondary instrument panels, the door handles, and the handle for opening the glove box (also available upon request), can be ordered.
Phenomenal powerplant
Like the Super Trofeo competition version, the new Super Trofeo Stradale is based on the Gallardo Superleggera technical approach. The V10 powerplant generates 570 HP, equivalent to 419 kW, which is fully available at 8000 RPM. The maximum torque is equally impressive, with the torque curve peaking at 540 Nm at 6500 RPM. The V10’s unique firing order delivers the striking sound you hear in motor racing.
Transmission “race tested” in the Lamborghini Blancpain Super Trofeo championship series
Like the race car, the Gallardo Super Trofeo Stradale offers the robotized e-gear six-speed transmission controlled by steering wheel paddles as standard equipment. This electronically controlled system shifts through its six gears smoothly and much faster than any human being could. And for maximum acceleration from a standing start, the transmission can be set to the “Thrust Mode” – a program that allows to reach the best performance possible executing a racing start with minimal tire slippage at an initial engine speed of approximately 5000 rpm.
Permanent all-wheel drive for maximum traction in any situation
Every kilometer in the Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale is packed with sheer excitement, in part due to its unrelenting grip in virtually all situations thanks to all-wheel drive. At the end of the day, the Lamborghini Super Trofeo is the only single-brand racing series in the world that features all-wheel drive race cars. The Gallardo Super Trofeo Stradale is a highly concentrated driving machine offering a truly stunning driving experience with breathtaking cornering speeds and fast, immediate response. Its road manners are always precise, stable and completely safe.
Suspension with unmatched precision
The layout of the suspension is directly derived from motor racing, with a double aluminum wishbone guiding the wheels. Precise rack-and-pinion steering gives the driver a very close connection to the road. As is true for the Gallardo Superleggera, the vehicle is specially set up to take full advantage of its dynamic potential. No other model in the Gallardo line is as close to being a true race car. Another great feature is the ultra-lightweight 19-inch wheels, which alone save some 13 kilograms. The lightweight and sturdy wheel bearings and bolts are made from titanium and high performance Pirelli P Zero Corsa tires are fitted.
Brakes with unmatched stopping power
Behind the massive wheels are brakes designed for unmatched stopping power, as controlled by the ESP stability control system, which is standard equipment. The front axle is equipped with aluminum calipers with eight pistons each, and the calipers on the rear axle have four pistons each. The ventilated discs on the front and rear measure 365 and 356 millimeters, respectively. Upon request, Lamborghini will install a carbon-ceramic brake system. The carbon-ceramic discs measure 380 mm for the front wheels and 356 mm for the rear wheels.
Racing-type options
The optional equipment designed with racing in mind includes not only the carbon-fiber ceramic brake discs, but also a tubular interior roll cage, 4-point safety belts and fire extinguisher. On the other hand, those who want comfort can equip their Super Trofeo Stradale with a satellite navigation, with Bluetooth connection for mobile phones, an anti-theft system, and a lifting system that raises the front axle. 



Share










Auto Shows, Frankfurt, Home
Frankfurt Motor Show, Gallardo, Lamborghini, Lamborghini Gallardo, Super Trofeo Stradale




One Man’s 175 Classic Car Collection Destroyed By Texas Wildfire
Lamborghini Boss Confirms Sesto Elemento Production, Limited To 20 Units





No comments yet... Be the first to leave a reply!
 

Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.

You must be logged in to post a comment.





 










 






  






Advertisement

  Recent Posts 
Lamborghini Boss Confirms Sesto Elemento Production, Limited To 20 Units
Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Stradale
One Man’s 175 Classic Car Collection Destroyed By Texas Wildfire
Jaguar Unveils C-X16 Concept, Brings Small & Sexy Back (Video)
Porsche Boss Confirms Upcoming Addition Of Ferrari-Fighter To Lineup
Unconscionable! Ferrari Enzo Abandoned In Dubai!
It’s Official: All-New Porsche 911 – My, What Big Wheels You Have
It’s Official: Ferrari Debuts 458 Spider With Video
1934 Voisin C-25 Aerodyne Takes ‘Best Of Show’ At 61st Pebble Beach Concours d’Elegance
1957 Testa Rossa Prototype Smashes Auction Record At $16.39 Million

Advertisement
Popular Tags458
458 Italia
599
911
AMG
Around Town
Aston Martin
Auction
Audi
Bentley
BMW
Bugatti
Bugatti Veyron
Camaro
Chevrolet
Chevy
Concours d'Elegance
Corvette
Ferrari
Ferrari 458
Ferrari 458 Italia
Ford
Gallardo
Jaguar
Lamborghini
Lamborghini Gallardo
Lotus
Maserati
McLaren
Mecum
Mercedes
Mercedes-Benz
Monterey
Mustang
Pagani
Paris Motor Show
Pebble Beach
Porsche
Porsche 911
RM
Rolls-Royce
Shelby
SLS
Veyron
Zonda
Advertisement

Advertisement



















© 2011 ConcoursBlog. All Rights Reserved.









