TheCelebrityCafe.com






TheCelebrityCafe.com

 


> SAHMAnswers.com
> Sportsrageous.com
> ToTheCenter.com
> TrekkerTime.com
> CDInsight.com







Login | Register



Main Navigation

Home
FeaturesSpecial Features
Opinions
Interviews


NewsCelebrities
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Television


ContestsUSA
CANADA
World
Other


ReviewsMusic Reviews
TV Reviews
Book Reviews
Movie Reviews


Forums
Fun & GamesTrivia
Message Boards
Birthdays


OthersAdvertising
Links
About Us
Press
Contact




 
 
 




Features








Daily wrap of all things interesting for Tuesday, September 13


Here’s your daily news wrap for Tuesday, September 13:
Pam Anderson isn’t ruling out getting back together with her ex-husband, Tommy Lee.
Jersey Shore star,...READ MORE







Interview with Gabrielle Bernstein 


Spiritual guide and motivational speaker Gabrielle Bernstein is on the fast track to iconic young women's role model. With one book already in circulation,...READ MORE







Daily wrap of all things interesting for Monday, September 12


Here is your daily news wrap for Monday, September 12:
Are Jennifer Lopez and Bradley Cooper dating?
Amy Winehouse’s father, Mitch, believes his daughter died...READ MORE







September 11th: Celebrities reminisce and share condolences via Twitter


A decade ago, thousands of innocent lives were lost at the hands of terrorists. The Twin Towers collapsed, leaving the nation heartbroken and frightened....READ MORE







Jermaine Jackson's rep clarifies comments that Jackson family would help late 'King of Pop' flee if convicted of child molestation in 2005


Michael Jackson’s brother, Jermaine Jackson, has recently stated to the press that he and his family would have helped their brother flee the country if he...READ MORE







Weird news of the day: Ohio man sues coworkers for cutting him out of lottery


Office lottery pools are normally harmless fun, but the question is, what would you do if the one day your office hits the lottery, you were out sick? 
An Ohio...READ MORE







Daily wrap of all things interesting for Friday, September 9


Here’s your daily news wrap for Friday, September 9:
Ricki Lake is the first contestant to be injured on Dancing with the Stars.
Ashton Kutcher gets naked on...READ MORE



 

 






SJP's approval of 'The Carrie Diaries'




Kylie Jenner makes her family, Avril Lavigne proud after Fashion Week runway debut




Rachel Zoe debuts in fashion week




Britney Spears is not getting engaged




Winehouse's father weighs in




Williams talks Ledger and Monroe




Jackson and Tarantino reunite




Justin Bieber on ladies' jeans




Megan Fox and Brian Austin Green are both tired of their tattoos




Aguilera not being axed from 'The Voice'




Bella and Edward find themselves with vampire baby drama in new full ‘Breaking Dawn’ trailer [VIDEO]




David Lynch releases album




Boreanaz to direct episode of 'Bones' spin-off




'Spartacus' star Andy Whitfield dies at 39




'Point Break' remake in the works




John Calley: 1930-2011




Cindy Anthony ponders if an illness had anything to do with Casey Anthony's behavior




Sarah Jessica Parker: 'The Carrie Diaries' on the CW 'will be in excellent hands'




Nick Minaj was Betsey Johnson's inspiration for her Spring 2012 line




Kate Gosselin takes to Twitter to clarify what she meant by 'mediocre' comments




Bill Clinton's Clinton Global Initiative foundation to be celebrated with L.A. concert featuring Lady Gaga, Usher




Britney Spears and Jason Trawick not engaged despite reports to the contrary




It pays behind the scenes - Forbes' richest men in Hollywood




Kardashians cheer on youngest sister Kylie Jenner as she made her Fashion Week debut




Love blossoms on 'The Bachelor Pad'



 

 
 
























 
 

 


Music








'Imperium' album review


Power anthems that run the gamut of emotions from love to loathing, each...







N-Dubz's 'Morning Star'


N-Dubz, a British hip-hop group from London, released an album called Love....







Jessie J's Fourth Album Single and Video


Jessica Ellen Cornish, also known as Jessie J, and her incredible vocals...







Lethal Bizzle's 'Mind Spinning'


English rapper Lethal Bizzle started his career in 2002, and has continued...







Flux Pavilion Remixes DJ Fresh's 'Gold Dust'


Joshua Steele is a dubstep producer and DJ from England, and is more...







Kayne's 'If You Were Mine' review and video


Sadly, Great Britain has been infected by an artist all too similar to...



 

 

Movies








Shark Night 3D


Last summer, we had the dumb but fun remake of Piranha. This year we have the more dumb than fun Shark Night.
Both films are presented in 3D.  In both cases, the 3D didn’t really make or break the...


Read More







Emma Stone goes from sarcastic to serious in her latest movie, 'The Help'


Emma Stone breaks away from her quirky comfort zone, and displays her serious side in The Help, a movie adaptation from Kathryn Stockett's bestselling book of the same name.
The Help centers on...


Read More







Paul Rudd charms in weekend opener 'Our Idiot Brother'


Role Models star Paul Rudd has charmed critics in the August 26 opener, Our Idiot Brother. Rudd plays a laid-back farmer who finds himself in a precarious situation when he sells drugs to a uniformed...


Read More







'Fright Night' remake opens this weekend starring Colin Farrell


This weekend is the opening of Fright Night, a remake of the 1985 horror comedy when a nerdy teenager, Charley, has a vampire living next door.  His life is turned upside down when the neighbor wants...


Read More







'Crazy, Stupid, Love' is crazy good


Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell, Julianne Moore—who else could they possibly cast in this movie? It may seem like there are too many names in this movie, too many characters that you couldn’t...


Read More







Friends with Benefits


Friends with Benefits, starring Justin Timberlake and Mila Kunis, is just like every other romantic comedy you’ve ever seen, but so much better.
Once you get past the fact that the storyline is...


Read More







Source Code: An action packed source of entertainment


[May contain spoilers]
Source Code successfully continues the what-if thriller trend that began last year with Inception. 
Colter Stevens (Jake Gyllenhaal) is riding on a train with Christina Warren...


Read More



 

 

Contests








Arctic Zero Sample Pack


Arctic Zero is essentially a protein shake in ice cream form with only 150 calories in the entire pint. It is fat free, gluten free, lactose intolerant...


Enter to Win







AXE Hold+Touch Prize Packs


When it comes to a guy's hair, male and female satisfaction are often at odds. He wants strong hold that will last and she wants his hair to be touchable....


Enter to Win







Hank Williams: The Legend Begins


Time Life and the Estate of Hank Williams announced today the September 13, 2011 release of newly discovered historic Williams' recordings that are...


Enter to Win







Win 1 of 5 S2H STEPS, the Pedometer that Rewards you for Walking!


The S2H STEP is an exciting new pedometer that Rewards you for walking! Every 10,000 steps will generate a unique Reward Code that will let you earn 60 points...


Enter to Win







Paul Kelly Songs From the South Deluxe Prize Pack


In a career that spans more than 30 years, Australian Paul Kelly has released a steady stream of albums that showcase his emotionally vivid, musically...


Enter to Win







Travalo Packable Perfume


Jet setters and beauty mavens who lacked an easy way to take their favorite scent on-the-go will now be able to leave bulky fragrance bottles at home thanks to...


Enter to Win







Pixelmoda Watch Collection


The PixelModa timepiece is a product of countless stylistic experimentations, where cutting edge materials were paired with the latest production techniques...


Enter to Win







Win Meital Dohan's new single 'Yummy Boyz' and an iPod Touch!


Not since the invention of the Original Sin has Israel produced such a hot export. Born and raised in Israel, Meital Dohan (pronounced "Mey-tall”) is no...


Enter to Win







Krrrrisp Kraut Grrrreat Germany Getaway





Enter to Win







PHOSPHOR "MANN Buzzin" Watch


Inspired by Island Def Jam recording artist Mann.  Driven by Micro-Magnetic Mechanical Digital (M3D) technology, the Phosphor Appear watch utilizes miniature-...


Enter to Win







NUME "Wet to Dry" Hair Straightener


NuMe's newest and most exciting iron actually allows you to style when hair is still damp, no blow drying required. With precision engineered 1 ¾ inch floating...


Enter to Win



 

 
 
 









 







 
 
 
 





Home
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 












 
 





