Urban Christian News: Books Archives


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































Recently in Books Category



 

 



University Libraries Sued by Authors for Google Book Digitization Efforts


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  3:12 PM





The suit suggests that the security of this book archive may allow the mass release of copyrighted work.With the planned settlement between Google and book publishers still on indefinite hold, a legal battle by proxy has started.  
        

            Continue reading University Libraries Sued by Authors for Google Book Digitization Efforts.
        





Review: Before the Food Truck Trend, There Was Mission Street Food 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  1:32 AM





The inspiring story (and delicious recipes) of leaders in the mobile food movement.


            Continue reading Review: Before the Food Truck Trend, There Was Mission Street Food .
        





'Game On': New Book by Emmitt Smith Urges Readers to Find Their Purpose, Pursue Their Dream in God 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011 11:18 AM





NFL Hall-of-Famer Emmitt Smith has found success on the football field, in the business world and even on the dance floor. In his new book, "Game On," the former Dallas Cowboy star outlines the principles that helped him succeed, both on the field and off.


            Continue reading 'Game On': New Book by Emmitt Smith Urges Readers to Find Their Purpose, Pursue Their Dream in God .
        





Memoir by Gabrielle Giffords, Husband Coming Out Nov. 15 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  8:41 AM





The joint memoir of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and her husband, retired astronaut Mark Kelly, is coming out Nov. 15.


            Continue reading Memoir by Gabrielle Giffords, Husband Coming Out Nov. 15 .
        





'God is Red': Exiled Chinese Dissident, Liao Yiwu, Reveals Untold Stories of Chinese Christians in New Book 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:50 AM





Chinese dissident author Liao Yiwu--the once lauded, later imprisoned, and now celebrated author of The Corpse Walker--profiles the extraordinary lives of dozens of Chinese Christians, providing a rare glimpse into the burgeoning underground world of belief that is taking hold within the officially atheistic state of Communist China. 


            Continue reading 'God is Red': Exiled Chinese Dissident, Liao Yiwu, Reveals Untold Stories of Chinese Christians in New Book .
        





Tom Perrotta Imagines 'An Indiscriminate Rapture' in Latest Novel 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  9:03 AM





Tom Perrotta's new novel, "The Leftovers," imagines what happens in the aftermath of an odd and random Rapture-style event, when millions of people vanish from the face of the Earth, leaving puzzled billions behind.


            Continue reading Tom Perrotta Imagines 'An Indiscriminate Rapture' in Latest Novel .
        





Max Lucado Book Released by Thomas Nelson as Publisher's First Enhanced E-Book 


    
                By UCN on August 29, 2011  7:31 PM





Q&A Book Max on Life Features Custom Video, Audio from Max Lucado


            Continue reading Max Lucado Book Released by Thomas Nelson as Publisher's First Enhanced E-Book .
        





Despite Decline for Some Book-Sellers, Religious Publishers Still Upbeat 


    
                By UCN on August 28, 2011  4:13 PM





From top: Belieber!, Heaven is For Real, River's Song, The Journey, Married for Real, Christmas Is Not Your Birthday and Hijacked are some of the popular books from local publishers. (Photo illustration by George Brooks / Gannett's Nashville Design Studio; Books courtesy of United Methodist Publishing House, Worthy Publishing and Thomas Nelson)It may seem like end times for some book-sellers, but religious book publishers are all smiles.


            Continue reading Despite Decline for Some Book-Sellers, Religious Publishers Still Upbeat .
        





Hachette Signs 'The Shack' Author for New Book 


    
                By UCN on August 24, 2011  2:14 AM





Wm. Paul Young, author of The Shack, has signed for a new novel with Hachette Book Group's Nashville division, announced Rolf Zettersten, senior v-p of Hachette's FaithWords and Center Street imprints, who acquired the book. 


            Continue reading Hachette Signs 'The Shack' Author for New Book .
        





New Book Explores the Faith of Justin Bieber


    
                By UCN on August 20, 2011  2:00 PM





A new non-fiction book will examine teen pop star Justin Bieber's belief in Christianity that he has referred to in interviews and when speaking to fans.


            Continue reading New Book Explores the Faith of Justin Bieber.
        




« Blogs |
                                Main Index |
                                Archives
                                | Christian »










 




University Libraries Sued by Authors for Google Book Digitization Efforts


Review: Before the Food Truck Trend, There Was Mission Street Food 


'Game On': New Book by Emmitt Smith Urges Readers to Find Their Purpose, Pursue Their Dream in God 


Memoir by Gabrielle Giffords, Husband Coming Out Nov. 15 


'God is Red': Exiled Chinese Dissident, Liao Yiwu, Reveals Untold Stories of Chinese Christians in New Book 


Tom Perrotta Imagines 'An Indiscriminate Rapture' in Latest Novel 


Max Lucado Book Released by Thomas Nelson as Publisher's First Enhanced E-Book 


Despite Decline for Some Book-Sellers, Religious Publishers Still Upbeat 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










