Yahoo! Finance - Financially Fit


 

    Skip navigation   Home   Investing   Market Overview   Market Stats   Stocks   Mutual Funds   ETFs   Bonds   Options   Industries   Currencies   Education   Commodities     News   Markets   Investing Ideas   Expert Advice   Special Editions   Company Finances   Providers   Video     Personal Finance   Banking & Budgeting   Career & Work   College & Education   Family & Home   Insurance   Loans   Real Estate   Retirement   Taxes   Lifelong Investing     My Portfolios   Sign in to access My Portfolios   Free trial of Real-Time Quotes    new!Exclusives   Breakout   The Daily Ticker   Daniel Gross   Financially Fit          Search for share prices Search for share prices             Finance Search  Thu, Sep 8, 2011, 12:09AM EDT - U.S. Markets open in 9 hrs and 21 mins.      




[?]

x
 







Financially Fit Feedback: Take Our Survey »
 

Financially Fit Home
> 4 Rising Food Costs That Will Hurt Your Wallet

 4 Rising Food Costs That Will Hurt Your Wallet			Angie Mohr
			
			Tuesday, September  6, 2011 More from
 Bailing on Your Budget at Investopedia.com 9 Student Costs Everyone Can Take Advantage of at Investopedia.com How to Build a Stockpile to Save Money at Investopedia.com  Prices are on the rise in grocery stores across the country. You may not notice the changes right away; that loaf of bread may be only a dime more expensive than it was last year. The soda you buy may be the same price but it's now 1.5 liters instead of two. Many of the major cereal manufacturers, such as General Mills, have warned of impending price increases.Why Are Grocery Prices Going Up?While almost every grocery store aisle is affected by rising prices, a large part of the reason all comes down to two commodities: wheat and corn. Both food staples have been hit hard for the past two years - a combination of climate change, natural disasters and crop disease. Russia has experienced severe drought for the past two years and had stopped exporting wheat altogether to ensure enough of a domestic supply. They have resumed limited exports as of July 2011 but supplies are still short. A disease called wheat rust UG99 has wiped out crops across Africa and is spreading to other wheat-producing countries at a rapid pace.There have been many corn crop failures across North America also, but the real culprit for corn is that it is being used to make ethanol, an arguably sustainable fuel. Hundreds of thousands of acres that once grew corn for people now grow it to power our cars.At first glance, it may seem like these increases will only mean you'll be paying more for a few grocery items like bread and popcorn, but wheat and corn are included in the vast majority of foods that you may eat every day. Here are four areas where you will see rising prices.1. Cereals, Breads and Pasta ProductsMost processed cereals are made from corn and these will be hit hard by price increases in the next year. The commodity price of corn has nearly doubled since 2010 and is rising again due to the massive drought Texas is facing. Breads, rolls, cakes and cookies will all rise in price from the steep jump in the price of wheat. According to food manufacturers, the industry has been holding back from increasing retail prices but cannot absorb the costs any longer.2. SweetsMost processed "sweets," from soda to cookies to jam, are made with high fructose corn syrup. The lack of corn supply is causing prices in these areas to steadily rise. Watch out for shrinking packages, as well. Many companies will keep the same price point but drop the amount you get.3. Beef, Pork and ChickenAlmost all industrialized meats fed on corn, mainly because it was the cheapest feed available. As the price of corn rises, there are still no cheaper alternatives, so the price of meat rises because of the higher input price.4. Cat and Dog FoodPet food contains grains in one of two ways: processed dry food often contains corn as one of its primary ingredients and canned food contains meat chunks or wheat-based thickeners. It's not just the cost of human food that will go up.The Bottom LineYou might not be able to do anything directly about rising grain prices, but you can shop smarter. Look for loss leader sales on those groceries that you purchase regularly. Make more of your own food directly from raw ingredients, such as cookies and rolls. Pet food can be stored for six months to a year so stock up when you can find a good price. Paying more attention to prices in the grocery store will help you stretch your food budget the farthest. 
This article is part of a series related to being Financially Fit
Follow Yahoo! Finance on ;become a fan on .
 

More Stories
 

How to Boost Your Cash Reserve 
			Learn some easy tips to save extra cash everyday.

		September Deals: What You Should Buy Now 
			Here's a list of shopping categories that tend to see their lowest prices all year this month.

		Penny Auctions Draw Bidders With Bargains, Suspense 
			Penny auctions require bidding skills and some have a catch. Find out how these sites work.

		







Show Comments




Financially Fit Video Series






play video
September Deals: What to Buy Now

September is packed with deals as retailers attempt to unload excess summer merchandis...
Read the article <a href="http://financiallyfit.yahoo.com/finance/article-113443-10921-1-september-deals-what-you-should-buy-now?ywaad=ad0035">here.</a>




play video
Household Gadgets to Save You Money

Many simple gadgets can save you a lot of money. Katie Linendoll joins Farnoosh to loo...




play video
How to Boost Your Cash Reserves

Would you be able to come up with the funds if you had to fix a leaky roof? If you ans...




play video
Should You Save or Splurge on Running Shoes?

Running shoes can be expensive, but skimping on a pair might end up hurting you in the...




 

 

Add what you love.Add the Yahoo! Financially Fit app to My Yahoo!+ Add to 
 



        YAHOO! FINANCE Banking & Budgeting Calculators Currency ETFs Experts Investing Insurance Market Stats Message Boards Mobile Personal Finance What's New  ALSO ON YAHOO! Autos Finance Flickr Games Groups Health Hot Jobs Mail Maps Movies Music My Yahoo! News Shopping Sports Travel TV Video » All Y! Services  THINGS TO DO Read Our Blog Finance on Your Phone Check Home Values Find a New Car Search Jobs Across the Web      
      YAHOO! FINANCE WORLDWIDE   Argentina   Australia & NZ   Brazil   Canada   China   Chinese   France   French Canada   Germany     Hong Kong   India   Italy   Japan   Korea   Mexico   Singapore   Spain   Spanish   Taiwan   UK & Ireland   USA       
 

 








