
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH





FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY








Arbor Day Poster Contest
Tree Talk
Project Learning Tree
Students
Teachers
Mission



Conservation Education 









Economic Development




Ecosystem Services







Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program



Forest Genetics 









Forest Inventory & Analysis




Forest Legacy




Forest Taxation









Heritage Forests


Jones Forest Conservation Center




Forest Conservation 













Insects
Diseases & Invasive Plants
Miscellaneous
Pest Coop



Pest Management 








Reforestation



Seedling Nursery






Stewardship 

Awards
Programs
Wildlife Management







Timber Price Trends







Arbor Day
Big Tree Registry
Community Forestry Awards
Community Inventory & Reports
Partnership Grants



Urban Forestry 








Water Resources



Wood Technology


DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry

TOOLS
Famous Trees of Texas
Forestry Service Vendor Database
Professional Management Service Referral List
Tree Planting Guide
Forestry Pesticide Information
Directory of Forest Products Industries in Texas




Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry



STEWARDSHIP








[ Overview
 | 
Staff
 | 
Publications
 | 
FAQs
 | 
Links ]




[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




Giving Texas Landowners a Hand
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program supports the belief that the right to own land is one of our most important rights. We also believe that with that right comes responsibility and stewardship for healthly well-managed forest lands.
The Forest Stewardship Program, a federal/state partnership, is beneficial to landowners all over Texas - from the West Texas Panhandle to the Pineywoods of East Texas - because programs are tailored to the individual needs of each landowner.
Foresters will help landowners develop a 10-year course of action, outlining step-by-step measures to keep your land productive now and in the future. The plan is designed based on the landowners goals and objectives.
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program recognizes that most landowners value their land as more than just a commodity.  While the program may enable you to make your land more productive, you'll see other benefits as well, through cleaner air and water, healthy populations of fish and wildlife, quality outdoor recreation as well as forest products.
East Texas:The private landowner in East Texas has perhaps the most to gain from our program - and the most to lose if good land and timber management practices are not followed.
Although trees are abundant in the region, 2.8 million acres of Pineywoods timberlands are under stocked. And on non-industrial private forest land, for every seven acres of pine harvested, only one acre is replanted. Often, these lands were harvested needlessly or improperly because a forester was not involved up front. So, before you cut, give us a buzz!
It is clear that thoughtful stewardship will pay dividends not only to landowners and the forest products industry, but to the overall environmental health of the region as well.
Central Texas Hill Country:The Central Texas Hill Country has been named one of the world's "Last Great Places." Central Texas natural resources are threatened by land mismanagement (detrimental to soil, water quality, native plants and wildlife habitat), removal of fire from the ecosystem and oak wilt.
We need your help - as a Texas landowner - to conserve Central Texas trees as renewable resources for future generations. Landowners must do their part to keep the land great.
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program is your program, to help address your concerns about forest and endangered species and other wildlife, habitat, predators, water quality, oak wilt, and other issues.
West Texas:Needs of the private landowner in West Texas take on an entirely different tone. Here, the primary concern is wind erosion.
Every year approximately 535 million tons of West Texas land literally blows away. Just one mile of windbreak trees can keep up to 2,800 tons of this valuable Texas resource at home. Windbreaks are essential in protecting farmland, livestock homesteads and roadways from the harsh environmental elements of the High Plains. They also provide crucial habitat for High Plains wildlife and enhance the value of your property.
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program professionals can be invaluable in working with you to design a plan that fits your needs. We can guide you in proper site preparation, tree selection and placement and windbreak maintenance. In addition, we can assist with the rehabilitation of old windbreaks.
The Texas Forest Stewardship Program is here for you, whether you're working on increasing the productivity of your land or improving your conservation efforts. Together, we can move toward a brighter future with thriving forest lands and healthy economic rewards.
For more information:
If you have any questions about protecting your property from forest, grass and brush fires, please contact the Texas Forest Service office closest to you.






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



