
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH





FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY








Arbor Day Poster Contest
Tree Talk
Project Learning Tree
Students
Teachers
Mission



Conservation Education 









Economic Development




Ecosystem Services







Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program



Forest Genetics 









Forest Inventory & Analysis




Forest Legacy




Forest Taxation









Heritage Forests


Jones Forest Conservation Center




Forest Conservation 













Insects
Diseases & Invasive Plants
Miscellaneous
Pest Coop



Pest Management 








Reforestation



Seedling Nursery







Awards
Programs
Wildlife Management



Stewardship 









Timber Price Trends







Arbor Day
Big Tree Registry
Community Forestry Awards
Community Inventory & Reports
Partnership Grants



Urban Forestry 








Water Resources



Wood Technology


DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry

TOOLS
Famous Trees of Texas
Forestry Service Vendor Database
Professional Management Service Referral List
Tree Planting Guide
Forestry Pesticide Information
Directory of Forest Products Industries in Texas




Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry



REFORESTATION








[ Overview
 | 
Staff
 | 
Publications
 | 
FAQs
 | 
Links ]




[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




East Texas has an abundance of forestland.  Individual East Texans own about 64% of the forestland, with Timber Investment Management Organizations, forest industry and government owning the rest.  Today’s forests are the result of planning done 20 to 50 years ago.  Those who reforested their property back then have seen substantial income from timber over the past several years.In spite of good prices in recent years, more than half of the harvested acres belonging to East Texans have not been adequately reforested.  In the past, logging practices usually left smaller pines to replenish the stand.  Modern logging, using more complex machinery, usually does not.  As a result, many stands grow back in “brush” and severely limit the owner’s future income potential.With environmental constraints limiting harvesting in the Pacific Northwest, wood production has shifted to the South.  Demand for wood products is expected to continue to increase and more and more federal timber is being locked up in “wilderness” or in the courts.  These factors make it a good time to invest in the future by planting trees.  Yields of over $100 per acre per year are common from planted pine stands.  The economic impact from timber in East Texas is substantial and with abundant timber resources  more industry may well be attracted to the region.With many landowners getting older and with their children living away from the land, planting pines on open land is an attractive alternative to raising cattle.  Planting costs for open land are fairly low and seedling survival and growth is very good if proper grass control is done.  It doesn’t take too much imagination to see that looking after a pine stand is a bit easier than seeing to cattle (maybe not as fun..…until you take that check to the bank!)The pine seedlings planted today are a far cry from the seedlings of the past.  Genetically improved seed has increased yields from 15 to 25% per acre and has reduced the length of time from planting to harvest. In addition:Advances in herbicides and fertilizers have enabled landowners to increase survival and growth.The Texas Forest Service has District Foresters responsible for reforestation in all East Texas Counties. There are more than 70 consulting foresters serving East Texas, assisting landowners to plant and manage their timber.  Calling on either of these professionals is the best step you can take toward a successful planting job on your property.The Texas Logging Council promotes safe, and environmentally sound harvesting.There are new state laws that lower property taxes for forestland.Even the federal government is looking at ways to lower taxes on timber income.There will never be a better time than now to reforest your land.  Income often begins around age 12 and can be counted on for the next 30 years at 5-10 year intervals.  A typical rate of return for a well-managed forest is about 12% annually.  And that’s not to mention the benefits from hunting, protecting water quality, carbon sequestration, providing habitat for critters and poking about on your property!






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



