
	Texas Forest Service











PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS - HOME









[ Print | 

 ]



The TFS Planning and Preparedness Department works across agency boundaries to enhance the effective implementation of the Texas Wildfire Protection Plan (TWPP). Department staff works collaboratively with other agencies, departments and personnel in planning developing, implementing, supporting and evaluating TFS response capabilities and needs. In conjunction with TFS Predictive Services, planning personnel monitor and determine the needed preparedness level to keep the state safe from wildfire threats. Based on this analysis, resources are mobilized and prepositioned in areas of the state deemed to be at risk. Placement and daily management of resources is coordinated by the Incident Response Department. Availability, qualification determinations, ordering, tracking, mobilization and demobilization of personnel are managed by Planning and Preparedness. In Texas, even a moderately sized wildfire may involve two to 10 fire departments, numerous pieces of county equipment, local law enforcement, emergency medical service and resources from TFS, Department of Public Safety, Texas Department of Transportation, Texas National Guard, Texas Division of Emergency Management and multiple out-of-state cooperators. To maximize safety and effectiveness, all of these responders need to be organized before the fire starts. Statewide, a fire season can easily involve hundreds of pieces of equipment and thousands of firefighters. Good planning and preparedness allows for a more effective and faster response, thereby reducing both losses and suppression cost.Although primarily focused on wildfire response, these functions must also support the agency’s rolls in the State Emergency Management Plan for all-hazard emergencies such as hurricanes, floods, tornados and other domestic incidents. Departmental strategiesAnalyzing assessment and monitoring data to determine preparedness levelsPrepositioning resources based on analysisMaintaining a flexible force structure based on risk and occurrenceInvolving local, state, federal and contract resourcesMaintaining readiness of resources QuicklinksEmergency Operations Center (EOC) Texas Interagency Coordination Center (TICC) Texas Intrastate Fire Mutual Aid System (TIFMAS) Texas Regional Response Network (TRRN)








