
	Texas Forest Service











VOTE FOR GALVESTON: ISLAND IN THE RUNNING FOR TREE-PLANTING SCHOLARSHIP









[ Print | 

 ]



Aug. 5, 2011 — GALVESTON, Texas — The beautiful, green tree canopy that once shaded Galveston Island was nearly wiped out three years ago when devastating Hurricane Ike slammed into the coastline.Since then, civic leaders and community volunteers have worked tirelessly to rebuild and reforest the island.Now, they need your help.The Galveston Island Tree Conservancy’s NeighborWoods program has been selected as one of 20 finalists vying for part of a $150,000 scholarship fund offered through the 50 States for Good project. The contest is sponsored by Tom’s of Maine, which specializes in natural personal hygiene products.“We lost 40,000 trees to the Hurricane Ike storm surge. We’ve been told that it’s one of the largest urban forest disasters in recorded history,” said Priscilla Files, tree planting coordinator with the Galveston Island Tree Conservancy.“We need the benefits of these trees and we’re not just talking pretty. We need them for cooling our homes, air filtering, storm water run-off — all the infrastructure benefits. It will be beautiful, but it’s not a beautification project.”Working together with Texas Forest Service, conservancy members and city leaders developed a plan to plant 25,000 trees over five years in an effort to replace the island’s tree canopy. More than 8,000 trees have been planted so far including 450 planted through NeighborWoods earlier this year.NeighborWoods is a tree-planting program that calls for municipal leaders and community residents to join forces as they plant and care for trees planted in city rights of way.Six winners will be selected as part of the 50 States for Good project. One will receive a grand prize of $50,000, while the other five take home $20,000 each.If the conservancy wins, it will use the money to fund an upcoming NeighborWoods project, which involves planting more than 700 trees in just one day next March using only community volunteers, Files said. The help will include Sea Aggies working through Big Event, a community service program at Texas A&M University and its Galveston campus.“If we get the big kahuna prize, it would be huge. It would be one heck of a tree-planting party,” Files said, laughing. “We’re the only Texas finalist. We need Texans to vote for Texans, and we need people to vote every day.”Online voting lasts through Sept. 13, 2011. Fans can vote once a day until the contest ends. The six projects garnering the most votes will be declared the winners.###Contact: Priscilla Files, Galveston Island Tree Conservancy Tree Planting Coordinator903-851-1803, treesforgalveston@yahoo.comWriter: Holly Huffman, Texas Forest Service Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 








