
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE URGES CAUTION OVER JULY 4 HOLIDAY WEEKEND









[ Print | 

 ]



June 22, 2011 – COLLEGE STATION, Texas – With extremely dry conditions across the state, Texas Forest Service is urging Texans to use caution when celebrating the upcoming July 4 holiday weekend.It doesn’t take much to ignite a potentially devastating wildfire. Despite recent rain in some areas, a significant portion of the state remains critically dry. Texas Forest Service does not make decisions regarding fireworks restrictions or outdoor burn bans. The state agency does, however, provide drought condition information to county government officials. Under state law, each county is tasked with making its own decisions regarding fireworks restrictions and burn bans. Always check with local government or fire department officials to make sure fireworks and campfires are allowed in your county — and be sure to comply with all restrictions.Fireworks Safety TipsUse fireworks only under close adult supervision and in safe areas away from dry grass and brush.Keep fireworks away from homes and structures, which can be accidentally ignited. Keep a hose, bucket of water and wet towels nearby in case they are needed to extinguish small fires. Dispose of used fireworks in a bucket of water. Campfire Safety TipsBuild campfires in open, level spots away from trees and overhanging branches; preferably in designated fire rings or fire receptacles. Never leave a campfire or cooking fire unattended. Completely extinguish the fire with water before leaving it. The ashes and coals are not safe to leave until they are cool enough to touch. Consider using a propane stove or barbecue grill instead of an open fire when it’s dry and windy. Put barbecue grills over bare dirt or other fire resistant surfaces – away from dead grass and weeds. Never transport a barbecue pit or grill with live coals.Contact:Nick Harrison, Wildland Urban Interface Forester817-894-4761, nharrison@tfs.tamu.edu  Writer:April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-456-6606, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu  








