
	Texas Forest Service











ALL EVACUATION ORDERS LIFTED ON GRIMES COUNTY FIRE









[ Print | 

 ]



June 23, 2011 –PLANTERSVILLE, Texas – Local officials and fire managers announced this afternoon that all evacuation orders for the Dyer Mill Fire are lifted as of 2:30 p.m. June 23. Residents are allowed to return home. The fire is 5,280 acres and is 95 percent contained. “Safety of residents has been and continues to be our primary concern,” said Grimes County Judge Betty Shifflett. “I sincerely urge anyone returning into the area to be aware that some hazards likely still exist.”Residents are advised to use caution as there are still safety issues in the area: · Fire Activity – As the weather warms and continues to dry over the next few days, it is possible that there will be hotspots and small areas of active fire.· Hazard Trees – Fire-weakened trees will become more prone to falling over as each day passes. The primary threat from this issue is along roads. · Damaged Utility Lines – Downed power lines and telecommunication lines in the fire area could be hazardous. · Increased Vehicle Traffic – In addition to residents there will be utility repair workers and firefighters working in the area. Residents need to be aware that there will be more traffic on these narrow roads than is normal, which will increase the potential for vehicle accidents.The American Red Cross and other agencies will be available to meet with affected residents Saturday, June 25, at 9 a.m. at Navasota High School. The high school, at 9238 Highway 90 South in Navasota, has been serving as a Red Cross Shelter for evacuees. Red Cross staff and volunteers, and representatives from other organizations, will be on hand to meet with residents to discuss their needs and begin providing assistance.In addition, there will be Red Cross Health and Mental Health volunteers to assist with replacement prescriptions or to facilitate counseling. For information about power, water and phone services not working properly, residents can call:· Phones: 936-825-7016 · Mid-South Synergy: 936-825-5100· Entergy: 1-800-368-3749 Contact information:(936) 825-1130dyermill@gmail.comwww.inciweb.orghttp://co.grimes.tx.us  








