
	Texas Forest Service











BEARING AND POWER LINE FIRES COMBINED INTO 'EAST TEXAS COMPLEX'









[ Print | 

 ]



June 21, 2011 – GROVETON, Texas – The Bearing Fire in Polk and Trinity counties is now being managed in conjunction with another fire, the Power Line Fire, burning south of Lake Sam Rayburn in Jasper County. As of today, management of both fires (the East Texas Complex) is being coordinated by two interagency fire management teams. The teams, a National Incident Management Organization (NIMO) and a Type II Incident Management Team, arrived Tuesday and began coordinating firefighting operations. The arrival of the teams frees up local fire personnel to respond to other blazes in the area.The Bearing Fire has burned 20,222 acres since it began Friday. Containment is now at 60 percent and fire crews are expecting lower temperatures and higher humidity to aid their progress. Crews established containment lines on the west side of the fire (closest to Groveton) and will work on securing those lines today. On the east side (along the Polk/Trinity County line) the fire was driven across containment lines, but firefighters stopped its progress and are working to clear any trees that have fallen across the line.The Power Line Fire is 75 percent contained and stands at 3,500 acres. There are no evacuations or closures in place on either fire.As the incident management teams combine, they continue to emphasize a priority of firefighter and public safety. While all roadways in the fire zone are currently open to traffic, conditions could warrant road closures and/or evacuations. The public is encouraged to stay aware when driving in the area and stay informed through the local news media and the Texas Forest Service website at texasforestservice.tamu.edu. The Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) reminds motorists to remain alert and watch for fire traffic. Fire managers would like to thank those who have provided donations; the volunteers now have a generous supply of food and water. Financial contributions can be made to the American Red Cross or to Trinity County by calling the county treasurer at (936) 642-1443. Those who would like more information are invited to attend a public meeting at 8 p.m. Thursday at the Centerville School. Additional information including maps is available at www.inciweb.org.***NOTE: Further updates on both the Bearing and Power Line fires will be distributed under the “East Texas Complex” heading. Those who would like more information or to see a current map are invited to come to the Incident Command Post at Centerville School.Follow the East Texas Complex on Twitter: @EastTxComplexContact:East Texas Fire Information936-642-2163 ext. 237, etexascomplex@gmail.com  








