
	Texas Forest Service











WILDFIRE PREPARENESS MEETING SCHEDULED IN SAN ANGELO AREA









[ Print | 

 ]



June 16, 2011 – SAN ANGELO, Texas – Residents in the San Angelo area interested in learning how to protect themselves from wildfire are invited to a Christoval town hall meeting later this month.The meeting is set for 7 p.m. Tuesday, June 28, at the Christoval Community Center, roughly 20 miles south of San Angelo. Representatives from Texas Forest Service and the Christoval Fire Department will be on hand to answer questions and talk about what residents can do to protect their home, property and family from the devastation of wildfire. Residents will be introduced to the Ready, Set, Go! personal wildfire action plan during this meeting. The plan provides checklists for families to work through so that there is a clear understanding of what to do when a fire breaks out in your area. The plan also outlines ways to protect structures from wildfire. For example, you can reduce potential losses by adopting Firewise landscaping practices 100 to 200 feet around your home. That includes moving firewood and clearing dead and dense vegetation.Wildland Urban Interface Specialist Patrick Allen stressed that wildfires are a community-wide problem, which means reducing risks to homes and property is everyone’s responsibility.“More than 80 percent of wildfires in Texas occur within 2 miles of a community,” Allen said, reminding residents that recent wildfires have raged through the area and likely will again. The wildfire facts for this year are staggering. From a report released by the Texas Forest Service on June 14, approximately 2,904,807 acres of Texas land have burned in 166 counties reaching across the entire state. More than 1,842 structures have been lost including 474 homes, while 22,947 structures have been saved through the efforts of local, state and federal fire resources. “This year has been an eye-opening experience for many Texas residents and we are not out of the woods yet,” Allen said referring to the worst drought Texas has experienced in almost a century. “Our goal is to empower residents with the appropriate tools and knowledge to take a proactive approach to the rest of this wildfire season.” For more information, visit www.texasfirestorm.org and www.texasfirewise.org. Meeting Details:What: Town hall meeting – Wildfire PreparednessWhen: Tuesday, June 28, at 7 p.m. Where: Christoval Community Center, Christoval, TX Contact:Patrick Allen, Wildland Urban Interface Specialist979-204-9648, pallen@tfs.tamu.edu Writer: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu  








