
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH




\




conserving_trees-forestsprotecting_lives-propertymiscellaneous
TFS Photo Gallery








GeneralFire & Emergency ResponseForest ManagementSustainable Forestry
Publications








Forest Resource ProtectionFinance & AdministrationForest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry
Site Map








Current SituationFloodsHurricanesTornadoesWildfiresOther disasters
All Hazard Response




DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry


    TOOLS


TFS News


Fire Department Reporting


Community Wildfire Protection Plan


Texas Interagency Coordination Center


Texas Regional Response Network


Ask the Experts


Fire Dept Grant Application


W-9 Form


Fire Department Directory





Fire & Emergency Response



FIRE

PREVENTION






[ Overview
 | 
Staff
 | 
Publications
 | 
FAQs
 | 
Links ]




[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




Smokey's 65th BirthdaySmokey's Birthday ToolkitIt's party time! OverviewTexas Forest Service assigns a high priority to year-round wildfire prevention and other efforts that reduce hazardous conditions and risks to citizens and property.  To be effective, these efforts must be based on local assessments and initiated prior to a developing fire season.  Local involvement when designing and delivering these programs is also essential.When Texas was largely unsettled, wildfires destroyed natural resources and wildlife habitat but had relatively little impact on people. Today, as Texas’ population continues to grow, many homes, subdivisions and businesses lie within or near previously undeveloped areas of grass, brush and forests. As a result, nearly every wildfire carries an increased risk for damage or destruction of homes and other improved property – and even loss of lives.Texas Forest Service has identified 14,506 communities as being at risk for wildland fire.  Surprisingly, many populated areas are more at risk, due to the increased number of human-caused fires.People and their activities cause more than 90 percent of all wildfires in the state. Careless debris burning (of household trash, brush and leaf piles, garden spots, etc.) results in the largest number of human-caused wildfires. Other significant wildfire causes include sparks from welding and grinding equipment, carelessly discarded smoking materials, hot vehicle pollution control equipment and arson.Texas Forest Service assigns a high priority to year-round wildfire prevention activities that reduce risks to citizens and property.  Because wildfires in Texas primarily result from the actions of people, wildfire prevention campaigns targeting people-caused wildfires can significantly reduce the number of wildfires -- and wildfire losses.  A three-step approach to fire prevention can focus prevention efforts. Texas Forest Service prevention specialists use radio, TV, print and web-based products along with local outreach programs to increase wildfire awareness and deliver fire safety messages keyed to local fire causes. Local involvement when designing and delivering these programs is essential.  Texas Forest Service also works with local and county officials to keep them informed of fire danger and the likelihood of large damaging wildfires.  The Texas Forest Service bases its fire prevention efforts on local assessments and analysis of fire risks and works to implement prevention campaigns prior to specific weather-related events or a developing fire season.Unsafe Debris Burning -- A Special ConcernTexas Forest Service focuses special attention on reducing unsafe debris burning.  Firefighters across the state cite inadequate fire breaks and failure to stay with outdoor fires as the two most common reasons for escaped fires. To help keep the public informed about the risks of outdoor burning, the agency maintains information on its website about wildfire risk and about county burn bans.  The Texas Forest Service also actively encourages public compliance with burn bans. The Outdoor Burning Ban legislation is specific on how local entities inact the bans.A little known fact of which far too few people are aware is that a burning ban doesn’t have to be in effect for outdoor burning to be illegal.  Negligently allowing your fire to escape onto someone else’s property is a Class C misdemeanor offense (the same as violation of a burn ban) that is punishable by a fine up to $500. Deliberately setting fire to someone else’s property is arson, which is a felony offense punishable by a fine of up to $10,000 and a prison term of from 2 years to 99 years in prison. Information on outdoor burning regulations pertaining to the control of air pollution from visible emissions and particulate matter is available from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.Wildfires can cause significant environmental and economic damage, not to mention possible loss of life – to the public and to firefighters who strive to protect their communities. You can make a difference.  You can help prevent senseless wildfires.  Please take time to look at some of the other fire safety information presented on our website and through the links to other websites.Texas Forest Service provides these safety tips to prevent wildland fire:10 Simple Steps to Protect your Home from Wildland FireFire Safety Tips for Rural ResidentsTips for Safe Debris BurningWelding Safety PrecautionsSeveral other relevant fire prevention websites are listed below.SmokeyBear.com : http://www.smokeybear.com/Kid’s Page: http://ticc.tamu.edu/kids.htmTeachers and fire departments can obtain Smokey Bear fire prevention materials through the website:  www.symbols.govBill Dance Public Service Announcements:Extended DroughtArsonist WilldfiresCampfire Safety






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



