
	Texas Forest Service








HOME
ABOUT TFS
NEWSROOM
EMPLOYMENT
CONTACT US
LANDOWNERS
SEARCH




\




conserving_trees-forestsprotecting_lives-propertymiscellaneous
TFS Photo Gallery








GeneralFire & Emergency ResponseForest ManagementSustainable Forestry
Publications








Forest Resource ProtectionFinance & AdministrationForest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry
Site Map








Current SituationFloodsHurricanesTornadoesWildfiresOther disasters
All Hazard Response




DIVISIONS
Director's Office
Finance & Administration
Fire & Emergency Response
Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry


    TOOLS


TFS News


Fire Department Reporting


Community Wildfire Protection Plan


Texas Interagency Coordination Center


Texas Regional Response Network


Ask the Experts


Fire Dept Grant Application


W-9 Form


Fire Department Directory





Fire & Emergency Response



EMERGENCY

OPERATIONS CENTER








[ Printer Friendly | Back
																			 ]




With the creation of the Texas Forest Service Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in College Station, incident management has reached a new level. This new command facility enables Texas Forest Service to manage a single complex incident or multiple incidents simultaneously by using the latest imaging and communications technology all from one central location.
Response personnel are still “on the ground,” while in the EOC, managers direct the incident response by: prioritizing resource allocations where they are most needed; and collecting and disseminating real-time information back to the incident responders using the high tech capabilities of the EOC. The Texas Forest Service Emergency Operations Center represents the first of its kind for the agency.

Multiple wildfires
With the addition of the EOC, wildland fire management is not what it used to be … it’s better. Using weather prediction models and accumulated fire fuel data, Texas Forest Service can mobilize advance prevention teams and pre-position heavy equipment and fire crews to areas of the state where fire risk is greatest, thereby providing rapid initial response and more cost-effective use of resources.
Multiple incidents
EOC high tech capabilities allow Texas Forest Service to manage several different incidents at one time, such as multiple wildfires in West and Southeast Texas and hurricane response on Texas’ Gulf Coast.
Other EOC features
Satellite communications: Used for incidents where telephone lines and cell phone towers are destroyed, such as Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Web-based meeting capabilities: Enables command personnel in the EOC and response personnel at the incident to conduct web-based briefings without requiring lengthy and expensive travel to a single location.
Briefing room: Houses a video conferencing system capable of transporting large data files, connecting Texas Forest Service to the Governor’s Division of Emergency Management, State Operations Center in Austin as well as the Texas DPS Disaster District Centers (DDCs) around the state.






 



Emergency Prep | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | State of Texas
Accessibility, Site Policies & Public Notices | 
	        Open Records
		     | Statutory Reports
State Linking Policy |
	    Texas Homeland Security |
	    Statewide Search 
Veterans Benefits








        
         



