
	Texas Forest Service











GENERAL STYLE GUIDELINES









[ Print | 

 ]



Referencing Texas Forest ServiceWhen referencing the agency, use of “Texas Forest Service” is preferred over “TFS.” In long reports, articles and feature stories use of “Texas Forest Service (TFS)” upon first reference is acceptable. Second reference may be “TFS” within the same report. For internal communication (within the agency), use of “TFS” alone is acceptable.Avoid the use of “Forest Service” and “TX Forest Service,” in all situations. Web siteThe web site address should always be listed as “texasforestservice.tamu.edu” or “http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu/.”Texas Forest Service missionTexas Forest Service provides statewide leadership to assure the state’s trees, forests and related natural resources are protected and sustained for the benefit of all. About the agency (boilerplate)The following statement can be used in whole or in part as an overview about the agency and how we fulfill our mission. It is applicable for reports, news releases and other documents.Texas Forest Service is recognized as the leader in defining forestry of the future for Texas and the nation through its applied programs in forest and tree development; wildfire prevention, mitigation and protection; urban and community forestry and a host of other innovative forest sustainability programs. By collaborating with regional governments and forestry cooperators, some 355 Texas Forest Service employees work to ensure the state’s forests and trees are protected and continue to provide a sustainable flow of environmental and economic benefits today and for future generations. Texas Forest Service is the incident management agency for state disasters and has led the management of such incidents as the Space Shuttle Columbia recovery and Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Ike.Communicating A&M System affiliation (from A&M System Style Guidelines)System institutions without the A&M affiliation in their name should add the phrase “a member of The Texas A&M University System” to their stationery, business cards and other external publications.All A&M system universities, agencies and health science center institutions should be referred to as “members” of the system, not parts or components.All universities, agencies or health science center institutions should reference their affiliation with the A&M System in text in the following manner: Texas Forest Service, a member of The Texas A&M University System. Referencing agency titlesUppercase a title when it comes before a name, but lowercase a title when it comes after a name.Director Tom G. BoggusTom G. Boggus, director of Texas Forest Service General Style GuidelinesTexas Forest Service Communications uses general style guidelines consistent with The Associated Press Stylebook and Libel Manual. A condensed, alphabetized version is available from A&M System Communications, General Style Guidelines.  








