Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes | Deseret News

Sign in

		 
			 | Subscribe | E-edition | Archives | Mobile
Monday, September 12, 2011 — Last update: 6:25 a.m. MDT





Salt Lake City
                Mostly Cloudy
63˚
Weather | Traffic









Site
                        Web: powered by 
                        YAHOO! SEARCH










Become a fan on Facebook








Swen Teresed






Home
Utah
Sports
Life
Entertainment
Faith
Movies
Multimedia
Voices
Business
World & Nation
Blogs
Obituaries

Marketplace

Classifieds
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Deals
Local
Legal Notices











Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes


        Published: Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011 1:39 p.m. MDT 
    


                    By Jim Vertuno, Associated Press
                



0 comments







 PRINT | FONT + - 
		

Page:12Next >

BASTROP, Texas — Firefighters began Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that had raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.
As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry headed to California for a GOP presidential debate while authorities commanded operations fighting the disaster.



See all 5 photos | Click to enlarge



            Eric Gay, Associated Press
        

        Hayden Wilhelm sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.  More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.  
    


The more than 33,000-acre blaze has blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 800 homes, the Texas Forest Service said Wednesday.
But crews managed to bring the fire to about 30 percent containment Wednesday and officials anticipated more progress throughout the day, said Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander.
"We're making pretty good progress getting around the perimeter," Fisher said. "We're hoping to say by the end of the shift today, that we can say we're hopeful the fire's not going to get any larger."
The staggering destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week — one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which been blamed for a total of four deaths.
The forest service said it responded to 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres across the state, bringing the total acreage consumed over the past week to more than 130,000 acres.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, was mobilized in Bastrop.
Fisher said the task force will do a "grid search" to "cover every square inch looking for whatever there is to find."
"There are environmental problems, dead animals ... We need experts out there who are equipped to handle whatever is there," he said.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend.
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said.
Bastrop residents weren't all appeased by reports that the fire had been somewhat contained. Paul St. Louis, who left behind goats, pigs and roosters when he evacuated his home on Sunday, lashed out at state and local officials and said federal emergency management officials should have been brought in sooner.
Page:12Next >








View Comments

DeseretNews.com encourages a civil dialogue among its readers.  We welcome your thoughtful comments.
– About Comments


Add your comment



                About this ad
            



 

 Recommended in World & Nation




						Story 





NYC, Detroit flights


Fighter jets escorted two flights — one to New York City, another to Detroit — after passengers' use of the bathrooms aroused suspicions Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.




						Story 





Aging disease


The elfin child with the big personality and bright smile calls herself "the first lady" and dreams of the future.




						Story 





Too wacky?


As the soggy East tries to dry out from flooding and Texas prays for rain that doesn't come, you might ask: Isn't there some way to ship all that water from here to there?







About this ad










Get today's headlines via email
Good morning edition












Deseret News Family Deals



1500 Count Egyptian Cotton Sheet Set, 56% off!
$89Buy Now










18 Holes of Golf + Cart + More, only $25 per person!
$25Buy Now










Cleaning of Vents + Basement Mold Inspection, 75% Off!
$49.95Buy Now












Most popular
Latest updates
Most commented






In World
						Across Site
					

15 Libyans killed in oil port attacks 6:12 a.m.
Paris police hear Strauss-Kahn 6:08 a.m.
Cameron meets Medvedev, Putin 6:07 a.m.
SpongeBob in hot water from study 6:03 a.m.
DNC to promote Obama jobs plan 5:58 a.m.
Only Russian crash survivor dies 5:56 a.m.
SAfrica rules against youth leader 5:53 a.m.
UN nuke agency meets 5:52 a.m.
9/11 memorial in NYC open to public 5:50 a.m.
Israel's Labor running lackluster race 5:40 a.m.


Europe's debt crisis drags down US... 
Libya commander says 15 killed in oil... 
Paris police hear Strauss-Kahn in... 
UK's Cameron meets Medvedev, Putin in... 
Tropical storm Katia slams into... 
SpongeBob in hot water from study of... 
DNC ad campaign to promote Obama jobs... 
Only player to survive Russian plane... 
At least 61 Kenyans dead after... 
IBM putting Watson to work in health... 






In World
						Across Site
					

BYU falls to Texas 17-16
BYU had a failure to execute
Utes lose to USC 23-14
Love, marriage, sex: best order
Huntsmans will appear on 'The View'
Church applauds media 'watchdogs'
Pres. Monson blogs for Wash. Post
The Mitt Romney, Rick Perry show
9/11 and Mormon Tabernacle Choir
Harmons goes beyond local grocer


President Monson blogs for Washington...
Iconic images of the Sept. 11, 2001,...
A surge in virtue: Religious...
'We will not fear' — Looking...
Sandy 9/11 memorial 'brings it back'...
Michele Bachmann's pastor on Mormonism
Most influential 50 in global finance
Mormon Tabernacle Choir to mark 9/11...
Clergy banned from 9/11 memorial
Courage of Flight 93 crew, passengers...






In World
						Across Site
					

BYU falls to Texas 17-16177
Experts: Romney wins Round 190
Utes lose to USC 23-1490
Obama asks $450B to lift economy89
The story behind Bronco's T-shirt84
Gay adoption set for national stage82
1 income not enough for a family?79
Skyline beats Juan Diego59
Vai: Breaking down BYU-Texas tilt57
Utes know what is in store52


Experts: Romney wins Round 190
Obama asks $450B to lift economy89
Obama to propose $300B in speech51
Vote could grant rights to fetuses51
Clergy banned from 9/11 memorial44
Pres. Monson blogs for Wash. Post40
Economy in peril, Obama pushes plan31
Fact check: Obama plan not paid for30
Rick Perry and the death penalty29
Romney-Perry, plenty of differences22









Blog: Perspectives on the news


Insights from Deseret News editorial page Editor Jay Evensen







Blog: Just 4 Mom


Celebrating the good, the bad and the ridiculous moments of motherhood







BYU Cougars blog


Our sports beat writers and columnists have the Y. covered.




Show More







About this ad




 



About this Ad






  deseretnews.com: Home | Subscription services | Contact us | Advertise with us | News tips | FAQ | Feedback | Jobs | Purchase photos | RSS | Privacy policy



About this ad










 


























 

