Texas Man Pleads Guilty to Multiple Arsons, Attempted Murder





 




MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance










Featured Stories
White House: Irene's CostN.Y. Chiropractors Push to Reverse GuidelinesSome Opt Out in Fla. Drywall ClaimsCalif. Law to Reduce Homeowner Notices 









Front Page

National
International
Most Popular
Magazine
Forums
Blogs
Videos/Podcasts
Newsletters


News

Most Popular
National
International
East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West


Topics

P&C Companies
Agents & Brokers
Government
Markets/Coverages
Operations
Claims
More Topics


Magazines

East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West
Subscribe


Directories

Jobs

Sales
Marketing
Management
Finance
Claims
Underwriting
Other


Features

Events
Forums
Yellow Pages
Insurance Twitter
Market Directories
Ad Showcase
Quotes


Subscribe








Texas Man Pleads Guilty to Multiple Arsons, Attempted Murder

September 7, 2011 



Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:








Article
3 Comments


Steven Scott Cantrell, of Crane, Texas, pled guilty to hate crime charges stemming from a series of racially-motivated arsons in December 2010, including the arson of a historic African-American church as part of an effort to murder a disabled African-American man, the U.S. Attorney’s Office announced.
Cantrell, 25, pleaded guilty to damaging religious property and interfering with housing rights in violation of federal hate crime laws before U.S. District Judge Robert A. Junell in federal court in Midland, Texas.
During the plea hearing, Cantrell admitted that on Dec. 28, 2010, he set fire to Faith in Christ Church, a predominantly African-American church, as part of an effort to murder a disabled African-American man who he saw passing by the church in his wheelchair.
Before starting the fire, Cantrell admitted that he intentionally attempted to kill the disabled African-American man whom he believed lived at a shelter within the church, and was present when he set the fire. The man was not hurt.
Cantrell ransacked the church, wrote a series of threatening and racist messages in large letters across the wall of the church next to the pastor’s office, and ‘tagged’ the church with references to the Aryan Brotherhood.
The arson of Faith in Christ Church was part of a series of racially-motivated arsons that Cantrell perpetrated that day in his attempt to gain status with the Aryan Brotherhood of Texas.
In addition to the church, Cantrell admitted that he set fire to the house of another man in the community because he believed that man to be Jewish and because he sought to injure, intimidate or interfere with that man’s right to rent or occupy that house.
Cantrell also admitted to setting fire to Craig’s Gym in violation of federal arson laws. At the plea hearing, Cantrell acknowledged that he set fire to Craig’s Gym because he believed the owners served Mexican-Americans and African-American patrons and because the gym was owned by a Caucasian man married to a woman of Mexican descent. Cantrell added that he felt ‘disrespected’ by a Caucasian man marrying a woman of Mexican descent because he believed ‘the white race needed to be kept pure.’
Cantrell’s sentencing has been set for Nov. 30, 2011. He faces a maximum penalty of life in prison for burning the church with intent to commit murder and his other crimes.
This case was jointly investigated by the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Crane Police Department and the Texas Department of Insurance. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Victor Boutros from the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney John Klassen for the Western District of Texas, with the cooperation of the District Attorney for Texas’ 109th Judicial District.
 





Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:











Categories: Texas / South Central NewsTopics: Arson, hate crime, Texas 
Have a hot lead?  Email us at newsdesk@insurancejournal.com




« Previous articleCentral Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State
Next article »BP Fund Administrator to Consult Indiana on State Fair Claims


 




                Insurance news headlines delivered to your email.
            Get a free subscription to our popular email newsletter.


 

Advertisers








Latest Comments




								    September 7, 2011 at 4:36 pm											

 Amazed says: 

				Agreed. I wonder if his parents are proud of the fine young man they raised. Sad to say that he did learn this behavior from somewhere.  He'll do fine in prison, even Jeffery ... read more 






								    September 7, 2011 at 4:34 pm											

 Mary says: 

				He ought to be hung by his buster browns!!!! Hope they throw the book at him.			






								    September 7, 2011 at 3:37 pm											

 DBP says: 

				idiot, throw the keys away			




See all comments


See Comments (3)Add a Comment Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Comment 




Notify me of comments via e-mail 



More NewsEast Coast Quake Shook US Nuclear Plant Twice as Hard as Design AllowedTexas Fires Kill 4, Destroy More Than 1,600 HomesSenate Committee Passes Federal Flood Insurance Reform LegislationBest Report Concludes Canada’s Insurers Improve, But Risk Profile RisesTennessee Supreme Court Hears General Contractor Liability CaseDamages Ruling May Be Pivotal in BP Gulf Oil CaseAfter Drenching New Orleans, Tropical Storm Lee Threatens SoutheastTornado Has Cost Insurance $2.2B So Far in Joplin, MissouriMore News Features




 












Email
Twitter
iPhone
Facebook
iPad
LinkedIn
Android
RSS


 
Have a news tip? Tell us.


 

Most Popular

Now
This Week
Commented
Hurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and Nate
Willis’ Exec Sees Possible 'Historic Change' in Reinsurance Market
Global Property Insurance Market Remains Volatile: Aon Benfield
Michigan Begins Debate Over Personal Injury Auto Insurance Benefits
9/11 and Terrorism Risk 10 Years LaterHurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and Nate
Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast States
Central Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State
Connecticut Asks Insurers to Waive Storm Deductibles for Irene Damages
Hurricane Katia Now Expected to Miss East CoastWhite House Requests $5.2B in New Disaster FundsSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (22)Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast StatesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (14)Mortgage Lawsuits Target Individuals As Well As BanksSeptember 8, 2011 | Comments (12)Regulator Defends Suit Against Lenders Over Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (11)Nebraska County Must Pay $407K in Car Crash LawsuitSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (7)More Top Stories 
Current Issue 



Read Online
Download PDF
Subscribe
Available on the iPad


Partner Center 






Featured VideosBrokering the Hot Cyber Liability MarketWatch Video
Quote of Note

Predictability is difficult in this business, but at the end of the day Buffett likes insurance businesses because he gets to put float to work.

 

 

 
Tom Lewandowski, financial services analyst at Edward Jones

More Quotes
Reader Poll 
Does your company or agency plan on hiring new employees between now and the end of 2011?
 








Insurance Jobs
Claims Examiner - Santa Cruz, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - South Coast Metro, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - San Ramon, CAOffice Claims Adjuster - Olathe, KSPredictive Modeling Analyst - Richmond, VA

 




LexArchaeology Provides Construction Owners Peace of Mind in Troubling TimesExpanded Food Recall Authority Creates Liabilities, OpportunitiesSafe Driving Habits Pay Off for Consumers with Usage-Based InsuranceUnderstanding Legal Liability for Condominium Association and Unit Owners 





Pottery Barn Kids Recalling About 82,300 DollsHonda Recalls 310,773 Pilots in the USAmerican Family Pays $1 Billion in Storm PaymentsUSFA Releases Civilian Fire Fatalities in Residential Buildings Report

 




POPULAR: Top 7 CGL Coverage Questions
FREE: Beyond Basic Training Information Session
SEPT 14: Succession Planning for Managers and Owners
EXCLUSIVE: Secrets of the Top Performing Agencies












Insurance News

News by Region
News by Topic

Yesterday

Site Search

 



Features

Insurance Markets Directory
Forums
A.M. Best Company Ratings
Industry Events
Agencies Wanted / For Sale
Yellowpages
Newswire
Ad Showcase
Insurance Jobs



Connect with us

Email Newsletters
Magazine Subscriptions
For Your Website
RSS Feeds
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn



Insurance Journal

Submit News
Advertise
Subscribe
Contact Us
Link to Us

Wells Publishing Network

Insurance Journal Online
MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance



© 2011 by Wells Publishing, Inc. Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Site Map













What others are reading (1 of 21 articles)Hurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and NateClose




