Texas Gov. Rick Perry Cut Fire Department Funding by 75%














Sign In |
Sign Up
 





Follow @opposingviews










 










Home
Entertainment
Health
Money
Politics
Religion
Society
Sports
Tech
Videos


 

















Read Obama's Speech to Congress Sept. 8, 2011







Video: Obama, Bush Visit 9/11 Memorial Together







Texas Gov. Rick Perry Cut Fire Department Funding by 75%







On Ron Paul: Better to be Attacked than Ignored







 






Texas Gov. Rick Perry Cut Fire Department Funding by 75%






Share This Story




Tweet








 
By Michael Allen on Sep 6, 2011

According to KVUE-TV, the state of Texas, under Gov. Rick Perry, cut state funding for the volunteer fire departments that protect most of the state from wildfires. Firefighters have actually been dipping into their own pockets to fight fires.Volunteer departments that were already facing financial strain had their funding cut from $30 million to $7 million. There are 879 volunteer fire departments in Texas; 114 are paid fire departments, while 187 departments are a combination of volunteer and paid.
At a press conference Monday, Perry promised to seek federal disaster relief and said that FEMA would be in the state by Wednesday. 
While the Texas governor has been highly critical of FEMA in the past, he dodged questions from CBS’ Erica Hill on Tuesday's 'Early Show,' insisting that now was not the time to worry about reforming the agency.Perry said: “The issue is taking care of these people right now. We can work our way through any conversations about how to make agencies more efficient, how to make Department of Defense equipment, for instance, more available. There are a lot of issues we can talk about, but the fact of the matter is now is not the time to be trying to work out the details of how to make these agencies more efficient. Let’s get people out of harm’s way.”
 
 







Follow OpposingViews on:

Facebook:



Twitter:





Opposing Views Headlines

 Stay informed on our latest news!


Email: *



 Subscribe


 Unsubscribe






 









Login or register to post comments
`
      





 Worst governor ever. Thanks
Submitted by Andy Glover
 on Sep 7, 2011.

    Worst governor ever. Thanks for letting our state burn, Rick.      

Login or register to post comments






You lack backing.  Worst post
Submitted by J-Jammer on Sep 7, 2011.

    You lack backing.  Worst post ever.          
—
        It is wise to direct your anger towards problems -- not people; to focus your energies on answers -- not excuses.  -  William Arthur Ward      


Login or register to post comments






This is suggesting that he
Submitted by J-Jammer on Sep 7, 2011.

    This is suggesting that he just cut funding without saying why...therefore allowing those that don't like him to think they have something to hate him on (as if they needed anything). This is misleading. It doesn't tell the whole story.          
—
        It is wise to direct your anger towards problems -- not people; to focus your energies on answers -- not excuses.  -  William Arthur Ward      


Login or register to post comments






You're right. This article
Submitted by KarakSindru on Sep 8, 2011.

    You're right. This article doesn't tell the whole story. It doesn't mention, for instance, why FEMA is coming to Texas. It doesn't make mention of which counties had reduced funding, or if the reductions were primarily in traditionally Democrat counties or Republican counties. The article doesn't mention whether Perry spearheaded the cut or even whether he was in favor of it.
Since the article is so severely lacking, perhaps you could shed some light on these deficiencies.      

Login or register to post comments






 Why don't you try and learn
Submitted by Kathy Lee
 on Sep 9, 2011.

    Why don't you try and learn something about the subjects you're commenting on. You just weigh in with no facts to back you up and then you put the same quote from William Arthur Ward. You did the same thing on an article about The Talk. Same quote, another uninformed comment.      

Login or register to post comments






Something that keeps getting
Submitted by State of Reason on Sep 9, 2011.

    Something that keeps getting missed in so many of the stories about the Texas wildfires is the fact that they've had wildfires burning around the state for almost a year.
"For nearly 300 days, wildfires have been taking a toll on drought-stricken Texas, scorching communities and creating dangerous conditions."
http://www.cnn.com/2011/US/09/07/texas.fires/index.html?hpt=hp_t2
Also, as we talk about the $23million in cuts to the fire departments don't forget the other $34million in cuts to the TX state Forest Service they made in the last year since they would have been a large part of fighting these fires too.
http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/210134/20110907/texas-wildfires-2011rick-perry-cut-firefighters-budget-texas-forest-service.htm
So, to summarize.  WHILE Texas burned (literally burned) Rick Perry and the Republican legislature made massive cuts to all of the services that could do something about it.  They could have raised taxes a little on the wealthy who can afford it.  They could have taxed the oil companies who literally make billions of dollars in pure profit (not revenue, profit) to pull in the difference.  There are countless ways they could have raised the money but instead they chose to cut firefighting and forest service budgets WHILE these wildfires raged. WTF is wrong with these people?      

Login or register to post comments






The cuts didn't cause the
Submitted by J-Jammer on Sep 9, 2011.

    The cuts didn't cause the fire.  Liberals did.          
—
        It is wise to direct your anger towards problems -- not people; to focus your energies on answers -- not excuses.  -  William Arthur Ward      


Login or register to post comments



 
 










OV Social






 





















Most Popular






Nebraska's Defense Might be Human After All




Nebraska Offense Powers Through Rough Start vs. Fresno State




Read Obama's Speech to Congress Sept. 8, 2011




Picture: Demi Moore Tweets Topless Photo




Manny Pacquiao Sends Floyd Mayweather Jr. a Message




Video: Obama, Bush Visit 9/11 Memorial Together




Report: Julie Chen Fired Co-Host Holly Robinson Peete From 'The Talk'




700-Pound Pauline Potter of California is 'World's Fattest Woman'




F16 Jets Escort American Airlines' Plane, Passenger Used Toilet Too Much




Texas Gov. Rick Perry Cut Fire Department Funding by 75%



 
 
 





Most Commented






Obama Unveils the "American Jobs Act"




Fitting 9/11 Tribute: Make it Harder for Terrorists to Get Guns




Pre-9/11 Ground Zero Prayer Service Just a "Pathetic Stunt"




Deadbeat Dad Rep. Joe Walsh Sues Ex-Wife Over Legal Bills




NY Judge: No Constitutional Right to Carry Concealed Gun




Video: Walgreens Pharmacist Uses Gun to Fight Off Robbers, Gets Fired




Drug Czar Insists Medical Marijuana Leads to More Pot Smoking




L.A. Animal Services:  Will Chopping Trees and Racial Stereotyping Increase Pet Adoptions?




Recording Company Sues Manny Pacquiao for $10 Million




Woman Loses Lawsuit: Didn't Know Abortion Would "End a Life"



 
 
 
  
 
 





 

Civility 101
FAQ
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
About
Contact
OV Badges

 
© 2008-2011 Opposing Views, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Opposing Views, Inc. and its affiliates are not responsible for the content posted on thie website. Please view full disclaimer under Terms. 



















