East Texas Most Memorable Car Pitch Men/Women | 101.5 KNUE Country Radio
 




















101.5 KNUE Country Radio 











 


Search

 


Home
On-Air

Schedule
DJ’s


Listen

Listen Live
Mobile


Playlist

September 2011 Playlist
Recently Played


Events

Taste of Home
Country For Our Country
School Spirit
Friends of Habitat Caribbean Cruise


Country Club
RTX Rewind
Contact Us

VIP Support
Help & Contact Info




follow on facebook

follow on Twitter






 




East Texas Most Memorable Car Pitch Men/Women


By: Lucky Larry  |   4 days ago






They're on the air doing their best to sell us a car each and every day.  We hear from them a lot near the end of the month, I'm talking about car dealer pitch men/women.  Some are plain, some are loud and some are very creative at getting our attention.  I've come up with a quick list of the most notable dealers in East Texas along with their catch phrases!  See if your favorites or most disliked made my list after the jump!
Let me know who your favorite is and if I've left any off, please let me know!
 












Tom Wallace
Hyundai Of Longview – Longview


 

 
Tom's signature line is, “You pick it out and we'll work it out!”  Tom reminds me of Uncle Sam because in his commercials he points at the tv screen and makes you feel like it's your car and he's gonna get you in it.

 











Dean Cagle
Peltier Chevrolet and Peltier Nissan – Tyler


 

 
“Desperate Dean Cagle here…”  When you hear Dean you hear the urgency in his voice and if you don't act now you're gonna miss out on a great car at a great price.  Dean we know that you'll keep us rollin' too!

 











Kristen Dow carver
Dow Autoplex – Mineola


 

 
Kristen gives us the line “Where seeing green is saving green.”  Kristen has been the spokesperson for the dealership for quite a while and we've grown up with her over the years.

 











David Erwin
Tyler Ford – Tyler


 

 
“We are driving happiness” is the phrase that David Erwin delivers and he takes a rather unique and interesting approach to his commercials.  He pokes at the other dealerships (which is interesting).  Keep up the competition David.

 











Kik
Toyota of Longview


 

 
Kik is rather new on the scene for Toyota of Longview where she's “Kickin' high prices!”

 











Jack King
Crown Kia – Tyler and Longview


 

 
Jack King is one of the most memorable in East Texas where his phrase used to be in “Downtown Tyler”, but that ended when he sold the Chevy dealership and now focuses on his Kia line and has adopted the “Your low overhead dealer” phrase.  You either love or hate his commercials but you immediately recognize them when you hear them.

 











Henry Lewis
Lewis Chevrolet – Canton


 

 
“I'll meet you at 2 in the morning if I know you're coming” is how Henry Lewis ends every one of his commercials both on tv and radio.  His dealership is in Canton and I've often wondered if anyone has ever taken him up on his offer.  I wonder if there's a bank open that early/late to approve a loan!

 



And if you're a dealer and I left ya off, my apologies!
We want to know which car dealer's commercial you find most memorable?
 






Share on facebook!Share on twitter!Send to a friend!
Like



More from 101.5 KNUE


Double D’s To Open As "The Ranch" On September 13th


The Ranch (aka Double D’s) Sneak Peak


Friday Night Football In East Texas



More from around the webAlan Jackson, Darius Rucker + More Tweet About 9/11 on 10th Anniversary of Terrorist AttacksMartina McBride to Turn the Grand Ole Opry PinkScotty McCreery Reveals 'Clear as Day' Track Listing 






Update

 

 


101.5 KNUE on Facebook










 Country Music NewsAlan Jackson, Darius Rucker + More Tweet About 9/11 on 10th Anniversary of Terrorist Attacks September 11, 2011Martina McBride to Turn the Grand Ole Opry Pink September 11, 2011Scotty McCreery Reveals 'Clear as Day' Track Listing September 11, 2011Gretchen Wilson Mourns After the Death of Her Uncle Vern September 11, 2011Country Stars Remember 9/11 September 11, 2011Country Stars Remember 9/11 – Part 2 of 3 September 11, 2011Country Stars Remember 9/11 – Part 3 of 3 September 11, 2011  
 



 


EEOTermsPrivacyHelp & ContactTownsquareCountry MusicMusic NewsClassic RockHard RockFunny VideosDeal of the Day









Email

Password



Remember Me				






Forgot Password?
 
















