Bastrop wildfire battle continues with aid from Washington and fellow states | Pakistan News.Net












 
 
 












Home

Bastrop wildfire battle continues with aid from Washington and fellow states
Pakistan News.NetWednesday 7th September, 2011
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   
A wildfire in Bastrop State Park in Texas is quickly turning into one of the worst in the state’s history, killing several people and destroying 1,000 homes.
 State fire-fighting services in Texas are stretched to their limit battling the blaze, which has grown in size, killing 4 people and burning hundreds of homes in a single day.
 The Bastrop fire has been fuelled by strong winds from Tropical Storm Lee in the Gulf of Mexico over the weekend, whipping the runaway blaze into a frenzy.
 Texas, suffering through a severe drought, has been hit by more than 180 separate wildfires in the past week alone, prompting the White House to release federal funds for emergency disaster management and recovery.
 “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning,” said Texas Governor Rick Perry, who has suspended presidential campaigning to deal with the crisis. It is unclear whether the Republican hopeful will be able to attend an upcoming Republican presidential debate in California.
 Perry said Tuesday that he expects further federal support for Texans whose homes have been destroyed.
 White House spokesperson Jay Carney said the White House would “continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials in their efforts to contain these fires”, adding that US President Obama had approved seven federal grants to Texas in the wake of the latest wildfire outbreaks.
 Perry has criticised federal red tape that prevents the military being able to use its own heavy equipment to help state officials fight the fires. Perry was referring to bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood base, 75 miles from Bastrop.
 “When you’ve got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don’t care who the asset belongs to,” said Governor Perry. “If it’s sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that’s a problem.”
 Fort Hood has been fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze, although that wildfire is much smaller than the Bastrop inferno.
 Texas put out a call for help in fighting its wildfires and the federal government has sent heavy tanker planes and aircraft capable of scooping water from lakes. Other states have also responded to the call, sending aircraft and fire crews.
 The Bastrop fire is now being fought by around 1,200 fire-fighters, their ranks swelled by the addition of fire crews from Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon.
 “We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service. 
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   




Have your say on this story



Your nickname
 (required)


Message



















Top Stories  













Number of runaway marriages on the rise in PakistanThe number of runaway marriages in Pakistan is reportedly increasing due to forced marriages and opposition to love marriages by the parents.

Accordi ... [read story]
Afghan refugees in Pak don't want to return to 'chaos'Afghan refugees, who are languishing in Pakistan, have little hope of stability in their home country inspite of ten years of US-led efforts to restor ... [read story]
China, Iran to provide emergency humanitarian aid to flood-hit PakistanChina has decided to dispatch relief goods worth 4.7 million dollars for the flood-affected people in Pakistan. 

Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Liu J ... [read story]
Militant wings present in all Pak political parties: Imran KhanPakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) chairman Imran Khan reckons that militant wings are present in all the political parties of the country.

Addressing a  ... [read story]
Pak pays tribute to victims of 9/11 attacksPakistan paid tribute to the 9/11 victims on the 10th anniversary of the attacks and said it is also a target of terrorism.

"Pakistan joins the peopl ... [read story]





















Daily Newsletter
Pakistan News RSS Feed
World News RSS Feed
Business and Finance RSS Feed


Home
Newsletter
Map
About Us
News Releases
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map

© 1999 - 2011 Mainstream Media EC - All rights reserved

