Your Questions About Truth About Abs Truth | truthaboutabsreviews.com









truthaboutabsreviews.com
Mike Geary Truth About Abs








Home
About






















Home
		 > Uncategorized		 > Your Questions About Truth About Abs Truth	

Your Questions About Truth About Abs Truth

March 1st, 2011
master Leave a comment
Go to comments








John asks…


How can i cancel a 21 day trail for the truth about abs program?
My sister bought the truth about abs program but the 21 day free trial. Its an ebook so as soon as she bought it it was downloaded into her computer. She said it looked like a waste of 40 dollars.How can she cancel it so she doesnt have to pay? Thanks,




master answers:
In the email there should be an option to get a refund.  Truth about abs is sold from Clickbank.  They are good about refunding money without any questions.






Charles asks…


what is the truth about six pack abs main program all about?
i was actually searching for how to reduce stomach fat and i was directed to visit truth about abs site but still i need more clarity.My first son’s tummy is too big and i will like to help him out.




master answers:
This is one of the main products being sold by an “affiliate marketing” network.  THousands of people on the internet are all trying to make money selling this “program”.  It is a complete waste of time. 
Once people join the network, the only way they can recoup their fee is to sell this program. So they push it everywhere. 
The “truth” is that you have to do sit-ups and run and not eat too much.  But you already knew that.






Robert asks…


Does the truth about abs book really asist you in getting washboard abs?
I keep seeing this truth about abs book on the internet and I can’t help but wonder if it really works. What I would like to know is does it work? How much is it? and Does it incorperate an eating plan? Thanks for any reply!  




master answers:
Maybe, but why spend money on a book?
The only thing that will give you abs is keeping your body fat percentage (BFP) below 11%. You can do a thousand crunches a day, but if you’ve got a BFP of 15% you’ll have “laundry on that washboard.”
The actual percentage differs for each person (we all store fat differently).
Do about half an hour of cardio every day, and a few anaerobic lifts to increase overall calorie expenditure.






Richard asks…


What kind of information is in the ebook Truth About Abs by Mike Geary?
I know it’s like a bunch of tips and stuff, but can anyone who has the ebook tell me what exactly they are? Like the facts inside?
thanks!




master answers:
I’ve bought this ebook 5 years ago. Used it for months. You can see my result hype-free for yourself down there at the source. But as you’re asking…
Mainly it’s a combination of mental preparation, food selection, resistance training, & cardio (lifestyle change. The book tells you about:
The #1 Most Important Thing in stripping Fat that Can Make You or Break You(it’s not all those diet, exercise or  sleep details as you might think) -pg. 12
2 Main Reasons Why People Fail to Sculpt or Maintain Their Sexy Abs. -pg. 12
6 Crucial Steps to Keep You Focus on Having Your Dream Body -pg. 13
How to Effectively Handle ‘Bad Food’ Craving (by no means you have to starve or can’t eat your favorite ‘bad food’ at all) -pg. 14


The Blood Sugar, Insulin Process & Glycemic Index Scientifically Explained; & What to Do About It -pg.15
The #1 Enemy That’s Making Us Fat (the answer may shock you) -pg. 19
The Lethal Dangers of Following These Fad Diets (mentioned in this book) -pg.21
The Truth About Animal Fats Clinically Explained (even some experts got it wrong) -pg. 23
The Truth About Plant-based Fats Scientifically Explained -pg. 26
Nutritional Facts on Foods Around Us & How to Use Them to Your Advantage -pg.35
How to Overfeed Yourself for Optimum Fitness (I kid you not) -pg. 37
Meal Frequency & Thermic Effect of Food -pg. 38
2 Hidden Evils in Our Food Supply -pg.39
The Importance of _________ in Turning/Staying Lean -pg. 41
The Secret Fat Loss Benefits of _______ -pg. 43
Another Metabolism-boosting Food You Must Have -pg. 45
Food Compounds that Gives Us Stubborn Belly Fat (this is almost everywhere)-pg. 48
List of Harmful Foods to Avoid -pg. 49
The Best Foods to Fight the Harmful Food Compounds -pg. 49
Effective Dietary Strategies for Lean, Strong, Mouth-watering Body -pg. 50
74 Healthy Balanced Tasty Meal Plan Ideas/Examples (for all level/weight class)-pg. 51
Proper Body Positioning for Ab Training -pg. 60
The Right Resistance, Frequency & Duration of Ab Training -pg. 62
Bad Yet Popular Ab Exercises You Must Avoid (doing these will get us nowhere) -pg. 64
Good Ab Exercises You Should Focus On (/w pictures & details) -pg. 65
Some Surprisingly Killer Ab/Core Exercises Bringing You to the Next Level (/w pictures & details)-pg. 65 
Functional Warm-up: the correct way to start your exercise (/w pictures & details) -pg. 79
Ab Training Programs for Every Fitness Levels (8 levels altogether) -pg. 84
Lean Body Mass & Metabolic Rate Explained & Applied -pg. 87
RMR Calculator Giveaway (lets you know how much we individually should consume per day in order to tone down or bulk up) -pg. 88
The Science Behind Mike’s Hard-rock Abs & Lean Body Workout Method -pg. 93
Problems with Cardio & Mike’s Solution -pg. 96
Alternatives for Boring Cardio -pg. 99
Frequency & Duration of Training Sessions (most gym rats & joggers got it wrong) -pg. 100
Important Factors in an Effective Training Routine -pg.  101
The Most Effective Exercises for 6 Pack Abs & Strong Mouth-watering Body (/w pictures & details) -pg. 103
Mike’s Advanced Secret Weapon Exercises That aren’t Even Ab-focused, But Work Your Abs Better Than Ab Exercises (/w pictures & details) -pg. 127
Example Bodyweight-Only Routines (good if you don’t have access to a gym/travelling) -pg. 127
6 Example Training Programs for All Levels (beginner, intermediate, advanced) -pg. 128
Additional Lean Body Tips (don’t skip this) -pg. 138 
Hope this helps
Ed






Mandy asks…


Buy The Truth About Abs For The Lowest Price?
Hey guys
Maybe one of you know where I can buy The Truth About Abs program by Mike Geary in the lowest price online (including the 2 months money back guarantee)?
I really want to buy this program so please help me if you can.
Thanks




master answers:
Hey
I’m not sure but I think that you can buy The Truth About Abs program just on the official website if you want to get the money back guarantee.
However, you can get the complete program for less than 5 bucks for 21 days if you use the trial offer of the Truth About Abs program.
Below is the link that I’ve found and used to buy The Truth About Abs program and to get the trial offer of the program and all the bonuses including the money back guarantee for only 4.95
You can use it too if you want (if this offer is still available..).
Hope that it helps and good with the program!


Powered by Yahoo! Answers

 


Categories: Uncategorized Tags:  






Comments (0)
Trackbacks (0)
Leave a comment
Trackback






			No comments yet.		





					No trackbacks yet.				










Name (required)



E-Mail (will not be published) (required)



Website








Subscribe to comments feed







 

Truth About Abs Reviews













RSS

Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha








Recent Posts

Sue Smith’s Fitness Column (From Stroud News and Journal)Who be be better to start in week 3. Dez Bryant or Demaryius Thomas?Rex Ryan taking Jets' opener seriously for many reasonsCowboys’ Dez Bryant: Bring On Revis Island, Jets’ SecondaryDieting problems? dukan diet? does it work? (10 points)?Hanover Township, Northampton County, man charged with arsonShould I start Plaxico Burress or Bernard Berrian this week?Why didn' the NY Jets have a ticker tape parade when they won the Super Bowl in January 1969?Questioning the Reasoning Behind Cam Newton’s EligibilityHow Cam Newton Could Have Run A Better 40 




Tag Cloud
10 years
actress
amp
brother
cnn
earth
economy
espn
facebook
game
games
getty images
god
good luck
google
heart
hell
hollywood
iphone
job
jobs
live 105
lol
london
long time
love
marriage
match
mdash
mom
money
music
nbsp
nfl
parents
photos
quot
relationship
rsquo
truth
twitter
united states
weather
yahoo
youtube 







Categories

Reviews

truth about abs reviews

Uncategorized









Blogroll

Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet










Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011




Meta

Log in











Top
WordPress

		Copyright © 2011 truthaboutabsreviews.com	

		Theme by NeoEase. Valid XHTML 1.1 and CSS 3.	







WordPress SEO
