DNR Advises Louisiana Oil and Natural Gas Operators on Wildfires | Kiked



Kiked.com





 





 Recent Posts 
Expect a new and improved Mark Sanchez for Jets this season
Fantasy Football Week 1: Can Miles Austin Get off Revis Island?
New York Jets 2011 Fantasy Football Preview: Is Mark Sanchez A Smart Play?
The Cam rules: Revised SEC bylaws reflect Newton case and how accusations get reported
‘Spartacus’ Star Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma at 39
Cowboys defend Romo after latest collapse
Tony Romo: Late INT Sours Good Game for Both Dallas Cowboys and Fantasy Owners
Former 'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma
Tim Tebow vs. Cam Newton: Analysts Pick at Tebow, Praise Newton for Same Flaws
Jets QB Mark Sanchez looks to shake 'slow starter' label in season opener vs. Dallas Cowboys
Curetech lymphoma trial succeeds
Public Policy Institute establishes schedule
2011 NFL Predictions: Donovan McNabb Will Be This Season’s Rebound Player
Reflections from the editors: Finding a common ground
The New York Week That Was (They Said It Part II Edition)

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Tags5 million
actress
amp
associated press
barack obama
donald trump
e mail
espn
facebook
festivities
game
getty images
god
google
hall of fame
head coach
iphone
james franco
job
launch
lebron james
match
mdash
mlb
money
nascar
nasdaq
nbsp
new england patriots
obama
photos
publicity
quot
reuters
rsquo
saturday night live
season 3
target
teammates
tuesday morning
twitter
ups
weather
wind direction
youtube
 





 
 

DNR Advises Louisiana Oil and Natural Gas Operators on Wildfires




 
The Louisiana Department of Natural Resources' (DNR) Office of Conservation today released a fire threat advisory for oil and natural gas operations throughout the state in response to a recent series of wildfires in North Louisiana, as well as ongoing drought conditions in much of the state and continuing wildfire outbreaks in eastern Texas. Commissioner of Conservation Jim Welsh has issued the advisory calling on operators of all oil and natural gas exploration, production, transportation, waste and storage facilities regulated by the Office of Conservation to keep advised of the latest reports on the location and status of active fires in relation to active sites and to take all appropriate steps to prevent fires from coming into contact with active wells, flowlines, gathering lines, pipelines or storage tanks. Welsh also reminds operators that state regulations require that combustible vegetation, trash and debris should always be kept at least 100 feet away from wellheads, production equipment, storage tanks and other exploration and production site structures. He notes that operators whose facilities are directly threatened by wildfires should be prepared to take steps that include removing crude oil or condensate from storage tanks or shutting in wells, production facilities, flowlines or pipelines, if necessary. "As drought conditions persist in many areas of our state, so does the risk of wildfire and the potential for wildfires to grow quickly out of control once they start," Welsh said. "I am asking our oil and natural gas operators to be proactive in ensuring their sites are as fire-safe as possible and to be informed and ready to take action if wildfires are burning near their facilities." The U.S. Forest Service, within the U.S. Department of Agriculture, maintains a fire danger rating map at wfas.net/maps/ and maps of fire conditions and ongoing major wildfires at activefiremaps.fs.fed.us. The Office of Conservation advisory can be viewed at dnr.louisiana.gov/assets/OC/latest_news/20110906_wildfireadvisory0001.pdf










				© 2011 
					Kiked				








