TCEQ URGES COMMON SENSE WHEN IN THE PROXIMITY OF SMOKE FROM REGIONAL WILDFIRES | Kiked



Kiked.com





 





 Recent Posts 
Expect a new and improved Mark Sanchez for Jets this season
Fantasy Football Week 1: Can Miles Austin Get off Revis Island?
New York Jets 2011 Fantasy Football Preview: Is Mark Sanchez A Smart Play?
The Cam rules: Revised SEC bylaws reflect Newton case and how accusations get reported
‘Spartacus’ Star Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma at 39
Cowboys defend Romo after latest collapse
Tony Romo: Late INT Sours Good Game for Both Dallas Cowboys and Fantasy Owners
Former 'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma
Tim Tebow vs. Cam Newton: Analysts Pick at Tebow, Praise Newton for Same Flaws
Jets QB Mark Sanchez looks to shake 'slow starter' label in season opener vs. Dallas Cowboys
Curetech lymphoma trial succeeds
Public Policy Institute establishes schedule
2011 NFL Predictions: Donovan McNabb Will Be This Season’s Rebound Player
Reflections from the editors: Finding a common ground
The New York Week That Was (They Said It Part II Edition)

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Tags5 million
actress
amp
associated press
barack obama
donald trump
e mail
espn
facebook
festivities
game
getty images
god
google
hall of fame
head coach
iphone
james franco
job
launch
lebron james
match
mdash
mlb
money
nascar
nasdaq
nbsp
new england patriots
obama
photos
publicity
quot
reuters
rsquo
saturday night live
season 3
target
teammates
tuesday morning
twitter
ups
weather
wind direction
youtube
 





 
 

TCEQ URGES COMMON SENSE WHEN IN THE PROXIMITY OF SMOKE FROM REGIONAL WILDFIRES




 
AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 6 -- The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality issued the following news release:As wildfires continue to engulf parts of the state, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality is urging residents to use their best judgment when near heavy smoke. If intense smoke can be seen and smelled, people should use common sense in evacuating areas where smoke levels are high.Air monitors in South and Central Texas have shown elevated PM2.5 readings; however these readings are currently not at a level that is unhealthy for sensitive groups.Satellite imagery this morning shows a large smoke plume in Northeast Texas. It also shows patches of lingering smoke from previous fires this week, in parts of Southeast and South Texas.Smoke contains small particles and gasses that irritate the eyes and lungs. Exposures to high concentrations of these particles can cause persistent cough, phlegm, wheezing, and difficulty breathing. Children, older adults, and people with pre-existing heart or lung disease are more susceptible to lower levels of smoke than healthy adults.For the most current information on the Texas wildfire situation, visit the Texas Forest Service. For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at Copyright 2011 HT Media Ltd.All Rights ReservedWire News provided by 










				© 2011 
					Kiked				








