Bastrop, Texas, Wildfire The Most Devastating In State's History




forextradingexpert.info making money from forex trading|currency trading



Follow me on TwitterRSS Feeds

Home
forex trading for beginners
Forex Trading Book Store















« Forex Trade Course of action
Avoiding Forex Trading Scams Can Become Natural For Traders »



Bastrop, Texas, Wildfire The Most Devastating In State's History








 the Bastrop, Texas wildfire is the most devastating one in the state’s history, destroying some 700 homes. It grew so big that the U.S. Forest Service took charge Wednesday, officials said.
 the fire – one of nearly 200 that erupted across the state in the past week – raged out of control for a fourth day, consuming more than 54 square miles and forcing more than 7,000 people to evacuate.
 It killed at least two people, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said Tuesday, raising the statewide death toll to at least four. He offered no details about the deaths.
 the earlier deaths were a mother and her 18-month-old daughter, killed Sunday near Gladewater, east of Dallas, when they couldn't escape their mobile home in a fast-moving fire that destroyed the mobile home and five other homes within minutes.
 Reduced winds of 5 mph to 10 mph that began Tuesday were expected to last through Saturday, giving an estimated 1,200 firefighters from more than a dozen states a chance to get closer to the fire and dig fire lines with 27 bulldozers and by hand, and to cut brush and trees in the hope of containing the inferno, Forest Service spokesman Mike Ferris told USA Today.
 Wind and heat conditions were previously so severe firefighters in the drought-parched terrain couldn't mount a land attack, Texas Forest Service officials said before handing over the firefighting coordination to the U.S. Forest Service, whose Smokey Bear mascot seeks to educate the public about preventing forest fires.
Bastrop, Texas, Wildfire The Most Devastating In State's History
Related Products:
 

000 People, Bastrop Texas, bulldozers, county sheriff, Death Toll, Deaths, Dozen States, Firefighters, forest service, Mobile Home, Pickering, texas wildfire 




 

Share this post!

Twitter
Digg
Facebook
Delicious
StumbleUpon
Google Bookmarks
LinkedIn
Yahoo Bookmarks
Technorati Favorites



 Print article  
              This entry was posted by editor on September 7, 2011 at 4:27 pm, and is filed under content. Follow any responses to this post through RSS 2.0. You can leave a response or trackback from your own site.            







Related Posts Comments (0) 






No comments yet.






















 













No trackbacks yet.






 Texas Wildfires: Fire is 2 Miles from Bastrop City Limits #bastrop texas
about 5 days ago - No comments
Photograph of smoke from the Pedernales Bend fire near Spicewood can be seen for miles. Photo taken on September 5, 2011. – Image by Darla Sue Dollman. Copyright by Darla Sue Dollman Governor Rick Perry leaves his campaign to survey the damage as wildfires rage out of control in Central Texas and new fires flare















 

 

Tagsamp
Best
Commodities
Currencies
Currency
Currency Exchange
Currency Market
Currency Pairs
Currency Trading
Exchange
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Exchange Market
Forex
Forex Brokers
Forex Market
Forex Markets
Forex Signals
Forex Trade
Forex Trader
Forex Traders
Forex Trading
gold
Investing
Investors
Japanese Yen
Leverage
Losses
Market
Money
Profits
Reviews
Risk
Robot
Robots
Rsquo
Signals
Stock Market
Strategies
Trade
Trades
Trading
Trading Forex
Trading Platform
Trading Software
Trading Strategies
 




 





 


Pages 
about
Forex Trading Book Store
forex trading for beginners
Privacy Policy

  Recent Posts 
Important Facts about the Forex Trading System — ForexTutor.us Special Report (Forex Trading Strategies)
Gold Outside Week Suggestive of Exhaustion
‘Spartacus’ Star Andy Whitfield Dies Of Lymphoma At 39
Quick Quotes
Forex Forecasts – You Never Know What You Will Benefit From

Popular Search Termsjanis joplinrapper opens up about secret childmaci bookoutaaron spelling mansionGoldfarrah abrahamhp tablet for saleenchantedhp tablets for salehp touchpad for sale in canadaRecent Comments 















 



 










Mystique theme by digitalnature | Powered by WordPress  RSS Feeds XHTML 1.1 Top

















