EU countries propose military headquarters - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals






			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / World News			/ EU countries propose military headquarters 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

World News



EU countries propose military headquarters

        		Published: Sept. 9, 2011 at 11:19 AM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet











				(File/UPI Photo/ David Silpa)  






Advertisement

BRUSSELS, Sept. 9 (UPI) -- France, Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain say they want to develop a plan for a European Union military headquarters, the EUobserver reported Friday.
In a letter to EU foreign relations chief Catherine Ashton, the five countries asked her to investigate their options in moving forward despite objections from Britain, the online newspaper said.
The letter, viewed by EUobserver personnel, said Ashton should examine "permanent structured cooperation," a treaty option that allows nine or more member states to move ahead on projects without other EU countries.
Supporters of a military headquarters say the EU needs to move beyond battlegroups toward an EU army but Britain is highly opposed to the idea.
"I have made very clear that the United Kingdom will not agree to a permanent operational HQ. We will not agree to it now and we will not agree to it in the future. That is a red line," British Foreign Minister William Hague said in July. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional World News Stories



Top News


2 dozen slaves freed in England
LEIGHTON BUZZARD, England, Sept. 12 (UPI) -- 
			Five suspects were in custody in England Sunday, accused of holding 24 men as slaves, authorities said.
		
Bastrop residents to begin returning home
T.S. Maria posing no threat
Scotland bracing for Katia's blow
Drone strike kills at least 3 in Pakistan


Entertainment News


'Spartacus' star Whitfield dead at 39
SYDNEY, Sept. 11 (UPI) -- 
			Andy Whitfield, who starred in the "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" TV series on Starz, died Sunday at age 39, his wife said.
		
Charlie Sheen takes his roast with a smile
Toronto Film Festival recalls Sept. 11
UPI NewsTrack Entertainment News
Kathy Griffin surprises NYC window washer




Business News


Elbit accused of misrepresentation
MELBOURNE, Sept. 12 (UPI) -- 
			Israel's Elbit Systems Ltd. and its Australian subsidiary are being taken to court in Australia over alleged misrepresentation.
		
China's Aug. trade surplus dips to $17.8B
Slovakia, Hungary agree on gas pipeline
Lockheed delivers sixth C-130J
BAE designing computers for C-130s


Local News

More Details on 2011 All Access Fashion
Area universities look to academic programs, local industry for new revenue streams
General News. Colonials Athletics Weekend Preview
Obama's speech, and the NFL season opener: A helpful guide
Jayson Werth Doesn't Like His Photo Taken So We Took It Some More






 


UPI News Photos

Egyptians raid Israeli Embassy in Cairo



Obama unveils jobs plan



U.S. Open 2011



The tenth anniversary of 9/11



Republican debate at the Reagan Library



Tropical Storm Lee soaks New Orleans



Military plane crash in Chile





Most Popular



1.
EU countries propose military headquarters


2.
External artificial lung saves teen's life


3.
Hurricane Katia races toward U.K.


4.
Winner bought lottery tickets on whim


5.
Why drunken people do embarrassing things





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 30
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Robert Peraza, who lost his son Robert David Peraza, pauses at his son's name at the North Pool of the 9/11 Memorial during tenth anniversary ceremonies at the site of the World Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2011. UPI/Justin Lane/Pool		













 





Propping your iPad 2 on the table at a fine restaurant and watching sports during the meal will...

Pirates raid luxury resort in Kenya, kill husband, kidnap wife. There is never a ninja around when...

How one former Marine saved two people from the rubble at Ground Zero, after driving impulsively...

Not news: Man has murder charges dropped under "Stand your ground" law. News: Victims were unarmed....

Couple attempts to join the Mile High Club. Proper response is C: Scramble F-16 jets, notify the...

Cops respond to possible burglary and find woman dead in apartment. To make matters worse, her neighbor...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















