Texas Fires Kill 4, Destroy More Than 1,600 Homes





 




MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance










Featured Stories
White House: Irene's CostN.Y. Chiropractors Push to Reverse GuidelinesSome Opt Out in Fla. Drywall ClaimsCalif. Law to Reduce Homeowner Notices 









Front Page

National
International
Most Popular
Magazine
Forums
Blogs
Videos/Podcasts
Newsletters


News

Most Popular
National
International
East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West


Topics

P&C Companies
Agents & Brokers
Government
Markets/Coverages
Operations
Claims
More Topics


Magazines

East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West
Subscribe


Directories

Jobs

Sales
Marketing
Management
Finance
Claims
Underwriting
Other


Features

Events
Forums
Yellow Pages
Insurance Twitter
Market Directories
Ad Showcase
Quotes


Subscribe








Texas Fires Kill 4, Destroy More Than 1,600 Homes

			By Jim Vertuno and Michael Graczyk | 						September 8, 2011 



Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:








Article
1 Comments


One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history has left more than 1,600 homes in ruins and stretched the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted recently across the rain-starved Lone Star State. The Texas Forest Service has confirmed that the number of homes destroyed by the Bastrop County Complex fire stands at 1,386. Approximately 240 additional homes have been reported lost in other fires since Sept. 4, for a total of approximately 1,626, the TFS reported.
The forest service said it responded to 20 new fires on Sept. 7, covering 1,422 acres, including new large fires in Red River, Smith, and Cherokee/Rusk counties.
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee’s winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people in the Bastrop fire. Two additional deaths were reported as a result of a fire in Northeast Texas.
In Bastrop County, 34,068 acres have burned. The TFS said as of Sept. 8 the fire was 30 percent contained and the forward movement of the blaze has ceased. The interior of the fire area continues to experience intense burning, the forest service said.
Gov. Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze.
‘It’s more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government,’ Perry said. ‘When you’ve got people hurting, when you’ve got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don’t care who the asset belongs to. If it’s sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that’s a problem.’
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and ‘we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires.’
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
‘We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,’ said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres by Sept. 6, including an 8,000-acre blaze in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
Many of the buildings destroyed in the Bastrop fire were modest, single-story homes in housing developments. Others were expensive ranch homes, set off by themselves.
In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. Some homes survived; others were gone.
The Postal Service delivered mail to homes that had burned to the ground; only the mailboxes were left stand.
Residents were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods.
‘We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this,’ said Dave Wilhelm, who lives just east of Bastrop. ‘All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left.’
Wilhelm returned to find his neighbor’s house and three vehicles gone. Some of his children’s backyard toys were destroyed, but the Wilhelm house was spared.
John Chapman’s home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a ’57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: ‘You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.’
‘The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I’m not going to worry about it,’ he said.
For Perry, the crisis carries both opportunity and risk, said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant who has worked on a number of presidential campaigns.
‘It gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring, which are four qualities that most voters look for in a president,’ Harris said.
But he added: ‘You can’t do anything that looks sounds, or smells even remotely political. If it looks like you are taking advantage of a disaster and trying to use it for political purposes, it will backfire and you’ll be worse off than if you hadn’t done anything.’
About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
‘The first night, we had a child 17 months old,’ she said. ‘We didn’t have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.’
Also contributing to this story were AP reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop. Michael Graczyk reported from Houston.
 
Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. 




Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:











Categories: Texas / South Central NewsTopics: Texas, wildfires 
Have a hot lead?  Email us at newsdesk@insurancejournal.com




« Previous article60 Homes Destroyed in Fire Northwest of Houston
Next article »Texas Mutual Rewards CompGroup AGC with $773K Dividend


 




                Insurance news headlines delivered to your email.
            Get a free subscription to our popular email newsletter.


 

Advertisers








Latest Comments




								    September 9, 2011 at 10:39 am											

 Not A Witch says: 

				Glad to see Rick Perry going to Washington with his hand out after cutting funding for volunteer fire departments... shouldn't he be praying for rain in some "non-political" a... read more 




See all comments


See Comments (1)Add a Comment Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Comment 




Notify me of comments via e-mail 



More NewsEast Coast Quake Shook US Nuclear Plant Twice as Hard as Design AllowedTexas Fires Kill 4, Destroy More Than 1,600 HomesSenate Committee Passes Federal Flood Insurance Reform LegislationBest Report Concludes Canada’s Insurers Improve, But Risk Profile RisesTennessee Supreme Court Hears General Contractor Liability CaseDamages Ruling May Be Pivotal in BP Gulf Oil CaseAfter Drenching New Orleans, Tropical Storm Lee Threatens SoutheastTornado Has Cost Insurance $2.2B So Far in Joplin, MissouriMore News Features




 












Email
Twitter
iPhone
Facebook
iPad
LinkedIn
Android
RSS


 
Have a news tip? Tell us.


 

Most Popular

Now
This Week
Commented
Hurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and Nate
Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast States
Central Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State
Connecticut Asks Insurers to Waive Storm Deductibles for Irene Damages
Hurricane Katia Now Expected to Miss East CoastWhite House Requests $5.2B in New Disaster FundsSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (22)Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast StatesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (14)Mortgage Lawsuits Target Individuals As Well As BanksSeptember 8, 2011 | Comments (12)Regulator Defends Suit Against Lenders Over Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (11)Nebraska County Must Pay $407K in Car Crash LawsuitSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (7)More Top Stories 
Current Issue 



Read Online
Download PDF
Subscribe
Available on the iPad


Partner Center 






Featured VideosBrokering the Hot Cyber Liability MarketWatch Video
Quote of Note

In reality, Solvency II is a much-needed effort to modernize an admittedly outmoded European regulatory regime, but it has been aggressively marketed by some as the 'be all and end all' of insurance regulation. In my opinion, this creates not only a problem but does a disservice to the broader challenge of achieving true equivalence on an outcomes basis.

 

 

 

 
Connecticut Insurance Commissioner Thomas B. Leonardi

More Quotes
Reader Poll 
Does your company or agency plan on hiring new employees between now and the end of 2011?
 








Insurance Jobs
Claims Examiner - Santa Cruz, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - South Coast Metro, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - San Ramon, CAOffice Claims Adjuster - Olathe, KSPredictive Modeling Analyst - Richmond, VA

 




LexArchaeology Provides Construction Owners Peace of Mind in Troubling TimesExpanded Food Recall Authority Creates Liabilities, OpportunitiesSafe Driving Habits Pay Off for Consumers with Usage-Based InsuranceUnderstanding Legal Liability for Condominium Association and Unit Owners 





Pottery Barn Kids Recalling About 82,300 DollsHonda Recalls 310,773 Pilots in the USAmerican Family Pays $1 Billion in Storm PaymentsUSFA Releases Civilian Fire Fatalities in Residential Buildings Report

 




POPULAR: Top 7 CGL Coverage Questions
FREE: Beyond Basic Training Information Session
SEPT 14: Succession Planning for Managers and Owners
EXCLUSIVE: Secrets of the Top Performing Agencies












Insurance News

News by Region
News by Topic

Yesterday

Site Search

 



Features

Insurance Markets Directory
Forums
A.M. Best Company Ratings
Industry Events
Agencies Wanted / For Sale
Yellowpages
Newswire
Ad Showcase
Insurance Jobs



Connect with us

Email Newsletters
Magazine Subscriptions
For Your Website
RSS Feeds
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn



Insurance Journal

Submit News
Advertise
Subscribe
Contact Us
Link to Us

Wells Publishing Network

Insurance Journal Online
MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance



© 2011 by Wells Publishing, Inc. Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Site Map













What others are reading (1 of 21 articles)Hurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and NateClose




