Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo)                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo)    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By RaulDeSouza            10 1      
Views: 770
       Today when people all over the United States are celebrating the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attack s a rumor is also getting quite a lot of attention. The rumor is that the photo of the dead body of the person responsible for the attacks "Osama Bin Laden" has surfaced. Perhaps maybe because someone out there wanted us to remember that the terrorist who was responsible was destructed.After checking and going through all the news channels on the television on the Internet it has finally been concluded that the rumour is totally a hoax and no pictures exist. Since president Barack ObamaBarack Obama made it clear to the team who killed the terrorist to bury Bin Laden's dead body in the sea without taking any pictures. But still it would have been great if concrete evidence was given that the terrorist responsible for wreaking havoc around the globe was given a rightful treatment.Earlier an image which was available the very day Bin Laden was killed which apparently showed a dead Osama bin LadenOsama bin Laden on Pakistani television and picked up by British newspaper websites was also fake.It was said that Bin Laden was shot twice in the head in a raid on his compound in the city of Abbottabad in Pakistan. However, despite The White House’s claim that there was a DNA match between the body and tissue taken from bin Laden's dead sister's brain, the lack of bin Laden’s body, or even a photograph to prove that he is dead is likely to feed into conspiracy theories about the veracity of the operation.        1 of 97        
A fake picture showing the dead body of Osama Bin Laden.
     
RaulDeSouza is based in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (49.5%) Australia (7.5%) India (6.8%) United Kingdom (4.8%) 23 other countries (27.0%)           READ MORE: Osama bin Laden dead body, Osama bin Laden dead body pictures, Osama bin Laden dead body photos, Osama Bin Laden Body Pictures, Osama bin Laden death pictures, osama bin laden death photos, osama bin, IST, 10th anniversary, dead osama, Dead Body, Bin Laden   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 3            Reply  Posted By     badmofo1972
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
WOOOO WHOOOO yes,all,or most Americans would say that they agree,"where is undeniable proof?",about the circumstances surrounding Osama bin laden's death.A coroner's report, or autopsy photo should have been the ethical,moral standard for releasing such vital information.Personally i don't buy it.A simple way to look at it ,Presidential orders or not,i'm going to get a death picture of ,"The most wanted man in history",if i was responsible for his death. foot note:anyone who knows about photography would be skeptical of photo,because if you look at left ear,right side on photo, (out of focus-blurred aspect) then directly next to ear a fabric,cloth-denim looking,is visibly completely in focus.Such anomalies don't occur in reality,when in same area,at same distance.
            Reply  Posted By     lethibichlan
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
I feel very afraid of this picture, obviously still hideous death as in life. Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     mrspleats
|
34 minutes
ago
  
This is very sick no wonder they did not want to show them,however when the innocent people who died on September were relegated to ashes without bodies in many instances unidentifiable for their families to bury them.At least his family had a body,there should not be any so he what he felt I am sure in death was minor to what 3000 innocent people and many others killed because of his hate felt.Osama Bin Laden got what he deserved.Take care
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions           Bin Laden was taken alive By: yourali      
 Bin Laden was taken alive
8/22/ 2011
 
Osama bin Laden's 12-year-old daughter has reportedly told Pakistani investigators that her father was captured alive by United States special forces and then shot dead in front of his family.
 
The al-Arabiya network reported the claims as CIA director Leon Panetta admitted that the ...  20 days ago     10 Osama Bin Laden Facts (Bin Laden Is Dead) By: Ali1988      All of you must be aware with the name of the most wanted person ever in the
world’s history Osama Bin Laden, so here we have a post about the top 10 facts
you didn’t know about Osama Bin Laden. Osama Bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden
was born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the man was responsible for the 9/11 attacks
on the US, as the ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     No Osama bin Laden Dead Picture? Some Scepticism remains over bin Laden ...  
Muncie Free Press
 While America reflects and remembers that fateful day ten years ago - the September 11 terrorist attacks - Imtiaz Tyab at Al Jazeera has a report about local reactions to the news of Osama bin Laden's death earlier this year in a US raid in Pakistan.    Pakistan 'severely affected' by terrorism: FO ...  
Pak Tribune
 Pakistan, where Al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden holed up for years after 9/11, paid tribute to the victims of the attacks on their 10th anniversary on Sunday, saying it too was a target of terrorism. "Pakistan joins the people of the United States and...    America Marks 10 Years Since Sept. 11 Terrorist Attacks  
Voice of America
 Bush, first lady Michelle Obama and former first lady Laura Bush (obscured) look on during ceremonies marking the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center, in New York September 11, 2011 Today marks 10 years since the September...    US warned Taliban after 9/11 attacks  
The Economic Times
 Days after 9/11 attacks , the US had asked Pakistan to warn Mullah Omar that it will destroy every pillar of the Taliban regime if he did not hand over all al-Qaeda leaders hiding in the country, according to national security documents de-classified...    9/11 10th anniversary: America remembers - live coverage  
The Observer
 Karen McVeigh is out and about at a ceremony for some of the firefighters killed on 9/11. I'll be at the corner of 48th and 8th, home to the firefighters of 54 Engine, 4 Ladder, where a memorial service is being held this morning for those who were...    9/11 Memorial: Obama vs. Bush: Two Visions of the War on Terror?  
International Business Times
 The latest US business and financial news as well as issues and events Sample Both men have led the decade-long "war on terror," with Bush launching the campaign and sending U.S. troops into Iraq and Afghanistan while Obama is the man who almost 10...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body ...    Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body ... Image Source: allvoices A fake picture showing the dead body of Osama Bin Laden.        Osama bin Laden    Osama bin Laden Image Source: www.afp.com Osama bin Laden        Osama bin Laden    Osama bin Laden Image Source: www.afp.com Osama bin Laden        Still image taken from video ...    Still image taken from video ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Still image taken from video shows Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden ...        File photo of Osama bin Laden ...    File photo of Osama bin Laden ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of Osama bin Laden addressing a news conference in Afghanistan        File photo of Osama Bin Laden ...    File photo of Osama Bin Laden ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of Osama Bin Laden addressing a news conference in Afghanistan      More Related Images    More From New York City          Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        Denim done right at Teen Vogue’s Declare Your Denim Show!        Anniversary of the attack on the Twin Towers in 11 images        Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported Disturbance         Loadsheding in USA in 3 states        Parker Movie Cast        The Fast and the Furious 6 Movie Cast        New York drama relives ten years later           Perfect Sense Poster       Maraykanka oo ka cabsi qaba in werar lala beegsado 9/11 anniversary oo ku beegan bishan 11′keeda        Mission: Impossible Ghost Protocol Poster        Dolphin Tale Poster          9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308387      Related People              Osama bin Laden         Barack Obama          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 11       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 28       Comments: 3    3       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308387), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308387 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308387 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo)” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308387-osama-bin-ladens-dead-body-picture-surfaces-photo.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         