Scare in the air – another attempted 9/11?                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Scare in the air – another attempted 9/11?    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By prabirghose            2 0      
Views: 163
        Three men locked themselves inside the toilet of an aircraft that was headed for New York from Gold Coast – the passengers on board saw a big line outside the toilet but did not give it a second thought. In fact, they were unaware of the grave implications till they saw two F-16 fighter jets escorting the aircraft!! It was a chilling experience for all passengers of the American Airlines Flight No 34 – once the aircraft landed at the New York JFK airport, the passengers were asked to remain seated till the marshals came and took away the three passengers locked in the toilet. The F-16 jets from the North American Aerospace Defense Command intercepted the AA aircraft 160 Km from NY and escorted it till its landing. Authorities do not look upon as a terror activity but the FBI was involved.         1 of 11        
Obama shakes hands with people after arriving at JFK Airport aboard Air Force One in New York
         
prabirghose is based in Nāshik, Maharashtra, India,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (61.2%) Canada (9.7%) France (5.2%) India (4.5%) 10 other countries (14.2%)           READ MORE: American Airlines Flight No 34, f-16 fighter jets   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     shiraxinco
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
i guess it was same as a publicity stuntrated up
            Reply  Reply By     prabirghose
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
well - with F-16 fighters as escort, it must have been a bit more than that .. thanks for the rating ..
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported Disturbance By: muhammadjusuf       
Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported
A number of reports of suspicious airline passengers who act on the two flights has prompted the U.S. authorities on Sunday (09/11/2011), deploying fighter jets, right on 10th anniversary 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks, or often called the 9 / 11.But what happened on...  about 9 hours ago     Passenger aircraft causes security alert in the U.S.  By: lethibichlan      The fighter jets of the Air Force yesterday escorted by two passenger aircraft crew worried abnormal behavior of some guests. AP reported that U.S. authorities ordered two jet fighters F-16 aircraft fly close to an American Airlines Boeing after the crew informed of the two passengers to the toilet several times. The aircraft - from Los ...  about 10 hours ago     Gulf carriers cancel flights to New York  By: SyedRiffatAli      
DUBAI: Emirates and Etihad have cancelled flights to New York's
John F. Kennedy International Airport as hurricane Irene hit the city
braining torrential rain and fears of widespread flooding, local daily
Gulf News reported on Sunday. "Due to the impact of Hurricane
Irene, the Airport Authority has suspended flights to and from ...  15 days ago     Bahrain arrests 'drunk' Brit in airline security scare  By: Humera-      
Bahrain security forces arrested a British man on suspicion of carrying explosives aboard a plane, but a search of the aircraft failed to find any, the interior ministry said on Tuesday.
"Security forces stopped a British man of Asian descent on suspicion that he was carrying explosives on a plane coming to Bahrain in transit and headed to ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Fighter Jets Scrambled To Escort American Airlines Flight To New York City  
National Public Radio
 F-16 fighter jets to escort an American Airlines flight traveling from Los Angeles to New York, today, after three passengers locked themselves in a bathroom and refused to come out...The nature of the incident was unclear but a law enforcement...    NORAD: Military jets safely escort flight to NYC  
AP Online
 American Airlines flight bound for New York from Los Angeles after a report of a disturbance.
Flight 34 landed safely after 4 p.m...The nature of the incident was unclear but a law enforcement official says it isn't thought to be...    F-16s Safely Escort NYC Flight After Disturbance- Suspicious Device Leads ...  
Fox
 Two military aircraft escorted a New York-bound American Airlines flight from Los Angeles after three passengers locked themselves in the bathroom, officials said Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. A law enforcement official said...    Fighters scrambled on 9/11 anniversary  
United Press International
 U.S. warplanes were scrambled twice Sunday when commercial jetliner pilots reported suspicious behavior that turned out to be nothing, authorities said. With the nation on edge during the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, ABC...    Military Jets Escort NYC-bound Flight From LAX Because of Lushes, Not ...  
Laist
 The passengers weren't terrorists, reported NBC New York , but lushes who refused to listen to the flight crew telling them to stop going to the bathroom and taking such long breaks. Out of an abundance of caution, the crew of American Airlines...    Fighter jets scramble over passengers 'making out' in toilet  
Sydney Morning Herald
 A domestic Frontier Airlines flight from Denver to Detroit was shadowed by F-16 jets today after two passengers were spending ''an extraordinarily long time'' in the plane's bathroom, spokesman Peter Kowalchuck told the Associated Press. But...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Obama shakes hands with people ...    Obama shakes hands with people ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Obama shakes hands with people after arriving at JFK Airport aboard Air ...        Officials at New York's John F....    Officials at New York's John F.... Image Source: www.afp.com Officials at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport evacuated one ...        Passengers have their luggage ...    Passengers have their luggage ... Image Source: www.afp.com Passengers have their luggage screened by the TSA in Terminal 4 of JFK ...        An Emirates Airline flight ...    An Emirates Airline flight ... Image Source: www.afp.com An Emirates Airline flight touches down at New York's JFK airport in 2008        The control tower at New York'...    The control tower at New York'... Image Source: www.afp.com The control tower at New York's JFK airport        U.S. President Barack Obama ...    U.S. President Barack Obama ... Image Source: www.reuters.com U.S. President Barack Obama arrives at JFK Airport aboard Air Force One in ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        Denim done right at Teen Vogue’s Declare Your Denim Show!        Anniversary of the attack on the Twin Towers in 11 images        Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported Disturbance         Loadsheding in USA in 3 states        Parker Movie Cast        The Fast and the Furious 6 Movie Cast        New York drama relives ten years later           Perfect Sense Poster       Maraykanka oo ka cabsi qaba in werar lala beegsado 9/11 anniversary oo ku beegan bishan 11′keeda        Mission: Impossible Ghost Protocol Poster        Dolphin Tale Poster          9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308592          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 13       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 11       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308592), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308592 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308592 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Scare in the air – another attempted 9/11?” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308592-scare-in-the-air-another-attempted-911.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         