Texas wildfires - Why is Obama declaring a disaster in Alabama for tornado damage but not in Texas for the wildfires?





skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



























Discussions, debates, videos and photos of what US is talking about.




























Texas wildfires - Why is Obama declaring a disaster in Alabama for tornado damage but not in Texas for the wildfires?














Texas wildfires : Photo Gallery










Dry, Windy Conditions Keep Texas Wildfires Burning - Local News ...


Dry, Windy Conditions Keep Texas Wildfires Burning - Local News ...

across Texas, where fires














Texas Fires: Texas Fires Photos, Wallpapers, Galleries, TexasFires


Texas Fires: Texas Fires Photos, Wallpapers, Galleries, TexasFires

Texas Fires: TexasFires














Small Towns Destroyed by Oklahoma, Texas Wildfires, Residents Left ...


Small Towns Destroyed by Oklahoma, Texas Wildfires, Residents Left ...

Wildfires in Texas and














Use Wildfire Maps - Keep Up With Texas' Fires


Use Wildfire Maps - Keep Up With Texas' Fires

Only two fires have been














Texas wildfires collide with urban sprawl - CSMonitor.


Texas wildfires collide with urban sprawl - CSMonitor.

A series of large wildfires as seen heading east approaching Bastrop, Texas














Morrison World News | World News & Strategic Analysis In Real Time


Morrison World News | World News & Strategic Analysis In Real Time

Morrison World News | World














Texas wildfires leave 7 dead - US news - Life - msnbc.


Texas wildfires leave 7 dead - US news - Life - msnbc.

Three people died in fires














Texas Wildfires Claim 852 Homes in 48 Hours - Everything Free Web ...


Texas Wildfires Claim 852 Homes in 48 Hours - Everything Free Web ...

abandon of Texas wildfires














Officials: 1000 Texas homes burned in past week - Yahoo! News


Officials: 1000 Texas homes burned in past week - Yahoo! News

Click to see more of the wildfires burning near Austin, Texas.














Texas Wildfires Pictures - CBS News


Texas Wildfires Pictures - CBS News

Texas wildfires














Fire News: Evacuations, Donations and More: Austinist


Fire News: Evacuations, Donations and More: Austinist

fires in Central Texas.














Major of Cordova, Alabama refuses FEMA trailers for homeless ...


Major of Cordova, Alabama refuses FEMA trailers for homeless ...

Major of Cordova, Alabama














Texas wildfires destroy over 1000 homes: Perry - Yahoo! News


Texas wildfires destroy over 1000 homes: Perry - Yahoo! News

of the Texas wildfires.














Texas wildfires: More than 1000 homes lost, thousands evacuated


Texas wildfires: More than 1000 homes lost, thousands evacuated

Texas wildfires: Thousands














More Texas Wildfires - Alan Taylor - In Focus - The Atlantic


More Texas Wildfires - Alan Taylor - In Focus - The Atlantic

See earlier entry Texas wildfires, from April, 2011. [39 photos]














Texas wildfires destroy more than 1000 homes - Houston Chronicle


Texas wildfires destroy more than 1000 homes - Houston Chronicle

battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday,














Use Wildfire Maps - Keep Up With Texas Fires


Use Wildfire Maps - Keep Up With Texas Fires

Texas wildfires














Wildfires in Texas : Natural Hazards


Wildfires in Texas : Natural Hazards

Texas wildfires














Wildfires


Wildfires

Texas wildfires














Texas wildfire puts the heat on cattle


Texas wildfire puts the heat on cattle

Texas wildfires














Texas wildfires


Texas wildfires

Texas wildfires














Texas wildfires


Texas wildfires

Texas wildfires














Texas wildfire grows


Texas wildfire grows

Texas wildfires














 ... expected to favor Texas wildfire fight - OverOll.com - 568010


 ... expected to favor Texas wildfire fight - OverOll.com - 568010

Texas wildfires














Firefighters gain some control over Texas blaze


Firefighters gain some control over Texas blaze

So far, four people have died in wildfires in the state since Labor Day weekend, including a mother and infant daughter who were killed in northeast Texas on Sunday. Wildfires sweeping across drought-stricken state have destroyed more than 1000 homes ...














Rick Perry's response to Texas wildfires offers glimpse of leadership


Rick Perry's response to Texas wildfires offers glimpse of leadership

By Amy Gardner, With wildfires raging across his state, Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) assumed a familiar role this week: crisis commander in chief. His abrupt decision this week to cut short his presidential campaign schedule in South Carolina to oversee ...














Texas wildfires burn out of control


Texas wildfires burn out of control

High winds and a record drought have created the perfect conditions for the wildfires burning across Texas. There is no end in sight to the devastating blazes. (Sept. 6) (/CBS News) Correction: Clarification: SuperFan badge holders consistently post ...














Astronauts Spot Texas Wildfires From Space


Astronauts Spot Texas Wildfires From Space

By Clara Moskowitz, SPACE.com Senior Writer The wildfires burning in Texas are visible all the way from space, as seen in photos by astronauts on the International Space Station. NASA astronaut Mike Fossum was particularly saddened to see the fires, ...














White House monitoring Texas wildfires, press secretary Jay Carney says


White House monitoring Texas wildfires, press secretary Jay Carney says

A volunteer firefighter watches as a wildfire jumps a fire line in Graford, Texas. The wildfires have destroyed hundreds of homes across Texas. (AFP photo) White House officials “are monitoring the major fires in Texas,” presidential press secretary ...














Groups help animals affected by fire


Groups help animals affected by fire

By Dale Roe The wildfires that have raged across Central Texas since Sunday, prompting thousands of residents to evacuate their homes, have also uprooted animals. As shelters in Bastrop and Leander were evacuated in the past two days, dog and cats have ...














Texas wildfires


Texas wildfires

MAGS OUT; ; TV OUT; INTERNET OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY Photo: Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner / AP A helicopter dumps water on a fire in Steiner Ranch, west of Austin, Texas, on Sunday Sept. 4, 2011. Firefighters battled fires across Central Texas, ...














Texas wildfires and 9/11 apps: Trending now


Texas wildfires and 9/11 apps: Trending now

(CBS/What's Trending) - Wildfires have been spreading across Central Texas. Already 3.6 million acres have been burned and over 600 homes destroyed. Social media is already making its mark, as citizens ask for volunteers, pass on the latest warnings ...














Magnolia fire about 85 percent contained, offcials say


Magnolia fire about 85 percent contained, offcials say

Spotter planes from the Texas Department of Public Safety and the Texas Forest Service dropped water and flame retardant on the fire. All Magnolia ISD schools will be closed today due to wildfires in the Magnolia Area. Magnolia High School has been set ...














Texas fires and drought cost farms $5.2bn


Texas fires and drought cost farms $5.2bn

By Sheila McNulty in Houston Wildfires are raging across central Texas, compounding drought that has caused $5.2bn in agricultural losses and led ranchers in the largest cattle-producing US state to rush to slaughter. At the weekend, the Texas Forest ...














Home now ashes, family vows to rebuild


Home now ashes, family vows to rebuild

The blaze, known as the Steiner Ranch Fire, one of several wildfires scorching Texas, appeared to cruelly and indiscriminately single out homes for destruction, leaving others to stand untouched. The Bielinsky home was one of 24 destroyed in their ...














Collector Loses 175 Classic Cars In Texas Wildfires


Collector Loses 175 Classic Cars In Texas Wildfires

Dust, ash and some metal frames of 175 classic cars are all that remain of one car lover's collection as the wildfires continue to roar through Texas (via Jalopnik). John Chapman, 70, lost a Shelby Cobra, about a dozen Corvettes, several mid-'50s ...














U-Haul is Offering 30 Days of Free Storage and U-Box Portable Storage to ...


U-Haul is Offering 30 Days of Free Storage and U-Box Portable Storage to ...

6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The U-Haul Company of Austin is offering 30 days of free storage and U-Box Portable Storage to Texas residents whose homes have been damaged by these wildfires, or those still needing to move their belongings away from areas ...














Texas Military Forces Help Fight Fires


Texas Military Forces Help Fight Fires

COM BASTROP, Texas - The Texas Army National Guard is stepping forward to help fight wildfires consuming the state. According to a news release, the Texas Military Forces, under the direction of the Texas Forest Service, is stepping forward to help in ...














Crews help fight the East Texas wildfires


Crews help fight the East Texas wildfires

Members of TxDOT's Palestine & Canton maintenance sections supported the firefighting efforts of the Texas Forest Service & the Grapeland & Slocum fire departments on Monday. TxDOT provided a pair of bulldozers & operators to help dig firebreaks for ...














Assistance For Those Affected By Wildfires


Assistance For Those Affected By Wildfires

The wildfires are consuming a large amount of forested tracts in east Texas, and right now it's too soon to say just how much the devastation will add up to, in terms of a dollar amount. If you are a landowner that has lost standing timber to wildfire ...



Texas wildfires : Videos










Woman, Child Killed in Wind-driven Texas Fires


Woman, Child Killed in Wind-driven Texas Fires







Wildfires in Texas were aided by winds from Tropical Storm Lee Sunday. A woman and her 18-month-old daughter were killed because they couldn't ... Rated: 4.6     Duration: 55 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Mon, 05 Sep 2011 04:37:38 PDT 














Video: Gov. Perry Tours Central Texas Wildfires


Video: Gov. Perry Tours Central Texas Wildfires







September 6, 2011 Gov. Rick Perry held a press conference in the Austin community of Steiner Ranch Tuesday morning, thanking fire professionals ... Rated: 1     Duration: 200 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 11:58:35 PDT 














See how fast wildfire spreads - Texas Parks and Wildlife [Official]


See how fast wildfire spreads - Texas Parks and Wildlife [Official]







Video shot September 5, 2011 on the north edge of Bastrop State Park. All but about 100 acres of the 6000-acre park have been blackened by fire ... Rated: 4.9051385     Duration: 50 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 10:13:40 PDT 














Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1


Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1







Two people have died in the wildfires in Bastrop. County Judge Ronniei McDonald gives an update on Sept. 6, 2011. Bastrop schools will be out the ... Rated: 5     Duration: 520 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 15:10:22 PDT 














Texas wildfire destroys hundreds of homes


Texas wildfire destroys hundreds of homes







At least two people have been killed and hundreds of homes destroyed as a giant wildfire burns across the US state of Texas. Strong winds from ... Rated: 4.3684211     Duration: 87 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Mon, 05 Sep 2011 23:30:15 PDT 














Texas Wildfires views from the Space by International Space Station (NASA)


Texas Wildfires views from the Space by International Space Station (NASA)







diario.in Video of Texas wildfires viewed from the space by the external cameras mounted on the International Space Station as well as handheld ... Rated: 5     Duration: 283 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 16:21:05 PDT 














Texas Wildfires Seen from Space Station


Texas Wildfires Seen from Space Station







From 230 miles overhead, International Space Station external and crew-tended cameras captured video of the wildfires burning in central Texas to ... Rated: 4.9166665     Duration: 322 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 10:30:51 PDT 














[ISS] Texas Wildfires Seen From International Space Station


[ISS] Texas Wildfires Seen From International Space Station







Dozens of blazes currently burning throughout Texas were seen from the International Space Station on the 6th August 2011. Nearly 200 miles up ... Rated: 5     Duration: 601 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 09:18:04 PDT 














Texas Wildfires Views from Station


Texas Wildfires Views from Station







External cameras mounted on the International Space Station as well as handheld cameras captured these dramatic views Tuesday of wildfires burning ... Rated: 5     Duration: 283 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 10:35:45 PDT 














Erika Gonzalez Q&A with CBS News on Central TX Wildfires


Erika Gonzalez Q&A with CBS News on Central TX Wildfires







This is video of Morning News Anchor, Erika Gonzalez, doing a live Q&A with CBS News Reporter, Dean Reynolds during the massive wildfires in ... Rated: -1     Duration: 268 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 07:43:58 PDT 














NASA View From Space Of Texas Wildfires


NASA View From Space Of Texas Wildfires







A massive wildfire burning in Texas has killed two people and grown to 34000 acres, officials said Tuesday. The two people found dead Tuesday were ... Rated: -1     Duration: 283 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 17:31:14 PDT 














Dozens of homes destroyed in Texas wildfires


Dozens of homes destroyed in Texas wildfires







A blaze sweeping through northern Texas has destroyed dozens of homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate. Rated: 4     Duration: 109 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 31 Aug 2011 02:53:36 PDT 














Texas Wildfires from Space


Texas Wildfires from Space







Incredible views of the deadly wildfires burning across Texas as seen from the International Space Station. Video courtesy of NASA: www.nasa.gov ... Rated: 5     Duration: 278 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 19:00:02 PDT 














Texas wildfires


Texas wildfires







Wildfires are still burning out of control in large parts of North Texas Rated: -1     Duration: 199 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 20 Apr 2011 12:04:01 PDT 














Texas Wildfires Snubbed by Obama...


Texas Wildfires Snubbed by Obama...







Obama basically says, 'Screw You Texas.' No Obama...Screw you Rated: 5     Duration: 181 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 12:16:11 PDT 














Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1


Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1







Two people have died in the wildfires in Bastrop. County Judge Ronniei McDonald gives an update on Sept. 6, 2011. Bastrop schools will be out the ... Rated: 5     Duration: 520 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 15:10:22 PDT 














Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1


Press conference from Bastrop TX -- wildfire update - part 1







Two people have died in the wildfires in Bastrop. County Judge Ronniei McDonald gives an update on Sept. 6, 2011. Bastrop schools will be out the ... Rated: 5     Duration: 520 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 15:10:22 PDT 














Raw Video: Tx. Wildfire Scorches Homes, Acres


Raw Video: Tx. Wildfire Scorches Homes, Acres







Wildfires sweeping through parts of Texas and Oklahoma have destroyed dozens of homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate. Investigators don ... Rated: 5     Duration: 71 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 31 Aug 2011 04:03:46 PDT 














Texas wildfires - economic impact


Texas wildfires - economic impact







What's happening in Texas with the weather is a microcosm of everything taking place not only around the USA but the world. The angry planet ... Rated: 5     Duration: 408 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 14:07:00 PDT 














Bastrop Texas Wildfire - Military to the Rescue again!


Bastrop Texas Wildfire - Military to the Rescue again!







RAW Video of helicopters dropping water on wildfires in Bastrop, Texas. Also available in high definition. Rated: -1     Duration: 185 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 07 Sep 2011 05:45:31 PDT 














SO CLOSE TO THE FIRE/TEXAS WILDFIRE PICS & INFO SEPT. 6TH 2011


SO CLOSE TO THE FIRE/TEXAS WILDFIRE PICS & INFO SEPT. 6TH 2011







Wildfires Ravage Central Texas The wind-fueled blaze has destroyed almost 500 homes and Gov. Rick Perry has left the campaign trail to deal with ... Rated: -1     Duration: 200 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 10:39:29 PDT 














Texas Wildfires Seen from Space Station


Texas Wildfires Seen from Space Station







Wildfires Ravage Central Texas The wind-fueled blaze has destroyed almost 500 homes and Gov. Rick Perry has left the campaign trail to deal with ... Rated: -1     Duration: 200 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Tue, 06 Sep 2011 10:39:29 PDT Rated: -1     Duration: 332 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 07 Sep 2011 07:59:58 PDT 














Benefit Concert for Texas Wildfires 2011- Jake Glass


Benefit Concert for Texas Wildfires 2011- Jake Glass







Jake Glass performs at the Benefit Concert for Texas wildfires 2011! Songs in order: Rise, Head Full of Doubt/Road Full of Promise, Leaving on a ... Rated: -1     Duration: 910 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Wed, 17 Aug 2011 08:46:55 PDT 














Raw Video: Wildfires Sweep Across N. Texas


Raw Video: Wildfires Sweep Across N. Texas







A wildfire sweeping across some 20000 acres in North Texas has killed a firefighter, forced hundreds of evacuations, including an entire town, and ... Rated: 4.8571429     Duration: 79 seconds     Video type: YouTube     Hosted by: www.youtube.com on Fri, 15 Apr 2011 19:30:44 PDT 














More than 1,000 Texas homes fall victim to wildfires


More than 1,000 Texas homes fall victim to wildfires







Texas wildfiresHosted by: BBC News














Wildfire prompts evacuations in Texas


Wildfire prompts evacuations in Texas







Texas wildfiresHosted by: BBC NewsHosted by: CNN














Texas Wildfires Burn 500 Homes, Thousands of Acres


Texas Wildfires Burn 500 Homes, Thousands of Acres







Duration: 132000 seconds Hosted by: ABC News














Perry: Wildfires trump politics


Perry: Wildfires trump politics







Duration: 132000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: CNN














Texas wildfires burn out of control


Texas wildfires burn out of control







Duration: 132000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CBS News














Texas wildfires burn with no relief in sight


Texas wildfires burn with no relief in sight







Duration: 132000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CBS News














Texas wildfires and 9/11 apps: Trending now


Texas wildfires and 9/11 apps: Trending now







Duration: 132000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CBS News














Perry: No lives lost in Texas wildfires


Perry: No lives lost in Texas wildfires







Duration: 74000 seconds Hosted by: CNN














Gov. Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Survey Damage from Texas Wildfires


Gov. Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Survey Damage from Texas Wildfires







Duration: 74000 seconds Hosted by: CNNHosted by: Fox News














Texas battling historic wildfire


Texas battling historic wildfire







Duration: 46000 seconds Hosted by: CNN














Texas Inferno: Firefight From Above


Texas Inferno: Firefight From Above







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC News














Over a Thousand Homes Destroyed in Texas Wildfires


Over a Thousand Homes Destroyed in Texas Wildfires







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: Fox News














Wildfires still out of control in Texas


Wildfires still out of control in Texas







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CBS News














Wildfires continue to plague Texas


Wildfires continue to plague Texas







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CNN














Gov. Perry on Texas wildfires


Gov. Perry on Texas wildfires







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CBS News














Texas Wildfires Burn Out of Control


Texas Wildfires Burn Out of Control







Duration: 143000 seconds Hosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CBS NewsHosted by: Fox News














Neighbors rush to evacuate from wildfire


Neighbors rush to evacuate from wildfire







Duration: 86000 seconds Hosted by: CNN














New Video Shows Wildfire Devastation in Bastrop, Texas


New Video Shows Wildfire Devastation in Bastrop, Texas







Duration: 86000 seconds Hosted by: CNNHosted by: Fox News














Dozens of wildfires burn in Texas


Dozens of wildfires burn in Texas







Duration: 86000 seconds Hosted by: CNNHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CNN














Wall of smoke dominates Texas skyline


Wall of smoke dominates Texas skyline







Duration: 86000 seconds Hosted by: CNNHosted by: Fox NewsHosted by: CNNHosted by: CNN














Firefighters work to contain Texas wildfires


Firefighters work to contain Texas wildfires







Duration: 73000 seconds Hosted by: MSN Video














Gov. Perry Talks Guns, Wildfires and Romney in S.C.


Gov. Perry Talks Guns, Wildfires and Romney in S.C.







Duration: 73000 seconds Hosted by: MSN VideoHosted by: ABC News














Winds whip up Texas wildfires


Winds whip up Texas wildfires







Duration: 73000 seconds Hosted by: MSN VideoHosted by: ABC NewsHosted by: CBS News














Texas Fire Burns 1,000 Homes


Texas Fire Burns 1,000 Homes







Duration: 160000 seconds Hosted by: ABC News



Texas wildfires : Latest News, Information, Answers and WebsitesAre the wildfires in Texas gods message to Perry that he should stay out of politics?
Answer: LOL - yes, that and the severe TX drought that is threatening TX cattle and agriculture.  

I wonder why Bachman has not connected the dots between Perry's war on education and women and God's wrath descending down on TX ranchers?

EDIT: the TX wildfires were a bit ago, but large sections of West Texas were ablaze. Category: PoliticsWildfire Information - Texas Forest ServiceWildfire update – Sept. 6, 2011. Current situation: · Yesterday Texas Forest   Service responded to 22 new fires for 7544 acres, including 10 new large fires. ...Texas wildfires scorch homes; death toll climbs to 4 - CNN.com16 hours ago ... A raging wildfire near Austin, Texas, killed two people, officials said Tuesday, as   firefighters fought to gain the upper hand against flames, wind ...Texas Wildfire Relief18 hours ago ... The Texas Wildfire Relief Fund is a non-profit 501 (c)(3) committed to generating   awareness and garnering support for Texas volunteer ...Perry has gone back to Texas to assist in the wildfires?And Paul is going to Los Angeles to let the district next to his burn?

And you Paulie know that if it were reversed you would be screaming about Perry
Category: ElectionsCentral Texas Wildfires Now 30 Percent Contained « CBS Dallas ...The Texas Forest Service says massive wildfires near Austin are 30 percent contained. Agency spokeswoman April Saginor says lighter winds have helped firefighting efforts in Bastrop County, where blazes have destroyed ...Texas Wildfires Destroy More Than 1000 Homes1 day ago ... BASTROP, Texas — One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas   history left more than 1000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched ...Why hasnt Obama visited or mentioned the tornado or flood ravaged states or the Texas wildfires?Why hasnt he gone to visit any of these places but is too busy releasing the same certificate he already released and doing Oprah and raising money for his campaign?

Doesnt he care about people?
Answer: Because Obama hates Texas especially after that reporter made him look like a fool Category: PoliticsWhy is Obama declaring a disaster in Alabama for tornado damage, but not in Texas for the wildfires?I hear Gov. Perry is pissed.
I am opposed to the way the Federal government takes money from the citizens of a state and then offers that money back to states as an enticement to do their bidding. I am, however, in favor of a common disaster fund under the control of the central government for use in disasters in any state that has one.
Answer: Politics.  This is typical democrat revenge.  

Obama refuses to help Texas because Texas does not bow down to him and go along with his agenda.

Sad that we have such a child in the office of the president.  Ever notice that democrats are the only ones who act like this? Category: Politicstexas wildfires. border troubles.?Why do we bomb lybia? Send national aid to haiti in there disaster. and other places in the world. but yet. Half of Texas gets burnt down, a major loss in crops and supplies to america, aka probably loss in sales which in terms means loss of jobs. and homes. and prices going up. why not focus more on things like that? and instead of Lybia, How about our own border? Mexico! People are dying like crazy there. and here. Drugs are coming in constantly. The cartels are worse then rebels or evil dictators. I mean what the heck?
Answer: Nope only a tiny fraction of TX is on fire.No major loss of anything except some houses. Calm down chicken little. Category: Current EventsHow are the Texas wildfires starting?I understand that the wildfires they are reporting in Texas are spreading so rapidly due to dry conditions, but how are new ones starting where there is no fire?
Answer: Quite possibly when people driving down the road carelessly toss their cigarettes out the window.  Also, people ignore burn bans and light brush fires to clear their land or lit fireworks on new year's eve without considering the danger. Category: Current EventsTexas wildfires claim 700 homes, force evacuations - Yahoo! NewsRead 'Texas wildfires claim 700 homes, force evacuations' on Yahoo! News.   Crews in Texas Tuesday battled dozens of wildfires that have destroyed more   than ...Texas Wildfires Seen from the International Space StationAstronauts on board the space station have been seeing their share of natural disasters back on Earth, providing us all a unique, if not dramatic view of hurricanes and now the wildfires burning in Texas. This video includes ...Does Bachmann think the Texas wildfires are another divine message to Washington?Like Irene and the Virginia earthquake?
Answer: She does say a lot of wacky things. I think people are starting to realize that she definitely isn't presidential material even her campaign manager left her Category: Other - Politics & GovernmentTexas Wildfires Destroy More Than 1000 HomesBASTROP, Texas — One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major ...Quilt Drive For Victims of Texas Wildfires @Craftzine.com blogHere in Texas, we've been consumed with thoughts and worries about the raging wildfires across the east and central portions of the state over the weekend and this week. Our family was on a road trip from Houston to...Texas Wildfires: 852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours - ABC News23 hours ago ... In the last 48 hours, 852 homes have been lost to wildfires in Texas as dozens of   blazes continue to sear the earth and ravage the ...Collector Loses 175 Classic Cars In Texas WildfiresThey're ravaging the state and everything in their path.Are the Texas wildfires, Bushs or obamas fault?
Answer: obama's Category: PoliticsWhere are the Texas Wildfires burning? Near the big cities?We dont get much news about Texas out here in my homeland of California.
I wonder why that is?
Can any of you Texans give a report on the current FIRE SITUATIONS?
Thanks☺!
Answer: In Texas you don't really get news about California. I'm a native Texan that now lives in California. The wildfires we get in California every year are worse than what Texas deals with. They, thankfully, don't have fires every year nor do they have pyromaniacs that set the fires like we do in California. We have sent fire jumpers to help fight the Texas fires. 
The fires are scattered about the state. Amarillo is the largest town that has been hit by the fires. Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and Austin aren't in danger. El Paso is in a very dry part of the state. My parents live in one of the counties that has a wildfire going through it. 

The website below lists the fires and how many acres have been burned. 

http://txforestservice.tamu.edu/main/article.aspx?id=12888 Category: DallasTexas Wildfires Map - wildfires in texas - wildland fireTexas wildfires map included, as well as, disaster preparedness and recovery ...Texas Wildfires Destroy 300 Homes Near AustinBASTROP, Texas — A roaring wildfire raced through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance that was fanned in part by howling winds from the ...Texas Wildfires: What is the proximity to TDCJ Prison in Iowa Park? Are inmates in any danger?
Answer: the Wichita falls Times Record has info on exact location of the fires. My daughter lives there. Nothing has been said regarding evacuation of that facility, so safe to say it probably is not at risk. 
http://www.timesrecordnews.com/news/news/ Category: Law & EthicsAre the Texas wildfires gods way of saying the state should have higher wages?
Answer: No, they're God's way of saying that Texas should not have elected Rick Perry to a third term!

Our drought started right after Perry was elected; and when he demanded that we all fast and pray  three days for rain, the drought promptly got worse.  The state was engulfed in wildfires, so he cut funding to fight those wildfires and then started whining that Washington wasn't sending aid (even though Perry  believes the Federal Government and Obama are "evil" and he "wants to wean Texas from Federal money"); and when he announced he was attending the right-wing prayer conference hosted by the American Family Association, Texas ended up with the worst heat wave in its recorded history.

Austin has had 74 days above 100 this year; 22 days above 105; and we recorded our highest all-time temperature both for the month of August and for any month of any year when it reached 112! Category: PoliticsPhotoBlog - Dramatic images of wildfire near Austin, TexasA wildfire burns out of control in Bastrop State Park near Bastrop, Texas, on Sept. 5. The fire has burned over fourteen thousand acres and destroyed hundreds of homes. With much of the state of Texas under severe drought ...Texas wildfires destroy over 1000 homes: Perry - Yahoo! NewsRead 'Texas wildfires destroy over 1000 homes: Perry' on Yahoo! News ...Why wouldnt Obama declare the wildfires in Texas a disaster? Is it because 2 Republican senators and?A Republican governor asked him to?

Or is it because he is extremely unpopular in Texas and its his way of paying Texans back?
Sadcat: shouldnt we get back some of our taxes then if we are going to be left out?
Sadcat check your biased news sources. Texas pays MORE in taxes than it gets from the fed government.
Answer: Obama has no problem with "punishing" his enemies.

"We’re gonna punish our enemies and we’re gonna reward our friends who stand with us on issues that are important to us" Category: PoliticsDallas Texas Wildfires are scaring me?I live near Dallas and can smell the smoke in my room from the wildfires. I dont know if I should be on my guard or if im safe. Help?????
Answer: Tune your radio to 1080 (AM) KRLD, or go to KRLD.com  They will let you know what's going on.  However, you can smell wildfire smoke for MILES.  I was in Sherman (on Hwy 75) last year at Wal-Mart, and I was concerned when I left the store because I smelled smoke.  Turned out the fire was actually in Oklahoma north of Gainesville (on I-35)! Category: AdolescentWill the Texas Wildfires force seniors & ill people out of the area?I hear the air quality is quite poor due to the fires.
Where will people go if they must evacuate to another state?
Answer: If the Seniors and people with respiratory problems have to evacuate their homes they probably will stay with relatives, friends or the Red Cross might put them up in shelters.  Texas is big enough for people to move out of harms way. Category: Senior CitizensHas President Obama released the recent denial of aid to assist those in Texas with the wildfires?
Category: Current EventsA Hidden Factor Behind Losses in Texas Fires - NYTimes.comA fire-ravaged Texas county illustrates what happens when populations explode in areas exposed to natural hazards.Did people lose irreplaceable possessions in the texas wildfires?like family albums and mementos?
Category: Current Events


















Newer Post


Older Post

Home






Disclaimer:
		We do not host or upload any media files, videos or images. We only link or embed content from other sites on the Internet. 
		We are not responsible for the accuracy, compliance, copyright, legality, decency, or any other aspect of the content of other linked sites. 
		If you have any legal issues please directly contact appropriate media file owners / hosters.



















Popular in last 7 days












Feather hair extensions - Where to buy clip in feather extensions for your hair?
Feather hair extensions : Photo Gallery   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  								...










Dirk nowitzki - How good is Dirk Nowitzki to others?
Dirk nowitzki : Photo Gallery   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  					...










Mystique - Jennifer Lawrence’s 20 Hottest Looks
Mystique : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  										   				...










Guitar chords - Guitar Chords @ Chordbook.Com
Guitar chords : Photo Gallery   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  					...










Lebron james girlfriend - Did Rashard Lewis Sleep with LeBron James' Girlfriend? | See ads
Lebron james girlfriend : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  		...










Red faction - How does this gun work? [Red Faction Armageddon]?
Red faction : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  										   	...





Zachery tims funeral - [VIDEO] Zachery Tims funeral will not stream live Bishop T.D. ...
Zachery tims funeral : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  					...










My little pony - 50 My Little Pony Mods for Geeks: Pics Videos Links News
My little pony : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  										 ...










Halo 4 - Halo: Reach - Wikipedia the free encyclopedia
Halo 4 : Photo Gallery   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  										  ...










Manny malhotra - Manny Malhotra - Wikipedia the free encyclopedia
Manny malhotra : Videos   									  										  											  												  											  											  												  											  										 ...















Facebook




Archive






▼ 

2011
(2955)



▼ 

September
(358)

Spartacus blood and sand - Andy Whitfield Original...
Plaxico burress - Im going to be plaxico burress f...
Spartacus - How can i reset my spartacus game on f...
Lymphoma - 4SC: Hodgkin&#39;s lymphoma compound me...
Rex ryan - Do Hotel maids quit after cleaning the ...
Dallas Cowboys at New York Jets Sunday Night Footb...
Sunday night football - Why are the Carolina Panth...
Hyundai equus - Hyundai Equus : | Experience
Entourage - What is the name of the song in entour...
Non hodgkin lymphoma - Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymph...
Tony romo - Should I start Eli Manning or Tony Rom...
Dez bryant - who do i start week 1 Dez Bryant or J...
Faith hill - What song by Faith Hill has angels in...
Andy whitfield - &#39;Spartacus&#39; star Andy Whi...
Miles austin - Miles Austin WR for the Dallas Cowb...
San francisco 49ers - Good way to watch NFL game N...
Cam newton - Cam Newton Threw For 400 Yards But Th...
Minnesota vikings - Watch Minnesota Vikings vs San...
Donovan mcnabb - Donovan McNabb - Minnesota Viking...
Baltimore Ravens | Home
Steven jackson - Steven Jackson Stats News Videos ...
Nfl scores - NFL Football Scores - Live Pro Footba...
Official Site of the Pittsburgh Steelers
Chicago bears - Why does the Chicago Bears ownersh...
Direct tv - DIRECTV: Contact Us
Philadelphia eagles - Philadelphia eagles?
Was Flight 93 shot down?
World trade center memorial - Who is being shunned...
God bless america - why do americans always say Go...
Paul simon - Paul Simon | The Official Paul Simon ...
Rumsfeld: We Kept Pentagon Open To Send A Message ...
Notre dame michigan - Notre Dame/Michigan NFL Draf...
How do you 911 conspiracy people have time to rese...
Never forget - What are some of the most memorable...
Empire state building - Empire State Building Shin...
Loose change - Where is the best place to find loo...
9/11 - 9/11............?
Osu - Will OSU be the deciding factor about who pl...
Ginger - Can I substitute normal ginger for crysta...
True grit - Haudenosaunee Team Shows True Grit in ...
Serena williams - Serena Williams Downs Caroline W...
Sept 11 - How do you relate the incidence of June1...
Nadal murray - It seems like were going to have Na...
Mayweather vs ortiz - Mayweather vs Ortiz:Does any...
Ellie goulding - Ellie Goulding &amp; Nike Announc...
Grandparents day - Maple Grands-pères for Grandpar...
Unforgettable - Unforgettable on CBS.com
September 11 - september 11 :(:(:(:(?
Aron ralston - Can you hike to where Aron Ralston ...
Cyndi lauper - What song did Cyndi Lauper perform ...
127 hours - In the movie 127 Hours did He end up m...
Florida state football - Football - Florida State ...
Andy murray - Tennis - ATP World Tour - Tennis Pla...
Sarah mclachlan - Whats the one song on the ASPCA ...
Boxing - Boxing For ones Health And Mind - Uncateg...
Novak djokovic - US Open: Novak Djokovic vs Roger ...
Roger federer - ROGER FEDERER ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ...
Main - Main - Wikipedia the free encyclopedia
Alyssa campanella - What color hair dye does the n...
Amazon.com: Mermaid: A Twist on the Classic Tale ....
Lulu - where can i find johnny and lulu clips to d...
Ohio state football - Do you know why Ohio States ...
Tanzania - Tanzania Travel Information and Travel ...
Why werent the passengers on all the other flights...
Imagine - Imagine - John Lennon - YouTube
Sonic the hedgehog - Sonic the Hedgehog (character...
Oc - What is the resistance between the ends of th...
What kind of Vegetables can I Mash With My Mashed ...
Wtc - How many Americans actually know about the c...
Iphone 4 cases - Do you know what site i can click...
Montreal canadiens - Montreal Canadiens Hockey Clu...
Facebook Fan Page Setup for Bloggers: An Ultimate ...
Wish you were here lyrics - Pink Floyd - Wish You ...
In History was the Papillon used mainly as a compa...
The guard - The Guard (2011) | Gold Town Nickelode...
9 11 pictures - who has pictures of the 2001 world...
Northern lights - The Hunt is on! See The Northern...
Demi moore - Demi Moore In A Teeny Bikini (VIDEO)
BBC News - Dominica country profile
King arthur - Whatever happened to the last few ep...
Arizona state university - Who here goes to Arizon...
Marques colston - Marques Colston is coming off ye...
Jacqueline kennedy - Does anyone know where I can ...
Osama bin laden dead picture - Is Osama Bin Laden ...
Xmen first class - Why do people keep posting link...
Ruby tuesday - What are the answers to the ruby tu...
Act - ACT Registration
Cerebral palsy - Is cerebral palsy the outcome of ...
Brooklyn decker - Poll: Overall who do you think i...
Seattle times - Why does Seattle Times make Nebras...
100% Pomegranate | POM Wonderful
Amish - How do I turn amish friendship bread into ...
&#39;Tokyo Rising&#39;: Pharrell Williams And Pall...
Copd - COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease...
Osama bin laden - George W. Bush Takes A Bow For G...
Al qaeda - How many Al Qaeda and Taliban combatant...
Welcome - Creature
Warrior - Warrior - WoWWiki - Your guide to the Wo...
Credit Reports Credit Scores Identity Theft Protec...
NPS unveils Flight 93 Memorial | Boise State Publi...
Randall cobb - Touchdown Randall Cobb
Our daily bread - Our Daily Bread
How ethical to use Javascript libraries that are a...
Michael j fox - When Rush said that the democrats ...
New zealand - New Zealand 100% Pure | Official Tra...
Irb - How come it says IRB on the the silver Austr...
Clay matthews - How many sacks will Clay Matthews ...
To the Icelandic: Would you recommend going to Ice...
Blackout - Blackout affected 5 million people in C...
What do you think about the Brits not inviting Obo...
President obama - Op-ed by President Obama in USA ...
Gia - The GIA
Jordin sparks - Jordin Sparks To Sing National Ant...
Reggie bush - Reggie Bush agrees to be traded to D...
Super bowl 2011 - Cost of a 60 second commercial f...
Drew brees - who shoulld i start drew brees or big...
Donald driver - Who should I start this week Donal...
Go daddy - go daddy.com-blogging?
Kid rock - CMT.com : Kid Rock : Artist Main
White house - What is the painting in the White Ho...
Old Navy Jobs - Pennsylvania: Philadelphia Pittsbu...
Is it true that Plato likely had access to Solons ...
Digestive system - Miniature yearling colt ... - D...
Packers-Saints press box notes
Khloe kardashian - Who thought that Khloe Kardashi...
New orleans saints - Which New Orleans Saints RB d...
Stampede Blue - For Indianapolis Colts Fans
Lvs - im a level 111 and what should i fight to ge...
Soulja boy - Soulja Boy - Wikipedia the free encyc...
Adam smith - adam smith?
Aaron rodgers - Who do I start this weekend Aaron ...
How does everyone feel that the Green Bay Packers ...
Afi - where can i get cheap AFI tickets for Noveme...
Gumby - Gumby Suffers Access Interruptus Fails in ...
Neil diamond - Am I sad for being 18 years old and...
Green bay packers - Green Bay Packers News Schedul...
John galliano - John Galliano Found Guilty of Hate...
Rugby world cup - South Africa&#39;s vuvuzelas ban...
Incentivized Installs Not All Bad Says New Study…B...
Ph - Ph????????
Human centipede - First Footage From Human Centipe...
Miss universe 2011 - Lea Salonga named one of Miss...
Elizabeth taylor - In Memoriam | Elizabeth Taylor ...
The great gatsby - SparkNotes: The Great Gatsby
Mitt romney - Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) on Twitter...
Herman cain - Who is a bigger Uncle Tom Herman Cai...
Kristin chenoweth - where can I find an address to...
Savannah cat - where can i buy a Savannah Cat in S...
Il divo - Il Divo Impress &#39;America&#39;s Got T...
Reese witherspoon - Reese Witherspoon?
9 11 memorial - What do you think of someone quest...
Jon huntsman - Jon Huntsman Sr. - Wikipedia the fr...
Ronald reagan - Ron Paul and Ronald Reagan | RedSt...
Presidential debate - Where can I find rules for a...
James dean - Can someone make a cute james dean th...
Kia sorento - Where do you find the spark plugs on...
September 11 2001 - September 11 attacks - Wikiped...
Republican presidential candidates - DNC “Prebutta...
Yvette vickers - Yvette Vickers | Top Rated News
Peyton manning - Peyton Manning QB for the Indiana...
Terrell owens - Will Favres return to Lambeau be s...
Kate gosselin - Kate Gosselin - The Hollywood Goss...
Rain boots - boots shoes women : Target
Abraham lincoln - Abraham Lincoln and his most sig...
Fashion night out - Fashion&#39;s Night Out events...
Mph - How many MPH do I need to go on my elliptica...
Pittsburgh penguins - What font to the Pittsburgh ...
Texas wildfires - Why is Obama declaring a disaste...
Astaxanthin - What are the harmful effects of asta...
Dear abby - How do I share this story from Dear Ab...
Nhl - How does NHL Center Ice decide which feed to...
Amanda knox - Was Amanda Knox simply at the wrong ...
Sensa - Sensa Weight Loss Review System | All abou...
Sidney crosby - Only Sidney Crosby can decide when...
Alistair overeem - I JUST HEARD IT MIGHT BE BROCK ...
Social History of the Pineapple
Nia - Nia (fitness) - Wikipedia the free encyclope...
Buddy holly - What is the name of the song that Bu...
Saab - Saab Files For Bankruptcy Protection... Aga...
Alex jones - About Alex Jones Alex Jones&#39; Info...
How to See a Supernova From Your Backyard This Wee...
Agt - What did you think about Piers buzzing Princ...
Life quotes - Where can I find meaningful life quo...
What is the relationship of different tribes in Be...
Charlie hunnam - do boys in england look like char...
Americas got talent 2011 - America&#39;s Got Talen...
Lemur - Lemur Music
Definition of love - Love | Define Love at Diction...
How long will it take Sharon to catch up with John...
Diverticulitis - Would the medicine for diverticul...
Lion king 3d - Lion king 3D????????
Brock lesnar - Do you think vladimir kozlov could ...
David garrard - David Garrard - Jacksonville Jagua...
Human centipede 2 - Has anyone actually watched th...
San diego weather - Where are other places in the ...
Chili recipe - Chili Recipe
Pruning Hydrangeas
Nfl picks - NFL Picks Grades - CBSSports.com Footb...
Jacksonville jaguars - Do you like the new Jackson...
911 - 911???????
Hydrangea - how much do i have to water a newly pl...
The view - The View (TV Series 1997– ) - IMDb
The talk - can you skype with the Samsung Galaxy P...
Absinthe - One spirit for the absinthe minded | Fi...
Nfl odds - Nfl Odds 2010 – Tips For Nfl Betting | ...
Soa - SOA - Society of Actuaries
Winnipeg jets - Are Winnipeg Jets single game tick...
Wcc - When are the F1 World Driver Championship an...
Nascar - nascar??!!?
Gabrielle union - What facial features on GABRIELL...
Elmo - Elmo - Muppets - Sesame Street - Sesame Str...
Dma - My computer has no DMA can i download it or ...
Tinker tailor soldier spy - Im at about page 200 o...
Freedom tower - Negro League paintings to be exhib...
Dirt 3 - should i get dirt 3 or another good racin...
Resistance 3 - Resistance 3 Review | GameFront
Dead island - What should i get dead rising off th...
Burkina faso - where can I find information about ...
La fitness - LA Fitness - Wikipedia the free encyc...
How to Get Rid of Weeds | news-talk.info
Niger - How to take care of saltwater angel fish/ ...
Fist - He raised his fist but is not hit me. | Hom...
Sons of anarchy season 4 - when will sons of anarc...
Sons of anarchy - Comic-Con 2011: &#39;Sons of Ana...
How come Caroline Wozniacki is world number one wi...
Adventure time - Adventure Time with Finn and Jake...
Caroline wozniacki - Rory McIlroy And Caroline Woz...
The closer - The Closer Season 7 Episode 9 FULL « ...
Droid bionic - iPhone 5 vs Samsung Galaxy S2 vs Mo...
Bastrop texas - What kids movie was film in bastro...
University of maryland - Maryland Football Preview...
Halloween costumes - halloween costumes?
William shatner - Seriously? OMG! WTF? » William S...
Tiki barber - Why is Tiki Barber being lumped in w...
Doppelganger - What is the name of an online card ...
Ancestry - Ancestry.com Free Databases - Totally a...
Mlb scores - Is there any way to keep up with the ...
The SEIU Medina got busted on the Illegal Immigrat...
Ana ivanovic - US Open: Serena Williams beats wind...
Weather atlanta - Atlanta Georgia Weather Conditio...
&#39;Meet The Fockers&#39; Advance Tickets Now Ava...
Movie times - How do you add movie theater times t...
Consumer reports - When was the last vacuum cleane...
How do you make the cheese sauce found in Ihops ba...
Jessica simpson - Jessica Simpson | Diar-Bag.us
Al pacino - Al Pacino - Yahoo! Movies
Rafael nadal - What is the relationship among Roge...
Wings - What are the wings that pilots wear on the...
Shame - What can you do to face shame inside from ...
Queen - What is the size difference between a quee...
Desktop backgrounds - Desktop Backgrounds?
Bohemian rhapsody - Bohemian rhapsody | Total News...
Ups - Why start-ups fail [infographic] - Holy Kaw!...
Wii u - How much will the wii u cost?
Steve irwin - Steve Irwin - IMDb
The good wife - The Good Wife Season 3 Episode 0 –...
Janet jackson - What concert would you choose out ...
Menopause - What are the things you have exprience...
Where is the World trade center in United States?
Helen keller - Helen Keller
Jerry lewis - Jerry Lewis a No Show at Telethon Af...
Red box - Aussie Ufo&#39;s » Blog Archive » Redbox...
Is the Serenity prayer a good affirmation for bala...
Video: Tahiti Round 1 - Mick Fanning
Bipolar symptoms - What are the symptoms of bipola...
Freddie mercury - Freddie Mercury | AllMusic
Nadal - Nadal beats pal Nalbandian to make US Open...
Texas a m football - TexAgs
Infiniti - Infiniti&#39;s EX35 SUV | Car &amp; Mot...
Hangover - How come I get hangover after taking a ...
Nascar schedule - NASCAR Sprint Cup Schedule NASCA...
Nfl schedule - NFL Tickets | Football Tickets and ...
College football rankings - College Football Ranki...
Monk - jamaica monk ky castle boise state football...
How many days should you spend in Jamaica?
Bones - Bones - Full Episodes and Clips streaming ...
Ky - KY jailers push state to end private prison d...
Wen - WEN® hair care by Chaz Dean - Official site ...
Terra nova - What do you guys think about the upco...
Usf - USF - Wikipedia the free encyclopedia
Fossil - FOSSIL Women&#39;s Shop: Watches Handbags...
Printable coupons - Printable Coupons: Internation...
Happy feet - Happy Feet Slippers- The Original Big...
Citizens bank - Information about opening a Debit ...
Sweepstakes - Sweepstakes?
Extreme couponing - How do you do extreme couponin...
Tennessee football - University of Tennessee Footb...
Ncaa football 12 - So do you think NCAA football 1...
Brandon meriweather - Police: New England Patriots...
Oregon state university - I am applying to Oregon ...
Texas longhorns football - Where can I buy the kha...
Florida gators football - Florida gators football ...
University of texas - where can i find a universit...
Oregon ducks - Do the Oregon Ducks have a chance t...
Penn state - Penn State-Indiana State game balls: ...
Boise state football - Boise State Football gives ...
Wilco - What unique instrument does the guy from w...
Billie joe armstrong - Billie Joe Armstrong Kicked...
Iowa hawkeye football - Kirk Ferentz and Gary Bart...
Usc football - University of Southern California O...
University of michigan - University of Michigan re...
Sprint - Sprint to double Upgrade Fee to $36 start...
Ohio state - What is The Ohio State University adm...
Contagion - Contagion Trailer 2011 HD - YouTube
Auburn football - Auburn Tigers Football -- Auburn...
Alabama football - Alabama Football?
Penn state football - Penn State Nittany Lions foo...
How can I book tickets to Scotland on the Flying S...
Lsu - LSU Tigers Football -- TigerBait.com
Heather morris - Heather Morris Breaking News and ...
Michigan football - 1260 The Pledge » WMU football...
Napa - Napa Valley
Notre dame football - Notre Dame Fighting Irish fo...
High school football scores - Sidelines » Friday&#...
Tiff - How do i convert tiff to Jpeg for free and ...
Snoop dogg - Snoop Dogg : Snoop News
Shockwave - I need to download adobe shockwave but...
Circle of life - The Circle of Life « Waves and Wo...
Script &gt; Graffiti fonts | dafont.com
Soleil moon frye - Who would you rather have child...
Can you name the Monopoly Properties (American)? |...
How do I get people to understand that Alaska is p...
Kinesiology - What are some math aspects of kinesi...
Red state - Kevin Smith&#39;s &#39;Red State&#39; ...
College football scores - College Football Scores ...
Andy roddick - andyroddick (@andyroddick) on Twitt...
Gran torino - What is the name of the Hmong rap in...
Gettysburg address - Gettysburg Address - Exhibiti...
Baylor - How do I get a number for low income peop...
Longhorn network - Kansas-Texas to air on Longhorn...
Apollo 18 trailer - Apollo 18 Trailer - Trailer Ad...
Christina hendricks - Who has bigger boobs? Christ...
Seven days in utopia - Seven Days In Utopia: An Aw...
Gas Stoves | Propane Stoves | Gas Grills | Coleman...
New orleans weather - New Orleans Weather | Curren...
Ground zero - || World Trade Center ||
Twin towers - Why was Twin Towers in New York not ...
How long does it take to get from Massachusetts to...
Lucy - Lucy running | Flickr - Photo Sharing!
The Official Site of The Philadelphia Phillies | p...
Ncaa football - How much weekly revenue does telev...
Bowling - How do I chose the right bowling ball?
Porter - PORTER RECORDS
Supreme - What supreme court case relates to a jew...
Ism - How to make people think what they are retur...
Tcf - TCF Bank - Online Statements
Irs - Why is my IRS direct deposit amount differen...
Spc - How much does it cost to get an SPC card?
College football - College Gridiron 365 covers nat...
Rush - The Gauntlet - Roadrunner Records Signs RUS...
Cindy crawford - What is the song in the Cindy Cra...
The Autumn Edition and a Giveaway — Rhythm of the ...
Tcu - TCU to Renovate East Side of Amon G. Carter ...
Sony tablet - Sony Tablet S preview -- Engadget
Tia - Transient Ischemic Attack Information Page: ...
Ned kelly - Ned Kelly: Bushranger&#39;s relatives ...
September - what is the weather typically like in ...
David arquette - David Arquette - IMDb








          ► 
        


August
(917)







          ► 
        


July
(945)







          ► 
        


June
(621)







          ► 
        


May
(114)










 







Copyright 2011 US Buzz Blog
| 
	All Rights Reserved. |
	Runs proudly on Blogger















	All images and videos displayed here are property of their respective owners. 







