Nation & World | Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire
     | Seattle Times Newspaper



















Mobile site
|
Mobile apps
|
Newsletters
|
RSS
|
Subscriber services

Subscribe
MyTimes
Temporary stops
Delivery issues
Make a payment
e-Edition
Subscriber rewards






Contact/Help

Site feedback/questions
Home delivery issues
Send us news tips
Send letters to the editor
Submit event listings
Request corrections
Company information











Traffic








Winner of Eight Pulitzer Prizes


Nation & World




Follow us:
















Advanced Search | Events & Venues | Obituaries






Home

Home 


Blogs
Forums
Graphics & databases
Photography 
Video
Special reports
Corrections



Shortcuts

Today's news index
Trending with readers
Historical archives




News

News 


Local News
Nation & World
Obituaries
Politics
Education
Health
Special reports
Community blogs



Blogs & Columns

Danny Westneat
Nicole Brodeur
Jerry Large
Ron Judd
The Blotter
Politics Northwest
Picture This
Seattle Sketcher



Shortcuts

Traffic
Weather
Lottery




Business & Tech

Business & Tech 


Boeing / Aerospace
Microsoft
Personal technology
Real estate



Blogs & Columns

Brier Dudley's Blog
Microsoft Pri0
Sound Economy | Jon Talton
Sunday Buzz



Shortcuts

Stock prices
Business events
Plugging In: Tech Forum




Sports

Sports 


High School
UW Huskies
WSU Cougars
SU Redhawks
College sports
Mariners
Seahawks
Sounders FC
Storm
NBA
Hockey
Golf
Other sports



Blogs & Columns

Jerry Brewer
Steve Kelley
Sideline Chatter
Husky Football
Husky Men's Basketball
Mariners
Pac-12 Confidential
Seahawks
The Hot Stone League
Sounders FC
High School Sports
Reel Time Fishing NW
Women's Hoops



Shortcuts

Sports forums
Scores & stats
Sports on TV & radio




Entertainment

Entertainment 


Restaurants
Movies
Music & Nightlife
The Arts
Books



Blogs & Columns

All You Can Eat | Nancy Leson
ArtsPage
Lit Life
Matson on Music
Popcorn & Prejudice: A movie blog
re:Web



Shortcuts

Games
Comics
Horoscopes 
TV listings
Today's events
Find events & venues
Submit listings




Living

Living 


Home & Garden
Pacific NW Magazine
Food & Wine
Restaurants



Blogs & Columns

All You Can Eat | Nancy Leson
Wine Adviser | Paul Gregutt
In the Garden | Ciscoe Morris
Plant Life | Valerie Easton
Tails of Seattle pets blog




Travel

Travel & Outdoors 


Travel
Outdoors
Travel tools
Seattle guide
Washington guide
Oregon guide
British Columbia guide



Blogs & Columns

Travel Wise | Carol Pucci
Destinations | Kristin Jackson
Rick Steves' Europe
Field Notes nature blog
Reel Time Fishing Northwest




Opinion

Editorials & Opinion 


Editorials & Opinion
Letters to the Editor



Blogs & Columns

Ed Cetera Blog
Joni Balter
Ryan Blethen
Lance Dickie
Bruce Ramsey
Kate Riley
Lynne Varner






Shopping

Shopping 


Daily Find
Minding the Store
Shopping events
Editors' Picks
Shopping forum
Coupons




Jobs

Jobs 


Find a job
Post a resume
Career center
Post a job




Autos

Autos 


Find a vehicle
Find a dealer
Research 
Sell a vehicle




Homes

Homes 


For sale
Rentals
New homes
Open houses
Post a listing




Classifieds

Classifieds 


Search classifieds
Post a listing











Originally published Wednesday, September  7, 2011 at  4:08 AM


 Comments (8)
 E-mail article
 Print

Share:
 
 
 
 




Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire
    
Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
By APRIL CASTRO
Associated Press





PREV   of   NEXT 





ERIC GAY / AP

A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday in Bastrop, Texas. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the deadly fire.



JAY JANNER / AP

A Bastrop, Texas, woman examines the remains of her home Tuesday. More than 1,000 homes, about 600 in Bastrop, have been destroyed in 180-plus Texas wildfires. 



SMILEY N. POOL / AP

A charred house and vehicles are shown Tuesday near Magnolia, in Montgomery County north of Houston. 




Related


AP interactive | Wildfire tracker
Obama telephones Perry on Texas wildfires
    
Perry faces a leadership test in real time
    
Wildfires wear on Texas, Perry
Gallery | Texas wildfires
GOP debate features first appearance for Perry
    




See more mapped stories



Top comments

            Hide / Show comments
        





                Why is God punishing Texas so much.

Drought. Fire. What's next? Flood and pestilence...                (September 7, 2011, by martucci)


Read more








                It's too bad the States that most deny climate change and decry the workings of the...                (September 7, 2011, by Chris W.)


Read more








                "No...please read the first post below. Very pathetic."

You know what's...                (September 7, 2011, by Oxford 1910)


Read more







Read all 8 comments >
Post a comment >









						BASTROP, Texas — Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.
One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.
A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.
Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.
"It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.
Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.
"I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."
Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.
"The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."
Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.
"Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry.
"It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."
---
Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.









 Comments (8)
 E-mail article
 Print

Share:
 
 
 
 
















News where, when and how you want it




On Facebook
On Twitter
On your phone
On your doorstep









Breaking News E-mail


                        
                            Local and national breaking news alerts. Sent when news breaks.
                        
                        
                        
(Sample)






All newsletters
Privacy statement

















NDN Video













Trending on seattletimes.com
Most read
3 held in Detroit over bathroom trips on plane
 Microsoft reinvents flagship software — Windows 8 — for PCs and tablets
FBI ends up offending Muslims at outreach workshop
 Bicyclist struck by car in U District dies
Huskies show progress one explosive play at a time | Jerry Brewer
Ex-fighter pilot recalls her 9/11 suicide mission
Seahawks special teams allows two fourth-quarter TDs in 33-17 loss to 49ers
Keith Price steps up to lead UW to first 2-0 start since 2007
Cougars are 2-0 and have fans dreaming again | Bud Withers
Scuffling special teams cost Seahawks | Steve Kelley

More trending >



Most viewed photo galleries






Huskies vs. University of Hawaii 



Most watched videos








				UW coach Steve Sarkisian talks to the media following Thursday's practice.
			




More photos >
More videos >









Field Notes


Field Notes: a Northwest nature blog






New in Friday's newspaper


Be a foodie!  Devour our reviews and listings.  






Latest from NWsource Shopping



Go wild this fall with animal prints of every stripe



The Seattle Times dealDIGGER
loading...


















Site Map
Home
Local
Nation/World
Business/Tech
Sports
Entertainment
Living
Travel
Opinion
Obituaries
Extras
Forums
Blogs




Contact/Help

Site feedback/questions
Home delivery issues
Send us news tips
Send letters to the editor
Submit event listings
Request corrections
Newsroom contacts
Social media
Report malware



Connect

Facebook
Twitter
Mobile site
Mobile apps
Low-graphic site
Newsletters
RSS
Today's News Index



Advertising

Advertise with us
Digital advertising
Classifieds
Death notices
Job listings
Auto listings
Real Estate listings
Rental listings



Company

About us
Employment
Historical archives
Pulitzer prizes
Seattle Times store
Purchase photos
Newspapers In Education



Subscriber Services

Subscribe
MyTimes
Temporary stops
Make a payment
e-Edition
Subscriber rewards






Today's front page (PDF)




The Seattle Times Company Network: 
					Seattletimes.com | 
					NWjobs | 
					NWautos | 
					NWhomes | 
					NWsource | 
					Classifieds | 
					Rentals | 
					Personals

Copyright ©
The Seattle Times Company | 
					Advertise with us | 
					Privacy statement | 
					Terms of service

















