Photo: Drunk moose gets stuck in apple tree in Sweden                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Photo: Drunk moose gets stuck in apple tree in Sweden    Göteborg :  Sweden
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By richwebnews            2 1      
Views: 159
        According to Swedish paper, last Tuesday night, Per Johannson from Saro Sweden returned home only to be disturbed with loud laughing noise which he thinks from a neighbor party next door.  But the noise getting weird from Johansson's backyard, he decided to take a look only to find out that the moose was entangled up in apple tree. On how Earth the moose ended up in the tree could be traced from the fermented apples on the ground as the suspect. The moose apparently got drunk off of fermented apples as it acted under the influence of alcohol resulting the elk in party mood and able to jump on high, sadly ending up in a tree. Johansson have to call the fire authorities which help him to bent the tree branch to slide the intoxicated elk freely. Once the moose was free, instead of running it collapsed to the ground and napped due to severely intoxication, as Time.com added The authorities failed to do some DUI test and by the morning Johannson said that the moose slowly get-off still tipsy and disappear in wild. It would not be surprising if the elk return later with pals in the evening for some more round.        1 of 4        
Drunk Moose stuck in Apple Tree in Sweden (photGustav Johansson
         
richwebnews is based in San Francisco, California, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (65.3%) Canada (8.3%) Australia (5.6%) France (4.2%) 6 other countries (11.1%)           READ MORE: Apples, apple tree, backyard, drunk elk photo, Hangover, Drunk Moose, Saro, stuck in apple tree, sweden moose, tree, Sweden, drunk, Elk, moose   More News From: Göteborg :  Sweden      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Swede’s Drunken Escapade Launches International Debate By: robertweller      While it is widely known that drinking problems are common in Sweden, especially on the precious summer days, it came as a somewhat of a surprise to many outsiders when a drunken elk was found in a tree.
And that was only the beginning of an increasingly acrimonious debate. Some commenters claim the elk was really a moose. The battle has raged ...  3 days ago     Drunk Moose Wraps Self Around Tree By: nielica_01      Apparently, drunken moose are common in Sweden in autumn, when apples are abundant on the ground and in trees in homeowners’ yards.
A schnockered moose trying to reach more fermenting apples up high on an apple tree apparently lost its balance and ended up stuck in said tree. Seriously.
Per Johansson of Saro, Sweden returned ...  3 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       Images    >         Drunk Moose    Drunk Moose Image Source: allvoices Drunk Moose stuck in Apple Tree in Sweden (photGustav Johansson        Apples hang on a tree    Apples hang on a tree Image Source: www.afp.com Apples hang on a tree        Every season, hunters in ...    Every season, hunters in ... Image Source: www.afp.com Every season, hunters in Sweden kill more than 80,000 moose        Apple tree, Sweden    Apple tree, Sweden Image Source: farm1.static.flickr... Apple tree, Sweden      More Related Images    More From Göteborg          Photo: Drunk moose gets stuck in apple tree in Sweden        Arrested four suspected terrorists Sweden         Europe wants to reduce the cost of "roaming" on mobile phones        Nasal Problems Warning Of Sever Asthma          Severe Asthma and Nasal Problems Associated        HAMLET-found in breast milk kills cancer cells        Jesus Did Not Die On Cross - Swedish Theologian Gunnar Samuelsson        Jesus Did Not Die On Cross - Swedish Theologian Gunnar Samuelsson          Personal Aspects Decide Patients Off Work Time Due To Neck And Back Pain        Swedish-Made Cars May Be Disappearing From The Landscape        Chinese Auto Manufacturer buys Volvo from Ford.       Made her thesis - became charged               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308780          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 8       Images: 8       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308780), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308780 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308780 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Photo: Drunk moose gets stuck in apple tree in Sweden” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308780-photo-drunk-moose-gets-stuck-in-apple-tree-in-sweden.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         