Madonna's diva antics exposed by a lone hydrangea | Insurance BBS


Home
ADVERTISINGCONTACTPRIVACY POLICY





 


 Insurance BBS
Insurance reviews of the best insurance companies




Madonna's diva antics exposed by a lone hydrangea

Posted by  on September 7, 2011 
Leave a comment (0)
Go to comments



VIDEO: After Madonna's directorial debut, W.E., screened at the Venice Film Festival a fan handed her hydrangeas which she claims to loathe.
My hydrangeas have been putting on a flower show for months and many of them will continue doing so into the fall. Hydrangeas are one of the most dependable garden plants. They rarely get diseases or are victims of insect pests, and I hardly ever need
Madonna is at the Venice Film Festival, promoting her film, W.E., which has, so far, received a pretty dismal reception. So it's no wonder Madge was in a pretty.
The bottom line with the Madonna-loathes-hydrangeas flap making the Internet rounds is this: How do you hate hydrangeas? They're pretty much the best flower ever. I now have to question every home and design decision the Material Girl has ever made.

Guy Ritchie's ever so pretty and inoffensive looking girlfriend Jacqui Ainsley (name matches her niceness, um, nicely), had a little tiddler (a baby, not a fish) delivered into the world via a big smiling stork yesterday (the stork would have eaten a




hydrangea, hydrangeas


← Are live animals covered by motor truck cargo insurance?
Forecast offers little rain for Houston →




Leave a Comment Cancel reply

 NAME
 EMAIL
 Website URL
 




 




  



 







RSS Feed





 



Search




Insurance Random Posts

Cheap Dental Insurance in Ohio?
Is it possible to register my life insurance license to sell in other states?
In the state of CA, is it mandatory for businesses such as bowling alley's to have liability insurance?
Auto Insurance Quotes: Comprehensive Rates
Personal Auto Insurance-Can It Benefit You
Cindy Crawford, George Clooney and more pics from the Venice Film Festival
Cheap Insurance Quotes
How much money , generally would home insurance go up for owning a trampoline?
What is the best website to reseach and compare auto insurance quotes?




 Recent Posts 
Analyzing Week 1's injury report
San Francisco 49ers notebook: Michael Crabtree sees outing shortened
i am illegal can i get travel insurance?
Can I sue my own homeowners insurance policy for my slip and fall accident breaking my leg in my own condo?
does standard insurance have the capacity to serve its motor vehicle policyholders?

 
 







			
			
			 Powered by Insurance bbs

↑ Top



