Wildfire Lessons — Fierce Authenticity



Home
Blogging the Journey
Quizzes
Free Stuff
Bookshelf
Traveler Profiles
Meet Me
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Get Your Authentic On – Subscribe


Fierce Authenticity







Wildfire Lessons
by Shannon on September 8, 2011
in Emotion,Mind


I spent the better part of the weekend monitoring the Texas wildfire situation as my husband was on call with Hays County CERT. The catastrophic wildfire in Bastrop, Texas (see how fast it spread here) has left some friends homeless and it still rages out of control. I live about 65 miles from Bastrop so I’m not in any immediate danger from an existing fire, but with the drought here in Texas, one spark, one carelessly tossed cigarette butt, can bring devastation.
So I began looking around our house at our stuff. What would we take if we were told to evacuate? What is irreplaceable? What is really important?
The Wildfire List
As I made a list of what to grab in case there is a wildfire near us (it could happen), I was amazed at how short it was – important papers box, laptops, four boxes of family keepsakes, one box filled with family photos and mementos from vacations, another box with our collectibles (sentimental – no monetary value), and my teddy bear that I’ve had since I was four.
That’s it. All the other stuff is nice to have. All the other stuff is replaceable. If we had to get out, we could fit everything that matters to us, the things we are emotionally attached to, in one vehicle, grab our animals, and go.
If you were told to evacuate, what would you take?
Too Much Stuff
Then I began wondering about how much stuff is enough stuff.
In a lot of ways, our life was simpler when we lived in a small apartment. We didn’t have much stuff. Then we moved into a three bedroom house and bought more stuff. As suburban noise got the better of us, we longed for peace and quiet and elbow room. We are now in a smaller home on 4.5 acres, surrounded by trees – it’s quiet, we can see the stars at night. Since we downsized we have fewer things. Life is simpler. Yet, we still have too much stuff.
Own Less, Live More
Leo Babauta’s minimalist blog is about how less is the answer. I was intrigued by the following post (which I can paste here because Leo’s blog posts are public domain).
The more I focus on living, the less it seems I need.
What does it mean to focus on living? It’s a shift from caring about possessions and status and goals and beautiful things … to caring about actual life. Life includes: taking long walks, creating things, having conversations with friends, snuggling with my wife, playing with my kids, eating simple food, going outside and getting active.
That’s living. Not shopping, or watching TV, or eating loads of greasy and sweet food not for sustenance but pleasure, or being on the Internet, or ordering things online, or trying to get popular. Those things aren’t living – they’re consumerist pastimes that tend to get us caught up in overconsumption and mindlessness.
When I focus on living, all those other fake needs become less important. Why do I need television when I can go outside and explore, or get active, or take a walk with a friend? Why do I need to shop when I already have everything I need – I can spend time with someone or create, and I need very little to do that.
These things I do now — they require almost nothing. I can live, and need little.
And needing little but getting lots of satisfaction … that’s immensely rewarding. It’s an economy of resources that I’ve never experienced before.
These days, I need nothing but my loved ones, a text editor, a way to post what I create, a good book, simple plant-based food, a few clothes for warmth, and the outdoors.
Leo’s minimalism is too extreme for my current lifestyle and I’m still emotionally attached to some of my stuff – keepsakes and such. I’m glad we downsized when we moved, but I’m not ready to give up watching TV, although I watch a lot less than I used to – progress. But I like the idea of a simpler life. I hate clutter. I made a beginning when I took on my closet.
I’m committing right here, right now, to reevaluate that whole needs versus wants thing. I like the idea of being too busy living to be concerned with getting more stuff.
Speaking of stuff . . .
Comic Relief
I love the late George Carlin’s routine, A Place for My Stuff. All this talk of stuff made me want to see it again, so I’m putting it here for you too. Enjoy!

 


 Tagged as:
						Living Well, 
						Simplifying

Enjoy this post? Keep 'em coming! Subscribe to the RSS Feed or Subscribe to Fierce Authenticity by Email





Cancel reply Leave a Comment


Name *
E-mail *
Website

















CAPTCHA CodeAre you human?




 

 




Previous post: How to Become the Person You Were Meant to Be




Get Your Authentic On – Subscribe Subscribe to Fierce Authenticity
Get Social! Follow@shannon__writes



Popular Posts
Gettin' and Keepin' it Real 
A Complicated Anger 
STLV - Meeting Sir Patrick Stewart 
I'm Emotionally Stable? How Did That Happen? 
Why Eat Back Calories Lost from Exercise? 
Why I Left AA 
About Me 
The Artist's Way - 1:  Recovering a Sense of Safety 
Mid-life Reboot 
Quizzes 




Killer Recent Entries

Wildfire Lessons
How to Become the Person You Were Meant to Be
STLV – Meeting Leonard Nimoy – A Bucket List Item Checked Off
How to Look Good Naked
Why I Wanna be Dopey


Read a Series The Artist's Way

Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (4)
 August 2011  (9)
 July 2011  (7)
 June 2011  (14)
 May 2011  (20)
 April 2011  (13)

TagsBrain Food
Bucket List
Creativity
Exercise
Feelings wo-o-o
Food
Gratitude
Life Lessons
Living Well
manifestation
Meditation
Parenting
Quickies
Real People
Recovery
Relationships
Simplifying
Spirituality
True to Self
 

 

 





 “BE a first rate version of YOURSELF, not a second rate version of someone else” — Chinese Proverb


 “The MASTER IN THE ART OF LIVING makes little distinction between his work and his play, his labor and his leisure, his mind and his body, his information and his recreation, his love and his religion. He hardly knows which is which. He simply pursues his vision of excellence at whatever he does, leaving others to decide whether he is working or playing. To him he's always doing both.” — James A. Michener 
 "LIFE'S JOURNEY is not to arrive at the grave safely, in a well preserved body, but rather to skid in sideways, totally worn out, shouting 'Holy shit, what a ride!'" — Mavis Leyrer age 83 

Get Your Authentic On – Subscribe Subscribe to Fierce Authenticity
Shannon Recommends 
 

I used these to quit smoking! Save 10% use code “disc10-25776″ at checkout 
 

  Amazon.com Widgets
  

									Hosted By




 Thesis Theme for WordPress: Options Galore and a Helpful Support Community
 




Thesis Theme for WordPress: Options Galore and a Helpful Support Community.  Body

Emotion

Mind

Spirit

Copyright © 2008–2011




Web Toolbar by Wibiya





