Supernova is best and brightest in decades | truthaboutabsreviews.com









truthaboutabsreviews.com
Mike Geary Truth About Abs








Home
About






















Home
		 > "diet Plan Six Pack Abs"		 > Supernova is best and brightest in decades	

Supernova is best and brightest in decades

September 7th, 2011
master Leave a comment
Go to comments





Twenty-one million years ago in the Pinwheel Galaxy — an elegant, spiral-armed neighbor of our own Milky Way — an old, dim star had a very bad day. It exploded and began to blaze like a billion suns.
On Aug. 24, Peter Nugent had a very good day. the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory astrophysicist was about to grab lunch when he checked to see if a robotic telescope had spied anything of interest the night before. Bingo. Boom. Supernova.
And not just any supernova. every night, astronomers spot several exploding stars across the universe. but this one was so close — in cosmic terms — and seen so soon after its light reached Earth that astronomers are calling it the supernova of a generation.
An automated sky survey that searches for new nighttime objects with a telescope at California’s storied Palomar Observatory first flagged the supernova.
Soon, telescopes around the world — and beyond, including the Hubble Space Telescope — swiveled to take a peek.
“this is a special event,” said Ken Sembach of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. “Everyone wants a piece of it.”
Nugent said the blaze will continue to brighten until Wednesday or Thursday, visible just above the handle of the big Dipper to backyard astronomers wielding binoculars.
The last supernova to generate such buzz flared into view in 1972. before that, a 1937 explosion caught everyone’s attention.
“this is not an every-year event,” said Robert Kirshner, a veteran Harvard University supernova hunter. “this is an every-decade-or-four event.”
Three hours after Nugent’s discovery, the Grand Canary Telescope off the coast of Africa — where the sun had just set — took a look. the jackpot grew bigger when that scope’s data poured in. the Pinwheel supernova — technically known as SN2011FE — was a Type 1a, of special interest to astronomers.
Type 1a’s all blaze with nearly the same brightness. That makes them the perfect yardsticks for measuring cosmic distances. Their apparent brightness tells us how far away they are.
In the 1990s, Kirshner led a team that leveraged this property to make one of the biggest discoveries of the past century: the universe is flying apart, rapidly accelerating.
To explain this, cosmologists were forced into an uncomfortable conclusion. either gravity does not work the way it is supposed to, or a mysterious force is pushing galaxies apart at a quickening pace. They called this unknown force “dark energy” and still have little idea what it is, even though they are able to calculate that it constitutes an astounding 73 percent of all mass and energy in the universe.
Cosmologists hope the new supernova will help refine estimates of the universe’s acceleration. the data might even hint at the nature of dark energy.
Professional stargazers also point to the Pinwheel supernova as the best candidate to fill another gap in their knowledge: the precise sequence of events that cause such explosions. They are fairly certain Type 1a’s start with old, dim stars called white dwarves. Such stellar husks have blown away their outer layers after running out of fuel. this fate awaits our own sun in about 5 billion years.
For our sun, because it is isolated from other stars, that will be the end. but some white dwarves reincarnate as interstellar pilferers. Their high gravity sucks material from any nearby companion stars. Laden with cosmic booty, the thieving dwarf reaches a critical mass, about 1.4 times that of our sun. Atoms fuse. Hell is set loose. a runaway explosion ensues — a hydrogen bomb wrought massive.
That’s one possibility. in another, two white dwarves might circle each other in a deadly dance until they collide and explode.


“this is where the mystery lies,” said Roseanne Di Stefano, a Harvard University astrophysicist. “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in the field as to whether one or both happen.”
Peering at the Pinwheel supernova should provide clues as to which scene unfolded, Di Stefano said.
Already, astronomers have pored over Hubble images of the Pinwheel Galaxy, also known as M101, taken years ago. They have seen no stars where the supernova appeared. this absence is itself a clue as to what happened; it eliminates the possibility that a large, bright star “donated” its mass to the presumed white dwarf that went boom.
Hence, the double-dwarf scenario — in which both stars were too dim for Hubble to see — has taken the early lead.
In any case, astronomers will stare for years — maybe decades — at the cloud of gas the Pinwheel supernova will soon leave behind. like Galileo before them — he spotted a supernova in 1604 — and Johannes Kepler before him — he saw one in 1574 — and the Chinese, who recorded such a sight in 1054, sky watchers remain in thrall of the biggest bangs in the universe.
“You’d be hard pressed to find a telescope that hasn’t turned to it,” Nugent said.
Supernova is best and brightest in decades

 


Categories: "diet Plan Six Pack Abs" Tags: astrophysicist, bad day, lawrence berkeley national laboratory 






Comments (0)
Trackbacks (0)
Leave a comment
Trackback






			No comments yet.		





					No trackbacks yet.				










Name (required)



E-Mail (will not be published) (required)



Website








Subscribe to comments feed







 

Crosby recovering but not ready to play
Bastrop Texas Wildfire Photos












RSS

Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha








Recent Posts

Sue Smith’s Fitness Column (From Stroud News and Journal)Who be be better to start in week 3. Dez Bryant or Demaryius Thomas?Rex Ryan taking Jets' opener seriously for many reasonsCowboys’ Dez Bryant: Bring On Revis Island, Jets’ SecondaryDieting problems? dukan diet? does it work? (10 points)?Hanover Township, Northampton County, man charged with arsonShould I start Plaxico Burress or Bernard Berrian this week?Why didn' the NY Jets have a ticker tape parade when they won the Super Bowl in January 1969?Questioning the Reasoning Behind Cam Newton’s EligibilityHow Cam Newton Could Have Run A Better 40 




Tag Cloud
10 years
actress
amp
brother
cnn
earth
economy
espn
facebook
game
games
getty images
god
good luck
google
heart
hell
hollywood
iphone
job
jobs
live 105
lol
london
long time
love
marriage
match
mdash
mom
money
music
nbsp
nfl
parents
photos
quot
relationship
rsquo
truth
twitter
united states
weather
yahoo
youtube 







Categories

Reviews

truth about abs reviews

Uncategorized









Blogroll

Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet










Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011




Meta

Log in











Top
WordPress

		Copyright © 2011 truthaboutabsreviews.com	

		Theme by NeoEase. Valid XHTML 1.1 and CSS 3.	







WordPress SEO
