9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By Veronica Roberts             4 0      
Views: 425
       The surface glittered darkly, water cascaded gently as the day faded into dusk and thousands clung to the towering wall of names--some with kisses of farewell, others with light caresses of loving fingers along the bronze name panels, some bowed silently in prayer, while others simply stared and softly cried with grieve still lingering after a decade of unresolved pain and loss.Different reactions, from people of all colors of the rainbow. ‘White,’ ‘Black,’ ‘Brown.’ Different nationalities of origin; different dialect; different religions but one common denominator. They all shared the same tragedy: 9/11.Many came to give homage to the 3,000 lives snuffed out in one terrifying, gargantuan act of violence on that fateful day. Honor those gone while clinging tightly to their loved ones still here. Ground Zero in Manhattan, NYC was a flurry of activities and high security as President Obama, the First Lady accompanied by ex-President George W. BushGeorge W. Bush and wife Laura BushLaura Bush, flew in to pay their respects. They listened, along with Mayor Bloomberg, as families read the names of their lost loved ones. The moment was beyond powerfully poignant.Commemorative ceremonies were held throughout New York, Washington, Pennsylvania and many other parts of the U.S. and beyond. The President and First lady also flew to Shanksville, Pennsylvania to lay a wreath in memory of those who lost their lives on Flight 93. A tattered flag, the same one that flew over the World Trade center ruins 2 months after the terrorists attack, flew as the National anthem was played in Pennsylvania. President Obama and George Bush both reportedly read bible verses, while Cellist, YO-Yo Ma performed a little Bach classic. We had never experienced anything on American soil like this before. September 11, 2001 ushered in a new era of fear, caution, vigilance, rigorous security and a much used word that will forever be at the forefront of our lives. Terrorism.But as another day approaches, let’s hope a new era of humility, strength, faith, resilience and courage continue to fortify us as we move forward, conquering our fears, pain and anger. May we rise tomorrow with a new resolve. Written by Veronica Roberts 9.11.11        1 of 28        
Memorial wall
         
Veronica Roberts is based in New York City, New York, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (59.1%) China (13.4%) Canada (8.8%) France (3.0%) 19 other countries (12.8%)           READ MORE: loved ones, September 11, bush, terrorist, world trade, Flight 93, ground zero, President   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
Today, The Palestinian people remember with the American people& to the terrorists from everywhere we say-NEVER NEVER again! God protect America and its people.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     himdlove
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Nice to meet you,My name is Grace,single never married,caring,loving,romantic,honest,tall slim,and fair,that loves sightseeing and reading,i viewed your profile and got interested in knowing you more,please reply to me via my email address (gracemohamed26@yahoo.com) so that we will know each other very well and to send you my photo.I will be waiting for your mail to my email address above.(Remeber the distance or colour does not matter but love matters alot in life)ThanksGrace.gracemohamed26@yahoo.com
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Above Ground Swimming Pools By: vivekcis      Ambassador Pools is one of the finest above ground swimming pools service provider.Ambassador Pools is the specialist for above ground swimming pools. We carry the Ambassador and Kayak Swimming Pool brands of above ground swimming pools and many different models, styles and features.   about 5 hours ago     11 / 9, Bush and Obama at Ground Zero  By: mus1423       President Barack Obama and his predecessor, George W. Bush arrived at Ground Zero and their wives Michelle and Laura have paid tribute to the victims of the massacres of September 11. Obama and Bush, the wives in black, have embraced the families of the victims lined the edges of the memorial fountains where the Twin Towers stood.  about 19 hours ago     The memories that linger, ten years on By: alibux4      
 
Events to mark the tenth anniversary of the September 11 attacks are to take place as planned, despite an escalation of the perceived terror threat. Visitors to ground zero are not allowing themselves to be intimidated.
 
 
As the United States prepared to mark the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 ...  about 20 hours ago     Hackers attack false advertising in New York on NBC's Twitter account By: kingston23      The account of the social network Twitter the U.S. television network NBC was attacked by some hackers who sent fake messages were reported in which a terrorist attack at ground zero in New York, two days after the commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the 11-S."Ground Zero has just been attacked. The flight has crashed in 5736 the place was ...  2 days ago     Viewpoints 2011: Decade of memory By: BenThurber      As we near the time when it would be one decade, ten years, since the attacks now commonly known as 9/11, it's a wonder.
For those who had family members perish, it's a time of remembering, of grieving.
For those who knew someone who went in but didn't get out, it's a time of loss.
For those who still remember, clearly, the sheer and utter ...  5 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     New York commemorates Sept. 11 anniversary  
United Press International
 President Barack Obama stood Sunday before a memorial pool in the footprint of the first World Trade Center tower to fall and read a psalm from the Bible. "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble," Obama said, quoting Psalm 46.    A decade later, a nation still grieves  
MarketWatch
 President Barack Obama, first lady Michelle Obama and former President George W. Bush walk past the North Pool at the National Sept. 11 Memorial during 10th anniversary ceremonies Sunday at the World Trade Center site in New York. MarketWatch)...    US ceremonies mark 9/11 attacks  
Al Jazeera
 28 US President Barack Obama capped a day of memorial events by declaring the post-September 11 decade of war and recession had proven America's will was unbreakable if it remained united. "Nothing can break the will of a truly United States of...    Names of 9/11 Attack Victims Echo Across WTC Site  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 Standing behind bulletproof glass and before the white oak trees of the new Sept. 11 memorial, Obama read Psalm 46 from the Bible after a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m., when the first jetliner slammed into the World Trade Center's north tower a...    US honours victims of 9/1 attacks  
The independent
 America fell silent to honour the victims of the September 11 attacks today in a series of memorial services to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the atrocity. In emotional scenes, the names of all those killed when terrorists flew two passenger...    On Sept. 11, a day that stands alone  
San Jose Mercury News
 Just as Sept. 11 was unthinkable, Sunday was inevitable: the 10th anniversary of a day that stands alone...At 8:46 a.m. -- the time when the first plane slammed into the north tower of the World Trade Center -- 87,648 hours had gone by...Once more,...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Pain and Hope    Pain and Hope Image Source: allvoices Memorial wall        remembering 1 decade later    remembering 1 decade later Image Source: allvoices As the day fades,a new dawn of hope rises         Names of the fallen     Names of the fallen Image Source: allvoices 9/11 commemoration wall        September 11    September 11 Image Source: allvoices "Never forget"        9/11 remembered a decade later    9/11 remembered a decade later Image Source: allvoices 9/11: As the date comes to a close, the country anticipates the dawn of ...        commemoration moments    commemoration moments Image Source: allvoices 9/11: As the date comes to a close, the country anticipates the dawn of ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        Denim done right at Teen Vogue’s Declare Your Denim Show!        Anniversary of the attack on the Twin Towers in 11 images        Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported Disturbance         Loadsheding in USA in 3 states        Parker Movie Cast        The Fast and the Furious 6 Movie Cast        New York drama relives ten years later           Perfect Sense Poster       Maraykanka oo ka cabsi qaba in werar lala beegsado 9/11 anniversary oo ku beegan bishan 11′keeda        Mission: Impossible Ghost Protocol Poster        Dolphin Tale Poster          9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308459          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 15       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 28       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308459), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308459 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308459 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308459-911-commemoration-moments-as-the-day-comes-to-a-close-another-dawn-hovers-with-hope.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         