Powered by Infusionsoft














Having trouble viewing this email? Click here






























Texas Wildfire Relief - How We Can All Help!





By Forte Properties










We are sharing this important message with you in an
 effort to help those whose lives have been devastated by the wildfires 
in Austin, Bastrop and other Central Texas areas.


Our thoughts and prayers continue to go out to all those fighting and 
fleeing the flames. If you have done or are planning to assist with relief efforts, thank you for your support as we all need to work together to assist 
those in need.


If you or someone you know has had to evacuate because of the wildfires, Forte Properties can help families find free or drastically reduced short-term leases. 


With full access to all properties available on the Austin MLS and a special program put in place by the Austin Board of Realtors, we 
can search for properties offering free or substantially discounted 
leases to fire evacuees. Just let us know what areas your family, a 
family you know or friends are looking... and we will find them a place no
 matter what it takes.


We can also search all available homes for sale and lease 
in Bastrop and surrounding areas if folks are looking for long-term or permanent housing. Leases can be finalized within a day or 2 and purchasing a 
home can be as quick as 1 week if pursuing Owner Financed properties.




Search Bastrop Homes For Lease


Search Bastrop Homes For Sale


Search Owner Financed Homes in Bastrop

There are also many other ways you can help. Visit The Austin Chronicle's website to view the most recent Updated Wildfire Relief Information.













 





 


 





 






Whether you are looking for Owner Financed properties or 
are able to pre-qualify for bank financing, rest assured that we will 
take the time in this fast paced market to get to know what YOUR
 goals are and we have the experience to reach them fast. Buying a home 
is not just a dollars-and-cents investment, it is an investment in your 
life. Regardless of how times change, owning a home remains the 
cornerstone of the American dream.






It's your move... Now let's make the move together!


Call: (512)981-6865 or Send us an Email today!







 





 


 





 






NEW Owner Financed Homes 9/2 - 9/8






 






REDUCED Owner Financed Homes 9/2 - 9/8







    (Click Here to search ALL Austin Real Estate and Owner Financed Homes For Sale)













Know someone looking to buy a home or sell their house?

WE PAY REFERRALS! Minimum $1,000 CA$H!











 





 


 





 





If you have any questions about selling your house, purchasing a home, or the Owner Finance process, please feel free to respond to this email or call our office direct at (512)981-6865.  Thank you for giving us the opportunity to earn your business and we
look forward to handing you the keys to your new home in the near
future.



If you no longer wish to receive any emails or communication from Forte Properties...











 




 Click Here to be permanently removed from our mailing list.




 







Professionally Yours,


FORTEPROPERTIES

(512)981-6865 - Office

office@GreatHomesTexas.com

www.GreatHomesTexas.com


Your Austin Area Real Estate and Owner Finance Specialists






 


 





 









Follow us



Join us



Visit our Blog











Forte Properties 201 University Oaks Blvd. Suite 1285 #106 Round Rock, Texas 78665 United States (512) 981-6865














