
Texas firefighters gaining control of blaze - USATODAY.com


 Skip to Main Content 




USA TODAY










Subscribe
Mobile







Home
News
Travel
Money
Sports
Life
Your Life
Tech
Weather












Breaking News:Pawlenty endorses Romney for president












Texas firefighters gaining control of blaze


By Sharon Jayson and Oren Dorell, USA TODAY
Updated 





Comments











Reprints & Permissions

































 
AUSTIN — Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.




By Eric Gay, AP
Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home on Tuesday in Bastrop, Texas. The sisters lost their home to fires on Monday.



EnlargeClose


By Eric Gay, AP
Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home on Tuesday in Bastrop, Texas. The sisters lost their home to fires on Monday.




At least two people have died in the wildfire, which has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city about 25 miles from Austin.
Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts.


PHOTOS: Texas wildfires destroy homes


BLOG: Texas Gov. Rick Perry plans to attend GOP debate


The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking the worst fire season in state history.
About 1,000 homes have been lost since November in fires that have burned 3.6 million acres. 
Nichelle Bielinski and her husband, John, walked through the devastation of their home Tuesday after a wildfire blazed through their Steiner Ranch neighborhood.
"It looks like a bomb dropped on it," said Nichelle, 44, a music teacher. 
Reduced winds of 5 to 10 mph could last through Saturday, allowing firefighters to get close to the fire and dig fire lines with bulldozers and by hand, said Mike Ferris, a spokesman for the U.S. Forest Service near Bastrop, where the fires killed two people, bringing the overall death toll to four. The fires have destroyed about 600 homes since Sunday.
Record heat and drought have led to fires spanning the Lone Star State. Seventeen major cities  recorded their hottest summer this year, beating records that go back more than 100 years, said  historian Christopher Burt of the Weather Underground. More than 81% of the state is in exceptional drought conditions, the worst level, according to the government's U.S. Drought Monitor. 
The 30,000-acre Bastrop Complex Fire began Sunday, driven by 35-mph winds of Tropical Storm Lee. It burned nearly  600 homes, a state record for a single fire. An additional 250 or so homes burned elsewhere in Texas since the weekend began, Huffman said. An additional 200 may have been destroyed in smaller fires, she said. The previous record for a single fire was 160 homes  near Dallas-Fort Worth in April.
Texas Forest Service officials were preparing  to hand over coordination of the fire effort to a federal team run by the U.S. Forest Service, Ferris said.
Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip, toured a blackened area near Bastrop on Tuesday. Perry said he expects federal assistance but that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop. Fort Hood was battling its own 3,700-acre fire.
 "When you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to. If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that's a problem," he said.
"The orders we've put in are being filled," Ferris said. "Both equipment and personnel. If they're not here now, they're in route."
Bastrop Mayor Terry Orr said about 25 homes were destroyed inside the city limits, and wildlands nearby are "a scene of devastation."
"It is a moonscape,"  Orr said. The hilly landscape was covered in burned pines and cedars, and parts of houses were still standing, "but everything is basically gray," he said. "It is a terrible sight."
Some stunned residents returned Tuesday to their scorched neighborhoods. Fay Billingsley, 42, said burned houses  stood next to some untouched by  flames. Row after row of homes were blackened. Furniture had melted into twisted mounds. "It's like doomsday," she  said.
In Austin, the Bielinskis surveyed the damage to the house they had fled Sunday with daughter Alexis, a first-grader, and Nichelle's mother, Estella Butler, 68. The family lost an antique grand piano and keepsakes such as a  limited-edition Great Books series that Butler  was saving for her granddaughter. 
Their cul-de-sac was among the hardest-hit in the Steiner Ranch subdivision, where the fire claimed 23 homes.
"We are so lucky," Nichelle Bielinski said. "We are so blessed. We got out with our family."
Contributing: Rick Jervis in Bastrop; Doyle Rice in McLean, Va.; and the AP. Dorell reported from McLean.
For more information about reprints & permissions, visit our FAQ's. To report corrections and clarifications, contact Standards Editor Brent Jones. For publication consideration in the newspaper, send comments to letters@usatoday.com. Include name, phone number, city and state for verification. To view our corrections, go to corrections.usatoday.com.

Posted  | Updated 









We've updated the Conversation Guidelines. Changes include a brief review of the moderation process and an explanation on how to use the "Report Abuse" button. Read more.












 
Advertisement






Most Popular E-mail Newsletter


Sign up to get:
Top viewed stories, photo galleries and community posts of the day

Most popular right now:














USA TODAY Digital Services

Mobile
E-Newsletters
RSS
Twitter
Podcasts
Widgets
e-Edition
 USA TODAY for iPad
Kindle Edition
Print Edition
Subscribe to paper


Reprints & Permissions
USA TODAY Topics
Reporter Index
Corrections/Clarifications
Contact Us
Archives

 






Home
News
Travel
Money
Sports
Life
Tech
Weather


Visit our Partners:
USA WEEKEND
USA TODAY LIVE
Sports Weekly
Education
Space.com
Travel Tips



Contact us
Advertise
Pressroom
Media Lounge
Jobs
FAQ
Reprints/Permissions
Privacy Notice/Your California Privacy Rights
Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Site Index

© 2011 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.























 












