 » Texas Tea Parties Mobilize to Assist Firefighters, Victims of Wildfires - Big Government





















Home
Exclusives
Categories
Contributors












Texas Tea Parties Mobilize to Assist Firefighters, Victims of Wildfires
by 
                
			  	Mike Flynn			  	




Well, the ‘barbarians’ and ’sons of bitches’ are at it again. As wildfires spread across Texas, covering over 100,000 acres so far, tea partiers are once again organizing and mobilizing, this time to help their fellow citizens.

The group Citizen Patriot Response is coordinating efforts. From its website:
Citizen Patriot Response is preparing to begin delivering cold bottles of water to firefighters in the Bastrop area in an effort to do our part. Many other organizations and individuals in Texas are doing the same. We need support, we need more efforts initiated across the state, and we need communication and collaboration between group leaders to ensure that men and women fighting the Texas wildfires have full support.
The group will also provide a shelter for those families whose homes are threatened by the fires.
This is something the left would do well to try to understand. Of course we need a certain amount of government, but we need far less than they imagine. Free citizens have repeatedly banded together to assist one another.
They would also do well to rethink their virulent rhetoric about the tea party. Again, there isn’t a ‘tea party’ per se. Rather, it is simply some significant percentage of the American public who is concerned about the direction of this country. And, considering that over 70% of Americans think the country is on the wrong path, that’s a whole lot of people.
To call these people ‘barbarians’, as the sitting Vice-President did the other day, isn’t just vile and wrong, it is politically insane.
God speed to Citizens Patriot Response and tea party groups in Texas and good luck in their efforts to help those battling and victimized by the wildfires. Oh, and let us know if or when the Teamsters decide to pitch in.

 

Email this to a friend | Print |
		Share on Facebook
		| Tweet this
		|  

    	Tags: citizen patriot response, Joe Biden, Tea Party, Teamsters, Texas, wildfires		Posted Sep 7th 2011 at 11:16 am in Culture,  News,  Tea Party | 
				

326944123 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fmikeflynn%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Ftexas-tea-parties-mobilize-to-assist-firefighters-victims-of-wildfires%2FTexas+Tea+Parties+Mobilize+to+Assist+Firefighters%2C+Victims+of+Wildfires2011-09-07+18%3A16%3A55Mike+Flynnhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326944 









326944123 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fmikeflynn%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Ftexas-tea-parties-mobilize-to-assist-firefighters-victims-of-wildfires%2FTexas+Tea+Parties+Mobilize+to+Assist+Firefighters%2C+Victims+of+Wildfires2011-09-07+18%3A16%3A55Mike+Flynnhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326944


RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:25 am
"Take These Son Of Bitches Out" to the fireline and let them help the good men and women of the TX fire departments.




R_Swift - September 7th, 2011 at 11:28 am
Homeland Security will soon put a stop to this!




bmmst_151 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:30 am
Pretty heroic for "barbarians" and "terrorists."




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:30 am
They hate fire! Anti-flamitic (it's a real word) raaacists!!!




porchhound - September 7th, 2011 at 11:32 am
Rick you obviously know NOTHING about fire fighting,  volunteers have to be TRAINED before they are allowed to join the firefighters in action.  I have two sons who are firemen.  One works for the Forest Service fighting just this type of fire.  The other works in Tulsa.  Next time you post try to gather the few coherent thoughts you can muster and organize them into short sentences.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:32 am
Ha!




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 11:36 am
I'm beginning to see the new TP narrative, that of salt of the earth, kind, and charitable people who are only fighting off the hate around them and never have a harsh word for anyone: gay, black, liberal, etc…..while looking to make sure grandma and grandpa survive on catfood so their corporate masters can have a little bit more to themselves, that people wind up out on the street trying to pay medical bills, and homosexuals wind up in marcus bachmann's mind control clinic. Is he MKUltra certified?




STAMP ACT - September 7th, 2011 at 11:36 am
All hail Biden the Barbarian! May he and his ilk find their place in the fire of well, you know, hell. Maybe obammy will bring him a bottle of cold water. Oh wait, he can't because he will be joining him there……sorry, my bad.  




4arepublic - September 7th, 2011 at 11:38 am
I don't think the article implied they were going to help fight the fires directly. Read the next to last line, especially this part: "… efforts to help those battling and victimized by the wildfires." In other words, offer water, shelter and help victims in any way possible. Being charitable requires no special training, just a willingness to help out in any way possible.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:38 am
You're seeing with your Soros glasses on. Remove them once you get approval and you'll feel better.




Grace656 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:38 am
Good citizens willing to do what's needed wherever they can.  I'm proud of the Tea Party.




Scarface - September 7th, 2011 at 11:39 am
I'd rather eat catfood than put the welfare needle in my arm and become another gubmint junkie…massah gwain gib me moah of dat green stuff……you phucking libtards are so weak and deluded!




bigdvbc - September 7th, 2011 at 11:40 am
Nice one I like that.  People helping people.  How long will it take the "Federal Family" to respond.




colascguy - September 7th, 2011 at 11:41 am
I'm thinking that Rick's post was supposed to be a joke. Please don't attack it is far better to embrace a little grace.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 11:41 am
Wow OA, that is probably the dumbest thing said all day. 
Not only are you spewing lies and BS, but you completely avoid the topic at hand.   
You really do have nothing better to do with your life other than to spread lies and hate.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:43 am
Holder is drafting a resolution now to prevent Non-Union workers from assisting such disasters.




bigdvbc - September 7th, 2011 at 11:43 am
I was a firefighter for 34 years.  I went to numerous fires in So Cal.  There is plenty for volunteers to do without being in danger.  Like helping in the evacuation areas to provide food and shelter for the evacuees of the fires.  I say let them help.




Tux - September 7th, 2011 at 11:44 am
relax, porch…i can recognize the sentiment. can't you?




kentatwater - September 7th, 2011 at 11:45 am
Wow OA, that is probably the dumbest thing said all day.  
It's just getting warmed up.




4arepublic - September 7th, 2011 at 11:45 am
All he!!, indeed.




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:46 am
You hate the people who pay for everything. That's not going to work out for you in the end.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:46 am
I volunteer, I help take care of animals having no place to live..guess I missed the training you mention.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 11:49 am
LOL! Keep telling yourself that for as long as you choose. You're only deluding yourself though.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 11:50 am
Dont remind me, he most likely will be on a role of stupidity today.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 11:51 am
It's kind of obvious the TP is trying to move away from it's angry roots and present an image of kindness to all and a helping hand based on charity which is a political ploy so they can show people that you dont need the government or entitlement programs for assistance while the nasty liberals are the real hateful ones. I mean how many stories did BB run about Hoffa today? It a giant crock and you being the moron you are dont realize it.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 11:51 am
I did for eight years. As you said big, there are a multitude of areas volunteers can assist without working the line.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 11:54 am
TEA party, you rock. Keep up the excellent work.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 11:54 am
Well not only are you dumb since people pay into social security so it's not an "entitlement" but you're an obvious racist douchebag. I wish you morons just stop denying that already since it manifests here on a regular basis. And helping the elderly with healthcare is not a bad thing. Even in tribal societies it was customary to help the elders since they paved the way. You of course dont know that nor care because you're a selfish a$$hole much like the people you support.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 11:55 am
Is that all you got, an even dumber comment. 
You really have no idea what the Tea Party message is, much less what they are fighting for.   
I doubt you even know why you dislike the Tea Party at all, since it sounds like you have someone else thinking for you.  Your just a paid tool spew hate and lies.




bigdvbc - September 7th, 2011 at 11:55 am
It figures.  The 2012 elections can't get here fast enough.  We have got to vote, get other to vote, and get rid of these cockroaches.




ret_cpo - September 7th, 2011 at 11:55 am
This really has nothing to do with the Tea Party. This is called community coming together to help one another. It happens everyday in most of this country, especially rural areas.  
I don't really look at the Tea Party as an organization, rather as most of the folks in this country who actually care about this country.  
Token liberal Bob Beckel on The Five yesterday said the tea party was a bunch of people that want the constitution as it was written and never change it. This guy is a dork and I hate it that Fox New actually pays him to spew this garbage.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 11:55 am
Of course, george soros controls the minds of all liberals. You keep deluding yourself with BB's propagnada all you want. it's only making you dumber.




jeffteaparty2012 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:57 am
We need more of this in our own areas.  Consider us inspired.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:01 pm
I have no idea what the tea party is fighting for? No, Ive just  been reading these blog posts for over two years. The tea party position is quite clear and get's clearer by the day.    
I really hate the tea party on all fronts. Ive definitely thought this through too. Whether it has to do with culture, morality, sex, economics, religion, art, etc. I have absolutely no commonality with you at all and never will. And I've studied media long enough to be able to see a narrative emerging especially when it's coming from the right. If you're too stupid to see that, I'm afraid that's your problem.




bigdvbc - September 7th, 2011 at 12:05 pm
Normally the bureaucracy takes so long to get the food service in place that the people working the lines may go 12 to 24 hours without food or water.  They only have what they bring with them if they have time to get it together. As RickOden said he helps in a way he can, no training required.  People don't realize what goes into a major campaign fire.  Not only the firefighting, but evacuees, animals, etc.  you name it it needs to get done and by the time the government agencies get there is can be many hours if not days.  We the people can do so much.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:06 pm
Perhaps you need to comb through the articles on this site since Hoffa called you son of a bitches. It's basically about how hateful liberals are and how baggers are so civil and kind and blah blah blah and now lo and behold an article on their charity and written by one of the people who earlier was screaming about left wing hatred. If you dont realize that's how a narrative and perception is formed in your head then I pity you because you are easily manipulated by propoganda.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:06 pm
"Of course, george soros controls the minds of all liberals" 
He must since his talking points are regurgitated on AB under your screen name.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 12:08 pm
Sadly, it is you who is too stupid to see the truth. 
Since the Tea Party is fighting for the American taxpayer and freeing up the country from the grip of government control.  Race, class, and so on, mean nothing to the Tea Party, as their message is not of race or class, but of fiscial responsibility.   
Going from your post, you only hate just to hate.  You claim to have reasons, but gave none.  Not to mention the fact that you mention to have studied the narrative from the right, but have you studied the narrative from the left to.  I have seen both sides throught the years, and have listened to them well.   
Look, I am just saying, all you are doing is just blindly spewing hatred and lies, with nothing to back them up.  You need to learn how to love and tolerate, since hate gets you no where.




Pappadave - September 7th, 2011 at 12:09 pm
You haven't "thought" anything through OA.  If you had, you'd know that the Tea Party wants very little from the government–merely a return to our Constitutional roots where ALL people are imbued with EQUAL opportunity…NOT equality of outcomes.  The ONLY way to do that is to get the government OUT of the business of picking winners and losers, reduce the size and reach of government by about 75%, do completely away with onorous "regulations" with the force of law that have NOT been subjected to the legislative process and quit spending our money on things of which we disapprove and which have no constitutional authority.




Skeeve - September 7th, 2011 at 12:12 pm
Maybe Hoffa's remark is getting a lot of conservative press now – but isn't this the logical response to the incredible barrage of attacks against Sarah Palin shortly after the shooting of Congresswoman Giffords regarding Palin's previous "Reload" comment?   Surely, it behooves the members of the Tea Party to point out behavior that the left once vehemently criticized yet now is silent about when it's one of their own.
While you do make a point here, I think you have to balance that with acknowledgment that Hoffa's comment more than cancels out Palin's comment as it was, by any measure, far worse.




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 12:12 pm
Right, my bad. The people who pay for everything are the folks who protested in Wisconsin — government leeches and college kids who were bussed in from out of state.




actsnow - September 7th, 2011 at 12:14 pm
The NYT will come out with a story on how the Texas T.E.A. party started looting the burnt out homes and thwarted fire fighters efforts by hording water in bottles.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:14 pm
"I pity you because you are easily manipulated by propaganda" 
..Can you post that again. I read it twice and still cannot believe you would post such comment.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 12:15 pm
Look, I know this is beyond your limited comprehension, but finding evidence of the hateful is relitivly easy.  Since there are plenty of sources from the NAACP, Waters, Soros, Hoffa, MSNBC, HuffPo and so on.   
Yet, the Tea Party doesnt support hate and has been civil unlike the left.  Yet, you complain when the Tea Party is doing something good to help out when someone is in trouble.  My question is this, where are the left support groups helping to stop these fires, like the unions, liberal/progressive groups.  Where are they now?




rckmom - September 7th, 2011 at 12:17 pm
Were you, ON_Antibiotics…born stupid, or did you have to work real hard to get that way????




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 12:17 pm
Social Security becomes an entitlement program when people begin to take out more than they paid in.  
Incidentally, the first person to draw Social Security retired the day after Social Security began, which means people who were still working paid for that person's retirement.




Nenzina - September 7th, 2011 at 12:18 pm
Based on your over-the-top reaction to this news, I'd say you feel threatened by this because it may cast teapartiers in a good light.




rckmom - September 7th, 2011 at 12:19 pm
So, Obama calls for volunteers, from the democratic party, but when the Tea Party does something on such a grand scale, we're all sons of bitches??? There are days when I think my head just might explode!!!! This is one of them!!




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:20 pm
It won't let statistical tax data get in the way. 50% of the US population pays income taxes, the other 50% complain about those who do.




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 12:23 pm
Your constant use of the slur "baggers" betrays your all-consuming hatred.  
Also, you speak of conservatives being "manipulated by propaganda" yet here you are spewing every single left-wing talking point out there. You demonstrate a blind allegience to the complete hatred of anything you disagree with and then express it in an arrogant, flippant manner as if you are somehow superior.  
I highly doubt you know anything about the Tea Party except what you've been spoon fed by the left-wing hate narrative. No one needs or wants your wretched pity, it's as useless as the left-wing ideology that your weak mind has succumbed to.




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 12:34 pm
That's right, keep pushing your narrative, little robot…..




R_Swift - September 7th, 2011 at 12:35 pm
You pity Nenzina yet you refer to Nenzina as a "bagger"…… a mixture of pity and hatred manifested from your own guilt projected onto others who you do not understand. Guilt is a combination of self-pity and self-hatred and the left is rife with it. Antibiotics will not be of any help to you with this form of rot, as you continually display in your posts.




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 12:36 pm
There you go using logic and facts again. You know they don't mean anything to this Antibiotic person. A steady diet of left-wing hate and talking points are all he needs….




Scarface - September 7th, 2011 at 12:38 pm
Listen:  I am ready to collect SS and I have paid in since 1964 with a payback that is laughable; it means nothing to me. I also am responsible for several elderly relatives   that we watch very closely on a daily basis…so son, do not lecture me on helping the elderly and stow your immature name calling bullcrap in your manpouch…I have paid and am paying my dues and I have never taken one cent from the government!




Pappadave - September 7th, 2011 at 12:38 pm
You haven't "thought" anything through OA.  If you had, you'd know that the Tea Party wants very little from the government–merely a return to our Constitutional roots where ALL people are imbued with EQUAL opportunity…NOT equality of outcomes.  The ONLY way to do that is to get the government OUT of the business of picking winners and losers, reduce the size and reach of government by about 75%, do completely away with onorous "regulations" with the force of law that have NOT been subjected to the legislative process and quit spending our money on things of which we disapprove and which have no constitutional authority.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:46 pm
Talking points? You mean the facts? The TP is out of step with the public.  
72% want tax increases on the wealthy and 69% dont want any cuts to medicare or social security. You're a hostile minority that we going have to expunge from congress as quickly as possible befor eyou pull the entire house down.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:49 pm
People pay into social security hence it's not an entitlement program. What this comes down to is your corporate masters the Koch brothers and their far right cabal want more to themselves and have essentially convinced all of you that fighting your own interests is the right thing to do.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:50 pm
My narrative? That social security and medicare help retired people and the elderly get by? That's a narrative? They do. The robot here is you for having been easily lead by Koch backed organizatins to believe that these programs are evil and wrong and we should get rid of them.




On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 12:51 pm
Tell you what, if that "socialized medicine" called Medicare is such an evil and will be of no help to you or your family, deny it.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:53 pm
I absolutely agree, having missed a few meals working fires. Remember the meals in a plastic net bags?




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 12:56 pm
Right because forcing people to pay into programs that are losing money instead of letting them keep their money to choose their own path is evil and wrong….Just getting by should be fine for them instead of prospering in their senior years, right? 
Your little Koch brothers reference means nothing to me, but your insistence on government control speaks volumes about your Soros indoctrination.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:57 pm
Look spinny..the TP is an idea so you claiming it is out of step tells me you don't even no what your talking about. It would be like me posting "Savings are out of step with the public" or "Parenting is out of step with the public".
You have a problem with it because you cannot attack it directly since it cannot be manhandled by your goons. It's funny watching the lefties fight a boogeyman they cannot throw gasoline on or slash its tires.




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:05 pm
Mike,
Thank you all.
For everything.




freedomnut - September 7th, 2011 at 1:37 pm
Come on now, everybody, who did you expect to get out there and help the firefighters?  An "army" of government employee union members!?!  Or perhaps a bunch of "environmentalists"???  No, wait: we were expecting La Raza to call upon its members (considering all the brown-skinned people living in TX), perhaps?  Impossible, I say!!!  Consider that every one of those leftist groups finds it to be the "government's job" to do anything and everything deemed charitable and/or dangerous.  Everybody knows their real value in America is in protesting for [fill in social awareness project here].




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 1:37 pm
Very true. I grew up in a small midwestern town. When the river flooded the lower part of the city, EVERYONE was out helping to sandbag and do what they could, regardless of their politics. People from small surrounding areas away from the river also showed up. Some of them were probably total fascists and aetheists to boot, but they still helped the community.




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:40 pm
Yes, please, tell us all about the evil Koch brothers and their wanton charitable contributions to hospitals, PBS, and the like.    
Also, I fail to see how it's in my best interests to spend my entire working life paying into Social Security when there's a very real chance that I'll never see one cent of that money when it's my time to retire. It will have been squandered on other people's retirements or the government will have simply taken it and spent it in any number of useless ways for which I'll never find any form of benefit.   
If it's not an entitlement, it ought to be optional. Why isn't it? Think about it: If it's not optional, it's because the money isn't for me — it's needed right now because I'm actually paying for someone else.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 1:40 pm
My mom just started to collect Social Security, She has other 401k investments, but the $2100 per month she gets from Social Security certainly is not laughable to her!!




Canuck_Grit - September 7th, 2011 at 1:44 pm
Providing bottles of water is what passes for heroism these days.




d55may - September 7th, 2011 at 1:44 pm
Maybe shortening it the "Tea Party Son of Bitches" helping the "union" firefighters on the line fighting the Texas wild fires.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 1:54 pm
Here's the reality. There is a certain percentage of the population who would NOT save any money from their checks for investment if if were not taken out prior to them receiving checks. Their choice would be to just spend it. You can apply any kind of adjective to them you want, but it's a reality.  
Other people who might do it are not all savy investors. My brother and sister-in-law lost about $300,000 in their stocks 3 years ago. Privatizing Social Security does NOT guarantee prosperity in their senior years. It's a crap shoot. Moreover, if I invested the small amount that is taken out by the government, odds are pretty high it's not going to make me "prosperous" in my senior years. Those who ARE prosperous are those who have OTHER money to invest, not the lower classes. 
It is a safety net that many people would not otherwise have. While you might be more fortunate than some in the intelligence department, not all people have your skills. But screw them…it's just evil and taking away free choice, right? 
And of course, if Perry does become President, you'll have your wish.




Quayle2012_KNOT - September 7th, 2011 at 2:06 pm
Perry has only cut the budget for firefighting by 75% this year. If he were serious about limited government he'd eliminate the entire budget for firefighting and let Tea Party Patriots show how little government we need. And for good measure, he could tell them to ask the private sector to donate fire trucks. As for the hundreds burned out of their homes? Well, maybe they weren't God fearin' enough. The free market has spoken!!




swimkin - September 7th, 2011 at 2:40 pm
Glad to know that the damned racists, bitches, barbarians, terrorists and Hobbits are doing their part.  I think we need MORE of them.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 2:48 pm
How does me, a regular average citizen, keeping more of my money to save or spend as I wish helping the Koch brothers?  You do realize that even if we confiscated all of the rich people's money right now it would still not pay off our debt. 
Idiot.




vivlibomuori - September 7th, 2011 at 2:52 pm
you wouldn't even lift a finger.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 2:52 pm
And SS is insolvent.  It's a Ponzi scheme with current workers paying retirees.  There is no "account" with money just for you.  It's all gone. 
And for those who don't save, there is charity.  Perhaps you should also read the old fable of the ant and the grasshopper.  More people will save anyway they can if they know they have to.  Perhaps you should also Google "moral hazard".




Eileen for Freedom - September 7th, 2011 at 3:08 pm
So did Bilderberg Perry call in the Feds to send them home?   Stay tuned!    
~~~ 
2012 RALLY CRY – “BACK TO THE FUTURE – BACK TO GROUND ZERO”!
~~~ 
He could not win…he will not win…he should not run!




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 3:11 pm
"But screw them…it's just evil and taking away free choice, right?" 
Dude, it is taking away free choice! I want to save my money for my retirement the way I want. How hard is that to understand? It is wrong to take my money and lie to my face for years by saying I'll get it back at a certain age. I won't get any of it because it's being spent now. That's the ugly reality folks like you don't want to face. People are living longer now, and people who are still working are paying for their retirement.   
Do I sound cold and heartless? I really couldn't care less. I don't expect others to pay for my retirement, so why should I have to pay for someone else's? The whole system has had a self-destruct mechanism built in from the beginning when the first beneficiaries started getting checks after having paid into the system for only one day. Madoff went to jail for just such a scheme.  
If it were optional, people could succeed or fail on their own. I know that scares people like you because you believe we'll all starve in the streets without Big Daddy Government there to help us, but at some point you've got to realize you're on your own no matter how much the government tells you it's there to help. As it is, the government simply takes my money, and there is very little guarantee that it will even be there when I want to retire. I could just as easily stick it in a savings account, draw some meager interest, and know for sure that's it's there for me.   
Face it — the only people who would oppose such an idea are those who want the government to spend the money now.




airforcemom2003 - September 7th, 2011 at 3:15 pm
I'm sure Hoffa has sent some union guys down there to help, too.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 3:39 pm
You and Perry certainly agree on that one.Charity? So for all those living in poverty, there's charity to help them? They just don't know about it? Well, hell…why don't you start a website and tell them all about it?




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 3:47 pm
That's the way it is, so you'll have to deal with it. Unless, of course, Perry wins. In that case, since he feels SS is unconstitutional he might try to do something about it. But then he also feels the SC justices have far too much power, wants term limits and also supports some kind of legislation where the States could overturn a SC decision by 2/3 votes or some such thing. If you want to change this country back to the original intent of the Founding Fathers if you are a strict constructionalist — you would have respect for the wisdom of the Framers, I would think.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 4:05 pm
Seriously, we need a better class of trolls.  It's hard to have a battle of wits with an unarmed person. 
Charity, dear.  Charity.  Ever hear of Goodwill, Salvation Army, churches, synagogues, and hey, even mosques?  And there are many more. 
People know about the big ones for sure, but would know about more of them if the gov't weren't there with a ready check from the taxpayers. 
Again, read the ant and the grasshopper fable and then google "moral hazard". 
And after that, go pick up your brain from the gutter and put it back in your skull.  
After all that, then you can come back and hopefully post something intelligent.




SteveInTexas - September 7th, 2011 at 4:10 pm
Perhaps but this is a perfect way for the TEA party to show people a real alternative to big government.  Volunteerism is what the TEA party is all about.  Might convince some adversaries of TEA party to give the TEA party a second look.




R_Swift - September 7th, 2011 at 4:20 pm
In no way am I attempting to discourage volunteers. The feds would let Texas burn to the ground if they thought they could get away with it.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 4:23 pm
That's why the Tea Party is so charming, bless their hearts. You all actually believe we can go back to a time when Goodwill or the Salvation Army could take care of poverty-stricken people. And in a recession when the donations to Goodwill and the Salvation Army go down….why it's even easier.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 4:42 pm
Like I said before, please come back and post when you have retrieved your brain from wherever you're hiding it.




oakknoll - September 7th, 2011 at 4:45 pm
Dear O_A
  are you sure it isn't Dr Leary's meds your on, not antibiotics?




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 4:51 pm
Dearie, I feel the same way about your comments. Oh, my….the churches, SA and Goodwill will take care of all the poverty in the inner city areas of Chicago, for example. Just like that it will take care of if. All they need do apply.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 5:12 pm
Again, because your brain is still up your ass instead of where it belongs you are unable to use it in order to THINK FOR YOURSELF. 
People should be taught personal responsibility.  Make the right choices and have a better life.  Not everyone will be a millionaire or even a billionaire, but you can still have a better life. 
For those that refuse to take personal responsibility, they will either use private charitable resources to help pull themselves out of it, or they will linger in poverty.  If they refuse help, refuse to make a better life for themsevles, then it's simply not my problem.  God helps those who help themselves.  Giving handouts only means that those who refuse to help themselves, will continue to refuse to help themselves and like parasites, suck off the rest of us. 
Give a man a fish, feed him for a day; teach a man to fish, feed him for life.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 5:12 pm
And don't give me "what ifs", they mean nothing.  I live in Southern California.  What if an earthquake happened today.  Well, even here in nutty CA they teach you to BE PREPARED.  Have water stored, have food stored, have a way to cook your food and light your house, know where to shut off your gas and water, etc.  If you are not prepared, who's fault is that?  For those that are unable to do so – the ill, the disabled with no help, etc., that's when the community can step in and help – help the HELPLESS, not able-bodied people who should know better. 
Hell even FEMA tells people to be prepared to be on their own for 72 hours. 
Why is that such a horrible thing?  I haven't heard one lefty ever give me a good explanation for that.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 5:17 pm
And this is exactly what Glenn Beck has also been working on – Mercury One.  A way to get together in communities so that they can be prepared for disasters and when FEMA comes, they can say "No, thank you, we got this one."  He was inspired by Joplin, MO after the tornado.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 5:17 pm
What a nice comment from a lefty. 
I suppose Hoffa is your hero? 
Che? 
Castro? 
Stalin? 
Hitler? 
Mao?




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 5:26 pm
Bob Beckel is a moron.  He called Che Guevara a "freedom fighter" and just basically ignored all the killing he did in order to turn it around on the CIA.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:32 pm
Fires don't give 15 minute breaks and an hour off for lunch.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:39 pm
We have to stop arguing with these Marxocrats on the premise that the Federal Govt is the only thing standing between ____ (choose you victim group)  and certain death. This is simply not the Feds' job.  It belongs in the community or at most at the State level.  We aren't heartless…they are control freaks.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:48 pm
If we never hear what they say, we may not even believe they are out there.  The stuff out of BB's mouth is sometimes a shocking reminder that people are seriously damaged humans who missed out on their 5 hugs a day as children and are now taking it out on the rest of us.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:49 pm
He's not a moron.  He's a Leftist–complete with moral relativity.  He is willing to say anything that he thinks will advance his cause.  We need to have them out in the light so we know who and what they are.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:51 pm
Marxocrats have to be told to help and need to be encouraged by being noticed for it.  It shocks me that "helping" your neighbor is something a President has to tell his constituency to do.  Weird people, these Progs.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 5:53 pm
In a time of emergency it is especially important to remember that not all Teamsters are Communists.  Being a small govt person in a union must be a lot like being a casual Muslim in a Wahabi world.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 7:28 pm
It''s not a horrible thing, but that's not the issue here.




ladykrystyna - September 7th, 2011 at 7:34 pm
Yes, that is the issue – personal responsibility.  It covers saving for retirement, it covers making sure you have health insurance (and we can help make that affordable by getting government OUT OF THE WAY with no mandates and competition across state lines), it covers being prepared for a disaster and it covers saving in case you get fired and it covers getting an education/learning a skill where you can make a decent living. 
Personal responsibility will take care of 90% of our problems in this country.


Leave a Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.









 Click Here For Complete PIGFORD Coverage
Featured Story


Will Third Government School Bailout Improve Student Achievement?
by 
	    	
				  	Kyle Olson



First there was the stimulus.  The $787 billion monstrosity was critical to Big Labor because it would save public school teaching jobs, among other unionized positions. In fact, upon its passage, the News Journal reported on Joe Biden’s appearance before the Delaware teachers’ union:  Citing about $105 billion that...
Read more... 
More Featured Stories...

 
 

Follow Us on Twitter


Subscribe via RSS


Got a Tip?Contact us









Live Talk on Twitter 




Categories 
2012 Budget

2012 Election

2nd amendment

AARP

ACORN

Big Labor

Census

Cheat Sheet

Coffee and Markets

Congress

Culture

Defense

Earmarks

Economics

Education

energy

Environment

Exclusives

Fair Tax

Featured Story

Federal Spending

Financial Services

Flat Tax

Healthcare

History

Immigration

Journolist

Justice/Legal

Local Government

Media Criticism

Media Matters

Midterm Elections

News

Obama

Open Threads

pigford

Political Humor

Politics

Pork Report

race

Regulation

Special

State Government

State Politics

Supreme Court

Tax Reform

taxes

Tea Party

Technology

Uncategorized

unemployment


Blogroll

ABCNews
Ace Of Spades HQ
Agence France Press
Althouse
Amato for Liberty
American Thinker
Andrew Sullivan
Ann Coulter
Associated Press
Atlas Shrugs
Ben Shapiro
Big Hollywood
Bill O’Reilly
Black & Right
Blackfive
BlogsLucianneLoves.com
Bloomberg
Bob McCarty
Boston Globe
Breitbart.com
Breitbart.tv
C-SPAN
Camille Paglia
Charles Krauthammer
Chicago Tribune
Christian Science Monitor
Christopher Hitchens
Claremont Institute
Commentary
Daily Gut
Dana Loesch
DC Patriot
Dennis Miller Radio
Dennis Prager
Der Spiegel
Drudge Report
Economist
Ed Driscoll
Financial Times
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Founding Bloggers
Fox Nation
Fox News
Freakonomics Blog
Free Republic
Gateway Pundit
GayPatriot
George Will
Glenn Beck
Grand Old Partisan
Hot Air
Huffington Post
Hugh Hewitt
Human Events
Instapundit
Investors Business Daily
Iowahawk
James Hudnall
Jawa Report
Jerusalem Post
John Gibson
John Nolte
John Tierney
Judicial Watch Blog “Corruption Chronicles”
Kyle Olson
Larry Elder
Larry Kudlow
Lars Larson
Laura Ingraham
Law Hawk
Los Angeles Times
Lucianne.com
Mancow
Manhattan Institute
Marginal Revolution
Mark Levin
Mark Steyn
Matt Patterson
Media Research Center
Mediaite
Melanie Morgan
Michael Barone
Michael Savage
Michael Yon
Mickey Kaus
Mike Flynn
Move America Forward
MSNBC
National Review
National Review’s The Corner
Neal Boortz
New Republic
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Times
Newport Beach Now
NewsBusters
Newsweek
Pajamas Media
Parcbench
Pat Dollard
Patterico’s Pontifications
PoliGazette
Politico
Power Line
PR Newswire
Pravda
Protein Wisdom
Quincy News
Real Clear Markets
Real Clear Politics
Reason
Reason Hit and Run
RedState
Rep. McCotter YouTube Channel
Reuters
Ricochet
Roger L. Simon
Roger Stone
Roll Call
Rolling Stone
Rush Limbaugh
Rusty Humphries
Ryan P. Dixon
Salon
Sean Hannity
Silicon Alley Insider
Slate
Smoking Gun
South Park Episodes
Tammy Bruce
The Brody File
The Daily Beast
The Daily Caller
The Enterprise Report
The Enterprise Report
The Hill
The New Ledger
Thomas Sowell
Time
Times U.K.
Townhall.com
U.K. Daily Mail
U.K. Guardian
U.K. Telegraph
U.S. National Debt
U.S. News
USA Today
Vanity Fair
VodkaPundit
Volokh Conspiracy
Wall Street Journal
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
Weekly Standard
Yid With Lid


 








Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy







