Limbaugh: Obama Is A "Dummkopf Little Imam-Child President" | Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!





About
Contact
MADE IN AMERICA
RSS FEEDS
Privacy Policy






 













Blogs & Stories

Featured

From Around The Web

From The Left

From The Right



News Worthy

Side Notes

Social

Sports

Tech

Video Library










Subscribe



Follow Us 



Be Our Fan



Stumble

Share 







Ads Powered by Max Banner Ads Contributors

AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT
AP Top Political News At 3:24 a.m. EDT
articles
C-SPAN Video Library Blog
Media Matters for America – Limbaugh Wire
Michael Moore – This Just In
NBCSports.com: Sports
News & Politics
Open Mike
OpenSecrets Blog
POLITICO.com: 2012 LIVE Blog
Power Line
Reuters: Politics
Reuters: Top News
Right Wing News
Social Media Today – The world’s best thinkers on social media
Taegan Goddard’s Political Wire
The Daily Beast – Videos
The Daily Caller » Politics
The Ed Schultz Show – BlOn Today’s Showog
The Maddow Blog
Top Tech News
VOA News:  News  
Y! Sports Blogs  – Yahoo! Sports








Limbaugh: Obama Is A "Dummkopf Little Imam-Child President"

Tuesday, September 07, 2010
                         T.K.
            
                               No comments


Rush
Limbaugh kicked off Tuesday’s show by chortling over Jesse Jackson’s car
getting stolen and stripped, then discussed what he did during last week’s vacation:
taking lessons from legendary golf instructor Hank Haney for a Golf Channel
show. Rush said he didn’t understand why President Obama would complain that
his critics “talk about me like a dog,” because Rush treats his dogs like
children. Rush caught up with news he missed out on last week by declaring that
the Discovery Channel gunman was not a wacko, he was reflecting mainstream
liberalism. He also complained that Obama used his Labor Day speech to
criticize the idea of rewarding greed while he vacations at Martha’s Vineyard
and has AFL-CIO chief Richard Trumka standing next to him.
Rush
started the second hour by playing clips of what other people said about him
while he was on vacation. He talked to a caller who praised the new book by
Rush’s brother; Rush added that if every American read this book, it would be
the end of the Democrat [sic] Party. Rush later launched into an anti-Obama
tirade, calling him a “dummkopf little imam-child president” who is a
“blithering novice,” an “academic theoretician,” a “one-man wrecking crew” and “henpecked” by his wife, adding that the
best thing that could happen to this economy “is to get him out of any position
of power to run it.” This was followed after a commercial break by another rant
in which Rush declared that Obama had been around at the time of America’s
founding, his political philosophy “would have been considered tyranny.”
Rush
continued his Obama-bashing in the third hour, declaring Obama to be “the
biggest presidential failure since James Buchanan.” He then attacked outgoing
Council of Economic Advisers chairman Christina Romer for being clueless about
the economy, claiming that this is because Romer had never worked outside
academia before joining the Obama White House, and adding that if he was able
to spend 15 minutes with her, he could totally change her economic outlook.
After saying that one must be a complete failure
in order to appear on the Sunday talk shows, Rush criticized “the ferret-like
Paul Krugman,” claiming liberal talking heads like Krugman know that as
Obama sinks, so do they.
Here
are some highlights from today’s show:
Limbaugh claims that proposed
infrastructure spending is “just another union buyout, just another slush
fund”
Limbaugh: Discovery Channel
gunman is “not a wacko,” it’s “mainstream environmentalist
belief” and “inspired by Al Gore”
Limbaugh attacks Obama: He’s
“an angry guy” with a “chip on his shoulder” who “does
not understand American history”
Rush launches into rant about
“hen-pecked,” “imam-child,” “wrecking ball,”
“agitator,” “blithering novice” Obama
Limbaugh: Obama “might
not have been born in Kenya, but he certainly is one of the best Keynesian economist believers”
Limbaugh: “Obama’s
philosophy would have been considered tyranny,” “would have been
rejected” by the Founding Fathers
Limbaugh: “Barack Obama is
the biggest presidential failure since James Buchanan”



 Full article  

Posted in:  From Around The Web, From The Right
                          Tags: Around the web, blogs, left, right




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Connect with FacebookName *
Email *
Website
 Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  







Notify me of followup comments via e-mail

 












Language


JavaScript is required to use this website translator, site translator, automatic translation, free translation. Buy oil paintings on ArtMaestro.Featured Video








Boehner Debt Ceiling 7.25.11Sponsors 










Recent Posts
Comments
Tags




Abuse victims seek int’l court case against pope Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT                                         

Greece, Europe struggle to contain debt crisis Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT                                         

Lawyer: Iran sets bail for 2 jailed Americans Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT                                         

Rockets fired at US embassy in Afghan capital Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT                                         

Iran to free U.S. men jailed as spies: Ahmadinejad Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         







Home Party Consultant: Great game to watch 
                                                »  



Billy Mays: http://www.infowars.com/paul-slams-perry-as-al-gor 
                                                »  



Mathew: Check  
                                                »  



Bill Slover ✔: HUH? 
                                                »  



Bill Slover ✔: Spot on Robin!

What we really need is for the U 
                                                »  




Around the web
Auto Insurance
Blog
blogs
car free insurance online quote
Daily
Endowment Selling
Facebook
In
Insurance Auto
left
mlb
News
nfl
nhl
right
Secured Loan Calculator
Social
sports
Twitter



Quick Links 

Members of Congress
Lobbying


Congressional Races
527 Committees


Get Local
Pacs


Donor Lookup
Personal Finances


Interest Groups
Earmarks



 RECENT US KEYVOTESAmendments to US Patent Law - Bill Passed - Senate Thursday, September 8, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Concurrence Vote Passed - Senate Tuesday, August 2, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Bill Passed - House Monday, August 1, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Reid Bill) - Cloture Not Invoked - Senate Sunday, July 31, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Tabled - Senate Friday, July 29, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Passed - House Friday, July 29, 2011






             © 2011  Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!. All Rights Reserved. 
        



Powered by WordPress | Designed by: seo services | Thanks to credit repair, web design st louis and std testing










 





FEDUPdate: Al Qaeda releases video supporting Arab Spring http://t.co/H0AfnsG10 minutes ago











Tweet







