Associated Press




About AP 

















Essential News from The Associated Press









AAA  Sep. 7, 2011 3:36 PM ETCentral Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homesJIM VERTUNOJIM VERTUNO, Associated Press        AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo





Smoke from a wildfire hangs over a field of cattle, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Wildfires have destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Smoke from a wildfire hangs over a field of cattle, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Wildfires have destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Smoke hangs as the sun rises over Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Low winds and better weather are giving firefighters opportunity to get a handle of the wildfires that have devastated central Texas.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)







Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Clements lost his home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)




.   .


1 of 5

.   .








More News
Video



 
















BASTROP, Texas (AP) — Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry flew off to a Republican presidential debate in California as authorities commanded operations fighting the disaster.At least two people have died in the wildfire, which destroyed nearly 800 homes and blackened about 45 square miles (116 square kilometers) in and around the city of Bastrop, outside Austin, the state capital.The Texas Forest Service said Wednesday that blaze had consumed 785 homes, making it the most catastrophic of the fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas. One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history has caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.But Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald also sounded an optimistic tone, saying firefighters had a "good night" and that no new structures were lost overnight in the battle to contain the 33,000-acre (13,350-hectare) blaze about 25 miles east of Austin. Containment remained at 30 percent.The forest service said it responded to a total of 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres (600 hectares) across the state, bringing the count over the past week to more than 170 fires consuming more than 130,000 acres (52,600 hectares).Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts."Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop.About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons (5,680 liters) of lake water at a time also helped.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres (400 hectares) Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre (3,230-hectare) fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) fire burned in heavy timberland.___Associated Press writers Michael Graczyk in Houston; Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Betsy Blaney in Lubbock; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio; and AP photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop contributed to this report.Associated PressCopyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.News Topics: Property damage, Wildfires, Residential fires, Accidents and disasters, Natural disasters, Fires, General newsPeople, Places and Companies: Rick Perry, Eric Gay, Texas, Austin, Houston, United States      AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo





















    AP Privacy Policy  | AP Terms of Use 
 



























©  Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

