
		Welcome to Beer, TX | Beer, TX | a Chron.com blog	










 
 
 

 

 





 










 
 
 
 








Beer, TX
Blogging brew with Ronnie Crocker




Larger | Smaller


										 | Main | 
					About that name » 

Welcome to Beer, TX

I was just a kid when a certain Tom T. Hall song lodged itself in my head, apparently forever.
“I like beer,” the song went. “It makes me a jolly good fellow.”
Many years and much beer-induced jolliness later, I still like the stuff. And I know a lot of you do, too. Americans consume hundreds of millions of gallons each year.
So I’m happy to introduce the Chronicle’s newest blog, Beer, TX. It’s a place to ruminate about beer, to argue over particular beers and to find out about beer-related events around town. It’ll be an ongoing conversation between you, me and anyone else who wants to belly up. Don’t worry if you can’t tell a Wheat from an IPA, or if the only Porter you know is the guy Dolly used to sing with.
I’ll introduce you to beer makers and beer drinkers. I’ll throw out questions and try to get answers to yours. Send me your thoughts, your photos, even your videos. I’ll certainly be sharing mine.
I expect a spirited conversation, because people who love beer feel passionately about it. My friends Dan and Tammy, for instance, dislike a certain local brew so much that they refuse to come to the parties we host at the brewery. My friend Steve, on the other hand, bounded up the ramp for one of these parties at 6:04 with an apology: “Sorry I’m late.” The party had started at 6. (For the record, we all love Sierra Nevada.)
Why, it’s fair to ask, do I want to blog about beer and what makes me think I’m up to the task? I’m no expert, true. But I like beer, and it’s given me some great memories: A fresh pint of Guinness at St. James’s Gate in Dublin; a Red Hook while Susan Tedeschi rocked iFest; a Saint Arnold’s at the brewery for Pete Little’s 40th birthday.
My favorite beer memories involve the comfortable routines of life and friendship – countless games of 42 at the Dixie Chicken; evenings at the old Chelsea Pub in the Rice Village, Dolores and Brett behind the bar, Belfast John talking photography and Sarah pronouncing, “It’s all just fodder for ridicule;” free beer with Patricia at Cactus Music to see the Stone Coyotes (or James McMurtry, or Carolyn Wonderland, or Rodney Crowell …).
That’s it for now. Let me close this inaugural post with more Tom T. Hall:
Whiskey’s too rough, champagne costs too much
and vodka puts my mouth in gear.
But this little refrain
should help me explain
as a matter of fact, I love beer.
Cheers.





Share

 

Tweet share



Posted by Ronnie Crocker on March 1, 2009 at 9:30 am | Permalink
|

16 Comments 

						Categories: Personal storiesTags: Guinness, Saint Arnold, Sierra Nevada 



 

Ronnie Crocker

			I'm a writer and editor on the Houston Chronicle's business desk. I started Beer, TX in March 2009.		

Contact: 

Follow: 




Latest Posts:
Chicas Tecate voting ends Sunday 9/7/11
Anheuser-Busch donates canned water for wildfire relief 9/7/11
Weekend beercast: Pedal power to the people 9/7/11
Victory takes fans behind the scenes 9/9/11
Saint Arnold invites public to vote on the next Santo 9/9/11




 
 






16 Responses to Welcome to Beer, TX




Paige Hewitt says: 

			March 1, 2009 at 5:03 pm 
This is gonna be fun. Sierra ,Nevada, eh? Move over Lawnmower.








Sean says: 

			March 1, 2009 at 5:17 pm 
Congrats on the new blog. I look forward to checking it frequently. I have fond memories of the old Ale House on West Alabama and the many nights spent there solving the world’s problems over a pint or three. Good luck on it and keep the posts flowing. Don’t forget to the “tap” into the home brewing groups active in Houston and see what they are up to. There’s quite a number of hop-heads around Houston. Some friends and I this weekend brewed 10 gallons of what I fully expect will be a tasty porter. I’ll save the first bottle for Beer, TX.








Jorgen says: 

			March 1, 2009 at 5:18 pm 
Ron,I appreciate the effort on this matter/blog and I look forward to reading a lot about beer.
Of course, I would like to start with my favorite beer: Carlsberg Beer. It is brewed in Wonderful Copenhagen, just about 1 mile from where I grew up. This brewery been in business since 1847. Carlsberg makes several kinds of beer, however, their best seller is “Hof”, which is the beer you are served when you walk in to a beer selling place in Copenhagen and ask for a Carlsberg. This is a lager, “light” in the sense of color, but nice and strong when it comes to taste and alcohol content. Several places in Houston offers Carlsberg on tap. It is just the most delightful moment when you sit down at Onion Creek (for example) and ask for Carlsberg and you are served a nice tall glass of excellent tasting beer. I like beer, and Carlsberg is my favorite.
Kind regards, Jorgen+








thirsty in seattle says: 

			March 1, 2009 at 5:29 pm 
Congratulations on the blog. Expect you are right..passions could run high. Thought of adding religion and politics? There’s a beer in the Northwest, Mac and Jack’s, that is so good it could have (should have) been made in Texas…the two guys behind it don’t bottle. Kegs or growlers only, picked up at the shop. Might be worth gassing up the pick-up: Embark on Friday, keg back in Houston by Tuesday….








Louis says: 

			March 1, 2009 at 5:32 pm 
Hey Ronnie, great idea for a blog. Here’s my query: When we moved from town to ‘the country’, every weekend we would take our carpenters some expensive imported beers as a reward (OK, we were kissing up, but they were great guys). After several weeks we realized they didn’t really like those beers and preferred their cheap Bud Lite. What’s up with that? Also, we learned that the carpenters all liked Bud Light but the electricians all liked Miller Lite, and it was that way all over the area. So Ronnie, I ask ya, is beer brand loyalty all about peer pressure, or is there some logic that escapes me? Can the answer to this great mystery of life be found in Beer, Tx? Thanks, Clueless in Wimberley.








Dwayne says: 

			March 2, 2009 at 9:06 am 
Jorgen, I was in Copenhagen about a month ago and sampled as amany of the local brews as I could.  Let me rephrase that, I sampled as many of the local brews as I could afford.  At approx. $8 per pint I was definitely in sample and savor mode.
The hotel I was in had a nice selection of different Carlsberg beers.  I also enjoyed an evening visiting a couple of different pubs in Nyhavn.  I liked the standard Carlsberg but I liked another Carlsberg beer most had on tap better, a Carlsberg Classic? or Carlsberg 1904?, not sure of the name now.  Also liked Tuborg Classic.
I wish I could claim to be a connoisseur of fine beer, but, I have to admit, I have more of a Homer Simpson relationship with beer;  Mmmmmmmm, Beeeeeeerr.  If it is cold and available I’ll enjoy it.  One exception is Newcastle Brown Ale, shudder.  Don’t know why Newcastle Brown Ale didn’t sit well with me.  I was actually in Newcastle when I had my first pint.  It was all I could do to get the whole pint down, but I managed.  
Yes, my taste buds enjoy a wide variety of beers.  But I have come to adopt these truths:  Beer poured into a chilled glass taste better than the same beer out of a can or bottle.  Beer served on tap is even better.  And, free beer purchased by a good friend in comfortable drinking establishment is the best of all.








rachel says: 

			March 2, 2009 at 1:11 pm 
I’m not a big beer fan, but I did a lot of drinking when I lived in Houston. One favorite memory was going to the West Alabama Ice House–a beer spot if there ever was one. But on this particular night, the specials board advertised a special on champagne. We commented and the bartender hoisted the single-serving bottle (who knew?) he was guzzling. Zipped over the bottle was a specially designed Barbie-pink coozie! Of course we all had to have our own.
Anyway, with writing this great, I guess I’m going to be learning about beer!








Sarah says: 

			March 2, 2009 at 1:15 pm 
Beer, TX 101:
Free beer is the best beer!








Jose Luis says: 

			March 2, 2009 at 2:00 pm 
Congrats on the blog, Ronnie. Looking forward to keeping up with it.
I’m something of a recent convert to very good beer — I started reading up on it after one of my brothers gave me a beer book for Christmas 2007. I joined the UFO Club at the Flying Saucer last March to further the cause, and just finished my first 200 about 10 days ago.
Like you, I’m far from an expert, but tasting 200 or so different beers in a year will certainly expand your knowledge base (and palate). Can’t wait to try the next 200…








Wayne says: 

			March 2, 2009 at 3:36 pm 
Congrats on a great blog.
“Can I pour you a beer, Mr. Peterson?”
“A little early isn’t it, Woody?”
“For a beer?”
“No, for stupid questions.”
Norm would be proud.  And I’ll be raising a bottle of dog (Newcastle Brown) to ya tonight as well.








Jim Spencer says: 

			March 3, 2009 at 11:48 am 
Louis et al,
I drink what’s cheap. And I bet the carpenters and electricians do the same. There is a part of beer culture – albeit an unseemly part – that
involves bang for the buck. Ronnie knows the dark side of that philosophy compliments of me. Many years ago, Ronnie and I went drinking. After several rounds of respectably branded suds we retired to my home for a nightcap. Alas, all I had was a six-pack of Milwaukee’s Best – “The Beast” as we knew it in the Southeast. An awkward moment ensued when I served this 99-cent-a-six-pack swill. I never again bought “The Beast.” But I was not humiliated enough to stop buying cheap beer. That didn’t happen until I moved to Denver. I entertained several new friends at my home several times, plying them with beer whenever they asked. It was only when one of those supposed friends joked to others at work that they should “go to Spencer’s if you want your choice of three brands of generic light beer” that I was undone by shame. I now buy whatever is on sale in a more upscale beer bin, the one containing such brews as Shiner, J.W.Dundee, St. Paulie Girl, Red Stripe, Sessions, Pete’s Wicked Ale, Stella Artois and, sometimes, Kokanee. I feel much less self-conscious now. But the advent of this beer blog will doubtless bang away at my self-image. Thank God I can still get blasted for less than 10 bucks.








Paige Hewitt says: 

			March 4, 2009 at 11:12 am 
Odes to Beer
From W.C. Fields:
“A woman drove me to drink and I didn’t even have the decency to thank her.”
“Everybody should believe in something — I believe I’ll have another drink.”
“What contemptible scoundrel has stolen the cork to my lunch?”
“I drink with impunity…or anyone else who invites me.”
“It is a fair wind that blew men to the ale.”
From Janis Joplin:
“Gimme a pigfoot and a bottle of beer.”
From Socrates:
“Bad men live that they may eat and drink, whereas good men eat and drink that they may live.”
From the Bible, Proverbs, Chapter 31 verses 6 and 7
“Give beer to those who are perishing, wine to those who are in anguish;Let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more.”
Cheers








mark says: 

			March 4, 2009 at 1:45 pm 
Prosit!  Here’s to a cool blog and a cold beer.








Sarah says: 

			March 4, 2009 at 2:54 pm 
Wayne, I just wanted you to know that Norm (George Wendt)is still bellying up to the bar.  He sat next to me at Hurley’s on W. 48th in Manhattan back in December…..where everybody knew his name.








Wayne says: 

			March 6, 2009 at 10:23 am 
  








FD says: 

			March 6, 2009 at 10:32 am 
What a great idea.
Summer.
Hot.
Beer.
Cold.
Quench.
What else is there to say?














Search for:



 




Posts | 
					Comments

Log in





 
 
 
Categories 
Beer and society

Beer and sports

Beer lists

Beer people

Beer recommendations

Better beer bars

Brewpubs

General

Homebrewing

Legal issues

Local events

Beercast



Not beer

Personal stories

Texas breweries

Local breweries



Toast a Texan




 
 
 
 
Archives  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
















