Uncategorized |   Best Whey Protein




















HomeStore
Privacy Policy
Contact us






Best Whey Protein

        Welcome to Best Whey Protein Blog DOT Com










Advertisement




























Facebook Page

























Great Book


























Motivation


































Tags












100%
100% Whey Gold Standard
abs
Best Whey Protein
biceps
body
bodybuilder
bodybuilding
chest
creatine
diet
exercise
fat
fitness
gain
Gold Standard
gym
health
healthy
loss
muscle
muscles
nutrition
Optimum Nutrition
powder
protein
protein mixes
protein powder
protein shake recipes
shake
supplements
training
triceps
Weight
weight loss
whey
Whey protein
whey protein concentrate
whey protein dangers
whey proteine isolate
whey protein hydrolysate
whey protein powder
whey protein reviews
whey protein side effects
workout




















« Willpower and exercise videos transform Denbigh mother’s life
Best Whey Protein – Optimum Nutrition 100% Whey Gold Standard »




















Best Whey Protein – 100% Whey Gold Standard?



June 5th, 2011 | Author: admin







Dont Wait And Check Our 20-40% Discounts On Best Whey Protein!! Just >>CLICK HERE<<


So what is the best whey protein??
Fist of all in our discussion what is the  best whey protein, let’s define what is whey protein and how to define  “THE BEST” whey protein.
Whey protein is protein found in cow’s milk. It is considered to be more efficient than soy protein or other protein. As all types of protein it consists of amino acids which are “building bricks” that are used in muscle building. And what is bodybuilder’s first goal? Right, to gain muscle mass and do it in most efficient and healthiest way. The biggest plus of whey protein is that whey protein is easy to digest and is probably best sourse of BCAAs (branched-chain amino acids). 
 That’s about whey protein. It is basics in understanding of role of protein in healthy and proper way of bodybuilding. 
Next let’s look at  forms of whey protein. It can be isolate, hydrolysate and concentrate. 

Isolates have lower      level of lactose and fat but minus is that it also have lower level      of bioactivated compounds. Isolates      are 90% and more protein by weight.
Hydrolysates are whey which      were hydrolyzed. That means the protein is broken down into      smaller pieces which start to be utilized as soon as it is consumed.
Concentrates have a low level      of fat but as in fact they have higher levels of bioactivated      compounds. Concentrates are      29–89% protein by weight.



Dont Wait And Check Our 20-40% Discounts On Best Whey Protein!! Just >>CLICK HERE<<


What form of whey protein is  BEST? This is really good question, because there are big debates as to which kind of protein is digested the best, otherwise the consensus is that whey proteine isolate (WPI) is the best whey protein available. But it doesn’t mean that hydrolysate and concentrate are useless. And there is another good question: what can be better that whey protein isolate? The answer is -  the blend of whey protein isolate, whey protein concentrate and whey protein hydrolysate. 

And now let’s get closer to a market.


There is really tons of good whey protein and protein mixes available. But as we start this is not question of good that is question of best whey protein. Overall Optimum Nutrition’s 100% Whey Gold Standard as blend of whey protein isolate, whey protein concentrate and whey protein hydrolysate is the most popular of all protein mixes available. It is written in every bodybuilding magazine and every bodybuilding store can approve it. Optimum Nutrition cementize it’s leadership providing 100% Whey Gold Standard for really affordable price.
100% Whey Gold Standard is available in huge variety of flavors but chocolate is most popular. 

Bottom line: 100% Whey Gold Standard is  best whey protein available. You get all benefits of healthy bodybuilding nutrition for really affordable price.


Dont Wait And Check Our 20-40% Discounts On Best Whey Protein!! Just >>CLICK HERE<<



Related Articles:

Former Boynton cop may be tough to catch
Belly-fat blasters for every age
South Florida cop turned hunted fugitive may be tough to catch
Dairy intake can help build muscle and lose belly fat, study – NutraIngredients.com
How Protein Supplements for Athletes Work: New Research – eMaxHealth





Tags: 100% Whey Gold Standard, Best Whey Protein, Gold Standard, Optimum Nutrition, protein mixes, Whey protein, whey protein concentrate, whey protein hydrolysate, whey proteine isolate





Posted in Uncategorized, best creatine, best protein, best protein powder, best protein shake, best protein supplement, best whey protein, bodybuilding supplements, casein, casein protein, cheap protein, hemp protein, muscletech, optimum nutrition, protein bars, protein drinks, protein powder, protein shake, protein shake recipes, protein shakes, protein supplements, proteins, pure protein, soy protein, supplement, supplements, what is protein, whey isolate, whey powder, whey protein, whey protein dangers, whey protein reviews, whey protein side effects, whey protein weight loss | Tags: 100% Whey Gold Standard, Best Whey Protein, Gold Standard, Optimum Nutrition, protein mixes, Whey protein, whey protein concentrate, whey protein hydrolysate, whey proteine isolate



















6 Responses to “Best Whey Protein – 100% Whey Gold Standard?”






















A new article on blog!! « Best Whey Protein says: 
January 6, 2011 at 4:33 pm
[...] inform you about new article about best whey protein on [...]


























Diet Meals says: 
January 23, 2011 at 6:17 pm
I don’t even understand how I stopped up right here, however I thought this publish was once good. I don’t recognize who you are however certainly you’re going to a well-known blogger in the event you are not already   Cheers!


























Marsha Skaff says: 
January 24, 2011 at 1:03 am
I am continually browsing online for tips that can help me. Thanks!


























Delphine Pirc says: 
January 25, 2011 at 3:31 am
I carry on listening to the newscast lecture about getting boundless online grant applications so I have been looking around for the most excellent site to get one. Could you advise me please, where could i find some?


























Krysta Igneri says: 
January 26, 2011 at 12:30 am
As a Newbie, I am always searching online for articles that can benefit me. Thank you


























bank loans bad credit says: 
January 26, 2011 at 7:29 pm
Many thanks for taking a few minutes go over this specific, Personally i think powerfully about facts plus appreciate learning more on this. Whenever possible,them was very helpful for everyone.
























Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website




 
 






Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.















Best Deals













  Amazon.com Widgets





 





Recent Posts













Best Whey Protein – Optimum Nutrition 100% Whey Gold Standard
Best Whey Protein – 100% Whey Gold Standard?
Optimum Nutrition 100% Gold Standard Whey – Tim Rice Review
Herbalife India Launches Skin Care and Fragrances – India PRwire (press release)
World Renowned Ultra Distance Runner Stan Cottrell Runs Younger with Tahitian … – MarketWatch (press release)











Special Offers





























Categories













best creatine

best protein

best protein powder

best protein shake

best protein supplement

best whey protein

bodybuilding supplements

casein

casein protein

cheap protein

hemp protein

muscletech

optimum nutrition

protein bars

protein drinks

protein powder

protein shake

protein shake recipes

protein shakes

protein supplements

proteins

pure protein

soy protein

supplement

supplements

Uncategorized

what is protein

whey isolate

whey powder

whey protein

whey protein dangers

whey protein reviews

whey protein side effects

whey protein weight loss












Pages













Contact us
Privacy Policy
Store











Archives













September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011











Meta













Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org















Contact Us | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Privacy StatementCopyright © 2011 Best Whey Protein. All Rights Reserved.









Designed by 

Bodybuilding.









