Kiked | Kiked



Kiked.com





 





 Recent Posts 
Expect a new and improved Mark Sanchez for Jets this season
Fantasy Football Week 1: Can Miles Austin Get off Revis Island?
New York Jets 2011 Fantasy Football Preview: Is Mark Sanchez A Smart Play?
The Cam rules: Revised SEC bylaws reflect Newton case and how accusations get reported
‘Spartacus’ Star Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma at 39
Cowboys defend Romo after latest collapse
Tony Romo: Late INT Sours Good Game for Both Dallas Cowboys and Fantasy Owners
Former 'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma
Tim Tebow vs. Cam Newton: Analysts Pick at Tebow, Praise Newton for Same Flaws
Jets QB Mark Sanchez looks to shake 'slow starter' label in season opener vs. Dallas Cowboys
Curetech lymphoma trial succeeds
Public Policy Institute establishes schedule
2011 NFL Predictions: Donovan McNabb Will Be This Season’s Rebound Player
Reflections from the editors: Finding a common ground
The New York Week That Was (They Said It Part II Edition)

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Tags5 million
actress
amp
associated press
barack obama
donald trump
e mail
espn
facebook
festivities
game
getty images
god
google
hall of fame
head coach
iphone
james franco
job
launch
lebron james
match
mdash
mlb
money
nascar
nasdaq
nbsp
new england patriots
obama
photos
publicity
quot
reuters
rsquo
saturday night live
season 3
target
teammates
tuesday morning
twitter
ups
weather
wind direction
youtube
 





 
 

Expect a new and improved Mark Sanchez for Jets this season

The Dallas Cowboys should see a different Mark Sanchez in the season opener than the NFL has seen the last two years from the New York Jets [team stats] quarterback.Sanchez was the fifth overall selection of the 2009 draft. Coach Rex Ryan plugged him in right away as the starter, and the Jets went to the AFC Championship Game in each of Sanchez’s two seasons.But Sanchez has been a member of the supporting cast thus far in his career, handing the ball off on offense and watching from the sideline as the Jets played suffocating defense. Sanchez finished 28th in the NFL in passing as a rookie and 27th in 2010. His penchant for turnovers didn’t damage the Jets, though, because they finished in the top 5 in rushing and defense both seasons to claim wild-card playoff berths.But all that should change in 2011. Expect Sanchez to make a quantum leap with his game this fall.Long-time readers of my NFL draft coverage know I’m not a fan of college quarterbacks leaving school early for the NFL. The more snaps a quarterback takes on campus, the more pass coverages and blitzes he sees, and the better prepared he is for an NFL career.Peyton Manning remained at Tennessee for four seasons, throwing 1,381 college passes. Philip Rivers spent four seasons at North Carolina State and threw 1,665 passes. The same with Drew Brees and Carson Palmer — four seasons on campus and more than 1,500 career passes.All quickly developed into elite NFL quarterbacks, in large part, because of their college experiences. They were ready for the next challenge when they arrived in the NFL.Sanchez was not. He started only one season at Southern Cal before applying for early admission to the 2009 draft. He left college having thrown only 487 passes. His lack of pocket presence and experience translated into 20 interceptions and 10 fumbles his rookie year.In his first two NFL seasons, Sanchez passed for fewer than 200 yards in 18 of his 31 starts. He failed to throw a touchdown pass in 11 games and didn’t pass for 300 yards until his 23rd career start. His lack of experience was holding him back.But over these last four years — two at Southern Cal and two with the Jets — Sanchez has thrown 1,358 passes. That’s still fewer than Manning threw in four seasons coming out of Tennessee.But those 1,358 passes have finally allowed Sanchez to see what he has needed to see at the quarterback position to build a memory bank. All those throws have given Sanchez the experience to survive and the confidence to thrive in the NFL.Now Sanchez is ready to become a full-service NFL quarterback. Ryan has named him a team captain and expects Sanchez to compete with the Tom Bradys and Mannings for AFC Pro Bowl spots.Sanchez has the talent to do just that. He also has the weapons. Ryan has assembled a receiving corps this season that has been battle-tested at the highest level.Both Santonio Holmes and Plaxico Burress have caught game-winning touchdown passes in Super Bowls. Derrick Mason also has caught passes in a Super Bowl and is closing in on 1,000 career receptions.Once again, Ryan has predicted the Jets will win the Super Bowl. With the maturation of Sanchez, Ryan may finally have a quarterback capable of delivering on his prediction.


 




Fantasy Football Week 1: Can Miles Austin Get off Revis Island?

Many No. 1 receivers have been silenced by Darrelle Revis. That is not news to NFL and fantasy football fans. He can come in like a cold front and put your fantasy team in a serious hole.Will Miles Austin be his next victim? You can’t be happy with the fact that Austin doesn’t come in … Continue reading





New York Jets 2011 Fantasy Football Preview: Is Mark Sanchez A Smart Play?

Here are your New York Jets start ’em/sit ’em fantasy football projections for Week 1 of the 2011 NFL season. SB Nation New York and numberFire.com will be teaming up to try and provide you with the best possible recommendations for the upcoming season.STARTMark Sanchez numberFire projection: 13.95 FP, 230.52 passing yards, 1.37 TDs, 0.77 … Continue reading





The Cam rules: Revised SEC bylaws reflect Newton case and how accusations get reported

Mississippi State turned in Cecil Newton to the NCAA about shopping Cam Newton, seen here on a recruiting trip to Starkville. New SEC bylaws stipulate differences in how the reporting of the accusations could have been handled.BIRMINGHAM, Alabama -- Cam Newton's legislative legacy continues.First, Newton's recruitment caused the NCAA to examine how to close the … Continue reading





‘Spartacus’ Star Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma at 39

By ANDREW DALTON Associated Press LOS ANGELES September 12, 2011 (AP) Andy Whitfield, who played the title role in the hit cable series "Spartacus: Blood and Sand," has died at age 39, according to representatives and family.Whitfield died Sunday in Sydney, Australia, 18 months after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, manager Sam Maydew told … Continue reading





Cowboys defend Romo after latest collapse

New season for the Cowboys, same old question about late-game failures. Same old criticism about big-play mistakes for their quarterback.Dallas was one yard and 8:59 from a statement, show-the-critics-they’re-wrong victory over the Jets. “A very big prize,” said owner Jerry Jones.Then Romo fumbled on New York’s 1-yard line. Then the offense stalled, a punt got … Continue reading





Tony Romo: Late INT Sours Good Game for Both Dallas Cowboys and Fantasy Owners

Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images Before Tony Romo was intercepted by Darrelle Revis late in the fourth quarter of Sunday night's game between the Dallas Cowboys and the New York Jets, he was having a pretty decent game.On the interception, Romo and injured wide receiver Dez Bryant had some miscommunication which led to Revis jumping the route. … Continue reading





Former 'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies of Lymphoma

Andy Whitfield, the former star of Starz's drama series Spartacus: Blood and Sand, died Sunday of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Sydney, his manager Sam Maydew told the Associated Press. He was 39.Starz president and CEO Chris Albrecht said he and his network colleagues are "deeply saddened" over the news.PHOTOS: Hollywood's Notable Deaths"We were fortunate to have worked with … Continue reading





Tim Tebow vs. Cam Newton: Analysts Pick at Tebow, Praise Newton for Same Flaws

After Cam Newton's second preseason start in the 2011 season, analysts from ESPN and NFL Network loudly praised Newton's exciting game; however, his game looked surprisingly similar to Tim Tebow.In the game against the lowly Cincinnati Bengals, Cam Newton completed only 6-of-19 passes for 75 yards. Instead of critiquing the persistent inaccuracy he displayed in … Continue reading





Jets QB Mark Sanchez looks to shake 'slow starter' label in season opener vs. Dallas Cowboys

VITALS LINE: JETS by 5 1/2 TV: Ch. 4 (Al Michaels, Cris Collinsworth) RADIO: WEPN 1050 AM (Bob Wischusen, Marty Lyons). Nationwide on Westwood One (Dave Sims, James Lofton, Boomer Esiason). FORECAST: Temperatures in the upper 60s with almost no wind. KEY MATCHUPWR Dez Bryant vs. CB Darrelle Revis: A combination of great size and … Continue reading






Older posts >>







				© 2011 
					Kiked				








