PolitiFact Texas | Sorting out the truth in politics











Powered by PolitiFact.com and Statesman.com









National

States

Florida
Georgia
New Jersey
Ohio
Oregon
Rhode Island
Texas
Virginia
Wisconsin


Articles

Truth-O-Meter ®

All
By subject
True
Mostly True
Half True
Mostly False
False
Pants on fire!
No Flip
Half Flip
Full Flop
ABC News"This Week"
NPR/PolitiFactMessage Machine


Promises

 Obameter

All
Top 25 Promises
By subject
Not yet rated
In the Works
Stalled
Promise Kept
Compromise
Promise Broken


 GOP Pledge-O-Meter

All
By subject
Not yet rated
In the Works
Stalled
Promise Kept
Compromise
Promise Broken





People

Barack Obama
Joe Biden
John Boehner
Mitch McConnell
Nancy Pelosi
Harry Reid
Chain E-mails
Other people and groups


Pundits
2012 Presidential

 New Hampshire




Contact Us

Advertise
Suggest an item
Staff





Texas Edition


The Texas Truth-O-Meter

All
True
Mostly True
Half True
Mostly False
False
Pants on fire!



Promises


Articles


People


Elections


Locations


Subjects









Monday, September 12th, 2011





Eight Republican candidates took part in the debate at the Reagan Library.


Jobs, jobs, jobs in Republican debate

	The GOP candidates talked about jobs, immigration and more jobs during the debate at the Reagan Library.
>>more



Rick Perry backed Al Gore, didn't lead his Texas campaign
Texas wildfire claims
For Labor Day, we recap claims about jobs, wages and labor
Mailbag: Social Security as a Ponzi scheme






The Latest from PolitiFact Texas


A scorecard separating fact from fiction




Rick Perry



Many factored thing


	"When you look at what we have done over the last decade, we created 1 million jobs in the state of Texas. At the same time, (the rest of) America lost 2.5 million."







Michael Bloomberg



Moving downtown



	"Over the past 10 years, the number of people living in Lower Manhattan has nearly doubled. In fact, Lower Manhattan has added more people over the last 10 years than Atlanta, Dallas and Philadelphia combined."







Rick Perry



Little evidence that guvs' policies were the cause



	"Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster" than Mitt Romney.







 New Hampshire Democratic Party



Stats are right, but larger forces at work than just Perry



	Since Rick Perry became governor, "Texas has gone from 46th in the country to 50th in the population that graduates from high school."







Ron Paul



CORRECTED: Perry was supporter, not chairman


	Rick Perry "was the (campaign) chairman for Al Gore at one time, not too many years ago."







Debra Medina



CORRECTED: Perry was supporter, not chairman


	"Governor (Perry), you were a Democrat, having worked for Al Gore as his campaign manager..."







Rick Perry



By about a decade


	"I became a Republican sooner in my life than" Ronald Reagan did in his.







 Bloggers



Loosey goosey


	Say Texas U.S. Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson and Sheila Jackson Lee are among open Socialists in Congress.







Kinky Friedman



No cigar


	Says Barack Obama’s "favorability rating in Israel once clocked in at 4 percent."







Maureen Dowd



He's no fan


	Says Ron Paul insisted FEMA should be shut down.







Rick Perry



That was the tone, but never said safer than ever



	Says that when President Obama visited El Paso, he "pronounced that the border with Mexico and the United States was safer than it ever was in history."







John Cornyn



Unsaid: Better than now


	Congressional Budget Office "says 8 (percent) unemployment till 2014!"







Rick Perry



Politics also a factor


	Says the national debt and President Barack Obama's "refusal to control spending led to our nation's credit rating being downgraded for the first time in history."







Margaret Carlson



Rec: Read his book


	Rick Perry "has advocated abandoning Social Security, scuttling Medicaid and ending the federal income tax."







Rick Perry



ZIP codes everywhere


	Says his hometown of Paint Creek, Texas, "doesn’t even have a ZIP code."







Rick Perry



Doctors go where the people are



	Says Texas gained 21,000 doctors due to tort reform.







Mike Villarreal



Wrong starting point


	Says that before Rick Perry became governor, "only 4 percent of our total labor force was a minimum wage job ... Today, that number has more than doubled (to) 9.5 percent."







Rick Perry



Actually, consensus is solid



	Scientists are "questioning the original idea that man-made global warming is what is causing the climate to change. … (It is) more and more being put into question."








Promise: Require students to stay in high school or be earning GED to keep driver's license
Update: Key provision stripped from bill in Senate







Susan Combs



'I am unequivocal about it. I was wrong.'


	On abortion.



>>See more statements


Browse The Texas Truth-O-Meter:

See all Pants on Fire rulings
See all False rulings
See Rick Perry's file
See John Cornyn's fileSee Lloyd Doggett's file
See all Truth-O-Meter rulings from the state capitol



Subscribe

Keep up to date with PolitiFact Texas:
Via a widget for your site
Via RSS
On Twitter
On Facebook
In the Austin American-Statesman



How to contact us
We want to hear your suggestions and comments. Email the Texas Truth-O-Meter with feedback and with claims you'd like to see checked. If you send us a comment, we'll assume you don't mind us publishing it unless you tell us otherwise.
About PolitiFact.com

PolitiFact Texas is a partnership of the Austin American-Statesman and PolitiFact.com, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Web site of the St. Petersburg Times, to help you find the truth in politics.
Every day, reporters and researchers from the American-Statesman examine statements by Texas elected officials and candidates and anyone else who speaks up on matters of public importance. We research their statements and then rate the accuracy on our Truth-O-Meter:
TRUE – The statement is accurate and there’s nothing significant missing.
MOSTLY TRUE – The statement is accurate but needs clarification or additional information.
HALF TRUE – The statement is partially accurate but leaves out important details or takes things out of context.
MOSTLY FALSE – The statement contains an element of truth but ignores critical facts that would give a different impression.
FALSE – The statement is not accurate.
PANTS ON FIRE – The statement is not accurate and makes a ridiculous claim.
For more details, see the Principles of PolitiFact and the Truth-O-Meter.




Advertisement
    






The latest from the Perry-O-Meter



12

Promise Kept



1

Compromise



5

Promise Broken



3

In the Works



14

Not yet rated





Social Security key issue for Perry in Florida
Thanks to Willingham inquiry, old arson cases getting a new look
State office, advocates seek screening of all pregnant women for alcohol use
Dewhurst asked Obama for disaster declaration
First Reading: Perry wraps up California trip with three fundraisers today
Forensic science panel struggles under restrictions in Willingham case
California crowd embraces Perry's message on Social Security
Bastrop flare-up prompts rescue of utility crews
California crowd embraces Perry's message on Social Security
Volunteers turned away from fire duty


Latest from PolitiFact National



	"Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster" than Mitt Romney.— Rick Perry

	Since Rick Perry became governor, "Texas has gone from 46th in the country to 50th in the population that graduates from high school."—  New Hampshire Democratic Party

	"The day President Obama took office, gasoline was $1.79 a gallon."— Michele Bachmann

	Utah was "the No. 1 job creator in this country during my years of service" as governor, with a 5.9 percent increase in jobs.— Jon Huntsman

	The Massachusetts health care plan "dealt with 8 percent of our population," far less than the "100 percent of American people" affected by President Barack Obama’s health care law.— Mitt Romney









© 2011 • All Rights Reserved • St. Petersburg Times
                        490 First Avenue South • St. Petersburg, FL 33701 • 727-893-8111
About PolitiFact | Contact Us | Advertise
Privacy Policy | Terms, Conditions & Copyright
















