Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam




Article:Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam:/c/a/2011/09/11/BAO71L2JBO.DTL
Article:Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam:/c/a/2011/09/11/BAO71L2JBO.DTL










 
 


 














advertisement
|
your ad here







SFGate
Home of the San Francisco Chronicle

Subscribe to the weekend Chronicle



















SFGate

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses
| Advanced









Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Homes
Cars


Close [X]Quick links to the best of SFGate | Still can't find it? see Site Index


News »
Today


Breaking News
Live Views
Traffic
Weather

Sections

Bay Area & State
Business

Chronicle Magazine
Crime
Education
Green
Health & Medicine
Home Guides
Nation
Obituaries
Opinion
Politics
Science
Technology
Weird News
World





Sports »

49ers
Raiders
Giants
Athletics
Warriors
Sharks

More

BayList
Blogs
City Brights
Columnists
Comics
Data Center
Earthquakes
Lottery
Maps
Polls
Reader Views
Small Business
Topics



Features
Food »

Bargain Bites
Inside Scoop
Recipes
Restaurants
Top 100 Restaurants
Wine

Travel »

Hawaii
Mexico
Monterey & Carmel
Reno & Tahoe
SF Guide
Weekend Getaways
Wine Country

Living »

Garden
Green
Home & Design
LGBT
Moms
Outdoors
Pets
Ski & Snow
Style



Entertainment »

Art
Books
Horoscope
Live Music
Local Events
Movie Showtimes
Movies
Puzzles
Theater Reviews
Things To Do
TV & Radio

Classifieds »

Advertise With Us
Cars
Coupons
Real Estate
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Merchandise
Pets
Public Notices
Rentals










Bay Area & State
Nation
World
Politics
Crime
Tech
Obituaries
Education
Green
Science
Health
Weird
Opinion







more



















Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam

Carolyn Jones, Chronicle Staff Writer
San Francisco Chronicle
September 12, 2011 04:00 AM
Copyright  San Francisco Chronicle. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Monday, September 12, 2011







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share


Comments 




 Georgia (default)
 Verdana
 Times New Roman
 Arial



Font | Size: 






















0











Michael Macor-Photo courtesy of / Michael Macor-Photo courtesy of
Historian Howard May holds a 19th century photo of the Van Matre family home in the lost town of Minersville.








Images


View All Images (13)





















More News

Calif. bill would protect unlicensed drivers from arrest 09.12.11
Do zoo animals forecast quakes, other disasters? 09.12.11
Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam 09.12.11
9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area 09.12.11









The closest Mary Hamilton can get to her hometown is on a boat in the middle of a lake.
There, beneath the watery depths of Trinity Lake, lies old Trinity Center - its homes and hotels, saloons and schools, ranches and resorts - all now a murky underwater ghost town. 
In its day, Trinity Center was a lively hub of commerce, a major stop on the only road from San Francisco to Portland. But all that washed away when the government built Trinity Dam and flooded the valley.
"My parents fought it, but it didn't do any good," said Hamilton, 79, whose family lived in and around Trinity Center for generations. "It was terrible. Just awful. So much pioneer work went into building that town, it was like losing a part of yourself."
It's been 50 years since the Bureau of Reclamation built Trinity Lake, flooding Trinity Center, Stringtown and Minersville into oblivion. As dwindling numbers of former residents gather for reunions, emotions remain raw over the loss of their towns and the struggle to keep the memories alive.

'Nobody wanted this'
"It's like a death," said Hamilton, who was in her early 20s when the order came to evacuate. "The lake is beautiful, but so much was lost. Nobody wanted this. We were just devastated."
Trinity Lake isn't the only Northern California reservoir with ghost towns scattered along its bottom. Lake Shasta, built in the late 1930s and early 1940s, contains the remnants of Kennett, which in its heyday had 10,000 residents, an opera house, three-story hotels, a hospital, a cemetery and the famed Diamond Bar Saloon, reputedly the most opulent bar between Sacramento and Portland.
Kennett residents were so mad about the dam that some refused to leave, said Jay Thompson, a historian at the Shasta Historical Society in Redding.
"They were pioneers," he said. "There was a lot of hard labor that went into building this town, and they weren't just going to go."
But as the water crept up over doors, windows and eventually rooftops, go they did. Now Kennett is 400 feet underwater.
With the loss of these towns, a slice of Western history vanished as well, historians said. Most of these towns dated from California's earliest days and were microcosms of the California story: First came mining, then logging, with a little ranching, tourism and partying thrown in.
"These little towns were boom-bust-boom-bust for generations," said Howard May, historian at the Trinity County Historical Society in Weaverville. "They were all highly local, self-sufficient places. It was life on a very small scale - socially, economically, culturally."
Before the railroads, the main wagon road to Oregon and points north went through the rugged, picturesque Trinity Alps, bypassing the Shasta area because of hostile relations with the local American Indians, historians said.
In its day, Trinity County was among the most populated areas in the state. It's now among the least populated, with only 14,000 residents spread over 2 million acres.
Precious memories
Mark Groves, 82, has great memories of Stringtown, where his family had lived on and off for decades. There was a bar, a store and a school, with a few dozen houses strung along the road, hence the name. 
Everyone got together for baseball games against Trinity Center and Lewiston, he said.
And the fishing, everyone agrees, was incredible. Before the dam, salmon migrated freely up the Trinity River in great numbers and were a staple of the local diet.
"When the government engineers came, we had a lot of town meetings. They were packed," Groves said. "Virtually everyone was opposed to the dam. But it was a fait accompli. The government came in, and that was it."
The government paid property owners for their land, but residents had no recourse if they didn't want to leave. 
"These days, people's first stop would be the Sierra Club in San Francisco," May said. "But back then, these places were very isolated. You weren't within 10 feet of the levers of power."
Some moved to nearby towns, and others left the area entirely. Residents of Trinity Center actually moved some of the buildings, including the Odd Fellows hall, uphill to form a new Trinity Center, which is now along Highway 3. 
For decades, residents were so bitter about the dam that they tore down signs and misdirected tourists for what the government dubbed Clair Engle Lake, named after a Democratic U.S. senator who was active in water policy. It wasn't until 10 years ago that the government changed the name to Trinity Lake.
A boon for some
But for some residents, the dam was good news, May said.
The towns were suffering economically as mining dried up, and some welcomed a payout from the government, he said.
"Like in the recession today, some people were economically marooned," he said. "If you were stuck with no money in, say, Stringtown, it felt like the lowest nether regions of the world."
But for those with jobs and homes and a wide social network, "this was like Armageddon," he said.
Groves and his family moved to the Coffee Creek area, where they started a winery. His son, Keith, the last baby born in Stringtown, said that in some ways, Trinity Lake didn't just swallow three towns, it also stripped residents of much of their prized self-sufficiency.
With the dam, the fisheries are greatly diminished, and lake levels - which affect tourism - fluctuate widely based on the state's water needs. 
"There's a lot of frustration because these policies are still out of our hands," he said. "But this all happened in 1955. People back then didn't really argue with the federal government."
E-mail Carolyn Jones at carolynjones@sfchronicle.com.
This article appeared on page A - 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share











0
























Subscribe to the San Francisco Chronicle and receive access to the Chronicle for iPad App and a gift:

Sunday + a $15 gift card
Fri-Sun + a $15 gift card
Mon-Sun + a $25 gift card







Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam
Articles
The closest Mary Hamilton can get to her hometown is on a boat in the middle of a lake. There, beneath the watery depths of Trinity Lake, lies old Trinity Center - its homes and hotels, saloons and schools, ranches and...









Photos: Stately S.F. home





SpongeBob in hot water after study





Bumgarner, bats boost Giants





Student designs coat for homeless





S.F.'s been down this bumpy road


















Galleries

1-3 of 21
















New York’s real ‘Little Italy’...



Sierra 'polar bear club' still...



Stately Traditional delivers...



My Ride - 1958 Rover 105S



Ko Olina: Hawaii's magic kingdom...



Miss Universe 2011: Swimsuit competition



Limelight Listing - Jason Priestley...



Mediterranean home with guest house...



San Francisco Opera opens its 89th...



Miss Universe National Costumes



Spanish accents still flavor the...



S.F. Symphony 100th anniversary gala



GQ Men of the Year Awards



Famous 9/11 faces: Where are they now?



Burning Man 2011: Rites of passage...



My Ride - 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera...



Ski season in 'Lord of the Rings...



Limelight Listing - Michael Bay's...



At Koi Palace, it's mooncake mania



Feelin' groovy: Men's fashion in the...



Venice Film Festival 2011














advertisement
|
your ad here

















Design student creates coat for homeless peopleJim Harbaugh wins 49ers debut, 33-17 over SeahawksAlex Smith gives skeptics something to think about89 beauty queens vying for Miss Universe crownJim Harbaugh keeps cool in debut as 49ers coachTexas wildfire destroys 1,554 homesNFL game results, Sept. 11


Design student creates coat for homeless peopleBarbecue fish fillet in a corn husk; it's no fussReusing coffee groundsSpongeBob in hot water from study of 4-year-oldsBetty Ong's family remembersMy Ride - 1958 Rover 105SHow to grow tasty microgreens


Calif. bill would protect unlicensed drivers from arrestEconomists doubt payroll tax cut will create jobsDesign student creates coat for homeless peopleBetty Ong's family remembers49ers start at their own 7 : Niner InsiderGiants fall to Dodgers again, start to pack it inProp. B seeks millions for S.F. road repairs











From Our Homepage





Underwater ghost towns
The construction of Trinity Dam left towns and memories buried under Trinity Lake. Photos
 Comments & Replies (0)





Music, memorials for 9/11
Bay Area marks 10th anniversary of attacks with opera, march.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Photo gallery |
Readers' stories





Alex keeps them guessing
Smith haters have something to think about. Ostler. 49ers win |
Harbaugh cool |
Crabtree's foot
 Comments & Replies (0)











































Aston Martin
2007 DB9$94,900


Aston Martin
2011 V12 Vantage$179,990


Aston Martin
2011 V8 Vantage$168,630


Aston Martin
2011 DB9$204,790


Aston Martin
2011 DB9$217,720


Aston Martin
2011 Rapide$222,685


Aston Martin
2011 Rapide$221,265


Aston Martin
2011 Rapide$219,740


Maserati
2008 Quattroporte$69,900














More From This Dealer »


















Real Estate



What you can rent in San Francisco for $3,749
 This home is in a building with a tenant lounge, fitness center and heated outdoor pool.

Mediterranean home in Berkeley
Manhattan real estate for $50 million
Michael Bay's Santa Monica estate



Search Real Estate »












Cars



Mercedes' profit envy
Mercedes-Benz plans to expand its lineup of high-end luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles in an effort to surpass BMW's record profits.

Car batteries jump-start mileage
My Ride: 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera Cabriolet
 Photo: Share pics of your car



Search Cars »
















Browse ads |
                Place an ad »














[Return to top]

Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Buy & Sell
Find Bay Area Jobs
Real Estate
Cars
Site Index



Advertising Services:

Advertise with us
Place a Classified
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Businesses: Business Directory



Reader Services:

Home Delivery
Subscribers
iPad
E-Edition
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Feedback
Buy Photos
FAQ
Corrections
Get Us



Company Info:

Contact Us
Hearst Corp.
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Work for Us
Chronicle in Education
Events & Promotions
Submissions








© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.




Be the first to share your thoughts on this story.
Share your thoughts on this story.
 - be the first to share your thoughts on this question.
 - Sorry, comments are closed for this story.

Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam
Articles
The closest Mary Hamilton can get to her hometown is on a boat in the middle of a lake. There, beneath the watery depths of Trinity Lake, lies old Trinity Center - its homes and hotels, saloons and schools, ranches and...




























