9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area




Article:9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area:/c/a/2011/09/11/DDJ51L37RJ.DTL
Article:9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area:/c/a/2011/09/11/DDJ51L37RJ.DTL










 
 


 














advertisement
|
your ad here







SFGate
Home of the San Francisco Chronicle

Subscribe to the weekend Chronicle



















SFGate

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses
| Advanced









Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Homes
Cars


Close [X]Quick links to the best of SFGate | Still can't find it? see Site Index


News »
Today


Breaking News
Live Views
Traffic
Weather

Sections

Bay Area & State
Business

Chronicle Magazine
Crime
Education
Green
Health & Medicine
Home Guides
Nation
Obituaries
Opinion
Politics
Science
Technology
Weird News
World





Sports »

49ers
Raiders
Giants
Athletics
Warriors
Sharks

More

BayList
Blogs
City Brights
Columnists
Comics
Data Center
Earthquakes
Lottery
Maps
Polls
Reader Views
Small Business
Topics



Features
Food »

Bargain Bites
Inside Scoop
Recipes
Restaurants
Top 100 Restaurants
Wine

Travel »

Hawaii
Mexico
Monterey & Carmel
Reno & Tahoe
SF Guide
Weekend Getaways
Wine Country

Living »

Garden
Green
Home & Design
LGBT
Moms
Outdoors
Pets
Ski & Snow
Style



Entertainment »

Art
Books
Horoscope
Live Music
Local Events
Movie Showtimes
Movies
Puzzles
Theater Reviews
Things To Do
TV & Radio

Classifieds »

Advertise With Us
Cars
Coupons
Real Estate
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Merchandise
Pets
Public Notices
Rentals










Bay Area & State
Nation
World
Politics
Crime
Tech
Obituaries
Education
Green
Science
Health
Weird
Opinion







more



















9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area

David R. Baker, Joshua Kosman,Matthai Kuruvila, Chronicle Staff Writers
San Francisco Chronicle
September 12, 2011 04:00 AM
Copyright  San Francisco Chronicle. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Monday, September 12, 2011







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share


Comments 




 Georgia (default)
 Verdana
 Times New Roman
 Arial



Font | Size: 






















0











David Paul Morris / Special To The Chronicle
U.S. Coast Guard veteran Jesse Massey and daughter Anaya Cortez, 14, hold a U.S. flag at San Francisco's Opera in the Park.








Images


View All Images (27)





















More News

Calif. bill would protect unlicensed drivers from arrest 09.12.11
Do zoo animals forecast quakes, other disasters? 09.12.11
Anger lingers over towns flooded by Trinity Dam 09.12.11
9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area 09.12.11









Some remembered lost friends. Some honored the heroism of people they never met who died saving others. Some longed for a sense of unity that now seems long gone.
The 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks brought Bay Area residents together Sunday at a march in San Jose, a memorial in Union City, an afternoon of music in San Francisco. People felt compelled to mark the occasion, sometimes in very different ways.
Firefighters read aloud the names of their New York counterparts killed in the collapse of the World Trade Center's twin towers. Demonstrators massed on the Golden Gate Bridge to protest the wars - in Afghanistan and Iraq - that followed the attacks. 
Parents struggled to explain the day to children born after 9/11. Public officials urged Americans to set aside their divisions and see themselves as one people again, the way they had in the weeks after that horrible day.
And in gatherings throughout the area, people remembered the moment a decade ago when they heard the news.
 "The events of that day are forever etched in my memory," said Laurie Coe, 55, of Redwood City. "I was getting my daughters ready for school, and I was consumed with worry about my relatives on the East Coast."
Opera in the Park
Coe got up at 5 a.m. Sunday to watch the national memorial ceremonies on television. Then she her friend Kate Mulligan, 54, of Burlingame went to Golden Gate Park to hear the San Francisco Opera sing Mozart's Requiem, along with selections from American composers. This year, the annual Opera in the Park festival served as the city's official Sept. 11 commemoration.
Mulligan remembered going on her morning run 10 years ago. She ran past a hotel lobby and saw a crowd glued to a news broadcast.
"I went right home and turned on the TV," she recalled. "My daughter came down and asked what was wrong. I just started bawling. I said, 'The world has changed.' "
In Union City, about 400 people gathered to remember the passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93, who struggled against hijackers to retake control. Originally bound for San Francisco, the aircraft plunged into an open field in Pennsylvania rather than strike its presumed target: the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C.
A line of red-granite pillars - one for each of the 33 passengers and seven crew members - curves through a small park in Union City. Of the hundreds of people who gathered there Sunday to listen to speeches, most didn't know the names inscribed on the stones. Mary Koch, however, did.
As a United flight attendant 10 years ago, she'd worked with four of the deceased, including the captain, Jason Dahl. Koch remembered him as funny and proud, always showing off family photos.
Flight attendant Sandra Bradshaw was a spiritual woman, while her colleague Lorraine Bay was "just hilarious," said Koch, 46.
"I felt so proud of them and the courage it must have taken," she said.
"They were truly the first responders," said Leslie Duenas, 65, a former United flight attendant from Newark. 
Sarah Green, 5, ran along the stones, yelling "It's America Day!" Her parents, Brad and Joy Green of Pleasanton, said they weren't sure how to tell Sarah and her 2-year-old brother, Ben, what the day meant. 
"How do you explain?" said Joy, 39. "I told them it was to honor the people who lost their lives. I also said it was like visiting their grandma at the graveyard. You don't want to scare the heck out of them."
S.F. firefighters' yearly ritual
Early Sunday, at every fire station in San Francisco, firefighters repeated a yearly ritual in which they mark the moment the South Tower of the World Trade Center fell and read the names of the 343 firefighters and paramedics who died on 9/11.
"You have to acknowledge the magnitude of this," said Capt. Jon Delbino at San Francisco's Station 7 on Folsom Street.
Shortly before noon, war protesters marched on the Golden Gate Bridge, meeting at the center. They decried the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq that followed 9/11.
The protesters noted that more than 6,000 American troops have been killed in Iraq and Afghanistan - roughly double the number killed in the terrorist attacks in the United States. The money spent on the wars, some said, would have been better spent improving health care or schools in this country. 
In 2003, before the U.S. invasion of Iraq, tens of thousands of people converged on San Francisco from around the state to participate in antiwar marches. On Sunday, there were a couple hundred at most. 
"It's very discouraging," said Fred Norman, 75, of Pleasanton. Many people say they disagree with the wars, but "almost none of them do anything to oppose them."
Many of Sunday's events focused on healing. Opera in the Park opened with a processional of representatives from a dozen religious traditions, set to "March of the Priests" from Mozart's "Magic Flute." 
Maha ElGenaidi, president and chief executive of the Islamic Network Group, offered a homily in tribute to the victims of the attack and a broader denunciation of all ideological violence.
Turning trauma into hope
Baritone Thomas Hampson sang "For We Fought Side by Side," an excerpt from the opera "Heart of a Soldier," which had its world premiere Saturday night at the War Memorial Opera House. The opera is based on the real-life story of a man who was credited with saving many lives from the World Trade Center before returning one last time to the burning building, never to be seen again.
For those in the audience, it was a chance to turn a traumatic moment of history into something new and beautiful.
"It was kind of strange to wake up this morning and replay all those events in my head," said Jesse Moyer, 27, attending Opera in the Park for the first time. "It's nice that they're able to combine those awful memories with something artistic like this."
E-mail the writers at dbaker@sfchronicle.com, jkosman@sfchronicle.com and mkuruvila@sfchronicle.com.
This article appeared on page A - 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share











0
























Subscribe to the San Francisco Chronicle and receive access to the Chronicle for iPad App and a gift:

Sunday + a $15 gift card
Fri-Sun + a $15 gift card
Mon-Sun + a $25 gift card







9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area
Articles
Some remembered lost friends. Some honored the heroism of people they never met who died saving others. Some longed for a sense of unity that now seems long gone. The 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks...









Photos: Stately S.F. home





SpongeBob in hot water after study





Bumgarner, bats boost Giants





Student designs coat for homeless





S.F.'s been down this bumpy road


















Galleries

1-3 of 21
















New York’s real ‘Little Italy’...



Sierra 'polar bear club' still...



Stately Traditional delivers...



My Ride - 1958 Rover 105S



Ko Olina: Hawaii's magic kingdom...



Miss Universe 2011: Swimsuit competition



Limelight Listing - Jason Priestley...



Mediterranean home with guest house...



San Francisco Opera opens its 89th...



Miss Universe National Costumes



Spanish accents still flavor the...



S.F. Symphony 100th anniversary gala



GQ Men of the Year Awards



Famous 9/11 faces: Where are they now?



Burning Man 2011: Rites of passage...



My Ride - 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera...



Ski season in 'Lord of the Rings...



Limelight Listing - Michael Bay's...



At Koi Palace, it's mooncake mania



Feelin' groovy: Men's fashion in the...



Venice Film Festival 2011














advertisement
|
your ad here

















Design student creates coat for homeless peopleJim Harbaugh wins 49ers debut, 33-17 over SeahawksAlex Smith gives skeptics something to think about89 beauty queens vying for Miss Universe crownJim Harbaugh keeps cool in debut as 49ers coachTexas wildfire destroys 1,554 homesNFL game results, Sept. 11


Design student creates coat for homeless peopleBarbecue fish fillet in a corn husk; it's no fussReusing coffee groundsSpongeBob in hot water from study of 4-year-oldsBetty Ong's family remembersMy Ride - 1958 Rover 105SHow to grow tasty microgreens


Calif. bill would protect unlicensed drivers from arrestEconomists doubt payroll tax cut will create jobsDesign student creates coat for homeless peopleBetty Ong's family remembers49ers start at their own 7 : Niner InsiderGiants fall to Dodgers again, start to pack it inProp. B seeks millions for S.F. road repairs











From Our Homepage





Underwater ghost towns
The construction of Trinity Dam left towns and memories buried under Trinity Lake. Photos
 Comments & Replies (0)





Music, memorials for 9/11
Bay Area marks 10th anniversary of attacks with opera, march.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Photo gallery |
Readers' stories





Alex keeps them guessing
Smith haters have something to think about. Ostler. 49ers win |
Harbaugh cool |
Crabtree's foot
 Comments & Replies (0)















































SANTA ROSA
2 BR / 2 BA$45,000.00


BELVEDERE
4 BR / 4 BA$5,250,000.00


GLEN ELLEN
3 BR / 2 BA$695,000.00


SONOMA
3 BR / 3 BA$280,000.00


NOVATO
3 BR / 2 BA$659,000.00


NICASIO
1 BR / 1 BA$595,000.00


BOLINAS
2 BR / 2 BA$1,295,000.00


SAUSALITO
4 BR / 2 BA$525,000.00


NOVATO
2 BR / 2 BA$159,000.00


FAIRFAX
3 BR / 2 BA$549,000.00
































Real Estate



What you can rent in San Francisco for $3,749
 This home is in a building with a tenant lounge, fitness center and heated outdoor pool.

Mediterranean home in Berkeley
Manhattan real estate for $50 million
Michael Bay's Santa Monica estate



Search Real Estate »












Cars



Mercedes' profit envy
Mercedes-Benz plans to expand its lineup of high-end luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles in an effort to surpass BMW's record profits.

Car batteries jump-start mileage
My Ride: 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera Cabriolet
 Photo: Share pics of your car



Search Cars »
















Browse ads |
                Place an ad »














[Return to top]

Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Buy & Sell
Find Bay Area Jobs
Real Estate
Cars
Site Index



Advertising Services:

Advertise with us
Place a Classified
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Businesses: Business Directory



Reader Services:

Home Delivery
Subscribers
iPad
E-Edition
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Feedback
Buy Photos
FAQ
Corrections
Get Us



Company Info:

Contact Us
Hearst Corp.
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Work for Us
Chronicle in Education
Events & Promotions
Submissions








© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.




Be the first to share your thoughts on this story.
Share your thoughts on this story.
 - be the first to share your thoughts on this question.
 - Sorry, comments are closed for this story.

9/11 remembered with memorials, music in Bay Area
Articles
Some remembered lost friends. Some honored the heroism of people they never met who died saving others. Some longed for a sense of unity that now seems long gone. The 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks...




























