Texas battles raging wildfire | My UOL



MY UOL





 





Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011


Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Camelot or Spartacus: Gods of the Arena DVDSweepstakes – Official Rules
Rams’ Jackson sees more action
Cowboys Versus. Jets Score: Miles Austin Fights For Ball, Gains Touchdown
NRL will stick with home finals schedule
Gear Up For Bengals Football
NFL Scores Week 1: Final Score, Recap and Analysis of Bears’ Win over Falcons
Start & Sit, Week 1: No Peyton Manning. No Arian Foster, Too?
"It changed everything." Role of National Guard altered by 9-11
Flight 93 memorial opens in western Pa.
OSU dedicates Bellmon Research Center »
  Local news »
  The Enid News and Eagle, Enid, OK
Obama: US stronger 10 years after Sept 11 attacks – Stabroek News – Guyana
On the 10th Anniversary of the World Trade Center Attacks, a Powerful New Book by Edie Lutnick, Sister of Cantor Fitzgerald´s CEO and Director of Cantor´s Relief Fund, Reveals a Decade of (08. September 2011, 14:30 Uhr)
Worcester Telegram & Gazette – telegram.com – Top TV Picks
Bush, Clinton speak at memorial for Flight 93 – CNN Political Ticker – CNN.com Blogs
Roger Federer: Novak Djokovic Will Avenge French Open Loss versus. Given

 





 
 

Texas battles raging wildfire





BASTROP, Texas - A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said. Strong winds and drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. The blaze consumed as much as 25,000 acres along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said. Huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along Texas' Colorado River. The fire was far enough away from Austin that the city was not threatened, officials said. Firefighters lined up along a state highway outside Bastrop and converged around igniting homes, hoping to save them. Helicopters and planes loaded with water could be seen making laps to and from the fire. When winds increased, flames would flare up and pop out over the tops of trees. The wildfire destroyed 476 homes, and about 250 firefighters were working round-the-clock, using bulldozers and pumper trucks against the fire, Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said. Mike Fischer, county emergency-management director, said that the fire is "nowhere near controlled" and that a separate, smaller blaze south of the city was growing larger. "I wasn't going to evacuate, but then the smoke got blacker and blacker and it was like, 'OK, time to go,' " said Gina Thurman, 47, an analyst for the Texas Workforce Commission. "Waiting is the most frustrating thing," she added, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelter sites. "You're sitting there, and you don't know anything, but your house is probably burning." Rick Blakely, 54, said that when it finally is time to return home, "I'm not expecting anything to be standing." He was among about 30 people who slept on cots at the church. The new outbreak led Gov. Rick Perry to return home to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president. He also canceled a trip to California. Perry viewed the fire from the air and conferred with local officials. He said seeing the fire was a "surreal" experience. "I've seen a number of big fires in my life," he said. "This is as mean-looking as I've ever seen." Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut, Perry said. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, he said. Authorities mobilized ground and air forces to fight the largest of at least 63 fires that broke out in Texas since Sunday as high winds from what was then Tropical Storm Lee swept into Texas, which has endured its worst drought since the 1950s. "It's still putting up a lot of smoke, and it's scary," said Jan Amen, a Texas Forest Service spokeswoman. School and school-related activities were canceled for today. There were no immediate reports of injuries, and officials said they knew of no residents trapped in their homes. On Sunday, however, about 200 miles to the northeast in Gladewater, a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old daughter died when a fast-moving wildfire gutted their mobile home. That fire was out Monday, although several other major blazes continued to burn in at least four other counties in central and northern Texas. At least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park, a popular getaway just east of Bastrop, had been consumed, said Mike Cox of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. All non-essential workers had been ordered out of the park. "All I see is a wall of smoke," Cox said from the park's front gate. The park is home to several historic rock and stone buildings constructed in the 1930s and 1940s by the Civilian Conservation Corps. Officials remained uncertain as to how the Bastrop blaze began, but it appeared that two fires merged to form one "monster" fire, said Amen, the Texas forest official. To the west of Austin in Travis County, at least 20 homes were lost and 30 others were damaged in another fire. More than 1,000 homes were under mandatory evacuation, and 25 were lost in a third fire also in the Austin area.The state would have welcomed the rain that Tropical Storm Lee dumped on Gulf Coast states farther east. Instead, Texas got Lee's winds.


Do you have any comments or concerns? Contact us!Be sure to read our DMCA Policy









				© 2011 
					My UOL				








