
	Texas Forest Service











APRIL IS WILDFIRE AWARENESS MONTH









[ Print | 

 ]



April 12, 2011 – COLLEGE STATION, Texas – More than 983,000 acres of Texas land have burned so far this year, a result of dangerous, rapidly-spreading wildfire.April is Wildfire Awareness Month, and Texas Forest Service’s prevention and mitigation staff is spreading the word that Texas is susceptible to wildfire. It can be a force of nature, taking lives, homes and property. Texas Forest Service has identified more than 14,000 communities as being at risk for wildland fire. So far this year, the agency has saved more than 3,300 homes and buildings – but 231 structures have been lost, and one fire-related fatality occurred in February.Families should teach their children about fire safety, post fire emergency telephone numbers and avoid outdoor activities that could cause a spark when the state is under severe drought conditions, as it is now. “Your home and your yard can be your first line of defense in the event of a fire,” said Wildland Urban Interface and Prevention Program Coordinator Justice Jones. “Create an area around your home that is free of flammable plants and other items.” Families should have a fire action plan detailing how best to exit the home and where to meet if a fire occurs. Residents can download information about “Firewise” safety principles – simple measures you can take to protect your home and family. Learn more about how to protect your family and home by visiting the Texas Forest Service website. More disaster preparedness information also can be accessed through the Texas Division of Emergency Management. Informational links: http://firewise.orghttp://texasforestservice.tamu.eduhttp://www.txdps.state.tx.us/dem/Contact:Justice Jones, Wildland Urban Interface and Prevention Program Coordinator (936) 546-8042, jjjones@tfs.tamu.edu Writer: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619 office, 979-255-0591 cell, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu Texas Forest Service communications staff can be reached after hours at newsmedia@tfs.tamu.edu. 








