
	Texas Forest Service











WILDLIFE AND WOODLAND EXPO &AMP; SPRING FLING OFFERS FREE FUN FOR SOUTHEAST TEXAS FAMILIES









[ Print | 

 ]



March 17, 2011 — CONROE, Texas — Calling all nature lovers and outdoor enthusiasts, home owners and landowners: It’s time for the annual Texas Wildlife and Woodland Expo & Spring Fling.Expo & Spring Fling is designed to help families learn a little about the land on which they live — and how to best take care of it — through hands-on classes, live demonstrations and a Family Adventure Zone. The free event is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, March 26, 2011, at the Lone Star College-Montgomery campus, 3200 College Park Dr. in Conroe. It’s co-sponsored by Texas Forest Service, Lone Star College-Montgomery, Texas Parks & Wildlife Department and the U.S. Forest Service.“This is really a great way for families to get outside and have fun together — and learn a little something in the process,” said John Warner, urban district forester with Texas Forest Service and one of the event founders. “Our motto is: Play for a day, learn for a lifetime. If we can make learning fun, then you’re more likely to take that information and apply it when you get back home. That’s our goal.”At Expo & Spring Fling, you can take a class on tree health, pond management, bird watching or urban farming. Or catch the shuttle bus to neighboring Jones State Forest, where you’ll learn about wildlife tracking, wildscape design and nature photography in a real, working forest.Stop by the main stage to see featured speaker and famed outdoorsman Rusty Baker, as well as performances by the Chikawa Aztec Dancers and popular Pennsylvania bluegrass band Cabinet and duck calling and working dog demonstrations.And don’t forget about the Family Adventure Zone, where your kids can wander through a petting zoo, climb a rock wall, paddle around in a kayak, cast a fly fishing rod, practice their aim with a bow and arrow and even have their picture made with Smokey Bear.The best part? It’s all FREE!So power down the laptop and turn off the television. It’s time to get your family outside and reconnected with nature!For more information or a detailed schedule of events, go to http://expo.tamu.edu.###Texas Forest Service Contacts: Joel Hambright, Regional Foresterjhambright@tfs.tamu.edu936-295-5688 office or 936-546-3151 cellJohn Warner, District Foresterjwarner@tfs.tamu.edu936-273-2261 office or 936-546-3169 cellWriter: Holly Huffman, Communications Specialisthhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu979-458-6605 office or 979-324-0708 cell 



 
|Email to a friend








