
	Texas Forest Service











HIGH-IMPACT WILDFIRE CONDITIONS PREDICTED FOR SUNDAY









[ Print | 

 ]



Feb. 18, 2011 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Texas Forest Service is mobilizing resources and preparing to respond to potential wildfires in North and West Texas this weekend – particularly Sunday – due to critical fire weather conditions. During the last seven days alone, Texas Forest Service has responded to 47 fires that covered more than 30,000 acres. On Thursday, Feb. 17, a 1,044-acre fire ripped through Tom Green County in West Texas. Texas Forest Service has staged aviation resources at several locations in the western part of the state, planning for a potential dangerous fire weather day on Sunday, followed by another potentially critical day on Wednesday, Feb. 23. National Weather Service officials and members of the Predictive Services Department at Texas Forest Service are warning residents that wind speeds could pick up and relative humidity levels could drop over the weekend, creating a pattern described by the National Weather Service as “high-impact” fire weather. “We’ve reached a turning point,” said Texas Forest Service Fire Operations Chief Mark Stanford. “Fires are threatening communities and burning large acreage. We’re getting fires in areas where there isn’t much wind, so these are strictly fuel-driven fires. When we introduce wind, like we may see this weekend, we’re going to have more of a threat to public safety.”National Weather Service Meteorologist Greg Murdoch said the Panhandle and the area west of a line from Wichita Falls to Abilene to Del Rio is of particular concern this weekend because high temperatures and low relative humidity are predicted. “I want to emphasize this weather is not what we’re used to seeing this time of year,” Murdoch said. “The pattern has changed, and I think we have a lot of critical fire weather ahead of us.”Texas Forest Service Fire Prevention Coordinator Justice Jones said people should be prepared to leave at a moment’s notice if a fire is approaching their community.“You don’t always want to wait for a formal evacuation notice,” he said. “Some fires spread very quickly. Be proactive and recognize risk. The most important thing is to get yourself and your family to safety.”Contacts:Tom Spencer, Predictive Services Department Head979-458-7331 office, 936-438-1430 cell, tspencer@tfs.tamu.edu Jan Amen, Fire Prevention Specialist in Lufkin936-639-8100 office, 936-546-1004 cell, jamen@tfs.tamu.edu Writer: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619 office, 979-255-0591 cell, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu  








