
	Texas Forest Service











DANGEROUS WILDFIRE CONDITIONS PREDICTED FOR TEXAS ON SUNDAY









[ Print | 

 ]



Feb. 25, 2011 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — On Sunday, high-impact fire weather is predicted for the area west of I-35, particularly the West Texas Plains, according to experts with the National Weather Service and Texas Forest Service. In the past seven days, Texas Forest Service has responded to 61 fires burning 20,000 acres. On Thursday alone, Texas Forest Service deployed aircraft, dozer crews and fire engines to assist in suppressing 11 fires across the state. Forty-three structures were threatened and saved. Predictions show high winds, low humidity and high temperatures on Sunday, meaning conditions could create a perfect storm for critical fire danger. “Critical to extremely critical fire weather conditions are expected to be widespread west of Interstate 35 on Sunday,” said Greg Murdoch, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. “A powerful system will pass across Texas bringing high winds to a good portion of the area west of I-35, but especially the west Texas Plains, mountains and from Interstate 10 northward from around Junction and San Angelo to between Childress and to east of Wichita Falls.”Wind gusts of 40 to 65 mph will be common across the plains and generally north of Interstate 20, Murdoch added. “Very dry air will accompany the winds,” he said. “The winds will result in areas of blowing dust that may extend from the west Texas Plains through the Rolling Plains. These weather conditions along with cured grasses will increase the potential for fire starts and certainly favors spreading fires.”Check http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu for updates on the fire situation.Texas Forest Service urges citizens to take precautions and stay aware of local conditions. Some prevention suggestions are:· Avoid any outdoor activities that may generate sparks or open flames. · Don’t park or drive in dry grass.· Be sure there are no loose chains hanging from a moving vehicle that may make contact with the pavement.· When welding, wet down your work area, keep a bucket of water and a fire extinguisher nearby, and post a fire watch.· Clear combustible materials away from your home.· Do not leave any fire unattended and ensure all fires are completely out (cold to the touch).· Check current and forecasted weather before doing any outdoor burning.· Don’t do outdoor burning of any kind until the threat of fire decreases and burn bans are lifted. Contacts:Lewis Kearney, Public Information Officer979-229-7921, information@tfs.tamu.edu Jan Amen, Fire Prevention Specialist in Lufkin936-639-8100 office, 936-546-1004 cell, jamen@tfs.tamu.eduWriter: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619 office, 979-255-0591 cell, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu Texas Forest Service Communications staff can be reached after hours at newsmedia@tfs.tamu.edu and will respond to all media inquiries.  








