2006  June | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Canada, Local Fire Chief Busted, Drugs
Comments Off






Caught this on Fark “Local fire chief busted with pot and coke in his house. His reaction: “This is seriously going to damage my credibility” The main story is found here.
Kind of ugly. According to the article there were marijuana rooms set up with growing lights and ammunition laying about.  The arresting officer does his best to steer guilt towards the kids but it’s just ugly.     I don’t know about you guys but  based on  the newspaper account he is guilty enough to lose his job.How can he not know someone in his house was setting up a pot growing room?  Sorry, the position of Fire Chief is too important a job to be given to persons so sloppy in their personal life.A fire chief makes decisions that directly affect the lives of other life savers.  As we know in most small towns the chief shows up and assumes control of any real incident.  The community and department personnel deserve someone with a sober mind and solid character in this position.This guy lacks both from my read.




Posted by Mike
on 06/27/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



More Bird Flu News; Mutation Confirmed
Comments Off






W.H.O. confirms mutation and this time they drop the word “slight”.
Time to start buying that extra case of water and some extra canned food on every trip to Costco.  My family has talked of contingency plans for months now concerning school  and self sufficieny issues.  I hate to sound like an alarmist but if everyone waits for some government body to tell them what to do AND when to do it some sadly will be out of luck.




Posted by Mike
on 06/26/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Governor Schwarzenegger Please Define "Emergency"
Comments Off






From AP via NYTimes (free reg. req.)  “Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger this week rejected a request from the Bush administration to send an additional 1,500 National Guard troops to the Mexican border, the governor’s office confirmed Friday.
The National Guard Bureau, an arm of the Pentagon, asked for the troops to help with the border-patrol mission in New Mexico and Arizona, but Schwarzenegger said the request would stretch the California Guard too thin in case of an emergency or natural disaster.”
Too thin in case of an emergency or natural disaster?  What qualifies as an emergency  if this continuing invasion of illegal immigrants doesn’t?
Arny, I like you, I’ll vote for you again, mostly because Angelides is a girlie-man but please pull off the political blinds for a minute.  Your Guard is deployable to any “natural disaster” from any post on the border. This is a horrible smoke screen set up to gain the hispanic vote.  Your minders may not have clued you correctly that the illegals already here are some of the biggest fans of closing the border holes.  Fewer workers means their stock goes up.  Bad politics at the wrong time Governor.
Categories: illegal aliens, Arnold Schwarzenegger




Posted by Mike
on 06/24/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Bird Flu Mutates "Slightly"
Comments Off






NewsTarget says “Yes, it is slightly altered, but in a way that viruses commonly mutate,” said Dick Thompson, a WHO spokesman in Geneva. “But that didn’t make it more transmissible or cause more severe disease.”
Bird flu spread from human to human.   This revelation did not catch much mainstream press. 
“In a way that viruses commonly mutates”  suggests to me further mutations can be expected.
Categories: bird flu




Posted by Mike
on 06/24/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Fire On Highway 666
Comments Off






“SANTA MARIA Firefighters made progress in battling a wildfire that grew to 12,000 acres but stopped short of reaching a critical ridgeline in Los Padres National Forest on Tuesday night.
More than 640 firefighters contained about 20 percent of the Perkins Fire, which burned south through chaparral and away from the small town of New Cuyama about 45 miles east of Santa Maria. No homes were threatened.
Afternoon temperatures in the 90s, low humidity and heavy brushes fueled the fire, said U.S. Forest Service spokesman Joe Pasinato… “ more here
The Perkins Fire by acreage is much larger than the Oak Creek Fire near Sedona but you would never know it.  The glamour factor between the two fires are…well, opposite.  I fought fire in the general area of the Perkins Fire.  New Cayuma is as -middle of nowhere- as you can get in California look here.
If someone can nominate a more hellish place to spend time fighting fire I’ll debate, there is no competition.  When the weather reports say 90 degrees just add 10 to 15 degrees to that and you are closer to the truth.  Those protected canyons and south facing ridges enjoy their own micro-climates.  I once heard that is where the term “devil winds” was introduced.
Most of the personnel responding to the Perkins incident headed East on Highway 166 off Highway 101 on the San Luis Obispo/Santa Barbara County line.   Highway 166 in my mind is Highway 666 and will always be so.  Nothing good (for a firefighter) can come from a journey that begins on that road.  Maybe my feelings are exaggerated because 4 firefighters from my old station died fighting the Spanish Ranch Fire in 1979 on that road.
The incident that claimed those young men is part of the curriculum at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Fire Academy.  The crew was caught in a re-burn, essentially they were caught in an area of the fire that had burned earlier in the day.  That incident review caught my attention because of lives lost, the lesson about re-burn and because the instructors encouraged everyone in the class to view the photos of the bodies.  The Spanish Ranch Fire tragedy ultimately led to broad adoption of fire shelters.
Highway 666.  640 of the world’s best firemen and women are somewhere down that road today and by all accounts kicked some serious butt overnight.  There are no motels, hotels or resorts for lodging, no this fire is old school, sleep on the ground, 24 hour shifts and eating MRE’s until they bring in the kitchen crew.  Forget showering and don’t even think about finding a creek or lake to jump into for a bath, a running creek in June in New Cayuma would be considered a water park.
Contrast this with the guys and gals working the Brins Fire outside Sedona.  Choice of motels and resorts, numerous quality restaurants in Sedona.  National and local TV coverage that glamorous Sedona invites in addition to a reporter from every newspaper in Arizona as well as some bloggers chronicling the incident guaranteeing that fire’s place in history.
Let’s check the news coverage from both fires;
Heaven Sedona/Oak Creek Fire newsHell Perkins Fire
Categories: oak creek canyon fire, perkins fire




Posted by Mike
on 06/21/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Brins Fire, Oak Creek/Sedona Arizona
Comments Off






400 homes evacuated.
(From East Valley Tribune)“……By Sunday evening, the fire was nearing homes and businesses on the western edge of Oak Creek.
‘‘It’s going to be quite a fight not to lose them,’’ said Kristy Bryner, a fire information officer. ‘‘This is very active fire behavior.’’
The fire was burning on Brins Mesa, just above Oak Creek Canyon and about 115 miles from the Valley.
Crews were concerned that downslope winds, which can be common at night, could push the fire into Oak Creek Canyon, said Raquel Romero, a fire information officer.
She classified the threat to the homes as ‘‘very serious.’’
And today’s forecast isn’t encouraging, said Steve Harper, a fire information officer with the Coconino National Forest.
“It’s supposed to be windy again,” Harper said.
Fire crews were in Oak Creek Canyon, ready to defend the structures.
The fast-moving fire ignited Sunday afternoon in a wooded area and quickly prompted authorities to evacuate about 180 homes in five Sedona subdivisions……more “
More from National Fire News
“NEW Brins (Coconino National Forest): 1,000 acres at zero percent contained. This fire is two miles northeast of Sedona, AZ in timber. Evacuations are in effect for Oak Creek Canyon and two northern Sedona Subdivisions. Extreme fire behavior was reported…”
Fire mapFull local media coverage
Photo from (older area fire)
Category: oak creek canyon fire




Posted by Mike
on 06/19/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



20 Year Firefighter Fired Because Of Muscular Dystrophy
1 comment






Florida Firefighter Jeff Chesak of the Orange County Fire Department  is being dismissed because he suffers from muscular dystrophy.
MSNBC.com reports:
“He has muscular dystrophy but he said that does not keep him from performing his duties. However, his bosses said Chesak is not capable of performing at a level that ensures the public’s safety.            
“It’s just a slowly progressive disease,” Chesak said.    
Walking next to Chesak, you’d hardly know he suffers from muscular dystrophy. Around his ankles and feet are small braces that steady him. He said the disease is not keeping him from doing his job. 
But the same week he got his 20-year service award, he was fired.    
“Yeah, it was anger and a feeling of being deceived because none of it had to do with job performance,” Chesak said. “I didn’t meet the qualifications they were looking for with the annual physical.” 
Chesak suffers from the same disease for which firefighters are famous for battling. Their annual boot drive raises money for the Jerry Lewis telethon to try and cure muscular dystrophy…..”

My take; Jeff gave 20 years of service to the citizens of Orange County and this is his thanks?  I understand the argument but in reality departments all over the nation carry their older and less abled personnel into retirement by placing them in dispatch or prevention or other office assignments.Not to mention the signal this sends to kids with the disease.  Jeff is a hero and a role model to all younger persons afflicted with this ailment.  I hope the Orange County Fire Department management reconsiders their decision.




Posted by Mike
on 06/11/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter Blog's Favorite Lady Ann Coulter
Comments Off






Ann Coulter writes her own review of her new book Godless: The Church of Liberalism.  I have to hand it to Ann, no one can promote her own books better than her.
Photo from




Posted by Mike
on 06/08/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter Jobs Iraq
1 comment






Looking at Firehouse.com this morning and saw this job listing for firefighter positions in Iraq.
From the ad;
Support the U.S. Military in IraqFirefightersSalarie Range: $90,000 – $138,000 * Additional Positions: Assistant Fire Chief and Fire Chief“Wackenhut Services, LLC. is currently accepting applications for professional fire fighters (ranks of Fire Fighter, Lieutenant, Captain, and Training Officer) for immediate employment in Iraq. Primary duty will be on secure military bases. Minimum one year contract. Must be U.S. citizen. Annual salaries starting at $90,000. Excellent benefits. Complete uniform and full turn out gear issue.”





Posted by Mike
on 06/07/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















