
	Texas Forest Service











TIMBER TAX WORKSHOP DETAILS TAX BREAKS AVAILABLE TO FOREST LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



Jan. 31, 2011 — DIBOLL, Texas — Money might just grow on trees for some Texas forest landowners thanks to the 2010 Tax Act, which extended existing tax breaks and added new ones for those growing and harvesting timber.Texas Forest Service Forest Economist Yanshu Li will discuss the legislation during a Timber Tax Workshop scheduled for 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Feb. 17 at the Lottie and Arthur Temple Civic Center in Diboll.“The most important thing for people to take away from the workshop is that tax treatment for timber-related activities is special,” Li said. “There are federal and state tax incentives available for timber-related activities.” The workshop will feature both Li and Dr. Harry Haney Jr., a nationally-recognized timber tax expert from the Virginia Tech Department of Forestry. It’s designed for landowners, foresters, accountants, attorneys, financial advisors, land trust managers and loggers.The cost is $70 and includes registration, a workbook, catered lunch and refreshments. Because space is limited, early registration is suggested. Continuing education credits are available for foresters, loggers and certified public accountants.“We’ll cover the key concepts of timber taxes, as well as learn how to establish capital accounts and record-keeping, how to claim timber losses and gains from timber sales and how to deduct forestry expenses,” Li said. “We’ll also learn what reforestation tax incentives are available and how to use them, and how to report cost-sharing program payments.”Haney will focus on tax strategies related to form of ownership, as well as timberland property taxes and state tax incentives.Haney also will detail the various aspects of the 2010 Tax Act, the importance of which Li stressed. Without that legislation, timber tax cuts enacted by former President George W. Bush would have expired, she said, explaining that such a measure would have significantly boosted the capital gains tax for timber sales.Li also noted several other significant changes taking place this year:A 1099-S form now is required for all timber sales regardless of type. If you sold timber in 2010, you must get this form from this buyer.Forest businesses now are allowed to write off by fully depreciating the full cost of qualified capital investments — such as logging equipment, trucks, roads, bridges, culverts and fences — made after Sept. 8, 2010 and through 2011.The small businesses expensing level has been increased to $500,000 for qualifying property purchased in 2010 and 2011.The estate tax is set at 35 percent with the first $5 million — or $10 million for a married couple — exempt from tax. For more information or to register, visit the Timber Tax Workshop web page, download the workshop brochure or contact Monica Jadlowski at 979-458-6630 or mjadlowski@tfs.tamu.edu.###Contact: Yanshu Li, Forest Economist, 979-458-6634, yli@tfs.tamu.eduWriter: Holly Huffman, Communications Specialist, 979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








