
	Texas Forest Service











AUSTIN COMMUNITY MAKES STRIDES TOWARD PREVENTING WILDFIRES









[ Print | 

 ]



Feb. 8, 2011 — AUSTIN, Texas — Residents of the northwest Austin community Meadow Mountain on Buzzard Canyon recently teamed up with Texas Forest Service, Austin Fire Department and other agencies to take steps toward preventing dangerous wildfires in their community. The area was classified by a 2003 fire marshal study as facing a high risk of wildfires because it sits in an area known as the urban wildland interface. Land in the urban wildland interface is nestled between natural, forested land and developed communities.Residents assembled a team in 2005 to work toward earning a national “Firewise Community” designation by removing brush and dead, dry timber from around their homes. Texas Forest Service provided a fuels crew that worked to create a “shaded fuel break” on the edge of the canyon immediately behind residences. The team recently fulfilled its objective and was named a Firewise Community USA.“By removing deadwood and underbrush, the project was intended to break the continuity of fuel and keep any fire on the ground where it could be more easily controlled,” said Vicki Landon, a homeowner in the area. Texas Forest Service Resource Specialist Mark Stinson, Program Coordinator Rich Gray and Urban Wildland Interface Specialist Jan Fulkerson spearheaded the effort to ensure that the community on Buzzard Canyon took necessary prevention measures.“The shaded fuel break delivers three major benefits to the neighborhoods,” Stinson said. “It will give firefighters greater access to work along the backs of the homes. It will decrease the intensity of a surface fire while keeping the fire on the ground. And finally, it will slow the advance of a fire by reducing ember production and the intensity of the fuels into which embers could fall.”Meadow Mountain residents are very pleased with the project and grateful for the expertise provided by Texas Forest Service, Landon said. Contacts:Jan Fulkerson, Urban Wildland Specialist in Wimberley936-220-1010, jfulkerson@tfs.tamu.eduWriter: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619 office, 979-255-0591 cell, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu  








