
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE SCORES AN AGENCY WIN WITH SERVICE AT SUPER BOWL









[ Print | 

 ]



A 12-member team of Texas Forest Service employees recently was commended for the professionalism and leadership exhibited while performing incident command duties at Super Bowl XLV.The group worked 16-hour days out of a Department of Public Safety office in Garland.Led by Assistant Chief Regional Fire Coordinator David Abernathy, the group included Regional Fire Coordinators Bobby Hunt, Mike McGuire, Nathan Carroll and Cody Rattan, Resource Specialist Cody Holloway, Program Coordinators Robert Grisham and Shawn Whitley, Incident Response Department Head Paul Hannemann, Regional Office Associate Jill Lipsey, GIS Specialist Joshua Young, Staff Assistant Doug Kroon Van Diest and Assistant Chief Regional Fire Coordinator Marty Martinez.Abernathy noted that the group was recognized by several agency representatives, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Texas Military Forces, for its outstanding job in an incident management role. “I’m very proud to be associated with such a fine group of individuals,” Abernathy said. “[They] represented Texas Forest Service and the State of Texas very, very well.” Whitley, who recently was promoted to his post as program coordinator, said he volunteered for the assignment in order to gain some valuable training experience. “This was my first big planned event,” Whitley said. “It wasn’t a hurricane or a fire, so it was a little different than what I’m accustomed to, but the principle is still the same. It was nice to see all the work that goes in behind the scenes. Most people will never know all the work that goes in to putting together an event of this magnitude and making sure it runs efficiently and smoothly.”The team monitored incoming information from the Disaster District Committee and prepared situation reports to disperse to law enforcement, security and other officials on the scene at Cowboy Stadium in Arlington.They even got a visit from a team of officers representing an England fire department. They were on site to gather information as their city prepares to host the upcoming Olympic Games. Texas Forest Service’s role was in a support capacity, so officials said they weren’t expecting an incident as hectic as responding to a disaster – but they were thrown a curveball by the sudden winter storm that hit the Metroplex on Friday morning. “We had to deal with, and develop contingency plans for, a significant winter weather event and statewide utility outage while focusing on the primary mission – a Super Bowl which was viewed by 100 million people worldwide,” Abernathy said. “[Texas Forest Service] made a positive impression in a short period of time.”Agency Director Tom Boggus echoed the accolades. “Once again, Texas Forest Service shows up in the most remarkable places,” he said to those who participated in the incident management team. “You dedicate yourselves to the mission and selflessly serve the people of Texas, all with almost no one even knowing you were there. Congratulations on a job very well done.”  








