2006  May | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


W.H.O's Bird Flu Outbreak Plan
Comments Off






Reuters News
 reports;
“GENEVA (Reuters) – The World Health Organization (WHO)  issued a step-by-step plan on Tuesday, including the rapid mass  use of the antiviral Tamiflu, for containing a bird flu  outbreak if the virus starts to spread rapidly among humans.
 The “rapid response and containment strategy” has a chance  of quashing the deadly H5N1 virus only if people in the zone at  risk receive massive doses of the drug within three weeks of a  confirmed outbreak, it said.
 “The success of a strategy for containing an emerging  pandemic virus is strictly time dependent,” the WHO said in its  latest containment report, based on recommendations by 70  international experts who held closed-door talks in March. 

 “Mathematical models have indicated that a containment  strategy, based on the mass administration of antiviral drugs,  has a chance of success only when drugs are administered within  21 days following the timely detection of the first case  representing improved human-to-human transmission of the  virus.”
 Under the detailed timeline laid down, a country should  notify WHO of a cluster of suspicious cases suggesting  sustained human-to-human spread of the virus within 24 hours of  detection.
 A WHO-approved laboratory has another 24 hours to confirm  that the H5N1 bird flu virus has changed, either through  mutation or through reassortment with human influenza.
 The strategy relies on WHO’s global stockpile for rapid  containment, three million treatment courses of Tamiflu,  donated by Swiss drugmaker Roche. Quarantine, infection control  measures and contact tracing must also be carried out.
 Once the WHO officially asks Roche for Tamiflu doses to be  sent, they should arrive at the international airport nearest  the outbreak within 24 hours, the Geneva-based agency said. ….cont.  (see link)”

Categories: bird flu, H5N1




Posted by Mike
on 05/30/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



The History of Memorial Day
Comments Off






From HistoryChannel.com (link in blog title)
Memorial Day was originally known as Decoration Day because it was a time set aside to honor the nation’s Civil War dead by decorating their graves. It was first widely observed on May 30, 1868, to commemorate the sacrifices of Civil War soldiers, by proclamation of General John A. Logan of the Grand Army of the Republic, an organization of former sailors and soldiers. On May 5, 1868, Logan declared in General Order No. 11 that:
The 30th of May, 1868, is designated for the purpose of strewing with flowers, or otherwise decorating the graves of comrades who died in defense of their country during the late rebellion, and whose bodies now lie in almost every city, village, and hamlet churchyard in the land. In this observance no form of ceremony is prescribed, but posts and comrades will in their own way arrange such fitting services and testimonials of respect as circumstances may permit.
During the first celebration of Decoration Day, General James Garfield made a speech at Arlington National Cemetery, after which 5,000 participants helped to decorate the graves of the more than 20,000 Union and Confederate soldiers buried in the cemetery.
This 1868 celebration was inspired by local observances of the day in several towns throughout America that had taken place in the three years since the Civil War. In fact, several Northern and Southern cities claim to be the birthplace of Memorial Day, including Columbus, Miss.; Macon, Ga.; Richmond, Va.; Boalsburg, Pa.; and Carbondale, Ill.
In 1966, the federal government, under the direction of President Lyndon Johnson, declared Waterloo, N.Y., the official birthplace of Memorial Day. They chose Waterloo—which had first celebrated the day on May 5, 1866—because the town had made Memorial Day an annual, community-wide event during which businesses closed and residents decorated the graves of soldiers with flowers and flags.
By the late 1800s, many communities across the country had begun to celebrate Memorial Day and, after World War I, observances also began to honor those who had died in all of America’s wars. In 1971, Congress declared Memorial Day a national holiday to be celebrated the last Monday in May. (Veterans Day, a day set aside to honor all veterans, living and dead, is celebrated each year on November 11.)
Today, Memorial Day is celebrated at Arlington National Cemetery with a ceremony in which a small American flag is placed on each grave. Also, it is customary for the president or vice-president to give a speech honoring the contributions of the dead and lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. About 5,000 people attend the ceremony annually.
Several Southern states continue to set aside a special day for honoring the Confederate dead, which is usually called Confederate Memorial Day:
  * Mississippi: Last Monday in April  * Alabama: Fourth Monday in April  * Georgia: April 26  * North Carolina: May 10  * South Carolina: May 10  * Louisiana: June 3  * Tennessee (Confederate Decoration Day): June 3  * Texas (Confederate Heroes Day): January 19  * Virginia: Last Monday in May
(Photo attribution USConstitution.com)
Link to an inspiring Memorial Day essay
 by Chritopher Hitchens on WSJ via HispanicPundit blog.
Category; Memorial Day




Posted by Mike
on 05/29/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Barbeque Safety Tips From FDNY
Comments Off






Bravest home site NYC.gov offers timely tips on BBQ safety.
I like “queing” on a charcoal grill Weber.  Turning on a gas valve and calling it BBQ is no better than turning on the stove in the kitchen.  You can’t duplicate the flavor of infused mesquite smoke with gas.  Tomorrow’s feast features bone-in rib-eye steaks.
Categories: BBQ, BBQ safety, Bravest




Posted by Mike
on 05/28/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Does Immigration Debate Put Forests at Risk?
Comments Off






The NY Times (registration req.) reports how the immigration debate may affect the Forest Service ability to fight wildfires this summer. I don’t buy it.    I think the NewYork Times is wrong.  If someone is dropped from a blue card crew because of improper documentation the operators of the crew will have NO trouble filling the spot.
The NY Times article reports how private contract crews might be affected by new hiring requirements. Requirements include verifying legal status and hiring workers that understand enough English to pass a  fire-terminology proficiency test.   I don’t have a problem with some crew members not understanding English but they must be trained adequately and the crew leaders must speak English for safety’s sake.
I found nothing in the article that made me feel for any of the private contractors profiled.   As I noted earlier all they have to do is place a simple ad in the newspaper or CraigsList and they would get more applications than they need.
As an extension of the discussion I believe this is one area where a guest worker program could pay dividends all around.  Foreign crews could be strategically staged in the Western U.S. for quick deployment.  Many crew members from Native American tribes, namely the Navajo make enough money during the fire season to support themselves and their families until the next season.  It could be reasoned crews from Mexico or points further south in Central America could supply dozens of qualified crews.Imagine 3 crews of 20 from a small city in Honduras, each crew member making $6,000 U.S after taxes.  $360,000 going back to the community where they came from could boost their local economy and undoubtedly keep some young people in the town from making the journey North.
Photo attribution: SignOnSanDiego.com
Categories; immigration, firefighting




Posted by Mike
on 05/27/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



First Response Coalition
Comments Off






First Response Coalition is a non-profit organization whose stated mission is;
“to educate the public on the needs of our first responders and to ensure that decision makers attach a high priority to public safety issues such as funding, research, training, equipment, standards development, spectrum allocation and management.  In addition, the FRC supports greater coordination at all levels of government to achieve seamless interoperability, which will allow emergency personnel to coordinate an effective response to local, regional, and national emergencies….”




Posted by Mike
on 05/21/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Update: Firefighter Donald Herbert
Comments Off






Last June we heard the miraculous story of Buffalo Firefighter Donald Herbert.  I posted on his story here.
While I watch the news as closely as anyone I missed the news of his passing earlier this year.  The story is here.
“In 2005, in what some call a miracle, Herbert awoke at Father Baker Manor nursing home asking to speak to his wife. Herbert was moved from the New York nursing home to the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago for aggressive therapy. Meanwhile, the members of Chicago Local 2 and the Chicago Fire Department “adopted” Herbert’s wife and four children by arranging for housing and transportation for them while in Chicago….”




Posted by Mike
on 05/20/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



PandemicFlu.Gov
Comments Off






The U.S. Government operates this site
 that offers comprehensive information on avian flu. The site offers bird migration maps and other useful links including this
 link to WHO.




Posted by Mike
on 05/20/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Has Bird Flu Mutated?
Comments Off






This
 article from ConsumerAffairs.com contains the following text;“World Health Organization officials are increasingly concerned that a thus far unexplained outbreak of the bird flu virus could mean that a long-feared scenario has been borne out — that the virus may have mutated so that it can be passed from one human to another.
The concern began with reports that seven members of one family in a remote Indonesian village had come down with the disease.
Doctors were immediately troubled by the fact that there had been no outbreaks of the disease among birds in the region. To date, all of the more than 200 people infected with the virus have gotten it from contact with a diseased bird.
Health authorities hoped that their investigation would disclose a common contact among the seven infected people. So far, that contact has not been found.
At this point, health officials say they cannot rule out that the seven infected family members passed the virus to each other.
Scientists from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have joined their WHO colleagues on the scene to continue the probe….”
In April I posted the IAFF.org guidelines
 for first responders if Avian flu hits their jurisdictions.Scary stuff!
Post postscript; My blog post was almost immediately indexed on Bird Flu Breaking News
.




Posted by Mike
on 05/19/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Rescue Me Promo (redux)
Comments Off






A representative from AOLtv wrote and asked if I would post a link to this clip of Dennis Leary’s “Rescue Me” TV show.
Not a bother Liz.




Posted by Mike
on 05/18/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Minutemen = American Heroes
1 comment






The Minutemen are not vigilantes, they are heroes in my book.
This from the Minuteman Website “About us” page.
“About the Minuteman Project
The Minuteman Project is not a call to arms, but a call to voices seeking a peaceful and respectable resolve to the chaotic neglect by members of our local, state and federal governments charged with applying U.S. immigration law.
It is a call to bring national awareness to the decades-long careless disregard of effective U.S. immigration law enforcement. It is a reminder to Americans that our nation was founded as a nation governed by the “rule of law,” not by the whims of mobs of ILLEGAL aliens who endlessly stream across U.S. borders.
Accordingly, the men and women volunteering for this mission are those who are willing to sacrifice their time, and the comforts of a cozy home, to muster for something much more important than acquiring more “toys” to play with while their nation is devoured and plundered by the menace of tens of millions of invading illegal aliens.
Future generations will inherit a tangle of rancorous, unassimilated, squabbling cultures with no common bond to hold them together, and a certain guarantee of the death of this nation as a harmonious “melting pot.”
The result: political, economic and social mayhem.
Historians will write about how a lax America let its unique and coveted form of government and society sink into a quagmire of mutual acrimony among the various sub-nations that will comprise the new self-destructing America.
This is text.
“If ye love wealth greater than liberty, the tranquility of servitude better than the animating contest for freedom, go home and leave us in peace. We seek not your council nor your arms. Crouch down and lick the hand that feeds you, and may posterity forget that ye were our countrymen.” –Samuel Adams”




Posted by Mike
on 05/12/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



FX Network's Rescue Me
1 comment






I received this email today;
“Hi,
I’m Dave from Nettwerk Records.  We are putting outthe soundtrack to Dennis Leary’s hit FX show “RescueMe,” a dramedy that centers on the inner workings ofEngine 62, a New York City firehouse, and the personaland emotional battles of its members in a post-9/11world.  You can find out more at FX Networks
 if you have not seen it.
I saw that you manage a firefighter blog.  We wouldlove if you could put a mention up on your blog.
Just let me know.”
OK Dave, Done!




Posted by Mike
on 05/01/2006 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















