2005  July | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Project Responder is a Fun Idea
1 comment






I saw these guys while surfing today. I have always thought it would be fun to stop at firehouses while on the road but somehow I get tunnel vision when at the wheel and end up trying to beat an imaginary clock. The guys at Project Responder
 have a dedicated reason for actually doing it.Good luck guys!




Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Off Topic For A Moment
Comments Off






She’s the “O” Girl
Slate.com interviews her;
“It’s all about the mesmerizing babe. The moment you’ve been waiting for—the lowdown on the Overstock hottie….
The lovely Sabine Ehrenfeld (pronounced “Sa-BEAN-uh”) was driving back from a snowboarding trip with her children, on her way to casting calls the following day. Still, she found time to chat in a delightful and disarming manner. I learned the following:
In addition to German and English, Sabine speaks French and Italian. She is proficient in basic tactical pistol skills, because she thought it would be a fun thing to learn. She also has a private pilot’s license and 350 hours in the air. After reading the Richard Bach book (Bi-Plane), she was inspired to fly solo—in an old-style, aerobatic tailwheel plane from California to Montana. With camping gear in the back so she could land along the route to sleep and refuel. I am not making this up.Overstock.com’s Simon was looking for “a 38 year-old brunette” to play the part (that’s Overstock’s demographic—about two-thirds of their bargain-hunting customers are women) when she saw Sabine (who is in fact 41) on television (in an ad). It was love at first sight. Sabine is gorgeous, but in a non-threatening way. Men find her approachable, women think she’s friendly. “We didn’t want someone that the gal in rural Minnesota couldn’t relate to,” says Simon. I guess she means the Minnesotan gal who flies aerobatic planes and speaks four languages…..”
More Sabine pics
Tag: Sabine Ehrenfeld




Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Arizona Fires, Edge Complex, Pumpkin Center
Comments Off






Interagency Incident Support site, Southwest Support Center.
This
 site takes you closer to official news than any other.
Tag: Wildfire news




Posted by Mike
on 07/22/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Turnout Art?
Comments Off






Google News pointed me to this odd but interesting story. I prefer fire tee shirts as wearable art (some would say my current uniform) but I do find collections of any sort interesting.
Firecoats as Japanese Art
By Sara Pearce; Cincinnati.com
“Just like today’s firefighters, Japanese firefighters of the 17th and 18th centuries wore a kind of uniform that not only identified them as firefighters but also as members of a particular unit. Unlike today, the coats were cotton and were stenciled, painted and dyed with a squad’s pattern, then tightly quilted. Many reversed to a ceremonial side with fantastic designs plucked from ancient stories, and depicted strong and determined creatures or historic heroes.
Dozens of examples of the coats are on display now in the beautifully-designed exhibit, Hanten and Happi, at the Cincinnati Art Museum. It’s the last stop for the touring collection before it returns to Japan. Hanten are the larger, heavy firefighter coats; happi are smaller, lighter, everyday work coats. We picked a hanten with its ceremonial side out and asked Cindy Amneus, the museum’s associate curator of costume and textile, to explain more about the coats.
1. The custom-made hanten coats were made with three layers of home-spun cotton of the same thickness and quality. They were sewn by the firefighter or someone in his family until the mid-19th century, when commercial production began.
Hantens were soaked with water to allow firefighters to get close to the fire. A fully-soaked coat weighed close to 84 pounds and would usually be dry by the time a fire was out.
2. The fabric was reinforced via hand quilting known as sashiko stitching. Using a running stitch with four stitches to the inch, the three layers were sewn together in close horizontal rows almost like tucks. This shortened the coats, which artists had to factor into their designs, along with shrinkage during dying and washing.
3. Coats were dyed in vats of indigo, which produced blues in varying hues similar to today’s blue jeans. Indigo is made from the Indigofera genus of plants (part of the pea family) and was plentiful.
4. Some hantens were painted after dying but others, like this one, were tsutsugaki dyed. During this process, a design was drawn onto the fabric using a natural extract that disappeared when washed. Color pigments were painted onto the fabric, then, painted over with rice paste, which resisted the dye. Areas that would be white were painted with rice paste only. For fine lines and borders, rice paste was squeezed out of a funnel, like icing from an icing bag.
5. In this design, the muscular Kintaro holds a struggling carp.Kintaro, whose name translates as “Golden Boy,” is a popular Japanese folk hero of unusual strength who was raised among animals and is often depicted as a boy even though he grew up to become a famous warrior. Carps, which leap treacherous waters to spawn, are considered good luck and symbolize strength and perseverance. Other auspicious animals include cranes, hawks and foxes.
6. The ceremonial side was turned to the outside and worn during the celebrations and parades that often occurred after a fire was extinguished. This side also was worn at festivals and during formal condolence visits.”
Tag: firefighter collectables




Posted by Mike
on 07/22/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Neighbors Helping Neighbors
Comments Off






From Bangor Daily News
“FORT KENT – Twenty Maine firefighters left Thursday morning to assist Canadian firefighters with forest fires burning near the James Bay area of northern Quebec.
  The men are the second crew of Maine firefighters sent to Quebec in the past month.
The crew of eight Maine Forest Service rangers and 12 civilian firefighters will be in the Canadian province for a maximum of two weeks.
Five of the rangers, led by Michael Daigle of Portage, are bilingual and will assist French-speakers of Quebec to work with the English-speaking firefighters from Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.
They will be battling as many as 40 major fires in the northern reaches of the province, 14 hours by bus north of Quebec City.
The fires were started by lightning strikes, said Jim Downie, spokesman for the Maine Forest Service. The area has not received much rain over the summer and the woods are dry tinder.
Last month, 20 Maine firefighters fought fires in the Lac-St.-Jean area of northern Quebec. They were fighting up to 57 forest fires in the area. Many camps and homes were lost in that effort….” more at  Bangor News




Posted by Mike
on 07/20/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Interesting Firefighting Headlines
Comments Off






Headlines from Science DailyPlastics factory burns for second day (July 8, 2005) — Acrid smoke poured from a 2-day-old fire Friday at an Indiana plastics recycling company 10 miles from the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Airport. The … > full storySuspicious fire hits Fla. abortion clinic (July 5, 2005) — Investigators say that a fire at a Florida abortion clinic appears to be suspicious. Phil Kaplan, a spokesman for the West Palm Beach Fire … > full storyFirefighters’ facial hair in court dispute (June 14, 2005) — Three Muslim firefighters can keep their beards until at least Aug. 1 following a federal judge’s ruling regarding a D.C. Fire Department ban on … > full storyMuslim firefighter suspended over beard (June 6, 2005) — A Muslim firefighter in Philadelphia was suspended from the department for refusing to shave off his beard, ABC reports. Curtis DeVaux was suspended … > full story
Female firefighters sue Virginia countyFAIRFAX, Va., July 6 (UPI) — A group of female firefighters is suing Fairfax County, Va., alleging a pattern of discrimination in the fire department.The suit says Fairfax County, a suburb of Washington, has practiced discrimination in hiring, promotion and housing, The Washington Post said.Women’s facilities are so inferior that the women’s shower in one firehouse is a converted urinal, the suit alleges. Other female firefighters bunk in a converted closet that lacked heat for five years, the suit contends.The plaintiffs, including some high-ranking female firefighters, said they are repeatedly subjected to sexually harassing comments and attitudes, the Post reported. In one incident, the suit alleged, a male firefighter slapped a female employee across the face with a piece of ham and made a sexually graphic remark. <a href="www.sciencedaily.com/upi/?feed=TopNews&article=UPI-1-20050706-18193500-bc-us-firefighters.xml“>To story
			



Posted by Mike
on 07/19/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter's Film Response to Sept.11
Comments Off






I want to view this one!Answering The Call 911
ground zero




Posted by Mike
on 07/14/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Cheerleading or Firefighting, She Chose Fire!
Comments Off






“On the fire line, women find tough, rewarding career”
By JENNIFER DOBNERASSOCIATED PRESS WRITER
“ST. GEORGE, Utah — Jodi Fowler had a choice to make in 1998. Move to Arizona to try to land a spot on the Phoenix Suns cheerleading squad, or take a job fighting wildland fires for the Bureau of Land Management.
She chose the fires – ditching the pompons and crowds for a fire-retardant uniform, a hard hat and a half hatchet-half pick took known as a Pulaski.
“It’s an adrenaline rush,” said the 28-year-old Richfield, Utah, native. “It’s a lot like performing, but you’re doing something. You’re helping people out.”
Fowler is part of the second generation of women making wildland firefighting a career. She works for the Dixie National Forest on a St. George-based helicopter crew, called “helitack”,
Described by some as once being a “testosterone-driven boys club,” women have and are making their mark in the industry from the fire lines to management.
“It’s a great thing to do,” says Becky May, a retired division chief on California’s Shasta-Trinity National Forest, who was among the first women to choose the career some 30 years ago.
“The work is very rewarding and you learn so much about yourself, your strengths and your limits.”
In 1976, May was a 20-year-old Oregon college student when she landed a summer job on a brush disposal crew on the Willamette National Forest. She was studying forestry……” To story
Tag: female firefighter




Posted by Mike
on 07/12/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Find Firefighter Articles
Comments Off






I use a service on the net that is a great tool for research and general interest. Ten million magazine, journal and newspaper articles listed and indexed for easy searching. The company is owned by LookSmart.FindArticles.com
Tag: firefighting




Posted by Mike
on 07/11/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



One Days News, Firefighter Injuries
Comments Off






From June 6, 2005
Firefighter hurt in attic collapse
Dayton Daily News
“HUBER HEIGHTS – A Huber Heights firefighter was injured Wednesday while battling a fire at a home on Neptune Lane in the southern part of the city.Toolsfirefighter was taken to a hospital after a 10- by 10-foot section of attic collapsed on him at 4830 Neptune, fire Lt. Scott Hall said, noting that the firefighter’s injuries did not appear to be serious.No one was in the house, and Hall said the fire appeared to have started at the rear of the one-story brick structure, then traveled up the wall and into the attic. A neighbor spotted smoke and dialed 911.”
———————————————
Firefighter Injured In South Side FireThree Civilians Also Injured 
NBC5.com“CHICAGO — A firefighter and three civilians were injured Wednesday night in a fire on the South Side.An Emergency Medical Services Plan 1 was called for a fire at 83rd Street and Ingleside Avenue at about 10:05 p.m., Fire Media Affairs Director Larry Langford said. Five ambulances were sent to the scene, …”
——————————————-
Injured Pittsburg Firefighter Remains In Guarded Condition 
KTVU.com
“PITTSBURG — A firefighter injured while searching a Pittsburg home after a two-alarm fire Monday remains in guarded condition at a hospital in San Pablo, the Contra Costa Fire Protection District reported Wednesday.The firefighter was in the process of searching the home at 1231 Alamo Way for possible victims when a portion of the ceiling collapsed, knocking off his helmet and facemask, said Fire Chief Richard Carpenter.Carpenter said the firefighter remains in guarded condition at Doctors Medical Center in San Pablo because upper respiratory injuries from heat and gas take a while to develop. He suffered burns to his face and head.Two other firefighters suffered injuries while fighting the blaze, Carpenter said. One firefighter received a cut on his leg. He was treated at John Muir Hospital in Walnut Creek and released that night. The other firefighter was treated on the scene for a hand injury….” 
——————————————-
Firefighter hurt in house fire 
Jsonline.com
Town of Waterford – A fire early Tuesday left one firefighter injured and a vacation home severely damaged, officials said.“The fire was blowing out all the windows,” Village of Waterford Fire Chief Steve Denman said in describing what the “full fire involvement” scene looked like when he arrived. The house is in the 30300 block of Beach View Lane.Firefighters from the Rochester and Tichigan fire departments responded with village emergency crews to the fire at 5:45 a.m. Tuesday. The fire was so large that Denman called for backup from the Town of Burlington and Wind Lake fire departments…”
——————————————-
Stay safe today Brothers and Sisters.





Posted by Mike
on 07/07/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Happy 4th Of July
Comments Off






Be safe in your travels. God bless the United States of America.
BBQ on tap here the entire weekend.
1. Pork ribs friday2. Hamburgers and hot dogs tonight3. Rib eyes tomorrow4. Tri-tip Monday  (burp)
I suggest everyone face the East and pay a toast to our brave men and women in Afghanistan and Iraq at some point Monday.  They are sacrificing all to preserve the freedoms we enjoy.




Posted by Mike
on 07/03/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















