2005  February | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Crash of American Airlines Flight 587
Comments Off






Crash of AA Flight 587
by Tom Dunn, FDNY FirefighterAs submitted to Firefigher Exchange.com
Monday November 12, 2001 I was working a 24 hour shift this day. I arrived at the firehouse at 8 am and relieved the night tour. I took the control position. The day started as routine as any other, I made the coffee, checked the rig, made sure the company log was up to date, and straightened up around the kitchen. The day tour began to arrive. It would be myself on control, Sweeney on the knob, Ski back up, and Captain Labarbara was our boss. The driver was a detail from Engine 239, Tom Ryan. Me and Ski went up early to start the committee work, which is just basically dumping garbage, making beds and making sure that the quarters are in good shape.
At 9:14 AM American Airlines Flight 587, an A300 Airbus took off from Kennedy International Airport bound for Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic. It was carrying 246 passengers and nine crew members. At 9:17 AM Flight 587 crashed five miles from Kennedy in the residential neighborhood of Rockaway, New York, in the borough of Queens.
Ski and I were up making the beds and I think it was Eddie who was still in the house from the night tour that announced over the loud speaker that a plane had just crashed in Rockaway. I remember standing there and just thinking this can not be happening again. It had been only 2 months since the Trade Center and all the old feelings came racing back again. I just thought to myself, “Well, here we go again.”
We ran downstairs and all gathered around the TV just like during the Trade Center. It was all too familiar. The TV was showing a picture of a plume of smoke rising over an area that we all knew too well. Eddie and Tom Ryan both have family that live in that area and we have all been there at one time or another for either funerals or bars or friends’ houses.
Unlike the Trade Center, where terrorism was the last thing on my mind, I thought for sure this was another attack, seeing as this was Veteran’s day. We watched the TV for a couple minutes and discussed how we hoped they would send us so we could do our part. The scenario played out almost the same as the Trade Center. The computer went off and it was for the chief, but this time he was only getting relocated to cover the 49 Battalion’s area. Then I started to think, “Oh, man, I hope they don’t just relocate us to cover someone else’s area,” because everyone knows that the hardest thing to do when something big is going on is to sit and watch it on TV.
The red phone began to go off announcing that a second alarm had been transmitted. And then almost immediately it went to a third alarm and the computer went off ENGINE! and the two tone noise that means we have an alarm. We all ran out to housewatch to see if we were going. On the ticket it read that we were the 4th engine in on the 3rd alarm. The run was acknowledged the bell rang and the doors opened. We gathered our gear and got on the rig. We were on the road in seconds flat. I got dressed and checked to make sure I had everything. Helmet, hood, gloves, flashlight all right were they should be and we made our way to Flatbush Ave.
When we got to Flatbush, Engine 249 was also heading to the box and we rode side by side down the Ave, lights and sirens blaring. Eddie, who was working the night tour last night, had jumped on the rig to take in the run with us so that meant he had the door position. I still had the control, and, just like the Trade Center, I wanted to be anything but control because that means you are the last one on the line at a working fire. I asked Eddie if he would mind taking control and if I could take the door and he agreed. I felt better.
After the Trade Center my girlfriend got me a cell phone because everyone was so worried about me all day and had no way to get in touch with me. I got the phone out and began making calls. The first call I made was to my roommate, who is also a firefighter, and I woke him up and told him what had happened and that he should probably contact his firehouse. The second was to my girlfriend and then my brother and parents. Now I felt even better that every one was contacted and I hoped that would take away some of the anxiety they would feel. The trip was shorter than I thought it would be and we headed over the Marine Parkway bridge, and it was the first time we got to see the actual site.
Just like on the TV the plume of smoke was there and we started to get a little anxious. We headed down Rockaway Beach Bled and ended up parking around Beach 133 street. As we exited the rig and put our masks on, there were civilians all over the place all with that crazy look on their faces like, “How could this happen in our neighborhood?” We followed the Cap and headed down the block where the plane had landed when we got about half way down the block visibility became very difficult.
I could see other units already operating and that a couple houses were fully involved, but I really couldn’t see any parts of the plane because that was further down the block. Our Cap went to find a chief to see where we were needed and told us to stick together. We assisted stretching line for companies that already had orders while staying together. The Cap came back pretty quickly. The first thing he said to us was be careful, all the lines are still live. And then I noticed that all around us there were overhead wires that were down in the street and we passed this information around to everyone near us. Water was everywhere puddles and streams that were created by the units that were already operating.
We were obviously on the edge of the crash site because visibility was still fairly OK and I could see that one of the houses that had been hit and that was fully involved had a car in the driveway that had a bumper sticker that said, “All gave some, some gave all,” and I prayed real quick that it wasn’t a firefighter’s house. The Cap said that we were going into the rubble up ahead and that we were going to assist with a 2-inch line and that there were bodies everywhere so watch were you stepped. We began walking in and I tried to watch were I was stepping but that became useless because visibility became almost zero and you couldn’t really see where you were going.
We managed to stay together and found our way through the rubble to the unit that we were going to assist. Ski and I stayed together and got up right behind the company and held the line to ease the pressure on them. We were in water up over our knees and when we knelt down it was up around our waist. I could tell we were right in the middle of the site because of all the debris that we went through to get to this point and that we were probably still in the street and I thought we were putting water on a house that was burning. Visibility was really bad as we operated for awhile.
It really is amazing how fast this fire was knocked down. I mean you had at least 5 houses that were fully involved and then the remains of the plane that were no doubt still going. After operating for maybe 10 or 15 minutes visibility had improved greatly. I began to see that we were in fact in the street and putting water on a house that was burning, but besides that we were too busy holding the line to really pay attention to anything else. After a couple minutes a firefighter came up behind Ski and myself and said, “Hey, brothers, just so you know you there is a body right behind you”. We both looked over and there was a body right behind us. We began to look around and there were bodies everywhere. I looked back towards the route that we took to get to this point and I saw that it was scattered almost every inch with partial bodies and that firefighters were walking around with sheets and covering them. We were, in fact, right in the middle of it and off to my right I could see the remains of the main part of the plane.
The sheets were now everywhere and I tried to focus back on holding the
 line and when I looked in front of me I saw that every time we moved the line or the motion of our bodies in the water a hand rose and fell back into the water with each movement. We operated for a little while longer and then a chief came by and said that we were to start carrying the bodies out and line them up a couple houses down from where we were. We left the line and gathered sheets and Ski and I went to get a couple backboards from EMS to use as stretchers.
We gathered our equipment and returned to the Cap and the rest of the guys and when we returned PD and FBI agents were yelling that the bodies were not to be moved. Chiefs began yelling that all members that were not presently working a line were to leave the immediate area and fall in at the command post for orders. We waited at the command post and finally got orders to begin searching the area for more bodies. We split up our crew I went with the Cap and Ski, Eddie and Sweeney went the other way. We were to begin searching the back yards and property in the area for plane parts and bodies. I was literally soaked with water, fuel and oil and my boots were killing me because my feet were sliding every time I took a step. We did this for probably an hour and the search turned up negative except for a small part of the plane that the Cap and I found in a backyard.
The civilians were very helpful but were all visibly shaken that these men in their gear were rummaging through their property for bodies and parts of the plane. When it was over, 246 passengers, 9 crew members, and 6 civilians on the ground were all killed. 
–No reprint without the permission of the writer Tommy Dunn FDNY–firefighting




Posted by Mike
on 02/25/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firehouse Dinner, Great Article
Comments Off






“….Food is obviously an important issue in the station house. Developing menus and recipes, preparing the dinner, and dining together adds to the cohesiveness that is so important to a team of firefighters. Sharing meals also helps ease the time spent away from homes and families.
The bell shrills again and the squawk box intones: “Motor vehicle accident with injuries.” Alarms sound, the radio switches on, and the table clears. Half of the men are gone in seconds. For them, dinner is over………”
Link to story




Posted by Mike
on 02/13/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter, A Definition
Comments Off






Click the title above to read an apt description of the term “Firefighter“.
The site refered to is Answers.com.  I like this internet search tool.  Once you try it you will want to refer to the site for all your definitions needs!




Posted by Mike
on 02/12/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















