2005  January | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


INFERNOS KILL 3 FIREFIGHTERS
Comments Off






INFERNOS KILL 3 FIREFIGHTERS
By MURRAY WEISS, LARRY CELONA and ANDY GELLER NY Post
——————————————————————————–
 January 24, 2005 — Three hero firefighters perished in blazes in The Bronx and Brooklyn yesterday — including two who were forced to choose between jumping for their lives or burning to death after giving up their hose to colleagues on the floor below.
As flames closed in, Lt. Curtis Meyran and firefighter John Bellew — who had a total of seven children — made the desperate decision to leap 50 feet from the fourth floor of a burning building at 236 E. 178th St. in the Morris Heights section of The Bronx.
Meyran, 46, a 15-year FDNY veteran, and Bellew, 37, a 10-year veteran died, and four others who also jumped were badly injured.
The Post learned they were ordered to give their hose to firefighters battling the main blaze on the third floor after an erroneous report that their hose burst.
Three hours after the tragedy, Brooklyn firefighter Richard Sclafani, 37, of Ladder Co. 103, died after getting trapped in the basement while fighting a blaze in an East New York home.
Excluding 9/11, it was the blackest day for the FDNY since three firefighters died battling a five-alarm Father’s Day blaze at an Astoria hardware store June 17, 2001.
And it was a cruel first for the department.
“We all have between 30 and 40 years’ experience in this job and none of us can remember a day when we had fire fatalities at two separate incidents,” said Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta…………..
Link to full story





Posted by Mike
on 01/24/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



The Gloved Hand
Comments Off






The Gloved Hand
By Jim Preston, FF/NREMT-B
It was a cool fall evening, the tones broke the calm, and I was off to the station. “Signal 62, to the north end for a reported structure fire!” This was a place we’d been to many times before, usually for food on the stove. But as always, I was in the back gearing up and as we turned the corner entering the complex, we could see it wasn’t food this time! People were running around screaming, “There’s a fire in the third floor!”
We were the first Engine in and residents told us there was no one in the building. As we pulled the 1 1/2″ through the door leading to the stairwell, flames were pouring out the third floor windows. By now other apparatus were arriving and we had help. A second line and a search team joined us as we made our way to up the stairs. We operate as automatic mutual aide for two Departments working this fire with us, so we have worked with most of these Firefighters before. You get to know the Brothers and Sisters you do this job with, and it was no different here.
As my team approached the fire room under heavy smoke conditions, visibility was zero. We worked our way into the room extinguishing the flames engulfing the living room as we went. We vented the windows and the visibility improved quite a bit. Now the second line was with us.
The search of the other apartment on the floor had been completed. This team was lead by a Captain with whom I had fought the creature many times. I had great respect for this person and would go anywhere with this Capt. by my side. We continued into a bedroom taking down the fire, then we began pulling the ceiling and we could see the fire had worked its way into the attic.
As we were working to get the rest of the fire I suddenly felt the floor begin to give way. I felt myself falling. It was so fast there was nothing I could do! In an instant I saw a gloved hand reaching out and grasping me by the forearm. I was stopped from falling, only making it through the hole up to my knees. As I was pulled back to my feet not a word was spoken, only a glance exchanged and back to work. We evacuated the room and got to the beast from another room.
After the call was done I went to my savior to say thanks. With the gear off I found Sue and gave her a big hug! “Thanks for the lift,” I said. And we laughed about it. I didn’t mention that this Firefighter was female because it shouldn’t matter. I still don’t know how she did it, ’cause I’m not a small guy. But she did!
When I needed it most, it was the gloved hand of a Firefighter that saved me from a fate unknown. For that I will always love her. My point is “when the gear goes on we are not Men or Women, we are Firefighters”.
Stay Safe my Brothers & Sisters and Take Care of Each Other!
You can reach the author at jimpreston17@hotmail.com.
Copyright 2001 by Jim Preston. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in whole or in part without written permission of the author.
The author submitted his story to me for publication at
Firefighter Exchange





Posted by Mike
on 01/15/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



So you want to start a weblog?
Comments Off






Here are the bare facts about visitor totals for this site.
No Webby Awards on the near horizon for me but I am having fun.  Thank you to all that sent me comments and those few who return to see what’s new.
Daily Unique:      Totals:
Today 3  /  07 Jan, Fri, 2005
Yesterday 2 / 06 Jan, Thu, 2005
Average 7
Highest Day 35  /  02 Oct, Sat, 2004
Current Month 59  /  Jan, 2005
Last Month 232  /  Dec, 2004
Average Month 188
Unique Visitors  941 – 76.69%
Visits incl. Reloads 1227
Visitors via Referrers  690 – 73.32%
Weekly Unique:
Website Referrers  216
Current Week  44  /  Wk 01, 2005
Last Week  56  /  Wk 53, 2004
Average  49
Highest Week 83  /  Wk 40, 2004





Posted by Mike
on 01/07/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



GMail invites to anyone who wants one
Comments Off






I have a number of GMail invites available to anyone who leaves something in the comment space below.  If you have not tried the Google GMail service you might be pleasantly surprised how efficient it is.




Posted by Mike
on 01/07/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Their Last Letters Home
Comments Off






Posted on Mon, Jan. 03, 2005
BY SHIA KAPOS
Chicago Tribune
The letters can be as dry as the desert dust that still covers them and as bright and powerful as a rocket streaking across the Iraqi sky.
Most are written in chicken-scratch penmanship, with misspelled words and blotchy pen marks, but they are rich in spirit, full of thoughts about philosophy and beauty and love.
And they are cherished by the writers’ families. They are the last letters home_the final messages from American troops killed in the Iraq war.
Some of the letters arrived before the families knew that their loved ones had died. Some arrived afterward. Some were found with the soldiers’ personal effects.
Marine Capt. Ryan Beaupre, 30, of St. Anne, Ill., wrote his letter intending that it be read only in the event of his death. On March 20, 2003, nine days after composing it, he was killed in a helicopter crash in Kuwait in the first few hours of the war.
“I could not have asked for better parents or a better family,” Beaupre wrote to his parents, Nicky and Mark. “I’ll never forget that one of my friends in elementary school said that if he could trade places with one person he’d trade places with me because of my parents and home life. I truly feel I’ve had a blessed life thanks to you two.”
Most letters were written without the knowledge they would be the last words sent home. As a result, they focus on the mundane tasks of military life, offering reassurances that everything is fine and the future will be bright when they return.
“I’m enclosing info on (shaver) replacements if you guys could send me some more,” Staff Sgt. Lincoln Hollinsaid, 27, wrote to his mom, Nancy, of Malden, Ill., in a letter she received four days after his April 7, 2003, death. He was killed by a rocket-propelled grenade in Baghdad.
“When I come home, we will have to have another campfire (bonfire) in the garden, but twice as big, with pizza, lots of greasy pizza, oh Lord, I can smell it now,” Hollinsaid wrote to his mother. “How delicious a cold beer (or soda) and just kick back, breath in some fresh IL air and catch up on lost time. Some of my best memories involve bonfires, I had such a great time while I was home with you all.”
Hollinsaid’s father, Dan, got a similar letter the same day.
Though receiving a letter after a GI’s death can put families in an emotional tailspin, the words are always welcome, say recipients, who describe clutching the dusty sheets as if to keep them from walking away.
Eventually the letters are carefully folded and placed alongside such special items as a lock of hair or lost tooth. Some families keep them framed in the living room.
“During the war, you have so little detailed contact. Maybe an instant message or phone call,” said Billy Ray Parker, who received a letter from his son days after he died in a Humvee crash. “While you’re excited about it, it leaves you unsatisfied.
“When we received his stuff from Iraq and found this letter (that had never been sent) we were so excited and happy. But there was an obviously sad feeling for the reasons we had to receive it.”
His son, Army Pfc. Daniel Parker, 18, of Lake Elsinore, Calif., chatted for three pages about his nighttime assignment and crossing the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers. He died several months later, on Aug. 12, 2003, after he was thrown from his vehicle in Mosul.
Halfway through the letter, Parker wrote, “I really don’t want to stop writing cuz while I’m writing I picture you guys all sitting down and reading it and that’s one happy thought for the day.”
Petty Officer 3rd Class Jessica Curran, a postal clerk on the USS Carl Vinson, didn’t receive the last letter from her brother, Army Spec. Carl Curran, 22, until she returned to her ship after emergency leave for his funeral.
“It took a few days for me to open it, but I finally read it with the chaplain,” she said.
Her brother, of Union City, Pa., was killed May 16 near Fallujah when a bomb exploded as his Humvee crossed a bridge.
In his letter, he wrote about vacationing with his wife and daughter.
“Sometime after I get home, Dianna, Lillian and I may try to go to California and visit Grandma and Grandpa,” Curran wrote. “We haven’t figured it all out though. We’ve got a little over 10 months to plan it.”
Jessica Curran says she likes to close her eyes and imagine him taking that trip. “I can just see them going,” she says.
The last letter from Army Cpl. Evan Asa Ashcraft, 24, of West Hills, Calif., offered “some good news.”
“With all the time I’ve had to think out here,” he wrote to his father and stepmother, “I’ve finally decided what kind of degree I want to pursue. Fire science, so I think I want to be a firefighter. It’ll keep me out of an office building and I won’t have to worry about getting shot in the back like if I was a cop. I’ve had enough bullets fly by my head and near-death experiences to last the rest of my life.”
The letter from Ashcraft, who was killed July 24, 2003, when his convoy came under fire in Al Hawd, offers a reminder of many soldiers’ youth.
“I have a favor to ask, when I get back could you help me find a good deal on a car so I don’t get ripped off,” Ashcraft wrote. “I’ve never been car shopping.”
`NOTHING BUT SAND’
Some of the letters hold vivid details of countries and people far away.
“Kuwait was nice, all things considered,” Sgt. William C. Eckhart, 25, wrote in an unfinished letter to his mother, Terri. “Hot, dry, flat. They have wild camels just wandering around. The Bedouins herd them from place to place with their sheep and goat, which I never found out what they eat or drink. Nothing but sand for as far as you can see.”
Eckhart, of Rocksprings, Texas, was killed April 10 in an explosion in Baqouba.
“Things here are pretty primitive in the way of living conditions. I have accepted the fact that I will be dusty and dirty constantly here,” he wrote. “Iraq is not what I had pictured in my head. Sand dunes, camels, palaces, etc. Most of the people here live in small one-room mud huts.”
He added: “I haven’t had a chance to talk to many Iraqis yet. We keep our distance from them unless we are raiding a village in which case small talk goes right out the window.”
As Eckhart’s letter demonstrates, many write about combat in vague terms, apparently not wanting to worry their families about the dangers.
Marine Gunnery Sgt. Jeff Bohr, 39, wrote on April 4, 2003:
“We have been around the outskirts of Baghdad now, and we are fighting with the 43rd Armored Division. We have run into some of Saddam’s special forces. We destroyed all of them. I am hoping the fighting will be over soon. It shouldn’t be long.”
Eddie Bohr was sitting in his Ossian, Iowa, living room reading the letter when two Marine representatives and a chaplain came to say his son, a career soldier, had died in a gun battle in Baghdad on April 10, 2003.
OUTLOOK BEYOND THEMSELVES
While avoiding gruesome stories of the combat, many final letters reminded loved ones of the writer’s high ideals.
Parker paraphrased Nathan Hale’s famous last words, writing: “I regret that I have but one life to give for my country.”
Beaupre quoted from philosopher John Stuart Mill:
“War is an ugly thing, but not the ugliest of things. The decayed and degraded state of moral and patriotic feelings which thinks that nothing is worth war is much worse. The person who has nothing for which he is willing to fight, nothing which is more important than his own personal safety, is a miserable creature and has no chance of being free unless made and kept so by the exertion of better men than himself.”
Terri Eckhart relishes her son’s last letter because it shows how he had grown to adulthood in the Army.
“I just look at the penmanship,” she says of the letter that came home with her son’s personal effects.
“He used to have the worst handwriting in high school,” said the middle-school teacher, who was impressed with her son’s command of language. “Now I realize he really was getting it at school, and the pieces just hadn’t come together yet. I think about that now when I look out in my classroom.”
Conditions in Iraq aren’t ideal for penmanship.
“Please forgive the sloppiness,” Hollinsaid wrote to his mom. “I write in red light at night while I’m waiting for my squad leader meeting, and red lined paper don’t show up.”
Parker wrote, “This letter was brought to you by Maglight,” referring to the Maglite mini-flashlight soldiers use.
Family members relish e-mails and phone calls from far away, but those whose loved ones have died take special comfort in touching the last letter sent home.
“One of the hardest things in grief is not having the physical person to hold and hug,” says Nicky Beaupre. “Ryan was the best hugger in the world. I miss that. I miss the physical presence. This letter doesn’t replace it, but it’s something that we can put our hands on from our son.”
Her son wrote:
“Please do not be upset with the Marine Corps, the military, the government or the president. It was my choice to go into the military. The president and my higher commander were just doing what they thought was best. Realize that I died doing something that I truly loved. And for a purpose greater than myself.”
—
© 2004, Chicago Tribune.





Posted by Mike
on 01/06/2005 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















