2004  December | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Tsunami Bloggers
Comments Off






Tsunami blogger
Another
Tsunami help blog





Posted by Mike
on 12/31/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



"Beyond Tuesday Morning"
Comments Off






More tributes for firefighters
Link to NY Daily News
‘Beyond Tuesday Morning’ by Karen Kingsbury.
Testimonials from New York firefighters touched by a novel about 9/11 will be cited in the promotion of a sequel due next month.
Karen Kingsbury’s “Beyond Tuesday Morning,” whose cover shows a windswept view of lower Manhattan from the Staten Island Ferry, will continue the story begun in “One Tuesday Morning,” published last year.
Jamie Bryan, widow of a firefighter who died in the collapse of the twin towers, is now a volunteer at St. Paul’s Chapel, the 9/11 memorial and spiritual oasis near Ground Zero.
She’s pulled her life back together, but a chance meeting at St. Paul’s with a visiting Los Angeles policeman, with whom she feels an unexpected connection, challenges her to look forward, not back.
Copies of “One Tuesday Morning” – characterized as an “inspirational romance” by Publishers Weekly, and became a best-seller in the Christian book market – were sent by Kingsbury and her family to New York firehouses.
“We lost seven good men on that day and I also was almost killed,” a firefighter wrote back.
“For the last two years, I have been in a dark place, a place that was not good for me or my family,” he added. “But now you have made me see the light I have been looking for.”
The prolific Kingsbury writes for three publishers. After “Beyond Tuesday Morning,” due from Zondervan, her novel “A Thousand Tomorrows” will introduce Time Warner Book Group’s Center Street imprint next spring.”





Posted by Mike
on 12/31/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Tsunami — Satellite view of beach before and after
Comments Off






A Sri Lanka beach before 
Beach moments after 




Posted by Mike
on 12/29/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



MERRY CHRISTMAS!
2 comments






To all the readers and surfers who pass through here Merry Christmas!
Enough of this “happy holidays” bs. No political correct, athiest, secular, ACLU pleasing or wannabe culture changing anti-American bs tolerated here.
God bless America and our brave troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.




Posted by Mike
on 12/25/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Perfect Christmastime firefighter series
Comments Off






Firefighters are a band of brothers
By Erin Smith/ Staff Writer, Townline.com
Friday, December 17, 2004
(This is the first in a series of stories about the fire stations in Allston and Brighton.)
     Monstrous plumes of black smoke fill the air, and the enveloping darkness only seems to amplify the roar of the inferno gnawing at the walls of the house.
     But an experienced firefighter knows the ears are more reliable than the eyes in detecting flames.
     “It’s not like TV. You can’t see your hand in front of your face,” said Lieutenant Charles Popp of the Union Square firehouse, Ladder 14 and Engine 41.
     Popp, like many seasoned firefighters, has learned to rely on the temperature his ear lobes to gauge his distance from the flames. The ear lobes, an important tool of the trade, tell firefighters the location of the fire’s center.
     In fighting fires, location is everything. If a hose is too far away from the blaze, water might not reach far enough to extinguish the flames, but getting too close to the fire’s center could be life threatening.
     “The worst part of the fire is the beginning when you’re going through the door because you can’t see and I think, ‘I don’t have to be here,’” said Popp.
     But Popp, who began working as a firefighter 20 years ago, is also quick to add how much fun he has fighting fires.
     In recent times, fires in Allston-Brighton have been few and far between after decades of aggressive fire prevention campaigns and improved safety equipment. Fire companies now spend most of their time responding to medical emergency calls.
     The tools have also changed. Firefighters’ protective jackets now have three layers of fire-resistant material in place of the former rubber raincoat material; oxygen tanks with masks are now a requirement; and compressed-air foam now often flows through the hoses instead of water. A computer laptop inside the truck even receives 911 addresses and messages from dispatch.
     But despite all the technology upgrades, “The Brotherhood” itself has largely remained unchanged. Firefighters at the Union Square station spend so much time together during and after work that they tend to be more like close-knit families than co-workers, teasing their newest brothers with embarrassing nicknames, like “Okie.”
     During the long hours between alarm calls, the members of Ladder 14 and Engine 41 sit down at the station’s long wooden dining table after working together to cook family-style dinners of spaghetti or ribs. Shift families root for the Red Sox together on game ……………….(click title bar to continue!)




Posted by Mike
on 12/21/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



New York's Bravest pull man from burning apt.!
Comments Off






Bravest Pull Man From Bronx Blaze
NY Post (December 17, 2004)
Firefighters rushed into a burning Bronx building and rescued a man trapped on the second floor early yesterday.
The fire started at 10 a.m. in a bedroom in Apartment 2C at 535 Havemeyer Ave.
Noel Jones, 22, was hanging out the window gasping for air when firefighters arrived at the scene.
“We pulled up to the building and saw flames and black smoke,” said Firefighter Douglas Ferretti, 43, of Ladder Co. 47.
“The occupant’s arm and head were sticking out the window for air. He couldn’t get out because of the window guards.”
Ferretti said he propped a ladder to climb up to Jones’ window, and then used a special crowbar known as a halligan to break the window guards. He quickly grabbed Jones by the legs and brought him down to safety.
Meanwhile, firefighter Frederick Burnett ran inside the flaming apartment and made sure no one else was inside.
“The fire was rolling. I just stayed low, there was a lot of smoke,” said Burnett. “It was like an oven in there,”
Firefighter Sean Murphy added, “I’m glad [Jones is] OK. He would’ve never made it out if he tried to get out the normal way.”
Authorities said the fire may have been started by someone smoking in bed. Lorena Mongelli
Copyright 2004 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.




Posted by Mike
on 12/17/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter oral exam question/answer
Comments Off






You respond to a house fire and during the initial entry and search you notice a twenty dollar bill on a dresser drawer in the master bedroom.  Later you discover the money is gone and you know for a fact only you and your captain were the only two persons who entered that room.
My answer;
I would ask the captain if he secured the money that was on the master bedroom dresser.  If he said yes then I would know that he knows I am aware the money was there. I would have to assume he really did secure it.
–While this answer does not cover all the ethical or legal questions that come to mind I was told my answer was “close enough”.
For a good link on Firefighter’s Code of Ethics
Click here




Posted by Mike
on 12/13/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter exam sample questions
1 comment






I recall one question in my captains test oral interview that I guess I answered correctly:
Here goes.
You respond to a house fire and during the initial entry and search you notice a twenty dollar bill on a dresser drawer in the master bedroom.  Later you discover the money is gone and you know for a fact only you and your captain were the only two persons who entered that room.
What do you say? Do you say anything?
Comment on what you would say!
(my answer in a day or two)
Here are some firefighter exam sample questions found among many such sites on the internet.
<a href="http://www.petersons.com/testprepchannel/firefighter_sample_questions.asp
“>Petersons firefighter test prep.





Posted by Mike
on 12/06/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



New Yorks Bravest are the U.S. Bravest
Comments Off






News captures emotional hospital reunion
of Iraq war hero and father
By ALISON GENDAR
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER
Injured National Guardsman Daniel Swift reunites with his dad, retired NYPD Detective John Swift.
LANDSTUHL, Germany – A wounded soldier, crutches under his arms, a Santa hat perched on his head, freezes in the hospital corridor at the sound of a familiar voice so far from home.
“Pops?” East Harlem Firefighter Daniel Swift calls out as he spots his dad, retired NYPD Detective John Swift, barreling down the Army hospital hallway. “Hey, Pops!”
“How ya doin’, Danny? You okay?” the father says, engulfing his son, crutches and all, in a loving bear hug.
“Doing good now, Dad,” Daniel Swift answers, something he never expected to say just three days after surviving an Iraqi ambush that killed two of his friends – including fellow FDNY Firefighter Christian Engeldrum – and sent him and two other Army National Guardsmen to the hospital.
“Doing good now,” he says………
Read story
Here





Posted by Mike
on 12/04/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Sniper fire kills FDNY Firefighter in Iraq
Comments Off






BY MAKI BECKER
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER
Brian Grant in January 2001 photo. Army private, 31, died last week in Iraq.
“The war in Iraq claimed the life of another member of the FDNY family over the holiday weekend.
U.S. Army Pvt. Brian Grant, the 31-year-old son of a retired Staten Island firefighter, was killed Friday when he came under sniper attack in the city of Ramadi.
Grant enlisted in the Army last February “because of all the people that were killed on 9/11,” his father, John Grant, said yesterday.
“He wanted to go do the right thing,” said John Grant, 70, an Army veteran who served 24 years in the FDNY before retiring in 1982. “He was very patriotic.”
Brian Grant’s family was stunned when he suddenly enlisted, but understood his decision.
One of his brothers is a city firefighter, another is an NYPD officer and a third is in the Army Reserves. Brian Grant’s father said his fourth son “wanted to serve one way or another.”
“He did it to make it a better place here for us,” said his older sister, Maureen Grant. “He did it for everybody back here.”
Brian Grant was born and reared on Staten Island and moved to Dallas. He was working as a sales manager for Cintas commercial uniform company when he decided to enlist. He originally was deployed to South Korea but got new orders to go to Iraq in August.
Always good-natured, he sent home letters from Iraq filled with upbeat messages and funny stories about pesky sand fleas. “He always kept his spirits up,” his mother, Carol Grant, said.
“He would say, ‘Don’t worry about it. Don’t worry about it. I’ll be okay,’” his sister said.
After he was felled by a sniper’s bullet, two Army officers arrived at his parents’ door in Florida and told them the horrible news. “As soon as I saw the uniforms, I knew,” John Grant said.
The family plans to hold his funeral services on Staten Island and then bury him in Arlington National Cemetery.
“He was only in, like, nine months,” his father said.”
Originally published on December 1, 2004




Posted by Mike
on 12/02/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















