2004  October | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Raising Ladders
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


A day in the life of a firefighter
Comments Off






By RYAN HIRAKI
rhiraki@news-press.com
Published by news-press.com on October 24, 2004
7 p.m.
The food is cold by the time they get back, a minor inconvenience when they have calls to respond to. They use the microwave a lot here.
After dinner, they swap stories about some of the calls, how hard they can be to witness.
Some of them responded last April to a brutal murder-suicide. A man had strangled his girlfriend then stabbed himself, according to the Lee County Sheriff’s Office.
Weiss remembers a recent incident well. A man was careless with a gun and put a bullet through his hand, Weiss said.
Ott calls them the indelible images that firefighters have to live with.
“We deal with mental stress on this job,” he said. “I love what I do, but it can be tough.”
8:30 p.m.
They responded to five calls this day, more than the slowest days, where nothing happens in the central and southeast regions of Bonita, the primary areas covered by Fire Station One.
Last year, the Bonita Springs Fire District responded to 4,513 calls, or about 12 per day.
The firefighters and paramedics expect one to come in, as………
Full story




Posted by Mike
on 10/25/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Ann Coulter takes aim!
Comments Off






Don’t throw pies at this fine lady. She fires back.  Also unlike J. Kerry she looks natural with a hunting weapon in her hands.
Ann’s pic pages
Ann Coulter 




Posted by Mike
on 10/23/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighter Job……in Iraq
Comments Off






I wish I was 25 again.
Support the U.S. Military in Iraq
Firefighters
Annual salaries starting at $90,000
Wackenhut Services, LLC. is currently accepting applications for professional fire fighters (ranks of Fire Fighter, Lieutenant, Captain, and Training Officer) for immediate employment in Iraq. Primary duty will be on secure military bases. Minimum one year contract. Must be U.S. citizen. Annual salaries starting at $90,000. Excellent benefits. Complete uniform and full turn out gear issue.
Minimum requirements for all Positions:
DOD, IFSAC or NFPA certification at:
Fire Fighter Level 1 and Level 2
EMT Certification or Medical First Responder training
Hazardous Materials Technician Certification
Minimum 3 years fire fighting experience (career or voluntary)
Preferred Experience:
Former Military Fire Fighters
International experience
ARFF experience
Additional Requirements: Valid driver’s license
Valid passport by scheduled departure date
Background investigation, pre-employment drug screening, and physical agility tests are conducted. Will be subject to post offer physicals and respiratory use approval.
Please submit all resumes and or questions electronically to kkluzinski@wsihq.com
Firehouse.com





Posted by Mike
on 10/20/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



California Fire Season OVER!!
Comments Off






INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SITUATION REPORT
TUESDAY OCTOBER 19 2004 – 0530 MDT
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS LEVEL 1
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA AREA
Geographic Area Weather
Cloudy with rain, heavy at times, turning to snow over the mountains
overnight over Central California. Cloudy with showers turning to rain
overnight, heavy at times, over Southern California.
High Temperatures
40 to 55 mountains.
55 to 70 valleys.
55 to 70 upper deserts.
70 to 80 lower deserts.
Minimum Relative Humidity
60 to 80%.




Posted by Mike
on 10/19/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Changed sponsor
Comments Off






Ok, I moved to a different sponsor because I like the products and service of the new one.  My wife has been shopping at Overstock.com for a couple of months now and without fail they have been delivering products to our home in a timely manner as promised.  Their service cannot be surpassed.




Posted by Mike
on 10/19/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Fire burning in Yosemite in mid October?
Comments Off






–Say a prayer for the firefighters working and watching this one.  It is below freezing in that country overnight.–
INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SITUATION REPORT
SATURDAY OCTOBER 16, 2004 – 0800 MDT
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS LEVEL 1
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA AREA LARGE FIRES:
HETCHY, Yosemite National Park. This fire is 16 miles northwest of
Yosemite Village, CA in brush and timber. Running, spotting, and
isolated torching were observed.
———————————————————————-
    INCIDENT    |ST|UNIT| SIZE | % | EST |TOTAL|CRW|ENG|HELI|STRC| $$$
      NAME      |  |    |      |CTN| CTN |PERS |   |   |    |LOSS|C-T-D
———————————————————————-
HETCHY         |CA| YNP|  1500|  0|10/30|   64|  2|  0|   3|   0|  25K
———————————————————————-





Posted by Mike
on 10/17/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Fire season still on in California
Comments Off






INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SITUATION REPORT
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 13, 2004 – 0530 MDT
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS LEVEL 1
CURRENT SITUATION:
Initial attack activity was light nationally with 128 new fires
reported.
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AREA LARGE FIRES:
RUMSEY, California Department of Forestry & Fire Protection (CDF),
Sonoma-Lake Napa Unit. A CDF Type 1 Incident Management Team (Streblow)
is
assigned. This fire is 18 miles south of Williams, CA in brush. Poor
accessibility and strong winds have hampered suppression efforts.
Wind-driven fire behavior on the southwest flank was observed.
POWER, Eldorado National Forest. A transfer of command from a Type 2
Incident Management Team (Wendt) is assigned. This fire is 28 miles
southeast of Pollock Pines, CA in brush and timber. Increased fire
activity resulted from strong winds over the fire area and spotting
throughout the night.
———————————————————————-
    INCIDENT    |ST|UNIT| SIZE | % | EST |TOTAL|CRW|ENG|HELI|STRC| $$$
      NAME      |  |    |      |CTN| CTN |PERS |   |   |    |LOSS|C-T-D
———————————————————————-
RUMSEY         |CA| LNU| 29695|  5|10/16| 1222| 41| 69|  14|   1| 950K
POWER          |CA| ENF|   475| 50|10/19|  408|  6| 15|   0|   0| 2.8M
———————————————————————-
OUTLOOK:
Red Flag Warning: For Eureka, Sacramento, and Monterey areas through
midday Wednesday for moderate or stronger northeast to east winds, low
relative humidity levels, and generally poor relative humidity recovery
for mid-slope and above.
Go get em CDF!




Posted by Mike
on 10/14/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Firefighters accounts of Fl. hurricane devastation
Comments Off






Local firemen: Florida hurricane destruction ‘beyond description’ 
By Esther Avila, The Porterville Recorder
Two local firemen recently returned from Florida with a first-hand account of the aftermath of the four hurricanes that left Florida with billions of dollars in damage.
“The destruction was beyond description. Houses were totally destroyed and debris was everywhere,” said Clyde Tillery, who is a fireman with the Porterville Fire Department. “Houses were ripped apart – like a tornado had gone through them.”
Tillery and his friend James Lawson talked of the devastation they witnessed – from the four lane highways they saw littered with boats and houses to a big rig they saw on a bridge – it’s rear trailer still on the bridge while the front trailer and tractor cab were submerged under water.
They also saw sailboats up in trees and talked of a mobile home park in Blountstown where four people were killed after the trailer they were in was picked up and slammed down. The insurance industry estimated insured losses at $20.2 billion for the four hurricanes.
“It’s an experience I’ll never forget,” Tillery said. “I wish I could do more. I had never seen anything like it. It makes you appreciate what you have here.”
Lawson said he was amazed by what he saw when he drove by a forest of trees.
“It was such a natural phenomenon to see one or two trees completely knocked down and other trees, right next to them, still standing. It was so weird,” Lawson said.
Tillery and Lawson are local instructors for the Community Emergency Response Team of Tulare and Kings County. They were recruited through the Department of Homeland Security’s Citizen Corps and FEMA – Federal Emergency Management Agency – and then deployed to Florida as Community Relations Officers during Hurricane Frances.
“I didn’t know what to expect,” Tillery said. “I had never been to Florida. Then when we got there they told us that they had two more (hurricanes) coming our way.”
The two firemen joined thousands of other volunteers and were assigned to a logistics command post in Atlanta.
When the men arrived, Hurricane Frances was passing through Atlanta and Hurricane Ivan was not far behind.
“We were told we had to stay at a safe distance until it passed,” Tillery said. “So we stayed there for five days.”
As the first hurricane passed, Tillery and Lawson had a six-hour window to get to Jacksonville, Fla., before the next hurricane hit.
After running a command post for four to five days, the two men left for Atlantic City where teams of two were formed and sent to rural towns to check for structural damage.
“We checked with the fire chief of each town,” Tillery said. “That is when we started seeing the devastation. They were pretty much on their own. They didn’t have any help.”
Because of the hurricanes, the fire departments could not function in every town. In one town, there was no way to fuel the trucks and the fire chief was personally driving 200 or more miles a day to get ice and water for the town.
The fire department in Baker needed a power generator.
“It was hard for me as a firefighter to hear the needs and not be able to do anything about it,” Lawson said. “It was a different experience.”
The two inspected structural damage to homes and businesses in each town and then filled out forms and reported back to their headquarters.
“That way they have an idea of what kind of structure damage was done and what resources were needed,” Tillery said. “I felt helpless looking at the devastation. I’m used to being a first-responder – not being in the middle of everything. Now I can say I have seen the other side.”
Lawson said their basic job was to get a telephone-assistant number out to the public.
“Everywhere we went, they kept asking ‘What do we do now?’” Lawson said. “They would see us and were so thankful and really happy to see us. They all had similar stories of hearing the winds and seeing the trees.”
It was the first time in the history of FEMA that they had such a massive call for disaster response volunteers, Lawson said.
Ken Iiams, American Red Cross director of Emergency Services for the Tulare-Kings chapter, said they currently have 4,347 nationwide members assigned to hurricane relief.
“This is the largest disaster-relief effort that the Red Cross has ever been involved in,” Iiams said. “From Aug. 1 to present, we have had 9,023 relief workers in Florida.”
Tillery and Lawson returned on Sept. 22 with an appreciation for the power of hurricanes and a willingness to help out in the future.
“In situations like that, people get in a daze and don’t know what they can do to help themselves,” Lawson said. “If I had a chance to go again, I’d go.”
Contact Esther Avila at 784-5000, ext. 1051, or eavila@portervillerecorder.com




Posted by Mike
on 10/13/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Kids killed by fire, no working smoke detector
1 comment






Mass. Fire Kills Five, Three Are Children
Associated Press (October 5, 2004)
DENNIS, Mass. (AP) – A couple and their three children died in a house fire that could have been burning for an hour before a neighbor called authorities.
A neighbor called authorities after noticing “a huge glow” from the fire in a two-story, wood-frame duplex, acting Dennis Fire Chief John Donlan said. Firefighters in the Cape Cod town were unable to immediately enter the duplex because of flames and because a portion of the roof collapsed.
Smoke detectors apparently had not been working, said Jennifer Mieth, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Fire Services. The other side of the duplex was not occupied.
Several media outlets, citing friends and family, identified the victims as Cherie White, 24; Ronald Mero, 29; Nathan Mero, 2; Jordan Mero, 9, Ronald Mero’s son from another relationship; and Destiny Becotte, 5, White’s daughter from another relationship.




Posted by Mike
on 10/07/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Fallen Firefighter Daniel Holmes
Comments Off






Firefighter Holmes died from injuries received after the top of a 100-foot white fir tree unexpectedly fell and struck him in an area where his firefighting crew, the Arrowhead Hotshots, had intentionally set a fire in Kings Canyon National Park.
Find the tribute here.
National Fallen Firefighters’ Memorial




Posted by Mike
on 10/06/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



No one listening to San Diego Fire Chief!
Comments Off






Chiefs voice concern over region’s firefighting readiness
Tue Oct 5, 8:45 PM ET
Local – San Diego Daily Transcript
Nearly a year after the Cedar wildfires destroyed about 2,200 homes in San Diego County, the region remains susceptible to another massive conflagration, according to California fire chiefs who are both “confused” and “disappointed” by state Legislators’ lack of action.
Speaking at a meeting held by the Joint Legislative Committee on Emergency Services and Homeland Security on Tuesday, a panel of fire chiefs from around the state presented a bleak assessment of the region’s firefighting advances.
Jeff Bowman, fire chief of the city of San Diego, said, “This entire group of people at this table is utterly frustrated.”
In short, none of the fire chiefs were impressed with what’s been done over the past year.
William McCammon, past president of the California Fire Chiefs Association, said, “We are poised for the same situation. All we need is wind and an ignition source, and we can be in the place we were last year.”
The fires that raged across six counties in Southern California — including Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Ventura, San Diego, Riverside and Orange — destroyed 3,631 homes and burned 739,597 acres of land.
Following the fire, former-Gov. Gray Davis (news – web sites) called for the formation of the Blue Ribbon Fire Commission to study successes and failures of the firefighting effort.
The committee submitted 48 recommendations on ways to improve the firefighting capabilities for the state that ranged from purchasing more equipment to clearing more dead brush and other ignition materials from forests.
William Bamattre, fire chief for the Los Angeles Fire Department, said that just three of the recommendations have been completed, 19 are being worked on and 26 have seen little or no progress.
One specific point of frustration: Four out of five commission recommendations that resulted in amendments proposed and approved by the state Legislature were subsequently vetoed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (news – web sites).
The only piece of legislation that passed was authored by Assemblywoman Christine Kehoe, D-San Diego, and requires all cities in high-fire zones to submit safety elements for review by the state.
The four failed bills would have allowed easier access to aircrafts for disaster response; required the state Fire Marshal to compile response time and staffing level information from local response services; rework the safety element requirements for high fire hazard severity zones; and require the Governor’s Office of Emergency Service to acquire 150 additional fire engines.
Addressing the vetoes, Bowman said the ruling was “confusing” because the proposals had the support of the Blue Ribbon Committee.
Bowman also noted that Schwarzenegger has had no communication with the fire chiefs regarding his dissatisfaction with the amendments. Bowman suggested a face-to-face meeting to discuss the importance of taking action quickly.
“How can we work on fire issues in California if we are being ignored,” he said.
http://news.yahoo.com/news?tmpl=index&cid=312




Posted by Mike
on 10/06/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Alice Wilson; Firefighter
Comments Off






Bradenton Herald
Posted on Tue, Oct. 05, 2004
Alice Joy Wilson has logged 22 years as a Parrish volunteer
RICHARD DYMOND
Herald Staff Writer
PARRISH – Perhaps one of Parrish’s most cherished legacies is that of the town’s volunteer fire department, whose members banded together about 25 years ago.
While there are still 22 volunteers and only four career firefighters in the Parrish Fire District, some believe within the next decade many volunteer firefighters will be replaced because of increasingly strict insurance and state regulations.
When that happens, 22-year veteran Alice Joy Wilson, along with 25-year veteran Wayne Ownby and 13-year veteran Ed Chitty, will be known as the last of the original Parrish volunteers.
Longevity will embellish any career, but Wilson’s gruff laugh, her firehouse nicknames “Mother” and “AJ,” her ability to drive any of the department’s 10 trucks, including engine, tanker, brush trucks and the new Carolina skiff rescue boat and her feats of courage on rescues have made her reputation.
At 59, when many of her friends are grandmothers, Wilson is still whipping on 50 pounds of fire gear and running out on calls.
“I don’t sew, don’t knit, don’t bake, don’t golf and don’t do crafts,” Wilson said. “This is my home away from home. These people are my family. This and 4-H is all I do.”
Wilson raised her daughter, Wendy, through local 4-H Club activities and life at the fire department. Wilson and her daughter were part of Quality Beef Club for many years, and Wilson still announces the steer, heifer, showmanship and other livestock shows at the Manatee County Fair.
In the old days, Wilson would put Wendy in the fire truck on a call, and Wendy knew her job was just to stay still.
“Those days are gone,” Wilson said. “You can’t take a child on call anymore. Gosh, I remember one time when we worked a car crash and came back to the station at 5 a.m. and had a structure fire. Wendy was with me through it all, and finally Chief Glenn Cooley’s wife took Wendy home.”
Wilson’s friends say there is no one quite like her.
“She is always willing to help anyone out,” said Bradenton’s Sandra Rawls, who has known Wilson for 40 years. “She’s tough, but she’s also got a marshmallow heart.”
Wilson’s nickname, Mother, came about mainly because she watches over the station like a mama eagle.
“AJ definitely speaks her mind,” said volunteer firefighter Sawyer Ramsey. “She has all kinds of knowledge and gives tips. After a call we always debrief, and no one does that better than AJ.”
A common mistake many new volunteers make is to want to show off their equipment and gear, Wilson said.
“The heat can get to them,” Wilson said. “I’m always fussing at them to stay cool. I always preach safety. That’s why they call me Mother.”
Wilson worked for years in 4-H, helping kids find steers, working as an assistant club leader, Rawls said. “She was the leader of the 4-H exchange clubs and one year chaperoned a group to Tennessee,” Rawls said.
Wilson tried to work in a nursing home once, but failed.
“I couldn’t stand hearing people say, ‘My daughter is coming next week’ when they haven’t been there in six years,” Wilson said. “I just can’t take that. Now, give me an emergency room. I can handle that.”
Rawls said most people don’t know that Wilson has been through triple bypass open heart surgery and diabetes herself.
Wilson left her hometown of Pahokee in 1974 and moved to Parrish, where she worked for the U.S. Department of Agriculture for 18 years, the first five in the brucellas program and the last 13 as a crop reporter, amassing information from area farms on tomatoes, peppers, corn, cucumbers and other crops for the state.
Wilson was laid off in 2001 when the state ended its crop reporting program. She has no retirement or insurance benefits.
But her troubles haven’t made her bitter or depressed. She considers herself a volunteer, someone special.
“When we go out on parades and I see people wave in appreciation, tears start rolling down my face,” Wilson said. “The fire trucks make people happy. Someone has got to do this and it’s us.”
Wilson once raced into a flooded ditch to save a motorist and ended up sinking to the bottom. She had to grab onto the car to keep from drowning before fellow firefighters tossed her a lifeline and pulled her out.
While giving CPR to a heart attack victim on State Road 62, Wilson was kneeling so long on rocks that blood from her knees soaked through her bunker gear.
“We are cut out to be able to go to an accident scene and find a body,” Wilson said. “We have a safe place to put that in our minds where we can separate it from everyday life. A family member can’t. That’s why we have to do it.”
Wilson often helps with dispatch and knows every nook and cranny of the Parrish area.
She has saved many lives through CPR and fire rescue, but says she is proudest of her actions when she couldn’t save a life.
“I’ve held so many hands,” Wilson said. “We would call the preacher and take care of their kids. We would take over food or drive an extra car to the hospital. There were not so many people in Parrish then and we could do all that. We can’t do things like that as much now.”
Wilson and her volunteer mates are also among the last departments to pray over the deceased.
Rookie volunteer firefighters, many young men barely in their 20s, are at first intimidated by the sight of Wilson barking out commands, said fellow volunteer Sawyer Ramsey.
“The kids come right out of school and say to themselves, ‘I’m a fireman,’ ” Ramsey said. “Then they see this woman who could be their grandmother driving a tanker and fighting structure fires and they don’t know what to think anymore. They can’t imagine a grandmother on a truck.”
Ramsey said Wilson’s biggest contribution is providing an institutional memory for the younger volunteers.
“AJ is one of the last of the old Parrish firefighters,” Ramsey said. “The young guys don’t have any idea of the history here. She helps us maintain that. They listen to her stories. Having her gives the younger guys a buy-in to the station. If you know the history, it will mean more to you.”
ALICE JOY WILSON
•  AGE: 59
•  OCCUPATION:
Volunteer firefighter
http://www.bradenton.com/mld/bradenton/living/9836848.htm





Posted by Mike
on 10/06/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Ladder 49 review
Comments Off






John Travolta’s movie Ladder 49 was a clear hit according to my brother Frank who viewed the movie over the weekend.  One of the main questions I had about the move was if the producers would sell out on realism as so many other firefighting flicks have.
Frank tells me the movie portrays the profession fairly, has a decent story line, and casts firefighters as heroes.  Frank is in a position to know.
I had reservations about this movie but Franks review settled my apprehenions.




Posted by Mike
on 10/04/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Kelowna B.C 2003 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Unknown fire possibly British Columbia 3003 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Sept.11, 2001 Vote for President Bush, he’s our best chance against the Islamofascists. 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Bitteroots, Montana  2001 A.P. photo 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Hunter Fire 2003 Bear Valley Ca. 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized




Comments Off






Kelowna B.C. 2003 




Posted by Mike
on 10/03/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Careful with your candles
Comments Off






NFPA Study Shows A 15% Increase In Candle Fires From 2000 To 2001, Triple The Number In 1990—
Quincy, MA – New data from the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) show that candles are becoming an increasingly prevalent cause of home fires. Candles started fires in 18,000 homes in 2001, a 15 percent rise from 2000, and more than triple the number in 1990.
After declining from 1980 to 1990, candle-related home fires started increasing in 1991, and since 1995, each year has seen a new high in the number of fires blamed on candles. In 2001, candle fires in the home were responsible for an estimated 190 civilian deaths, 1,450 civilian injuries and $265 million in property damage.
What underlies this devastation? First, candles have become more popular: According to the National Candle Association, seven out of 10 households use candles. Second, many people don’t realize how quickly something can go wrong, and don’t know the rules for safe candle use. One-third of these fires occurred after candles were left unattended, abandoned or inadequately controlled. One-quarter occurred when combustible material came too close to the flame. And 6 percent were started by people-usually children-playing with the candle.
Another important factor may be poverty. As many as one-third of people killed in candle fires were using them for light because their power had been shut off.
Even as candle-caused fires increase, the number of home fires is dropping. So the proportion of home fires related to candles has been growing, according to the NFPA study. In 2001, candle fires accounted for 4.7 percent of home fires, compared with 1.1 percent in the early 1980s.
Four out of 10 candle fires start in the bedroom, and one in six start in common rooms, living rooms, family rooms or dens. Nearly half the people killed by candle fires in the home were younger than 20; children ages 5 to 9 accounted for a disproportionate share of the victims, with a candle-fire death rate 2.5 times higher than the general population.
Candle fires are most common in December, perhaps because candles are frequently a part of holiday decorating and rituals. Eleven percent of the candle fires in December started when decorations were ignited.
The NFPA offers these tips for safe candle use:
Extinguish all candles when leaving the room or going to sleep.
Keep candles away from things that can catch fire, such as clothing, books, paper, curtains, Christmas trees, or decorations.
Place candles on stable furniture in sturdy holders that won’t tip over and that are big enough to collect dripping wax.
Don’t place lit candles in windows, where they may ignite blinds or curtains.
Place candles only in areas where they won’t be knocked over by children or pets.
Extinguish taper and pillar candles when they get within two inches of the holder or decorative material. Extinguish votive and filled candles before the last half-inch of wax starts to melt.
Avoid candles with combustible materials embedded in them, or with holders or decorations that could ignite.
Don’t allow children or teens to have candles in their bedrooms.




Posted by Mike
on 10/01/2004 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 2 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 2 days ago
Canyon Fire webcam image #CalFire #CanyonFire http://t.co/CtBz16w 3 days ago
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the 'Canyon Fire' | Firefighter Blog http://t.co/6uqyxqG #canyonefire #calfire 3 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildfire Safety Bunkers
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas
Bastrop Texas Wildfire
Small Aircraft Crash Ignites the ‘Canyon Fire’




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



A bad day for Randy gets worse … we…

I arrived at the station at about 06:30am this morning.  As I always do, I went to my gear locker,… (more)




Going Forward in the Fire Service…

I am often reluctant to write about commercial business ventures in my blogs and other platforms as… (more)




I’m reclaiming my blog.…

I started this mess as a way to express myself.
Sure, the blog title itself is EMS related, but I… (more)




10 Tanker to Texas…

10 Tanker, the converted commercial DC-10 air tanker has been called to assist the state of Texas… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















