Conservative Blog & Conservative News Source for Right of Center Activists | RedState













About
Contribute
Contact
Advertise Here
Help




Conservative News, Books, & Views
Conservative Book Club
Regnery Books




RedState.com
                : Conservative Blog and News
                






















Hot Topics: Barack Obama
 • debt ceiling
 • Obama
 • 2012
 • politics
 • Rick Perry
 • Coffee and Markets
 • Morning Briefing
 



Recent Posts
Log In
Sign Up

















Jay Carney’s ‘shuck-and-jive.’



					Hey.  It's a direct *quote*, OK?				


						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, September 7th at 7:18PM EDT					
No Comments 


Alternate title: Jay Carney is starting to crack under the strain.

Two thoughts about this:

Apparently – and contra Andrew Cuomo – you can shuck and jive at an Obama press conference after all.
I do not look forward with some interest to seeing how Pam Spaulding of Pandagon (and the above Huffington Post/Talking Points Memo writer, and every other person who freaked out about the Cuomo thing during the 2008 election) manages the mental readjustment necessary to simultaneously excuse attacking a white Hillary Clinton supporter for using the term then, while forgiving a white Obama staffer for using the term now.  That’s because I can’t see how such a readjustment can be done without some form of trepanning.

Hey.  Live by the hardline attitude on language, die by it.  Not my fault.
Moe Lane (crosspost)


Category: double standards, jay carney, shuck and jive 

























Netroots blame wrong people for Texas wildfire problems.



					Yes.  You are shocked.				


						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, September 7th at 7:00PM EDT					
5 Comments 


Very quickly, and to get this out of the way: the Online Left is babbling about supposedly-cut Texas firefighting budgets, mostly because they lack the research skills – or possibly, the native intelligence – to tell the difference between a $109 million Forest Service/Wildfire Fighting budget in 2010/2011, and a $196 million Forest Service/Wildfire Fighting budget for 2012/2013 (the 2012 fiscal year started at the beginning of this month).  Fortunately, Battleswarm Blog can both think and do research – as seen here and here – which means that I don’t have to do any of the heavy lifting this time.  Bottom line: never, ever stop just because you got the answer that you wanted.
[UPDATE: Via WILLisms, via @bdomenech, comes another reading error from the netroots.  Turns out that some of the n-dimensional geniuses over on that side of the blogosphere looked at last year's Forest Service budget and inexplicably failed to notice that it included a one-time new equipment allocation: which caused them to mistake this year's budget as a reduction.  What makes it particularly funny is that the allocation was due to stimulus funds... which meant that in their haste to go negative, the netroots completely messed up the opportunity to make a positive argument about their policy positions.  And they wonder why nobody respects them...]
But.  Since we’re talking about supposed derelictions of duty, how about we talk about some of the stuff that the federal government is doing?  – Or, more accurately, what the federal government is not doing.
Read More → 

Category: Texas, us forest service, wildfires 

























Reminder: primary deadline in Louisiana tomorrow.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, September 7th at 3:00PM EDT					
No Comments 


We’re in day two of the three day qualifying period for the gubernatorial primary, you see.  Another reminder: the only  person that the Democrats have had so far who is willing to stand up and  publicly oppose Bobby Jindal is… Tara Hollis,  schoolteacher.  She is not particularly expected to win – but there’s  nobody else right now, and that situation is being repeated all the way  down the ticket.
I want to make this clear: this is not a knock on Ms. Hollis, whose most egregious crime seems to be retaining  the charmingly naive belief that the Democratic leadership actually cares overmuch about their oft-stated principles.  But it is a fairly  comprehensive knock against the Democratic party of Louisiana, which has  taken multiple body blows for the last half decade.  It’s curious to  note: for all the verbiage written about how devastating the Katrina  response supposedly was to the GOP (particularly Bush), I can’t help but  notice that in the state where the devastation was strongest the most  obvious change was that Louisiana went from a largely Democratic-run  state to a largely Republican-run one.  It’s also curious that this  hasn’t been reported on more.
Well, OK, so it’s not curious.  Thou Shalt Not Question The Media Narrative, and all that.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
PS: Bobby Jindal for Governor.  Better safe than sorry.


Category: bobby jindal, Louisiana, tara hollis 

























Mitt Romney beclowns the Netroots on job growth.



					Excuse me.  You don't get to do that to our candidates.  Only WE get to do that to our candidates.				


						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Tuesday, September 6th at 7:30PM EDT					
19 Comments 


I don’t normally devote the front page of RedState to Twitter nonsense from the Online Left – aside from everything else, the netroots are horrifically bad at Twitter, which makes it not quite sporting – but I’ll make an exception in this case.
The short version: the campaign of Republican Presidential candidate Mitt Romney put out a chart today as part of his jobs plan that happened to show historical data on our five most recent recessions. It was done up as a bar graph, with red and blue bars: the red bars showed jobs lost in the recession, while the blue bars showed the jobs added in the 24 months following.  I’m quoting, by the way: the legend was clearly printed on the chart.   Here, look for yourself:

This is a problem for the netroots, seeing as the graph fairly clearly shows that for the first time in at least thirty years there has not been a net gain in jobs in the two year period since the end of a particular recession (translation: Obama’s job recovery is unique in its feckless uselessness).   Desperate to avoid admitting – even to themselves – that their man-god has so abjectly failed them, therefore, agents of Media Matters and Daily Kos have been trying to pretend that Romney was claiming that Obama was in office in 2007 (with a manic, if not hysteric, subtext of Look at the stupid Republican, please, god, LOOK AT THE STUPID REPUBLICAN WHY WON’T YOU LOOK AT THE STUPID REPUBLICAN OH god THIS ALWAYS WORKED BEFORE)… which was such a ridiculous argument that the noted Right Wing Death Beasts over at Talking Points Memo had to gently tell them that no, Romney was not saying that.  Not that this will be enough to get the netroots to pay attention to objective reality, bless their hearts… so our own Ben Howe has taken the trouble to make the situation clear to Oliver Willis, Markos Moulitsas, and everybody else on the Online Left with a room temperature IQ.

We at RedState hope that this helps.  Actually, no, that’s a lie.  We at RedState hope that this burns like acid.
Moe Lane


Category: Barack Obama, beclowning, get yer grubby hands off of our candidates, job growth, Mitt Romney, recession 

























Obama to reduce Iraq strength to 3,000, lose election…






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Tuesday, September 6th at 3:30PM EDT					
14 Comments 


…and set up the bank shot in 2016 for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, apparently:
The  Obama administration has decided to drop the number of U.S. troops in  Iraq at the end of the year down to 3,000, marking a major downgrade in  force strength, multiple sources familiar with the inner workings and  decisions on U.S. troop movements in Iraq told Fox News.
[snip]
This  shift is seen by various people as a cost-saving measure and a  political measure. The only administration official fighting for at  least 10,000 forces to stay in Iraq at the end of the year was Secretary  of State Hillary Clinton, sources said. But she has lost the battle.
No, I don’t actually think that this scenario is actually what’s unfolding: nobody in the administration’s brave enough to try it.  But, speaking cynically, this would work as a long term strategy.  Accept that the election’s lost, set up a  disaster for the Republican President to inherit and take the blame for,  and put the one brave truth-teller in position to come over in 2016 and  save the day.  It’s not optimal, but then it’s going to take a couple  of years for the Democrats to fix everything that Obama’s done to their  party.  They might as well sabotage things for the GOP in the meantime.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Iraq 

























This is the current Texas wildfire situation.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Monday, September 5th at 11:00PM EDT					
38 Comments 


Just to make it clear precisely what we’re talking about, here: it’s not good.  25,000 acres burned so far, and the state is apparently as dry as a bone right now, thanks to a drought.  Let me show you the extent of the problem:

That picture is taken from Weather Underground’s WunderMap (as of roughly 10 PM EDT, September 5, 2011*).  The red flames represent fires, obviously: the dark smudges represent smoke cover.  Just in case the picture isn’t loading for you on your particular platform, let me sum it up for you: A LARGE PORTION OF CENTRAL AND EAST TEXAS IS ON FIRE RIGHT NOW.
I understand that there are people trying to politicize this situation, for their own purposes. I invite all of them to shut up and instead do something useful, like send their readers or listeners over to the American Red Cross.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
*Another map can be found here, courtesy of @bdomenech.


Category: Texas, wildfires 

























Jon Chait and understanding Obama.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Monday, September 5th at 1:00PM EDT					
12 Comments 


Jonathan Chait really, really, really wants liberals to not notice that President Obama is no George W Bush.  How much does he want it?  He wants it badly enough to jettison the entire idea of the Imperial Presidency (don’t worry: Chait and the rest will start grousing about it again on, say, January 20, 2013).  Nope, it’s not Barry Obama’s fault that he couldn’t spin insanely lopsided Congressional majority straw into policy gold, because of… separation of powers:
The most common hallmark of the left’s magical thinking is a failure to recognize that Congress is a separate, coequal branch of government consisting of members whose goals may differ from the president’s. Congressional Republicans pursued a strategy of denying Obama support for any major element of his agenda, on the correct assumption that this would make it less popular and help the party win the 2010 elections. Only for roughly four months during Obama’s term did Democrats have the 60 Senate votes they needed to overcome a filibuster.
[snip]
That kind of analysis, however, just feels wrong to liberals, who remember Bush steamrolling his agenda through Congress with no such complaints about obstructionism. Salon’s Glenn Greenwald recently invoked “the panoply of domestic legislation — including Bush tax cuts, No Child Left Behind and the Medicare Part D prescription drug entitlement — that Bush pushed through Congress in his first term.”
First term.
Hee.
Let’s talk about Bush’s second term, instead.  Actually, let’s talk about the second half of Bush’s second term.
Read More → 

Category: 2012, Barack Obama, Elections, George W Bush, jon chait 

























Pssst!  Maxine Waters (D, CA)!






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Monday, September 5th at 10:45AM EDT					
13 Comments 


Just thought I’d let you know: about this?
The CBC is trying to help by organizing job fairs across the  country. [Congresswoman] Waters also wants to help by putting more pressure on the big  banks to help with mortgages.
“If they don’t come up with loan  modifications and keep people in their homes that they’ve worked so hard  for, we’re going to tax them out of business,” Waters said.
Read More → 

Category: California, maxine waters, taxes 

























The Democratic hypocrisy of DeLauro & Greenberg.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Sunday, September 4th at 12:17PM EDT					
5 Comments 


Rosa DeLauro: Connecticut Democratic Congresswoman.  Married to Stanley Greenberg, Democratic strategist and former Clinton adviser.  Both credibly linked to the biotech megacorporation Monsanto – I mention this not because I care, but it never hurts to remind the netroots that they’re brazen hypocrites when it comes to their supposed opposition to GM foods – and former landlords to then-DCCC chair (and current Chicago mayor) Rahm Emanuel.  Although ‘landlord’ should really apply to people who charge rent to their tenants, I suppose – particularly when the tenant had the ability to steer fat contracts to the landlord’s polling firm.  Ach, well, we’ll save that investigation for 2013.  It’ll give Issa something to do after he finishes burning out the rot in the Justice Department.
But I digress.
Read More → 

Category: hurricane, Hypocrisy, irene, Israel, Rosa DeLauro, stanley greenberg 

























Gerry Connolly (D, VA) concedes VA in 2012.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Saturday, September 3rd at 5:15PM EDT					
12 Comments 


Shocking.  I mean that literally: the control chip must have shorted out, or something.  Representative Connolly finally admitted something that we all already knew: forget about what the 2008 map looked like.  This is going to be a 2004 election, or maybe a 2000 election:
 Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.)  said if the 2012 presidential election was held today, President Barack  Obama wouldn’t win Virginia, a state he carried in 2008.
Speaking on local Washington radio station WTOP Friday, Connolly said, “In my opinion, no, today he would not win the state.”
But, with more than a year before Election Day, Connolly said Obama  still has time to regain the momentum he had in the last election.
Indeed, he has time.  Whether he will have the opportunity or the ability to regain that momentum is another, much more entertaining, question.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, gerry connolly, Virginia 

























#rsrh BLS report out… wait, what?






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Friday, September 2nd at 9:37AM EDT					
28 Comments 


Is this some sort of sick joke?
Nonfarm payroll employment was unchanged (0) in August, and the unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today.
At this rate, the Department of Labor will be rickrolling us by October.
Moe Lane
PS: This situation went from ‘tragedy’ to ‘farce’ some time ago, you know.  Unless you’re one of these statistics:
Among the major worker groups, the unemployment rates for adult men (8.9 percent), adult women (8.0 percent), teenagers (25.4 percent), whites (8.0 percent), blacks (16.7 percent), and Hispanics (11.3 percent) showed little or no change in August. The jobless rate for Asians was 7.1 percent, not seasonally adjusted.
Then it’s still a tragedy.  And a largely avoidable one, too.


Category: bls, unemployment rate 

























Fast & Furious coverup in Arizona.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Friday, September 2nd at 9:30AM EDT					
13 Comments 


(H/T: Hot Air) I believe that the quasi-pop reference here is “BOOM goes the dynamite:”
Congressional investigators tell CBS News there’s evidence the U.S.  Attorney’s office in Arizona sought to cover up a link between their  controversial gunwalking operation known as “Fast and Furious” and the  death of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry.
Executive background summary, for those who don’t remember/aren’t following: Operation Fast & Furious was an incredibly ill-advised program where the federal government directed various law-enforcement agencies to permit guns to be illegally resold to Mexican narco-terrorist gangs.  The above quote is referencing a situation where some of those guns were traced to the Terry murder scene: the email trail indicates that the ATF was aware of the link between the two cases from the start.  This is important because the ATF later attempted to stonewall Congressional investigators out the link, in the person of US Attorney (District of Arizona) Dennis Burke.
Read More → 

Category: batfe, brian terry, chuck grassley, darrell issa, department of justice, f&f, fast & furious, fast and furious, gunrunner, guns, kevin o'reilly, mexico, william newell 

























And they wonder why South California wants to secede…






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Thursday, September 1st at 10:06PM EDT					
39 Comments 


…from the Sacramento regime:
Under AB 889, household “employers” (aka “parents”) who  hire a  babysitter on a Friday night will be legally obligated to pay at  least  minimum wage to any sitter over the age of 18 (unless it is a  family  member), provide a substitute caregiver every two hours to cover  rest  and meal breaks, in addition to workers’ compensation coverage,  overtime  pay, and a meticulously calculated timecard/paycheck.
Failure to  abide by any of these provisions may result in a legal  cause of action  against the employer including cumulative penalties,  attorneys’ fees,  legal costs and expenses associated with hiring expert  witnesses, an  unprecedented measure of legal recourse provided no  other class of  workers – from agricultural laborers to garment  manufacturers.
Via Vodkapundit (H/T AoSHQ).  I have a suggestion for anybody in California who, upon reading this bit of nonsense – or any of the other six  billion reasons why one might decide that California was more trouble  than it’s worth – decides to move: voting with your feet is, in fact, a  fine old American tradition.  But do whatever red state that you end up  moving to a favor, OK?
REMEMBER WHY YOU LEFT CALIFORNIA IN THE FIRST PLACE.
Moe Lane (crosspost)


Category: ab 889, California 

























Turner/Weprin tie in NY-09?






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Thursday, September 1st at 9:30PM EDT					
2 Comments 


The Hill reports that a GOP-commissioned poll for the special election to replace disgraced Anthony Weiner in NY-09 shows a tie.  I was able to get my hands on a copy of the poll results, and the numbers are encouraging: 42/42 split between Republican Bob Turner and Democrat David Welpern (+7 for Turner, -1 for Welpern from July results); 300 likely voters; 24/60/15 Republican/Democratic/Independent voter sample (21/35/33 liberal/moderate/conservative).  That R/D/I number looks about what Siena was finding, which suggests that the sample isn’t skewed too horribly.
Usual caveats apply: it’s not an independent poll.  Still, if you couple this with the Daily News’ endorsement of Republican Bob Turner over Democrat David Welpern (the Daily News is fairly reliably Democratic in its endorsements), and of course the earlier Siena poll from a few weeks ago that showed Welpern seriously under-performing, it’s not unreasonable to conclude that maybe there’s a certain amount of brand damage going on here for the Democrats.
Read More → 

Category: bob turner, david welpern, New York, ny-09 

























Left trying to get their heads around Obama caving on speech time.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Thursday, September 1st at 7:00PM EDT					
18 Comments 


I suspect that Michael Scherer of Swampland is genuinely confused, while Cenk Uygur of HuffPo is just being disingenuous, judging from their reactions to Barack Obama’s garden rake moment last night.  For those who missed it: Obama wanted to schedule a speech at the last minute that would have interfered with a Republican debate; Boehner told him no; Obama promptly caved. And there was much weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth…
Anyway, I’m lumping Scherer and Uygur together because the two neatly bracket the confusion and dismay that has come over the Left from watching President Obama get smacked down – finally – for being a jackass about something; in this case, for trying to muck about with the Republican debate schedule for no better reason than because Obama’s poll numbers are even worse than his job creation record.  You see, the Online Left has this little narrative where they’re all rough-and-tough digital revolutionaries facing down the thuggish, jackbooted, faceless minions of the VRWC*… so they react badly whenever one of their Designated Man-Gods meets objective reality in an objectively realistic fashion.  ‘Badly’ being defined in various ways, of course.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, caves, speech 

























The deadly incompetence of Wikileaks.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Thursday, September 1st at 3:10PM EDT					
1 Comment 


By now, you’ve probably heard that Wikileaks managed to have over  250K classified US diplomatic dispatches released out into the digital  wilds, complete with the names of what used to be informants and  intelligence assets in a large number of unpleasant countries.  I say  ‘used to be’ because, thanks to Wikileaks, a lot of those people are  going to be arrested, fined, turned, beaten, coerced, raped, tortured,  imprisoned, and/or killed.  Spiegel has the details of how it happened; the details can be summed up as A  variety of adult children stole and disseminated information that the  US State Department had officially deemed too dangerous to distribute  free; and these children did so in a manner that demonstrated that the State Department was right. 
Seriously,  the whole thing – what with the theatrical, too-complicated security  arrangements; the lackadaisical treatment of the original information;  the pointless grudge matches; and of course the lack of self-control –  reads like a demented high school clique fight.  Except that those  usually don’t end with SAVAK goons raping and murdering dissidents in  underground interrogation rooms.
Just to remind potential financial supporters of Wikileaks about what their money is likely to be funding.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
Read More → 

Category: julian assange, wikileaks 

























President wishes to troll GOP debate.



					I cannot BELIEVE that I had to write that out.				


						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, August 31st at 3:30PM EDT					
24 Comments 


The basic gist of this is as follows: President Barack Obama has requested – please note that word – that he be permitted to address Congress about jobs in a special joint session next Wednesday evening at 8 PM.  Unfortunately, the White House is apparently as self-aware about national events as is, say, a brain-damaged basset hound, because it unaccountably missed noticing that there was a major Republican debate scheduled for that date and time.  One being hosted by a major news network (NBC) and online news site (Politico).  Such an abject lack of intellectual curiosity about one’s surroundings – remember, it’s the White House itself which is claiming that they had not known about the conflict ahead of time – is perhaps not unexpected from this administration, but it’s certainly not what you would call seemly.  Or adult.  Indeed, calling it ‘adolescent’ defames teenagers.
Now, everybody here knows the truth – the White House is desperately trying to control the conversation about Obama’s performance to date, largely because if they don’t the conversation will be Barack Obama: Tedious Idiot, or Blithering Idiot? – but we’re expected to pretend otherwise.  I shall not: and before I go any further, let me just note that there’s a reason why we have a minimum age requirement for the Presidency.  It’s because the Founding Fathers wanted to keep children from running this country.
Alas.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, bigfooting, Debate, election, John Boehner, petulant man-child 

























Looking for a handy Obama-failure counter?






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, August 31st at 10:41AM EDT					
1 CommentRecommenders: BigRedConservative, westcoastpatriette 


Hey, guess what?
There’s an app for that.
An “Obama Clock” app is jockeying for position with National Geographic’s World Atlas atop the iTunes app store’s reference best-seller list, partly because conservatives are eager to monitor President Barack Obama’s skidding approval numbers and shrinking calendar, says the app’s designer.
Liberals don’t like the app because it shows Obama’s numbers trending down, said Jeremy Ross, even though his app just publishes publicly available data.
Read More → 

Category: Barack Obama, ipad 2, there's an app for that 

























RGA Ad: Earl Ray Tomblin and West Virginia Pays.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, August 31st at 9:00AM EDT					
1 Comment 


The RGA has a website (West Virginia Pays) and an ad up to get people… acquainted… with acting Governor Earl Ray Tomblin (D):

 
To refresh people’s memories: West Virginia – a coal-producing state that is almost stubbornly Democratic on the local level, despite the fact that the national Democratic party elite dreams of dismantling the coal industry – last year saw Democratic governor Joe Manchin transfer over to the US Senate.  This made state Senate President Tomblin – a man who has been a professional politician for almost my entire life; heck, he went directly from school to the legislature – acting Governor; there will be a special election in October of this year; his Republican opponent is businessman and engineer Bill Maloney.
Read More → 

Category: bill maloney, earl ray tomblin, special election, West Virginia 

























The Left: still quite unhinged about Dick Cheney.






						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Tuesday, August 30th at 4:00PM EDT					
50 Comments 


Former Vice President Dick Cheney…

You probably remember him.
…anyway, Darth Cheney has a book out today (“In My Time: A Personal and Political Memoir“): and the Left is acting – about as you’d expect, honestly (note that I’m including in that list  a bunch of people who are still trying to pretend that they’re not on  the Left, these days).  The shrieking is highly amusing, not least for the reason  that most of the poor schmucks doing it are fairly transparently trying  to avoid thinking about the fact that the current administration is more  or less doing a Cargo Cult imitation of Bush/Cheney/Rumsfeld/Rice’s  foreign policy.  Which is to say, if you look at it from a distance and  squint then it kind of looks like the previous administration’s  foreign policy… but get up close and you realize that it’s all bamboo  and palm fronds where steel should be.  Not to mention all the people  standing around and scratching their heads over why the magic spells  weren’t working.
Read More → 

Category: darth cheney, dick cheney, in my time 














« Previous Entries













Get Local

Colorado
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania



Select state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming





















			
            COMMENTS
            
							

								COMMENTS
							







Barbarians at the gates
by Paula


I would love to see Perry and Obama in a debate about SS
by bk


I thought Perry did very well considering his week and the wild fires.
by Danielle Davis (ocleverone)


I have never spoken or typed against Palin
by Matthew Morris


Maybe when obama discuss whether he really is a Muslem.
by bobojake


The mod's question
by Paula


Great Diary
by smitch61


I honestly think
by bk


Since you dug it up, rbdwiggins
by Neil Stevens


Gnite and good luck..
by Remington_Steele


JSob, agreed.  
by lineholder


I tired of the excuses frankly
by windwaker24


Welcome to RedState.
by Locked and Loaded


5..
by Remington_Steele


Maybe for their next debate they can
by mbecker908


Your only reason for being here seems to be to defame Erick.
by Locked and Loaded


Gonna have to in the general, might as well get 
by mbecker908


You're mistaken skponggol, Erick is not a conservative.
by mbecker908


Kowalski..
by Remington_Steele


Romney showed his true establishment colors tonight...
by californiagold


Time and a season for everything...
by Remington_Steele


Why do you say that, florida.
by gekster


That is the point of this diary
by Loren Heal


You've got to look for a replay and see Newt throw the hammer at the media,
by Locked and Loaded


windwaker24, it's good to have citizens
by lineholder


looks like the Obama Campaign
by florida772


Thanks!
by windwaker24


Then you must love Newt!
by IronDioPriest


I don't want them out yet.
by littlehouse18


I am a conservative.
by IronDioPriest


Perry needs to stress Peered Reviewed Science
by loganyung


I agree to a certain extent
by runner12


You wandered in and that's all you have to say?
by Locked and Loaded


Welcome aboard, windwalker24.
by acat


Perry
by RJD


One thing Michele Bachmann kept saying
by onemovoter


That's the problem, of course
by williamshipley


I saw it...
by windwaker24


Almost have to be a Tsar...
by acat


Join the club windwaker24
by runner12



























RECOMMENDED DIARIES
								
RECOMMENDED DIARIES








Yep, "Social Conservatives" need to Sit Down and Shut Up. Maybe "FiCon Moderates" have a Solution Here...
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						


A modest proposal regarding screen names
						by 
							civil truth
						


What the heck's up with Sarah Palin?
						by 
							azaeroprof
						


I am a Republican
						by 
							Loren Heal
						


What ColdWarrior would like to see at Redstate -- Bluntly
						by 
							ColdWarrior
						


The Lightning Rod
						by 
							lukematthews
						


Sick With Power:  What Ron Paul Really Thinks of Ronald Reagan
						by 
							jetpry
						


Palin...
						by 
							J. Leg
						


The Tragedy of Red State
						by 
							abierubin
						


For 224 years
						by 
							Raven
						

























REDHOT









                  Moe Lane: #rsrh Just out of curiosity: how many people reading this are a) expecting to see a Social Security check and b) below the age of 40? #notme



                  Moe Lane: #RSRH GOP CAMPAIGN OPERATIVES SCAN #reagandebate FEED. GET YOUR CANDIDATE TALKING ABOUT FAST & FURIOUS.  TRUST ME.
                  


                  Moe Lane: #RSRH WILL SOMEBODY MENTION FAST & FURIOUS IN THIS BLIPPING DEBATE? #reagandebate



                  Jake Walker: Yes, we do own the moral high ground. http://t.co/CRn67yF #tcot #rsrh



                  Daniel Horowitz: Rasmussen: 43% support offsets for disaster relief spending, 36% oppose #rsrh http://t.co/THG1onR



                  Steve Maley: MT @Mark_J_Perry: Drill, Drill, Drill Jobs Plan: +1.4 M New Jobs, $800 B Revenue, + Energy Security  http://t.co/BjVyvkz ][ #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: #rsrh Subtext of Boehner's waving off the right to rebut tomorrow's speech: the *GOP's* smart enough not to interfere with football.
                  


                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh QotD, EVERYBODY Hates The Greens Edition. http://t.co/bff6QpD



                  Caleb Howe: RT @cayankee: “If he said it, he must have meant it.” Clearly Abbas doesn't know Obama very well. goo.gl/NaktY #PalestinianState #tcot #RSRH



                  streiff RS: RT @cayankee: “If he said it, he must have meant it.” Clearly Abbas doesn't know Obama very well. goo.gl/NaktY #PalestinianState #tcot #RSRH























GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL
								
GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL












Delivered by FeedBurner






















MEMBER DIARIES
								
MEMBER DIARIES






Vetting by 4commonsense
A "Living Constitution" is Like an "Open Marriage" --and Just as Destructive. by conservativecurmudgeon
GOP Reagan Debate: Rapid Reax by dalders
Duncan Hunter on Businesses by alandlugash
Jay Carney's 'shuck-and-jive.' by Moe Lane
Palin... by J. Leg
Marsha Blackburn to Host Gibson Guitar CEO for Obama "Jobs" Speech by Blue_Collar_Muse
Rep. Marsha Blackburn Tn invites Gibson Guitar CEO to Obama speech by volunteerstate
Is Palin Disrespecting Republican Voters? by libertygirlusa
A Drinking Game for Tonight's GOP Debate by Myra Adams
Is Rick Perry really that Conservative?? by romney4prez
Dear Republican candidates, please plagiarize from Ted Cruz by SunshineStateSarah
Best Patriotic Song I've Ever Heard by irish067
Obama's Dirty Work by dalders
Call to Boycott the Speech. An Open Letter to President Obama - via - An Open Letter to Congress by jerry39
A Stimulus Plan That Would Not Cost A Dime by tsquare
The Dead End of Unionism Entitlements and Big Bro Gov by tomkinney
 by tomkinney
Nationalism Will Kill The Euro by Repair_Man_Jack
AIM: Rudy Giuliani Speaks Out Against 9/11 Political Correctness and Security Policy [Video] by accuracyinmedia
NBC'S CHUCK TODD WETS HIS PANTS AS OBAMA APPROVAL RATINGS HIT (ANOTHER) ALL-TIME LOW by The Rat
People like Karl Rove and [candidate's name]4prez  are the problem by atlasshrugs
German own goal using energy subsidies by jphamlore 
The Tragedy of Red State by abierubin
US plans for Palestine are clear as mud by bk
I am a Republican by Loren Heal
Union Belligerence on 'Labor' Day by Nikitas3
Jimmy Hoffa Jr. – Obama’s Your Enemy Not the Tea Party by littletboca
Obama job plan not likely to help by Bob Weeks
Mitt Romney's Plan: The Graphics are Boffo, but I can't get past Page One. by conservativecurmudgeon
California Is Infringing On Our Voting Rights by electionwatch
Sick With Power:  What Ron Paul Really Thinks of Ronald Reagan by jetpry
Should we pull the plug on COPS? by savejersey
Is the left totally losing it, over the tea party or is it just my imagination? by steve010
Hoffa and Obama - Birds of a Feather by cmndr45
LIFE IN THE (NOT SO GOLDEN) PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CALIFORNIA by The Rat
OBAMA & HOLDER – The Gunrunner Cover Up by littletboca
Romney vs Career Politician Perry by romney4prez
MSM Creates Narrative – Strives To Shape Outcome. by Skip MacLure
What the heck's up with Sarah Palin? by azaeroprof






















SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE
								
SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE







Front Page
Recommended Diaries
Member Diaries
Red Hot
Morning Briefing























RECENT JOBS
								
RECENT JOBS









View All Jobs


Post a Job



			Get your job site at SimplyHired.com


Jobs by Simply Hired














 RedState on Facebook











About
Contact
Contribute
Help




Eagle Publishing
Conservative Book Club
Conservative News, Books, & Views
Regnery Books



                Generated at: 04:14:56 am UTC                    © 2011 Redstate, Inc., 2008 Eagle Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved.
                Legal, Copyright, and Terms of Service.
        
















