Obama to reduce Iraq strength to 3,000, lose election… | RedState













About
Contribute
Contact
Advertise Here
Help




Conservative News, Books, & Views
Conservative Book Club
Regnery Books




RedState.com
                : Conservative Blog and News
                






















Hot Topics: Barack Obama
 • debt ceiling
 • Obama
 • 2012
 • politics
 • Rick Perry
 • Coffee and Markets
 • Morning Briefing
 



Recent Posts
Log In
Sign Up

















Obama to reduce Iraq strength to 3,000, lose election…















						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Tuesday, September 6th at 3:30PM EDT					
14 Comments 


…and set up the bank shot in 2016 for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, apparently:
The  Obama administration has decided to drop the number of U.S. troops in  Iraq at the end of the year down to 3,000, marking a major downgrade in  force strength, multiple sources familiar with the inner workings and  decisions on U.S. troop movements in Iraq told Fox News.
[snip]
This  shift is seen by various people as a cost-saving measure and a  political measure. The only administration official fighting for at  least 10,000 forces to stay in Iraq at the end of the year was Secretary  of State Hillary Clinton, sources said. But she has lost the battle.
No, I don’t actually think that this scenario is actually what’s unfolding: nobody in the administration’s brave enough to try it.  But, speaking cynically, this would work as a long term strategy.  Accept that the election’s lost, set up a  disaster for the Republican President to inherit and take the blame for,  and put the one brave truth-teller in position to come over in 2016 and  save the day.  It’s not optimal, but then it’s going to take a couple  of years for the Democrats to fix everything that Obama’s done to their  party.  They might as well sabotage things for the GOP in the meantime.
You know: if it were true, I’d almost be impressed at this play… except that the  only people that are more worried about this scenario than would be our  generals in the field are the Kurds (and, for that matter, the rest of  the Iraqis).  Which makes sense; after all, they’re the ones who will be  doing the bleeding.
Via @cayankee.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
PS: What’s probably actually happening is that they’re testing whether people will freak out over reducing troop strength, with said freaking out preferably happening over on the GOP side (and thus roiling our Presidential primary further).  Passive-aggressive nonsense like that is something that this administration does have the nerve for.




Sponsored Content





Category: Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Iraq 















RSS feed
14 Comments 

	Leave a comment














																					Why again to people think Obama is a political genius?						

victrola

								Tuesday, September 6th at 4:21PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Here’s the thing, we all know that this decision is about one think: helping Obama in his tough reelection bid.  It’s certainly not about what’s best for our armed forced, since our brilliant military strategist, Barack Obama Patton, overruled what our Generals’ advised.  So looking purely through the lens of reelection, how’s it going to look if Iraq is in a state of crisis and Baghdad is in flames with US troops in some sort of disgraceful Vietnam-style exit?
Even IF everything goes according to plan and the withdrawal is clean, he promised his left-wing base we’d be COMPLETELY out of Iraq 16 months after he was inaugurated, so he’s not exactly fulfilling a promise with this nonsense.
Most Americans perceive that both Iraq and Afghanistan were essentially “won” at the end of Bush’s term, since all the heavy lifting had been done.  If these parts of the Middle East are on fire while he’s trying to win a second term, you may see a 40 state GOP landslide.


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					At this point...						

afreemaniii

								Tuesday, September 6th at 4:51PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Obama has two choices to hope for re-election.
1. Come back to the middle and try to work with Republicans and gain support from the independents.
2. Go further left to appease his base and hope they carry the election for him.
This move would be in line with option number 2.  I don’t see that option winning him the election.  
The next six months are going to be interesting because it will be all about his campaign and trying to get re-elected not about leading the country into the future.


Log in to Reply 







																					If he goes with option 2						

easyb

								Tuesday, September 6th at 5:49PM EDT							

								(link)
							








…he might make his base happy, but he’ll lose the election.  Going further to the left will make it that much harder for him to nab the swing states.  Appeasing the deep blue states doesn’t help him get to 270.


Log in to Reply 




 




 





















																					afghanistan						

tecumsehtea

								Tuesday, September 6th at 4:53PM EDT							

								(link)
							








If Obama were to keep just one promise, this is the one I wish he would keep — bring our troops home from Afghanistan. Of course, he can’t keep any promises — just not in his nature. He doesn’t care one bit about our troops, or about winning any war other than the one he started with the American people.


Log in to Reply 







																					Obama won't let Iraq or Afghanistan collapse on his watch						

usdebateboard

								Tuesday, September 6th at 5:17PM EDT							

								(link)
							








much as his party tried to sabotage it in the previous administration.
Nope.  He’ll keep the both on life support while he guts their troop and funding commitments.


Log in to Reply 







																					That may not be under Obama's control at a certain point						

civil truth

								Tuesday, September 6th at 5:22PM EDT							

								(link)
							








His hubris may well be his undoing. Unfortunately, it’s our brave soldiers who will be the sacrificial lambs for Obama’s sins.
The greatest evil…is conceived and ordered (moved, seconded, carried, and minuted) in clean, carpeted, warmed, and well-lighted offices, by quiet men with white collars and cut fingernails and smooth-shaven cheeks who do not need to raise their voice. Hence, naturally enough, my symbol for Hell is something like the bureaucracy of a police state or the offices of a thoroughly nasty business concern.  -C.S. Lewis
http://www.gmsplace.com/



Log in to Reply 







																					Yes, much like McNamara before him.						

The_Gadfly

								Tuesday, September 6th at 6:02PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Pity The Big 0 has never learned anything from dead white guys, even the recently dead ones.
“Deep Dish.”
   -Herman Cain



Log in to Reply 




 




 




 







																					Obama never made that promise						

aesthete

								Tuesday, September 6th at 6:15PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Afghanistan was the “good war” that Booooosh took his eye off of to fight in Iraq, remember? In fact, he repeatedly promised a “civilian surge” in Afghanistan, attempting (and utterly failing) to replicate the surge in Iraq. That said, I sure wish someone was man enough to actually get us out of that hole — preferably a Republican, since it’s already assumed by most “non-partisan” observers that Republicans are the sort of heartless SOBs who would intentionally cause the humanitarian crises (note the plural) that will result when we leave.
“You can’t use tact with a Congressman! A Congressman is a hog! You must take a stick and hit him on the snout!” – Henry Brooks Adams



Log in to Reply 




 




 





















																					How weird.						

toothpick

								Tuesday, September 6th at 5:20PM EDT							

								(link)
							








A commander-in-chief initiates one war (Libya) and cancels another in-progress (Iraq) with barely a public peep. During the same time period he demands to address a joint session of Congress to rally the nation behind yet another spendulus boondoggle to build a few bridges, remodel some schools, and hire lots and lots of bureaucrats to make sure nobody actually gets hired in the private sector.
Remember the good old days, when Presidents would address the country to make the case for going to war, and work in the background on the legislative process to get their spending priorities enacted?
At this point all I can think is “WTF?” And by that I do NOT mean Winning The Future.


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					Leading out troops to slaughter. ( From behind )						

snowshooze

								Tuesday, September 6th at 5:29PM EDT							

								(link)
							








That is pretty much the outcome of the Obama re-election strategy as I see it.
  Anyone elected to be Commander in Chief of the Armed forces should at least be fit to lead.
 He isn’t even fit to serve.
 Anyone who places lives at risk solely for their own personal gain…
   I guess I really don’t need to elaborate.


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					I don't know, Moe...						

aesthete

								Tuesday, September 6th at 6:21PM EDT							

								(link)
							








OEF and OIF under Bush won’t exactly be going down in the history books as masterstrokes of military strategy, either — and Obama has more often than not followed the Boooooosh ruleset when it comes to the latter (which is proof of what we already knew of the anti-war movement’s rank hypocrisy). I certainly wouldn’t put it past this administration and his party to drop a humanitarian crisis on the laps of the next Republican president, but I do doubt that they would make it that obvious. I think your speculation is more or less right on: if Obama reduces troop levels in Iraq significantly for political gain, it will be closer to the election, IMO. This is just a feeler.
“You can’t use tact with a Congressman! A Congressman is a hog! You must take a stick and hit him on the snout!” – Henry Brooks Adams



Log in to Reply 




 





















																					Enough fooling around, time to lose a war.						

johnt 

								Tuesday, September 6th at 7:29PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Obama figures this could be his only term, though much depends on his use of force and fraud in ’12.  So he might as well get on with his one term program of defeat and pain now.
He will have the media and the rest of the insane supporting him.

“a man’s admiration for absolute government is proportinate to the contempt he feels for those around him”. Tocqueville



Log in to Reply 




 





















																					the ultimate Progressive bankshot						

pashley1411

								Tuesday, September 6th at 8:36PM EDT							

								(link)
							








with Obama not showing much concern for his “legacy”, I think people should be looking for the ultimate bankshot.    Congress isn’t going along with ushering in the Progressive utopia, and so can be disregarded.
So the post Nov-2 Obama, looking to the base, directs the Fed to buy-out the bonds of the busted-out blue states.   You know who they are.   The blue states are then bailed out to the tune of billions, and can restart the debt runup from  a new zero.  
The successor administration is stuck trying to unload billions of state bonds on the market.   And when the state can’t pay interest on their debt, well, its the same as the state unemployment funds “borrowing” from  the Federal government now.    Who has the guts to pull the plug on them?


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					What's truly maddening about this...						

rbdwiggins

								Tuesday, September 6th at 8:53PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Iran was surrounded… Until the same people who brought us Plamegate, also brought forth this garbage.
So much National Treasure lost…
“Well, the trouble with our liberal friends is not that they are ignorant, but that they know so much that isn’t so.” – Ronald Reagan



Log in to Reply 




 




















Leave a Comment





							Click here to cancel "reply".
						








												Comment title:
											








												Your thoughts:
												(smaller size
larger size)
											






 


												Be respectful, or be banned.  No Profanity.
											



 









 












«This is the current Texas wildfire situation.
Mitt Romney beclowns the Netroots on job growth.»











Get Local

Colorado
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania



Select state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming





















			
            COMMENTS
            
							

								COMMENTS
							







Barbarians at the gates
by Paula


I would love to see Perry and Obama in a debate about SS
by bk


I thought Perry did very well considering his week and the wild fires.
by Danielle Davis (ocleverone)


I have never spoken or typed against Palin
by Matthew Morris


Maybe when obama discuss whether he really is a Muslem.
by bobojake


The mod's question
by Paula


Great Diary
by smitch61


I honestly think
by bk


Since you dug it up, rbdwiggins
by Neil Stevens


Gnite and good luck..
by Remington_Steele


JSob, agreed.  
by lineholder


I tired of the excuses frankly
by windwaker24


Welcome to RedState.
by Locked and Loaded


5..
by Remington_Steele


Maybe for their next debate they can
by mbecker908


Your only reason for being here seems to be to defame Erick.
by Locked and Loaded


Gonna have to in the general, might as well get 
by mbecker908


You're mistaken skponggol, Erick is not a conservative.
by mbecker908


Kowalski..
by Remington_Steele


Romney showed his true establishment colors tonight...
by californiagold


Time and a season for everything...
by Remington_Steele


Why do you say that, florida.
by gekster


That is the point of this diary
by Loren Heal


You've got to look for a replay and see Newt throw the hammer at the media,
by Locked and Loaded


windwaker24, it's good to have citizens
by lineholder


looks like the Obama Campaign
by florida772


Thanks!
by windwaker24


Then you must love Newt!
by IronDioPriest


I don't want them out yet.
by littlehouse18


I am a conservative.
by IronDioPriest


Perry needs to stress Peered Reviewed Science
by loganyung


I agree to a certain extent
by runner12


You wandered in and that's all you have to say?
by Locked and Loaded


Welcome aboard, windwalker24.
by acat


Perry
by RJD


One thing Michele Bachmann kept saying
by onemovoter


That's the problem, of course
by williamshipley


I saw it...
by windwaker24


Almost have to be a Tsar...
by acat


Join the club windwaker24
by runner12



























RECOMMENDED DIARIES
								
RECOMMENDED DIARIES








Yep, "Social Conservatives" need to Sit Down and Shut Up. Maybe "FiCon Moderates" have a Solution Here...
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						


A modest proposal regarding screen names
						by 
							civil truth
						


I am a Republican
						by 
							Loren Heal
						


What the heck's up with Sarah Palin?
						by 
							azaeroprof
						


The Lightning Rod
						by 
							lukematthews
						


What ColdWarrior would like to see at Redstate -- Bluntly
						by 
							ColdWarrior
						


Sick With Power:  What Ron Paul Really Thinks of Ronald Reagan
						by 
							jetpry
						


Palin...
						by 
							J. Leg
						


For 224 years
						by 
							Raven
						


The Tragedy of Red State
						by 
							abierubin
						

























REDHOT









                  Moe Lane: #rsrh Just out of curiosity: how many people reading this are a) expecting to see a Social Security check and b) below the age of 40? #notme



                  Moe Lane: #RSRH GOP CAMPAIGN OPERATIVES SCAN #reagandebate FEED. GET YOUR CANDIDATE TALKING ABOUT FAST & FURIOUS.  TRUST ME.
                  


                  Moe Lane: #RSRH WILL SOMEBODY MENTION FAST & FURIOUS IN THIS BLIPPING DEBATE? #reagandebate



                  Jake Walker: Yes, we do own the moral high ground. http://t.co/CRn67yF #tcot #rsrh



                  Daniel Horowitz: Rasmussen: 43% support offsets for disaster relief spending, 36% oppose #rsrh http://t.co/THG1onR



                  Steve Maley: MT @Mark_J_Perry: Drill, Drill, Drill Jobs Plan: +1.4 M New Jobs, $800 B Revenue, + Energy Security  http://t.co/BjVyvkz ][ #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: #rsrh Subtext of Boehner's waving off the right to rebut tomorrow's speech: the *GOP's* smart enough not to interfere with football.
                  


                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh QotD, EVERYBODY Hates The Greens Edition. http://t.co/bff6QpD



                  Caleb Howe: RT @cayankee: “If he said it, he must have meant it.” Clearly Abbas doesn't know Obama very well. goo.gl/NaktY #PalestinianState #tcot #RSRH



                  streiff RS: RT @cayankee: “If he said it, he must have meant it.” Clearly Abbas doesn't know Obama very well. goo.gl/NaktY #PalestinianState #tcot #RSRH























GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL
								
GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL












Delivered by FeedBurner






















MEMBER DIARIES
								
MEMBER DIARIES






Vetting by 4commonsense
A "Living Constitution" is Like an "Open Marriage" --and Just as Destructive. by conservativecurmudgeon
GOP Reagan Debate: Rapid Reax by dalders
Duncan Hunter on Businesses by alandlugash
Jay Carney's 'shuck-and-jive.' by Moe Lane
Palin... by J. Leg
Marsha Blackburn to Host Gibson Guitar CEO for Obama "Jobs" Speech by Blue_Collar_Muse
Rep. Marsha Blackburn Tn invites Gibson Guitar CEO to Obama speech by volunteerstate
Is Palin Disrespecting Republican Voters? by libertygirlusa
A Drinking Game for Tonight's GOP Debate by Myra Adams
Is Rick Perry really that Conservative?? by romney4prez
Dear Republican candidates, please plagiarize from Ted Cruz by SunshineStateSarah
Best Patriotic Song I've Ever Heard by irish067
Obama's Dirty Work by dalders
Call to Boycott the Speech. An Open Letter to President Obama - via - An Open Letter to Congress by jerry39
A Stimulus Plan That Would Not Cost A Dime by tsquare
The Dead End of Unionism Entitlements and Big Bro Gov by tomkinney
 by tomkinney
Nationalism Will Kill The Euro by Repair_Man_Jack
AIM: Rudy Giuliani Speaks Out Against 9/11 Political Correctness and Security Policy [Video] by accuracyinmedia
NBC'S CHUCK TODD WETS HIS PANTS AS OBAMA APPROVAL RATINGS HIT (ANOTHER) ALL-TIME LOW by The Rat
People like Karl Rove and [candidate's name]4prez  are the problem by atlasshrugs
German own goal using energy subsidies by jphamlore 
The Tragedy of Red State by abierubin
US plans for Palestine are clear as mud by bk
I am a Republican by Loren Heal
Union Belligerence on 'Labor' Day by Nikitas3
Jimmy Hoffa Jr. – Obama’s Your Enemy Not the Tea Party by littletboca
Obama job plan not likely to help by Bob Weeks
Mitt Romney's Plan: The Graphics are Boffo, but I can't get past Page One. by conservativecurmudgeon
California Is Infringing On Our Voting Rights by electionwatch
Sick With Power:  What Ron Paul Really Thinks of Ronald Reagan by jetpry
Should we pull the plug on COPS? by savejersey
Is the left totally losing it, over the tea party or is it just my imagination? by steve010
Hoffa and Obama - Birds of a Feather by cmndr45
LIFE IN THE (NOT SO GOLDEN) PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CALIFORNIA by The Rat
OBAMA & HOLDER – The Gunrunner Cover Up by littletboca
Romney vs Career Politician Perry by romney4prez
MSM Creates Narrative – Strives To Shape Outcome. by Skip MacLure
What the heck's up with Sarah Palin? by azaeroprof






















SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE
								
SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE







Front Page
Recommended Diaries
Member Diaries
Red Hot
Morning Briefing























RECENT JOBS
								
RECENT JOBS









View All Jobs


Post a Job



			Get your job site at SimplyHired.com


Jobs by Simply Hired














 RedState on Facebook











About
Contact
Contribute
Help




Eagle Publishing
Conservative Book Club
Conservative News, Books, & Views
Regnery Books



                Generated at: 04:12:46 am UTC                    © 2011 Redstate, Inc., 2008 Eagle Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved.
                Legal, Copyright, and Terms of Service.
        
















