Welcome to Cypress Christian, an accredited K-12 private Christian school in northwest Houston, TX






 


 



Home
Calendar
Contact





K-12 Private Christian School in Houston, Texas


ABOUT CCS
ADMISSIONS
ELEMENTARY
SECONDARY
ATHLETICS
FINE ARTS
SUPPORT CCS
PARENTS











Elementary
The elementary grades provide a full range of academic coursework including science, mathematics, social studies, reading, language arts, and Bible.
Read More




Middle School
Middle school students follow a traditional schedule of eight  periods per day.  Required courses are Bible, English, reading, math,  history, science, physical education, and an elective.  Possible  electives may include art, choir, drama, Spanish, and computer.  Upper  level classes are also available for select, qualifying students.
Read More




High School
High school students follow a rigorous academic schedule. Whether their interests lie in the sciences, math,  literature, writing, foreign language, or the arts, there are many  options for high school students depending on the academic goals of the  student.
Read More





Biblical Worldview
Education at Cypress Christian School is approached from a biblical perspective that recognizes the sovereignty and authority of God. Prayer and Bible classes are a very important part of the daily schedule for students.
Read More




Mission
The mission of Cypress Christian School is to honor the Lord Jesus Christ by providing students an education based upon academic excellence and biblical values.
School Profile





Technology at CCS
Technology is a top priority at Cypress Christian with our goal to remain at the forefront of all that is new and improved in the world of technology.
Learn More





College Preparatory
CCS strives to prepare all students for college by providing challenging and enriched classroom instruction.
Learn More








Calendar & Quicklinks




September 13, 2011
Warrior Welcome

September 13, 2011

                  MS B Team Football 
              								at
              							Salem Trinity

September 13, 2011

                  JV Football 
              								at
              							St. Pius

September 13, 2011

                  Jv girls Volleyball 
              								at
              							Faith West

September 13, 2011

                  Varsity girls Volleyball 
              								at
              							Faith West*

September 15, 2011
Rep. from Palm Beach Atlantic University on Campus

September 15, 2011

                  MS A Team Football 
              								at
              							Salem Trinity

September 16, 2011
Parent-Teacher Conferences/Student Holiday

September 16, 2011 thru Sep 17, 2011

                  Jv girls Volleyball 
              								at
              							Living Stones Tournament

September 16, 2011

                  Varsity Football 
              								vs
            							SECOND BAPTIST

September 17, 2011

                  Ms girls a team Volleyball 
              								at
              							Concordia MS Tournament

September 17, 2011
Session Two - SAT Math Tutorial

September 19, 2011
John Brown University Representative

September 19, 2011

                  Ms girls b team Volleyball 
              								vs
            							SATCH


View All School Calendar | Subscribe

Quicklinks

Calendar 2011-2012 
    (Revised 6/11)
RenWeb ParentsWeb
Annual Fund

Banquet
Dress Code

Employment

Huff Learning Center

School Profile

Spirit Store
Volunteers in Partnership
Warrior Easy Funds
Yearbook

CONNECTION Magazine

The  CONNECTION is a professional, informative, and well-read publication. It illustrates how our private Christian school is shaping the lives of K-12 students and providing a vital service to families in northwest Houston. 

Click on picture above to view 40 page CONNECTION Magazine.
Click here to view previous issues of the CONNECTION Magazine.
Click here to sponsor the CONNECTION.
Click here to join our mailing list.

 




Prospective Students

Campus Tour

  

Click here to take a virtual tour of Cypress Christian School.

Directions to CCS 
Click here for google map with directions to CCS.
Admissions


Admissions Information
Admissions Applications
Join Our Mailing List
Schedule Campus Tour

Why Cypress Christian?
Why Christian Education?


Mission Statement
The mission of Cypress Christian School is to honor the Lord Jesus Christ by providing students an education based upon academic excellence and biblical values.
Vision
The vision of Cypress Christian School is to positively impact culture by promoting truth, advancing the Christian faith, and equipping students to serve and lead with excellence.
 
Media Galleries




Elementary Photos 2010-2011
View a collection of photos of elementary student activities.


Secondary Photos 2010-2011
View photos of secondary student activities.


Cypress Christian Video
Prospective families are invited to view this video to get a glimpse of our campus and learn more about the mission and goals of Cypress Christian.
View all | Subscribe





What's Happening






MS Volleyball Team Takes First Place
The girls fought hard and rallied to win the championship in two games.




Show Your Warrior Spirit
Show your school spirit by placing your order today for spirit wear, decals, and spirit buttons!




Sponsor CONNECTION Magazine
Deadline to sponsor the CCS Magazine is fast approaching!




Drama Presents Costumed Bible Character Monologues
Zacchaeus, Goliath, Moses, and several other familiar Bible characters were recently spotted in the elementary school hallways.




Library News
The CCS Libraries are open and busy with students, teachers, and parents enjoying the resources.




Alumni Monthly Newsletter - September 2011
CCS alumni are not only receiving undergraduate degrees but also pursuing their masters and PhD degrees.




College Reps on CCS Campus
College admissions counselors will visit with students during HS lunch times.




Rice, Duke, Pennsylvania, Emerson College Fairs in Houston
High school students have the opportunity to visit with Admissions Counselors from top colleges around the nation.




Duke University Talent Qualifiers
Congratulations to CCS 7th grade students who were recognized for their outstanding academic ability.




Varsity Volleyball Takes First in Silver
This is a great start to the season!  Help the Lady Warriors continue their success by coming out to the CCS gym to cheer them on this Tuesday, August 30.




View all
            
              | Subscribe









Testimonials | View all
" We chose Cypress Christian because we value the same biblical principles that will help to foster our child's growth and development.  We feel that developing critical thinking skills and learning how to incorporate God's Word into academic learning is very important."
– CCS Parents


We are accredited K-12 through the
Association of Christian Schools International.


 









CYPRESS CHRISTIAN SCHOOL
        11123 Cypress N. Houston Road | Houston, TX 77065
        Phone: 281.469.8829 | Fax: 281.469.6040



Find Cypress Christian School on Facebook


Follow Cypress Christian on Twitter





About CCS

School Profile
Leadership
Learning Center
Employment
Alumni



Admissions

Christian Ed.
Why CCS?
Information
Events/Tours
Inquiry



Elementary

News
Calendar
Fast Facts
Kindergarten
Achievements



Secondary

News
Calendar
Fast Facts
College Corner
Achievements



Athletics

Philosophy
General Info
Blog
Honors/Awards
Camps



Fine Arts

Fine Arts
Art Classes
Music Classes
Drama Classes



Support CCS

Giving Options
Annual Fund
Make a Donation
Ads/Sponsorhips
Donors



Parents

Resources
Dress Code
Volunteers
Society
Yearbook




 Sitemap | © 2010 Cypress Christian School. All rights reserved. powered by Campusuite




