Blogs.com



Blogs.com: The Best in Blogs
Subscribe to blogs.com - free!







Home
Business

Careers
Economics
Marketing/Small Business
Personal Finance


Entertainment

Celebrities
Gaming
Movies
Music
TV


News & Politics

2008 Election
U.S. News
U.S. Politics
World News


Life

Crafts & Hobbies
Fashion & Beauty
Food & Drink
Health & Fitness
Home & Garden
Parenting
Pets


Technology

Gadgets
Media
Mobile
Tech News
Web 2.0


Top 10 Lists





















From the Editors

News & Politics
Best in Blogs: 9/11, 9/11, 9/11 and Everything Else

Top Stories of the Week of Sept. 5 - 9, 2011
There's no getting around it. This is the week to remember 9/11, whether you're ready or not. The mass media is moving into 24/7 mode. Blogs are capturing the mood, on the 10th anniversary of the attacks, and compiling what the rest of the media is doing to mark the date. The Upshot has a rundown of what events the networks plan to telecast live this 9/11. THR has a more comprehensive one. In case you've set aside 3,000 hours to be frightened and angry all over again, The Internet Archive has collected "3,000 hours of international TV News [from 9/11/01 and following days] from 20 channels over 7 days, and select analysis by scholars." Google and the New York Times have launched the 9/11 Channel on YouTube, including archived broadcasts from September 2001 and content from the Times, PC Mag reports. Google and the Times also are "crowdsourcing personal stories ... contributors can answer questions like, "What is your strongest memory of 9/11?" or "How did 9/11 change you?" 
Continue Reading Story »

September  9, 2011No Comments







News & Politics
Where Were You on 9/11? 

In the days leading up to the 10th anniversary of September 11, bloggers and sites are already marking the date. The NY Times is joining with YouTube and the video-curation service Storyful to gather and share users' reflections on 9/11 and the meaning of the ten years that have passed since the attacks. "At approximately 8:46 a.m. on Sept. 11, 2001, American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center, setting in motion a chain of events that defined the decade that followed and changed the course of U.S. history," writes Poynter - with 10 iconic images from that fateful day and newspaper front pages from 2001 to 2011. Meanwhile, 9/11 Remembered on Yahoo tells the story of the photographer behind the heart-stopping "Falling Man" photo. 
Continue Reading Story »

August 30, 2011No Comments








by Blogs.com Editors


Guest Top Ten List

Life
Top 10 Stylish Home Design & Shelter Blogs

Ikea Hackers
Sure, you bought an Akurum wall cabinet from IKEA that thousands of others did—but this site shows you how to cut ventilation holes in it, install a fan, and turn it into an exceptionally good-looking router-and-phone-service hub. This blog has plenty of similarly accessible plans for customizing your off-the-shelf Scandinavian furniture.
Recent Posts: 1950's Bathroom revamp with Akurum • Postered Poang • Turning new tables into vintage farmhouse finds

Inhabitat
Green living through the lenses of architecture and engineering. Not so much about homes as they are but homes (and other structures) as they ought to be: lower impact, more efficient, more creative.
Recent Posts: Rhizotron and Xstrata’s Treetop Skybridge Soars Above London’s Kew Gardens • 13-Year-Old Makes Solar Power Breakthrough by Harnessing the Fibonacci Sequence • Space Pod Hotel Gives Galactic Tourists an Out of This World View

Remodelista daily
Whether you're just moving in or doing a remodel, this is a great idea book for all things home. Need a bar stool? Lights? Tables? Remodelista lets you shop by room, by category – or just gives you beautiful ideas to get inspired.
Recent Posts: Hotels, Lodging & Restaurants: Winery Tasting Room Roundup • DIY: Accordian Lamp by Manhattan Nest • Bath: New Soap Dishes from Izola

Retro Renovation
Mid-century Modern renovation and interiors, nicely geared toward doing things on a budget. 
Recent Posts: Ideas to address a big bow window with no panes that open for ventilation? • Taking the road less traveled — makes for Lots Better Stories • 95 colors of vintage pink tile — limited quantities, for replacements and repairs

DigsDigs
Ideas for building exteriors and interiors, with an emphasis on modern buildings. Also covers topics such as 17 cool teen-room ideas, 15 inspiration photos of living-room storage organization, and 13 luxury-bathroom design ideas.
Recent Posts: Hammock, Table And Swing Made Of Old Wine Barrels • Modern Scandinavian House In White And Pastel Shades • Space-Saving Solution To Grow Herbs In Your Garden

Freshome
World architecture that's modern—but interior design that's all over the map. Ranges from creating shelves whose pillars are children's wooden blocks to installing an iPad on your kitchen cabinets.
Recent Posts: Colorful and Provoking Two-Level Apartment in Madrid • Enhance Your Crib with Creatively Different Roller Blinds • An Interesting Architecture Approach: The Prospect House in San Diego

Kitchen Designer
How others are re-doing their kitchens, with a focus on what celebrities are doing with their cooking and eating spaces. Inspiration from remodels currently under way for Lance Armstrong, Oprah Winfrey and others.
Recent Posts: Thermador Pro Grand Steam Range • Modern Dining At Las Vegas World Market 2011 • Las Vegas Market - Dining Inspiration

Decoist
Modern architecture and interior design in the country and the city. Emphasizes lighting, furniture and superb photography.
Recent Posts: Beautiful Mountain House Blends in With the Landscape • Best Office Designs From Around the World • Sanctuary to Retreat To – Villas Suluwilo by Studio COA

Home Design Find
Ecologically friendly homes and interiors. Explores European "earth houses" that are partly buried for insulation; Australian homes made from salvaged materials; and how to make the best use of those tall ceilings (hint: don't fear the ladder).
Recent Posts: Stone Age House Showcases Ephemera of the Anthropocene Era • Here’s a Novel Green-Building Material: Water! • Ong & Ong Make a Cooled Singapore Beach House

Shelter
Architect Jack Barnes and wife and co-conspirator Stephanie write an accessible blog about home design and remodeling from their base in Portland, Oregon. Photos of Jack's works-in-progress highlight the idea that good architecture is doable. 
Recent Posts: house raising • Progress on Eastmoreland Addition • Rope.




« Previous
Next »













Recent Top 10 Lists

Top 10 Google Android Blogs



Top 10 Food Blogs for Foodies

The Food Section 
The Dog's Breakfast
Sassy Radish 
Everybody Likes Sandwiches
The Bitten Word 
Food52 
Matt Bites
Lottie + Doof
101 Cookbooks
Serious Eats


Tim Harford's Top 10 Undercover Economics Blogs

Stumbling and Mumbling
XKCD
Economic Principals
Economists’ Forum
Economix
Freakonomics
How to Make a Difference
Abu Muqawama
Bad Science
Marginal Revolution


Top 10 Secret Italy Blogs

Bell’Avventura
Salento Blog
Baroque Sicily
Becoming Italian Word By Word
Ms. Adventures in Italy
Living Venice
Umbria Lovers
The Espresso Break
Rubber Slippers in Italy
Over a Tuscan Stove


Top 10 Smart Film Review Blogs - and More

IFC.com - The Daily
The Auteurs Notebook
Che Underground
CommonDreams.org
Comingsoon.net
Film | Guardian.co.uk
Search and Destroy
Sight and Sound
IMDb
Rotten Tomatoes


Top 10 Blogs for Advancing Your Career

Gary Hamel's Management 2.0
StartupNation
The China Observer
All Things Workplace
Ben Casanocha
Business Pundit
Science blogs + Genetics
Marty Nemko 
Hit and Run
How to Change the World


10 Best Pop Culture Blogs

PopWatch
PopSense
Pop Candy
NPR: Pop Culture
ScienceDaily: Pop Culture News
PopHangover
PopWrap
Pet Rock: The Pop Culture Blog
Defamer
Vulture


Top 10 Home Improvement Blogs

Remodelaholic
Charles & Hudson
The Ugly Duckling House
Becoming Home
House in Progress
Door Sixteen
Curbly
Fine Homebuilding
Remodelista daily
Shelteriffic


10 Best Financial Blogs (for Riding Out the Storm)

Generation X Finance
Nouriel Roubini's Global EconoMonitor
Housing Doom
Consumerism Commentary
Free Money Finance
Get Rich Slowly
Seeking Alpha
I Will Teach You To Be Rich
My Money Blog
Greg Mankiw’s Blog


10 Best Independent Blogs About TV 

Tardis & Torchwood Treasures
The Medium is Not Enough
Inner Toob
FringeBloggers.com
ChuckTV.net
Dead Things on Sticks
Dollhouse at Whedonesque.com
Loving True Blood in Dallas
Basket of Kisses
Galactica Sitrep


Top 10 Family Craft Blogs

Moopy & Me
Kids Craft Weekly
Made by Joel
Makes and Takes
Ohdeedoh
Plum Pudding
Skip to My Lou
Soule Mama
The Crafty Crow
Loobylu


see all top ten lists



Get Blogs.com in Your Email

Get the free blogs.com newsletter, the best in blogs delivered to your inbox.







Blogs.com: The Best in Blogs


Business
Entertainment
News & Politics
Life
Technology


About Us
Advertise With Us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Feed


Subscribe to blogs.com - free!

Powered by Movable Type
Brought to you by SAY Media.
SAY Media Services: Blogs | Content Management  | Advertising
















