








Go to www.Elance.com

Earn Money by Sending Visitors to Elance

Earn up to $51 per customer
Get paid easily
It's free to join and participate

Apply now to the Elance Affiliate Program








How it Works


Sample Ads


FAQs


Who Uses Elance









Earn up to $51 per customer in three easy steps:


1. Register
Submit a short
online application



2. Promote
Add a link to Elance
on your website



3. Get Paid
Earn money when your
visitors sign up on Elance



Get paid when your visitors sign up as employers

Premium Job Posting – $50
Free Job Posting – $1
Free Job Poster adds a verified credit card – $50
Repeat Job Posting – $5

Get paid when your visitors sign up as job-seekers

Free Provider Membership – $1
Paid Provider Membership – $5

More details about our commission structure »





Once you join our Affiliate Program, you will have access to a wide range of marketing materials to help you promote Elance and earn money. Below are a few samples of what you can expect:


Banner Ads
 
See more sample banner ads »


Text Link Ads

Hire the Best Freelancers on Elance. Post Your Job Today.
Hire top Developers and Programmers on Elance.
Looking for work? Signup on Elance. Get Started Today.


Blog Articles

Best Practices for Outsourcing Online
Website Strategies for Entrepreneurs
Two Guys in a Garage Build a Business with Elance


Advertising Examples

Text Ad on a Small Business Website
Banner Ad on a Productivity Website










Q. How do I join the Elance Affiliate Program?

A.
Joining the Elance Affiliate program is free and easy. To become an Elance affiliate, simply complete and submit a short online application and we will be review it within two business days.

                           
                        
Q. How much does it cost to join?

A.
It's completely free to join and participate in the Elance Affiliate Program.

                           
                        
Q. How does the Elance Affiliate Program work?

A.
To become an Elance affiliate, first submit an application. Once your application is approved, you will have access to text links and banner ads that you can place on your website. When your website visitors click on any of those links, they will be redirected to Elance. If the traffic that you refer posts a job or signs up as a provider, you will receive money for introducing them to Elance!

                           
                        
Q. Does my site qualify for the program?

A.
It depends. We look for websites with high-quality original content with an audience that would be interested in what Elance has to offer. This includes websites for businesses, entrepreneurs, startups, professional skills like programming, design, writing or marketing, productivity, and/or employment. These sites are typically the most successful, but anyone is welcome to submit an application as long as the website does not promote illegal activities, pornography, or engage in any deceptive practices, spyware/malware or "cookie stuffing".

                           
                        
Q. How and when do I get paid?

A.
All affiliate payments are tracked and managed by Commission Junction. You have the option to choose from two payment options: check or direct deposit. Payments are made once an affiliate meets the minimum payment amount.  Please contact Commission Junction for more details regarding their payment policy.

                           
                        
Q. Who do I contact if I need help?

A.
If you have any questions, please contact us at .


                           
                        







Elance is the world's leading platform for online employment – used by both employers looking to hire and job-seekers looking for work.
Employers
For businesses looking to hire, Elance offers instant access to qualified professionals that work online. Employers use Elance to post jobs, search for freelancers, hire, and make payments.
Typical employers are:

Marketing, IT, Sales, Customer Service and Finance Managers who want to hire as needed
Entrepreneurial start-ups looking to launch innovative businesses without overhead
Small-to-medium businesses (SMB) who need to get work done without making a full-time hire

Job-Seekers
For skilled professionals looking for work, Elance offers access to qualified clients, a virtual workplace and guaranteed payment. Providers use Elance to find work, obtain new clients, get paid – all online.
Typical job-seekers are:

Freelancers, Work-at-Home Professionals, Contractors and Consulting Firms
IT and Web Programmers, Designers, Writers, Translators, Marketers, and more

Popular Jobs Posted on Elance

Web Development: PHP, HTML, CSS, WordPress, Javascript, AJAX, Flash, Joomla!
Mobile Application Development: iPhone, iPad, Android, Blackberry
Creative Development: Graphic Design, Logo Design, Website Design
Writing: Articles, Web Content, Blogs, Copywriting, Translation
Marketing: SEM, SEO, Lead Generation, Social Media, Telemarketing, Sales







« Previous Next »

 

About Elance
Elance, the world's leading platform for online employment, helps businesses hire and manage in the cloud.

For businesses looking to staff-up a team on an hourly or project basis, Elance offers instant access to qualified professionals who work online.

For skilled professionals who want to work online, Elance offers access to qualified clients, a virtual workplace and guaranteed payment for great work.

Contractors have already earned more than $351 million on the Elance platform.

Elance is located in Mountain View, California. Trusted since 1999.

Questions?
Contact us at .
 




Get Started » Apply now to the Elance Affiliate Program




As seen in:
 








© 1999-2011 Elance, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Elance is the registered service mark of Elance, Inc. U.S. Patent 7,069,242
 






 






