CNN.com - About Us















Click here to go to our U.S. or Arabic versions
			

Close 






CNN







SWITCH TO:
CNN U.S.
CNN ARABIC




Sign up
Log in















Home
Video
World
U.S.
Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
Business
World Sport
Entertainment
Tech
Travel
iReport




















ABOUT CNN.COM/INTERNATIONAL

CNN.COM/International:

The international edition of CNN.com is constantly updated to bring you the top news stories from around the world. It is produced by dedicated staff in London and Hong Kong, working with colleagues at CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and with bureaus worldwide. CNN.com relies heavily on CNN's global team of over 4,000 news professionals. CNN.com/International features the latest multimedia technologies, from live video streaming to audio packages to searchable archives of news features and background information. The site is updated continuously throughout the day.


CONTACT US:
Help us make your comments count. Use our viewer comment page to tell us what you think about our shows, our anchors, and our hot topics for the day.


HELP PAGE:

Visit our extensive FAQs for answers to all of your questions, from CNN TV programming to RSS to the CNN member center.


CNN:Back to top
WHAT'S ON:
Click here for the full rundown of all CNN daily programming.


WHO'S ON:
Click here for full bios on all of CNN's anchors, correspondents and executives.


PRESS OFFICE:
Click here for information from CNN International press offices.


CNN'S PARENT COMPANY:
Time Warner Inc. 

SERVICES:Back to top
YOUR E-MAIL ALERTS:

Your E-mail Alerts, is a free, personalized news alerting service created for you.


With CNN's service you can:
• Sign up for Your E-mail Alerts and follow the news that matters to you.
• Select key words and topics across the wide range of news and information on the site. 
• Create your own alerts.
• Customize your delivery options to fit your schedule and be alerted as a story is published on CNN.com. Receive your alerts daily or weekly.
• Easily manage your alerts. Edit, delete, suspend or re-activate them  at any time.

Register to be a member and begin customizing your e-mail alerts today!

CNN.COM PREFERENCES:
Personalize your CNN.com page experience today and receive breaking news in your e-mail inbox and on your cell phone, get your hometown weather on the home page and set your news edition to your world region.

CNN MOBILE:
CNN.com/international content is now available through your mobile phone. With CNN Mobile, you can read up-to-the-minute news stories with color photos, watch live, streaming video or the latest Video On Demand clips and receive CNN Breaking News text alerts. No matter where your on-the-go lifestyle takes you, CNN brings the news directly to you.


E-MAIL NEWSLETTERS:
Be the first to know with a variety of e-mail news services.  Receiving breaking news alerts, delivered straight to your e-mail address. Follow the latest news on politics, technology, health or the topics that interest you most. Or stay informed on what's coming up on your favorite CNN TV programs.

CNN offers e-mail updates as numerous and diverse as your tastes. Register now and select from the various e-mails.


ADVERTISE ON CNN.COM:
Advertise with us! Get information about advertising on the CNN Web sites.


BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT:
Companies interested in partnering with CNN should contact CNN Business Development by sending an e-mail to bizops@cnn.com.


JOB SEARCH:
Visit our web sites for information about internships or job opportunities with CNN International in Europe, Middle East, Africa and other regions

LEGAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS:Back to top

CNN INTERACTIVE SERVICE AGREEMENT:
View the terms of the CNN Interactive Services Agreement.

CNN COMMENT POLICY:
CNN encourages you to add comment to our discussions. You may not post any unlawful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic or other material that would violate the law. Please note that CNN makes reasonable efforts to review all comments prior to posting and CNN may edit comments for clarity or to keep out questionable or off-topic material. All comments should be relevant to the post and remain respectful of other authors and commenters. By submitting your comment, you hereby give CNN the right, but not the obligation, to post, air, edit, exhibit, telecast, cablecast, webcast, re-use, publish, reproduce, use, license, print, distribute or otherwise use your comment(s) and accompanying personal identifying information via all forms of media now known or hereafter devised, worldwide, in perpetuity. CNN Privacy Statement.

PRIVACY STATEMENT:
To better protect your privacy, we provide this notice explaining our online information practices and the choices you can make about the way your information is collected and used

CNN'S REPRINT AND COPYRIGHT INFORMATION: 
Copyrights and Copyright Agent. CNN respects the rights of all copyright holders and in this regard, CNN has adopted and implemented a policy that provides for the termination in appropriate circumstances of subscribers and account holders who infringe the rights of copyright holders. If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please provide CNN's Copyright Agent the following information required by the Online Copyright Infringement Liability Limitation Act of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. ¤ 512: 

• A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.

• Identification of the copyright work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site.

• Identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material.

• Information reasonably sufficient to permit us to contact the complaining party.

• A statement that the complaining party has a good-faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.

• A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.

CNN's Copyright Agent for notice of claims of copyright infringement on or regarding this site can be reached by sending an email to  copyrightagent@turner.com or writing to-


Copyright Agent
One CNN Center
Atlanta, GA 30303
Phone: (404) 878-2276
Fax: (404) 827-1995
Email:  copyrightagent@turner.com
For any questions or requests other than copyright issues, please view our extensive FAQs.


















Weather forecast













Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport
Tools & Widgets | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Radio | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN Expansion |  |  |  | 
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts


© 2010 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Advertising practices | Advertise with us | About us | Contact us | Help













