Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising








Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire










BASTROP, Texas (AP) — One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.

Raging with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said.
“Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good day — we hope,” Nichols said late Tuesday. “The reason why it hasn’t been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind.”



The blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit.
In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements’ two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames.
“We lost everything,” said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We Stand.”
“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year-old said.
Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” Perry said after the tour. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.



The disaster is blamed largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal Service delivered mail to burned homes where only mailboxes were left standing.
John Chapman’s home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a ’57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: “You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.”
“The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I’m not going to worry about it,” he said.
About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
“The first night, we had a child 17 months old,” she said. “We didn’t have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.”



Incoming search terms for the article:Bastrop County Texasgrimes county wildfire
No related posts.
	Tags: bastrop texas, calming winds, colonial home, elite search, fire on the line, firefighting crews, forest service spokesman, housing development, john nichols, light wind, metal roofing, picket fence, search team, spokesman john, state history, texas forest service, texas history, tropical storm lee, wildfire outbreaks, wildfires in texas
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 7 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News




Comment























Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers

 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedNew York Launches Recycling Program In Public SchoolsWaste Management Announces Plans for Clean-Burning Natural Gas for its Columbus Area FleetAustralia puts price on dying oceansBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy











Tag cloud


global warming
tropical storm lee
Recycling
epicenter
national hurricane center
ecofriendly
eco
carbon footprint
prnewswire
shopping
recycled materials
green
money
earth
mother earth
consumers
Eco-friendly
clothes
lifestyle
barack obama
earthquake
pr newswire
hurricane irene
reuters
organic cotton
saving energy
global warning
christmas
climate change
environment
Categories 
Alternative Energy (117)

Animals (65)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (158)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (84)

Eco Gadgets (87)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1093)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (425)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (26)

Fuel (9)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (127)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (70)

Lighting (27)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (68)

Press Releases (31)

Recycling (193)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (68)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Count per Day226345Total reads:1523Reads today:67846Total visitors:305Visitors today:7647Visitors per month:439Visitors per day:3Visitors currently online:Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterwood deckschangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




