lizardmarsh: Texas: Wildfire News & Resources





























































lizardmarsh: Alerts calling for USA rescuers &
others to help cats, dogs & other animals who 
need rescue, foster, transport, adoption 
or other protection. Rescue organizations, foster parents
& adopters are urgently needed in animal rescue.




















Pages


Home
Links
How To
Videos
Hurricane Irene
Texas fires


















































































Tuesday, September 6, 2011





Texas: Wildfire News & Resources






 DFW Animal Rescue 
 
 
  Texas Wildfire News & Resources  Posted: 06 Sep 2011 12:15 PM PDT  We're following developments in Central and East Texas closely and  gathering a list of resources on our Facebook page.  If you know of a  good online resource for pets (or livestock) and their people, please  post it in the comments below or directly on Facebook (if it's not  already).  If you or anyone you know lives in areas affected by these  fires, please share this list of resources with them and let them know  our thoughts are with them.   

DFW Animal Rescue on Facebook




Posted by
Liz Marshall


at
7:43 PM















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
Texas Wildfire News  Resources



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home































PayPal for Liz Marshall
















Twitter













Subscribe to lizardmarsh via email

Enter your email address:Delivered by FeedBurner











Click to view my ZAZZLE blog

Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner 






































Click to view my fundraising & shopping blog lizardmarsh mart

Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner 












Follow this blog











About Me








View my complete profile





























No Paws Left Behind, Inc. is heroic organization in the foreclosure crisis





Click once on logo to visit website of No Paws Left Behind, Inc., a 501c3 non-profit organization dedicated to bringing awareness to and finding solutions for the growing number of foreclosure pets











NYC: SOS! Click on text for continually updated list of ADOPTABLE CATS!


NYC: Petharbor.com shows Animal Control impounded these Adoptable Cats---all are urgent












Lancaster CA (Los Angeles County kill shelter): Rescuers needed! Click to view dogs in danger


Lancaster CA (Los Angeles County kill shelter): Stray or Found Dogs












Kill shelters in Los Angeles COUNTY, California-cats & kittens in imminent danger!!!





Adopt, rescue, foster, donate, crosspost! GORGEOUS FORLORN FELINE ORPHANS! This poor cat labeled A4236657 was at DOWNEY. Hundreds of kitties in Los Angeles County facilities are in danger. Double click on photo to see continually updated database.











San Bernardino County CA: Rescuers needed! Dogs, cats and more





Double click on image of SMOKEY A482675 who was at DEVORE facility in SB County to go to starting page for search of current impounds---all generally in serious danger of being put to death.











Orange County CA (kill shelter): HELP! Tons of Adoptable Cats! Tons of Adoptable Dogs!


Dogs (click on impound number to view)
Cats (click on impound number to view)












Los Angeles: Click for continually updated database of URGENT DOGS at Harbor Shelter


San Pedro CA: Los Angeles Animal Services' Harbor Shelter DOGS (impounds are always urgent)












Urgent in Louisiana (St. Martinville)

Gassing is done on Tuesdays and Fridays. PLEASE HELP-- rescue, adopt, crosspost, sponsor!  Beautiful cats' and dogs' lives are in danger. Please click here to view Petfinder list(click here---->) orphaned pets











Urgent in KENTUCKY

Click here to see how to help Kentucky cats and dogs urgently in need of rescuers











Winder GA: All cats and dogs are always urgent

http://www.barrowpets.net/











Newnan GA: Urgent dogs and cats need rescue NOW!

http://www.shelterrescueinc.org/











Griffin GA





Double click on photo for info











Griffin GA





Double click on photo for info











Dogs in Danger

 Click to share or Double click to see dogs in danger











My Blog List









***The GirlieGirl Army***












Animal Cruelty Case Updates












Animal Hoarding News & Info












Animal Law Blog












Animal Legal Defense Fund












Animal News & Info












Animal Rescue in Georgia












Animal Shelter Tips Blog












Basenji Rescue & Transport, Inc.












Because of Bentley












BlogPaws












Canadian Horse Defence Coalition












Canine Rescue Heros












CAT CHAT












Cocker Spaniels in Shelters












Cokie the Cat:  Hollywood Insider












Critters in Need Pet Rescue












FDMB Cats in Need












Flickr stream from the Hagars-Hope4Paws












For the Love of the Dog












Friends of Animals












Hearts to the Rescue












Houston Indie Dog Rescue












IDA Blog












NAPRP Blog












Nathan J Winograd












New Moon Rabbit Rescue












North Penn Puppy Mill Watch












Pets Alive Blog












Puppy mill rescue dogs












ReadLarryPowell.com












RescueGroups.org blogs












Sanctuary Tails












Saving Shelter Pets, Inc












Smiling Dog Farms












Straight from the Horse's Heart












Tangi Pets In Need












the rescue report












The Shelter Stroll












This Dish Is Veg












Tripawds












UGA Law Student Animal Legal Defense Fund Chapter












Vegan Activist












VIPpetsnpeople



















Animal Graphics



























































wibiya widget

Web Toolbar by Wibiya


















Picture Window template. Template images by mammuth. Powered by Blogger.































