TECH NEWS - powered by FeedBurner
&



TECH NEWS

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get TECH NEWS delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



The most dangerous tech products


Posted: 2011-09-13 03:40:13 UTC+01:00
  By Robert E. Calem, Techlicious.com The electronic products in our homes enhance our lives in countless ways. But these devices can also be among the most dangerous products we have — putting some of us, especially young children and the elderly, at risk of serious injury or even death. The risks run from flat-panel TVs that topple onto toddlers, to button-sized batteries that become poisonous pills. Yet avoiding these hazards could be as simple as taking a few precautionary measures. Here's what you should know and do, before it's too late: No. 5 — Baby monitors: Mind the cords Stat: Seven deaths since 2002 By definition, a baby monitor must be placed near a crib, but this raises the risk of strangulation for the child, who may be tempted to play with the device's cord if it’s within reach. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has noted at least seven infants and toddlers who have been strangled by baby monitor cords and three infants and toddlers who have nearly been strangled since 2002, with the youngest victims being six months old. Make sure your baby monitor is placed so that the cord is more than arm's-length away from the child — ideally, at least three feet away. Also, it's not just baby monitors that present this strangulation danger. Movement-monitor sensor cords also should be kept taut and not dangling, the CPSC warns. No. 4 — Button cell batteries: Potential poison pills Stat: 3,500 injuries, nine deaths since 1985 The small coin-sized button cell batteries commonly used in remote controls, garage door openers, key fobs, light-up shoes, flashing jewelry, digital ear thermometers and bathroom scales are surprisingly dangerous. According to the National Capital Poison Center in Washington, D.C., since 1985 more than 60,000 people swallowed miniature disc or “button” batteries, resulting in more than 3,500 injuries and nine deaths, most of them children under 6 years old. The batteries can get stuck in children’s throats where they can cause severe chemical burns. The effect starts within minutes of ingesting the battery and within two hours can burn a hole through the esophagus where it's lodged, says Dr. Toby Litovitz, executive and medical director of the poison center. Parents should be careful not to leave a "dead" button battery within a child's reach when putting a new battery in a device. Even a dead battery still has enough of a residual charge to cause the same sort of burn, Litovitz explains. The batteries that posed the greatest risk are labeled CR 2032, CR 2025 and CR 2016, or BR 2032, BR 2025 and BR 2016, she adds. No. 3 — Shredders: The home office is no place for kids Stat: 2,700 injuries in 2010 Paper shredders don’t just pose a threat to sensitive documents. In 2010, the Consumer Product Safety Commission estimated that there were 2,700 emergency room visits involving patients of all ages because of incidents with paper shredders. The reasons for these visits can vary, ranging from entrapping a finger, to the paper shredder falling over and causing a foot injury. So keep kids and pets away from the home office and its paper shredder. No. 2 — Flat-panel TVs: Bolt down or hang up Stat: 18,000 injuries a year, one child death every two weeks According to the CPSC, on average one child dies every two weeks when a TV, piece of furniture or appliance falls on him, and each year on average, more than 18,000 children ages 8 and younger are injured in this same way. "Parents think about gates to prevent falls down the stairs, about safety in the kitchen to keep kids away from stoves, but there can be that hidden hazard: the TV and that old piece of furniture that you have it sitting on," CPSC spokesman Scott Wolfson says. He adds that even bulky, old-fashioned TVs can be unstable if they're perched on a bookshelf or a too-small stand. Babyproofing your home theater by mounting the TV on the wall, or securing it to furniture which is also bolted to the wall or to the floor prevents these accidents. No. 1 — Cellphones: The biggest killer Stat: 995 deaths in 2009 There are three main types of distraction: visual, which takes your eyes off the road; manual, which takes your hands off the steering wheel; and cognitive, which takes your thoughts away from the primary task of driving. Unfortunately, texting on a cellphone combines all three forms of distraction, making it especially dangerous while driving. But that hasn't stopped drivers from doing it. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, in 2009, cellphones were a factor in 18 percent of distracted driving fatalities, leading to 995 deaths. For drivers, there are hands-free technologies, such as Bluetooth speakerphones built into cars andBluetooth headsets. Even these aren’t much help, though. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety found that using a cellphone while driving — handheld or hands-free — slows a driver’s reaction time to the same speed as a person with a blood alcohol content level of .08 percent, the level at which drivers are legally considered impaired. Apps that prevent cellphone use while driving are better options. And the danger is not limited to drive time, texting while walking also is hazardous, and not uncommon. There is some hope for those walking-while-texting culprits, though: A variety of apps for the iPhone and iPad 2 use the devices' back-facing cameras to create a live-action background for messaging functions, allowing users to keep an eye on where they’re going even as they type e-mails, text or chat . The selection includes iType2Go Pro (iOS $1.99), Type n Walk (iOS $0.99, Android free), Text Vision (iOS $0.99), Type n View (iPad free), Type n Go Pro (Android $0.99), Chat & Walk for Facebook (iOS $1.99) and Type n Step HD (iPad $0.99). From digitallife.today.com 
          






TECH NEWS SEO Lesson 2: Let's Optimize Our Webpage


Posted: 2011-09-12 06:12:17 UTC+01:00
Last week, we learnt about the SEO Lesson 1: Optimize The Wrong Keywords And You'll Likely Never See Results. I hope that can help you. Today we continue with the second lesson: "How Changing One Single Onpage Optimization Factor Can Boost Your Rankings By Over 350 Positions!” by Brad Callen too.  Ok, so now we've selected our main 3 keywords:  l weight loss story       l weight loss picture       l safe weight loss   Notice that all of the keywords contain the word "weight loss". This will make things easier for us when we begin to optimize our offpage ranking factors which you'll learn about later.  Let's Optimize Our Webpage ...  The first thing we need to do is select a page Title for our website.  The page title should:  Include ONLY our main keywords. The least amount of words you can place in the title, the more weight. Google will give to each of the keywords and the higher you will rank.  When creating your page title, it should not look like this:   - Welcome to our website!  It should not even look like this, which does containg our main keywords, but contains an unnecessary number of words:        - weight loss story and weight loss picture and safe weight loss  Although that title isn't horrible and does contain all of your main keywords, you should do a couple of things to cut down on words used.  This would be a perfect title for your webpage:       - Weight Loss Story / Safe Weight Loss Picture        Notice that I've:  - Taken out all of the "ands" - Replaced one of the "ands" with a "|" character       - Combined the keywords "Safe Weight Loss" with "Weight Loss Picture" - Always Combine Your Keyword When Possible to cut down on the total number of words that are in your title!  Always Combine Your Keywords In The Page Title!  When Google looks at our title it will see all 3 of our keywords only. Combining keywords to cut down on the total number of keywords displayed in the title is a great way to boost the strength of each individual keyword, which will have an immediate impact on your ranking.  Add <h1> header tags    Next we'll need to add 1 <h1> header tag and place our most important keyword there.  The <h1> header tag should be as far towards the top of the page as possible. When Google reads a webpage, it views the text from the top left hand side of the page to the bottom right hand side of the page.  So, it's best to place your <h1> header tag on the top left hand or top/middle portion of your page. You can think of an <h1> header tag as a title for whatever content you have on your page.  For example, the <h1> header tag of this lesson would be:  These could be possible keywords we should target to begin with. Once we have our list of 3 to 4 keywords, we need to go to Google and check out the competition to see exactly how hard it will be to optimize for the       specified keyword.  "How changing 1 onpage optimization factor can boost your rankings by        over 350 positions!"  ... and the html code would look like this <h1>"How changing 1 onpage optimization factor can boost your rankings by over 350 positions!"</h1>  Of course, I would have changed my lesson title to contain my main keyword if I was actually trying to optimize this page for Google. Also, if possible, it's ideal if you can include ONLY your main keyword within the h1 header tags. <h1>Weight Loss Story</h1> would be perfect.  Add <h2> header tags  Next, we'll need to create an <h2> header tag. This can be thought of as a sub heading for our webpage.  You should place your 2nd most important keyword in the <h2> header tag. The <h2> tag should be placed somewhere towards the top half of your webpage.  A good <h2> header tag for our example would be:  l <h2>safe weight loss<h2> (Usually it's best to place your primary keyword in your <h1> tags and your secondary keyword into the <h2> tags.  After we've done this, we need to actually create the content for our webpage. When writing the content, try to evenly sprinkle your main keywords throughout the copy. Don't overdo it though.  Try to mention each keyword in a natural way as you are writing, but be sure to include at least one of the keywords per 1-2 paragraphs, depending on how large your page is.  Tip: Make sure to mention your main keyword at the very top left and the very bottom right hand side of the webpage. A trick I like to use is to include this in the copyright information line at the bottom of the website.        For our example, this would be a good example:  © 2011 Copyright www.domain.com a weight loss story  Notice that it flows and doesn't really look too strange.  Bolding, italicizing and underlining ...  Once we've finished writing the copy, we should go through and bold, underline, or italicize some of the keywords only 1 time each, maximum. Only do 1 per keyword or it will hurt you more than it helps.  Properly include <alt> image tags ...  Next, click on the very top image of your webpage (This is usually your website's header graphic) and include an <alt> image tag using the text "weight loss story header" if you're adding this alt text to your website header graphic. Click on 2 more graphics throughout your webpage and enter your other 2 keywords, plus an extra word like "graphic" or "image"... For example, we would use "weight loss picture graphic" and "safe weight loss image". This ensures that Google won't view this as spam.  Force Google To Read Your Keywords First!  Now, remember I stated above that Google views your webpage from top left, to bottom right? Well, in general they do. But because most websites contain a left hand column which contains all of their navigation links...  Google WILL View all of the text in the left hand column Before The Body of the webpage.  How can you get around this? I've come up with a neat little trick that will ensure that Google reads the actual body of your webpage before the left hand column containing your navigational links.  Here is what you need to do:  Rather than creating a table that looks like this:     navigational links You body text...     You should create a table that looks like this:             navigational links   You body text...     By doing this, Google will read the top left hand row/column first... BUT will see that it is empty, so it will then read the body of your webpage and then read the 2nd left hand row/column which contains your navigational links! :-)  That's all there is to it!  In summary, I really want to point out the fact that, although good onpage optimization is something you'll really want to do, it is NOT how you make dramatic changes in your search engine ranking!  This is one of the biggest misconceptions in the search engine world. Many believe that by getting your keyword density just right, or by moving your keywords around on the page in just the right places, you'll really move up in the search engines.  That is not the case at all. It is the offpage optimization factors that will get you high rankings. I will teach you exactly what offpage optimization factors are, AND how to make sure you optimize these factors perfectly for Google!  Next lesson will be a doozy... It's titled:  "The Secret To Getting Listed In Google In 24 Hours!"  You can download the PDF file of Lesson 2 here.    
          






Lovely video: Dad And Daughter sing together


Posted: 2011-09-11 08:22:15 UTC+01:00

11pm, Jorge Narvaez single  father with his daughter asleep singing “Home” by Edward Sharpe & The  Magnetic Zeros, attracting over 2 millions views after just 10 days. Many  netizens believe this will become “The cutest song 2011”.
 I think if this video has a vote, I  will vote for this.  The Dad and his daughter were so cute.

          






Can Windows 8 save the PC?


Posted: 2011-09-11 05:29:52 UTC+01:00
By Mark Spoonauer Last weekend I accompanied my 20-something sister-in-law to a Best Buy to purchase an iPad 2. She previously considered buying a Windows laptop, but as it turns out Apple’s tablet does everything that she needs. And that’s a pretty scary thing for the PC industry. Cash-strapped consumers aren’t choosing tablets merely as complementary devices. Increasingly, it’s an either/or decision — and Windows is losing.  At its upcoming BUILD conference, Microsoft will try to convince me and others in attendance that the upcoming Windows 8 operating system will deliver “the best of both worlds” by combining a touch-friendly front end with the power of a traditional PC. But what happens when shoppers view the latter ingredient as dead weight? (Msnbc.com is a Microsoft-NBC Universal joint venture.) This week Gartner reduced its PC shipment growth forecast from 9.3 to 3.8 percent, placing the blame on economic woes in Western Europe and the U.S. There’s another culprit though: the rise of tablets. According to Ranjit Atwal, research director at Gartner, those in Generation Y (like my sister-in-law) “are not buying PCs as their first, or necessarily main, device.” He also said that older buyers don’t see today’s PCs as compelling. Microsoft apparently got the same memo, as evidenced by its recent commercials that transform people’s homes into computer stores. This marketing campaign is just a stop-gap measure. The real solution won’t arrive until this time next year when the first Windows 8 devices hit the market. One of those devices will likely be a tablet made by Samsung, which Microsoft will reportedly unveil at BUILD next week. At CES in January we got a hands-on preview of Samsung’s Sliding Series 7, a Windows 7 tablet with a slide-out keyboard. However, this device never made it to market. We would have shelved the product, too. Windows 8 promises to be much more touch-friendly, with a Live Tile interface that’s similar to Windows Phone 7 and full-screen apps powered by HTML 5. So perhaps Samsung’s slider will be reborn. That’s part of the best-of-both-worlds argument that Microsoft and its partners will try to make with Windows 8. You’ll see pure slate devices sold but also many tablets that let you access a full keyboard when you need it, such as the Sliding Series 7 and the Eee Pad Transformer. I personally would appreciate that kind of versatility, so long as I don’t have to compromise much in the way of portability. It looks like Windows 8 devices will deliver the best of both worlds in another way. During a roundtable discussion earlier this week, Nvidia CEO Jen-Hsun Huang told reporters that the OS should be able to run Windows Phone 7 apps. This move makes perfect sense — assuming the apps scale well to larger displays — and it could encourage more developers to dedicate more resources to both of Microsoft’s platforms. Windows 8 PCs won’t just run mobile apps. They’ll act like mobile devices. That’s because Microsoft says that it has found a way to boot machines to the OS in just 8 seconds. A new fast startup mode that’s a hybrid of the traditional cold boot and resuming from hibernate will be able to get you to the Metro UI faster than you can say “This is a PC?” The toughest challenge for Microsoft is to prove to shoppers that having full-blown Windows running underneath a sleek interface isn’t a turn-off. For many consumers — especially those who have fled to Macs—Windows has become synonymous with incessant software updates, security headaches and needless complexity. Some of these reasons led to Apple’s Lion beating Windows 7 in our recent face-off. Can Microsoft make the rest of Windows 8 just as inviting as that start screen? So far, some of the tweaks under the hood have spurred controversy. Last week, Windows President Steven Sinofsky defended the decision to opt for a Ribbon-style interface for Windows Explorer. This UI treatment, which presents multiple options along the top of the toolbar, resulted in a backlash a few years ago when it debuted on Microsoft Office. In a blog post, Sinofsky countered by saying that users should think of the desktop as just another app. While writing this column on a Windows laptop, I had to reboot because my machine froze. This reinforced my strong belief that Microsoft’s ability to keep the PC alive doesn’t depend on the company’s ability to wow with touch or compelling apps. It comes down to whether Microsoft can convince consumers that they can continue to enjoy the PC’s versatility without the traditional PC baggage. That they made the right call in scaling down their desktop OS instead of starting from scratch like Apple did with iOS and the iPad. There’s a fine line between the best of both worlds and a world of hurt. Editor-in-chief Mark Spoonauer directs Laptop’s online and print editorial content and has been covering mobile and wireless technology for over a decade. You can follow his SpoonFed column each week or on Twitter. From Technoblog.msnbc.msn.com 
          






Newbie: Some Blogs I think you should read


Posted: 2011-09-11 06:36:33 UTC+01:00
I just started my blog in June, 2011. Later I found and read many blogs, especially the blogs which are similiar mine. So I recognized that this world was so larger than I think of. There are many people who is really smart and I have to study from them more and more. 
If you are a newbie like me, I think you should  read some blogs, in my opinion, which will help you so much in blogging. They will show you the way how to become the professional blogger.  And here are some of them:
1. JohnChow.Com:
This is the blog which I advise you should read first. The author of it is John Chow, one of the most famous blogger in the world, who earns thousands of dollars a month by blogging. The famous sentence of him is: “I make money online by telling people how I make money online!” 
“John Chow, a damn fine person, friend of the community, Ultimate Fighting Championship contestant, member of the Save the Whales Foundation, the man who controls the black market on baby seal pelts and member of the “probably yo’ daddy” foundation.
Master of The TechZone and TTZ Media Network. Creator of some of the fastest computers the world have ever seen.
Consider yourself blessed to be reading his blog.
The above is a joke. Please don’t take it seriously. If you’re looking for a little more information about John Chow, go here.”

When you read his blog, you will study a lot from his articles. Especially, he will give some gifts. That are some ebooks, which are so useful for bloggers who want to make money online by blogging like him: “Make Money Online”, “Ultimate Blog Profit Model”, “The Secrects to Getting Blog Comments”…. You can download these ebooks for free after subscribed by email. 
Maybe you havent’t done like him yet, but at least this blog can make you full fill feelings!
2. Daily Blog Tips:
I read some blogs, but the articles of this blog made me really like. You can see some useful articles for newbie here, example: “8 Lessons Learned Growing a Site to One Million Monthly Page Views”, “12 Steps to Launch a Successful Blog”, “Top 25 SEO Blogs”…

Author of this blog is Daniel Soco, the man who lived and studied in several places around the world, including Italy, Chile and Brazil.
He started developing blogs and websites in 2005, and Daily Blog Tips is the place where he shares what he learned along the way. The blog was nominated under the “Best Web Development Blog” category in the 2007 Weblog Awards, and currently it is ranked among the 500 most popular blogs in the world (according to Technorati) and among the 100 most popular marketing blogs in the world (according to AdvertisingAge).

Daniel has also provided consulting services for many companies and organizations (including the United States federal government), and he is the owner of Daily Writing Tips, a blog focused on grammar, punctuation and spelling tips.
3. Blog Tips World:
This is the frist blog I know when begin blogging. I really study from this blog so much. Blog Tips World is the place you can find some things which is easy to understand and can be applied. The last article of this blog is “5 things you should know about qualities of a successful blogger”. This is show you what qualities did you need to become a successful blogger, and help you avoid the mistakes when begin your blogging. 

You can read some similiar articles: “The mistakes that newbie Bloggersshould avoid on blogging way”, “5 blogging tips to make your blog much better”…
Author of this Blog is Rayan, the man who living in Australia. He is a baker and also blogging and make money online about 1500 dollars per month from Google Adsense. 
Ryan works so hard in blogging. I can read at least 2-3 posts per week on Blog Tips World. And he is one of the reasons I decide to write this post.
4. More and more… and maybe is YOUAs I said, there are many smart and really good people in our world. I just show a small piece of the huge cake. There are still many bloggers whom you must learning from. 
Try, try and try. One day, I think your blog, the blog of the newbie, can become the blog which every body have to say: “That’s the interesting blog and should to read it!”
Good luck all, my buddies!

          






Windows 8 boots super fast, says Microsoft


Posted: 2011-09-11 05:42:46 UTC+01:00
By Wilson Rothman One of the most obsessed over features of Windows is its boot time, according to Windows chief Steven Sinofsky. As such, he says in a blog post, Windows 8 will boot so fast it will make the relatively spry Windows 7 seem Vista sluggish. According to Sinofsky's post in the Building Windows 8 blog, the way Windows 8 achieves such super-fast booting is that it doesn't quite shut down in the traditional sense. Instead, it uses a fast boot that's a hybrid of "cold" booting and hibernating. Green minds should rest assured that there's "effectively zero watt power draw when off," while those who like the clean start of a real boot up can look forward to a "fresh session after boot." In addition to rethinking the software process itself, the Windows team was able to speed up boot time by making better use of multi-core processors found in most of today's computers. Here's the Windows Team's visual comparison between a cold boot and a new hybrid fast start:  There's a more thorough explanation on the Sinofsky post, if you're curious about each step. The results are vivid, as you can see in Microsoft's chart. For many machines, Windows 8 boots are under 20 seconds, while the Windows 7 equivalent machines take significantly longer:  The need for fast boot times is crucial, because so many people still regularly boot and restart their machines. According to the Building Windows 8 blog post, 57 percent of desktop PC users and 45 percent of laptop users still shut down their machines instead of putting them to sleep. But Sinofsky is also quick to point out that in the new era, booting and restarting ought to be performed less and less frequently:  We designed Windows 8 so that you shouldn't have to boot all that often (and we are always going to work on reducing the number of required restarts due to patching running code). But when you do boot we want it to be as fast as possible.  Now that's what we want to hear. Stay tuned for more Windows news to roll out over the course of the next week, as Microsoft runs its BUILD developers conference. Catch up with Wilson on Twitter at @wjrothman, or on Google+. And joinour conversation on Facebook.  From Technoblog.msnbc.msn.com 
          






September, 11: The day we will never forget ...


Posted: 2011-09-09 17:42:26 UTC+01:00
There are so many things went through in our lives, but there are some events that we can not forget ..

What do you think about that day? I can not think of anything other than profound sympathy to those who have permanently left in it ...

I wandered through several pages, blogs. These days they are posted back to what happened in that terrible event. We all feel pity and sorrow for the loss which America has suffered. 

I’m not good at English, but also wanted to share my whole heart to those who have permanently left, of the loss which America has suffered. I’ll let the American flag on my blog, like to express my deep sympathy.

God bless for them, people were forever gone.
          






Why Most Online Businesses Fail


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:51:03 UTC+01:00
The Business Failure Curve The failure curve for small business has been rather predictible. In fact, in a NYT article Scott Shane compared the survival curves from 1977-1988 & 1989-2000. They roughly mirrored each other! Less than 1/2 of small businesses live to see the age of 5. But the cost of failure has dropped as technology & communications costs have dropped to almost nothing. Starting a web business is virtually free!   Registering a new domains only costs $8.    Starter hosting can be had for a few Dollars a month.    Wordpress is free to install on your server.    99designs allows you to pick a logo for as little as $99.    ThemeForest lets you pick premium themes for as little as $20, and there are thousands of free themes to chose from as well.   All these deflationary pressures that lower risk & the need for start up capital should make it easier to be successful, right? Not in my opinion. Because it is easier to start it is also easier to fail. There is more competition today than ever. And tomorrow will be more competitive than today is. If an updated curve appears from, say, 2005-2016 my guess would be that the failure rate is even higher. Why? Online we are moving away from the economics of scarcity to the economics of abundance. It means it is easier to start a business at lower cost. Which lowers the perceived risk. But distractions are plentyful. And one thing is scarce online. Growing scarcer daily. Attention. Competition There are no public stats on how many SEOs are millionaires, but if you asked me to guess I would put the number in the thousands rather than the 100s. And some of the ones that are quite profitable heavily reinvest in growth. If you are starting out today you are behind them in terms of:   rankings    data    capital & cash flow    experience    relationships    network effects    etc.   Every day you sit on the sidelines is another day the leaders have to accumulate resources. Worse yet the sea of competition grows daily. This website has over 500,000 registered users. If this website was a city, it would be one of the 50 largest cities in the United States. Amongst this sea of competition, the biggest risk you have when starting a new website is not some new Google penalty, but rather perpetual obscurity. In the search game the top few win the spoils.  There isn't much difference between page 3 and page 300: both are effectively invisible. Dumb Luck / Accidental Success My first profitable website was one where I was too clever (and perhaps too stupid?) for my own good. In early 2003 I registered the domain name 1emallway.com. It was supposed to be a clever spin on being a street address and an online address. It was also intentionally broad because being naive and greedy I thought I could make money using affiliate links for "everything." ;) I thought I was brillant and original. But, as it turns out, I was 0 for 2. The only reason that site ever made any mone was because a.) I was a bad speller & b.) the search engines were not very sophisticated about correcting spelling errors. I misspelled the name of an online casino and was one of only a few webmasters who had done so, landing me numerous multi-thousand Dollar checks for being fairly incompetent. Today search engines are *much* better at correcting misspellings. Google also promotes sending users on a guided path with their Google Instant, which tries to complete your search query for you. Further, gambling is a much more saturated market & online gambling is now illegal in the United States. Failure vs Learning Lessons Only through gaining experience do you learn humility & to accept how little you know. And that keeps you learning. That 1emallway wasn't anything with lasting potential, but I kept learning. Later on in 2003 I went to an SEO conference and heard the term "search marketing" and it was promoted as being what was going to become "the" phrase for our young industry. So I registered searchmarketing.info and search-marketing.info. Unaware of branding (or that the .info domain extension would soon largely become associated with spam due to years of 99 cent registration specials) I chose the hyphenated domain over the non-hyphenated domain. As if that wasn't bad enough, I chose RegisterFly as my domain registrar. They later became famous for charging you for renewing your domain names without actually doing so, and rather 'investing' in liposuction & hookers. Here is a typical complaint highlighting their customer experience: I am a single mom of two. My husband left me with nothing five years ago, instead of giving up which I felt like doing I started my own company and have been sucessful for five years, supported my children FOR Five YEARS ON MY OWN. Registerfly has single handedly destroyed my business. Today I lost my last large client. They all walked due to what they say Is MY fault. I can not renew, transfer or host thier domains. These are million dollar companies that are well known and now the names have expired. I am now being sued by them. Well goodbye house, goodbye car, goodbye life! Thank RegisterFly. 10 Rules For Success Those were pretty bad errors, but I was able to recover from them because I was a voracious reader & got involved with some communities that made a difference. The SearchGuild site that I cut my teeth on back then is no longer around, but there are a lot of other great sources to learn from today. Part of the reason we work so hard on this site is to pass it forward. :) The keys to success, IMHO are...   avoid debt whenever possible    pick a market you can win    pick honest mentors    create your own value systems    work longer, harder & faster than the other guy, and try to connect with others    value your time    if something is working keep investing in it until the returns begin to diminish    fully invest early profits into growing quicker & learning faster    track what you are doing    do not let excuses prevent you from getting something done today   Lets go over these real quick! Avoid Debt Debt is a claim on your future labor, with interest. If lending rates are low debt can be a seductive force because you don't have to pay for it until "later," but you don't know what will happen down the road. Markets shift in uncertain ways. This is true both within your market & the broader economy. When I got started online I got a job that I didn't want so that I would be able to fund my online education. Further, when I was doing ok online I moved into a mobile home so my monthly living costs were under $500. This enabled me to take risks that would not have been reasonable if I had more debt and a higher living expense. And I kept living well below my income from then on, as it allowed me to take greater risks & invest faster into growth. If we learned nothing from the trillions of Dollars of losses, destroyed retirement accounts, and massive currency debasement caused by every flavor of financial fraud in the book (appraisal fraud, mortgage fraud, securities fraud, rating fraud, foreclosure fraud, etc.) coupled with the failure of market regulation, big bailouts & the lack of jailtime for the banking class, we should learn this at a minimum:bankers are not to be trusted. It doesn't matter if a banker is honest.  Gresham's dynamic will drive honest folks under as the people committing fraud keep buying political influence & marketshare.   Bad money drives good money out of the market.    A bank that doesn't commit accounting fraud to show extra growth & boost their share price gets bought out by a more corrupt bank ran by individuals willing to commit fraud to get ahead.    Cheap Chinese milk with melamine in it makes real milk less profitable (or unprofitable) to create.   Once you go into debt you are handing over control of your life to someone else. Fear of not being able to pay your debts will prevent you from taking profitable risks (and may force you to take some bad ones). Carl Sandburg said it best in The People, Yes "and in the best, you never know whats coming next, even if it's hokum ... Anything can happen in this sweepstakes. Around the corner might be prosperity or the worst depression yet." Pick a Market You Can Win In my earlier 1emallway example (I cringe every type I type it out or think about it) I was virtually guaranteed failure because my ambition far exceeded my talent or budget. After a month of playing online how exactly was I going to be the king of ecommerce (with no marketing budget to boot)? :) Even within the small market of "SEO" there are people focused on positioning as local SEO experts, international SEO experts, SEO experts for a specific type of business (like real estate), link building experts, SEO experts leveraging public relations, etc. If a market is too competitive you can always go tighter. My angle off the start was to be one of the first SEOs leverage blogging and to use that platform to push an ebook. The idea of selling an ebook had 3 benefits:   since SEO books were seen as commodities the domain name was available for only $8, while still being short and memorable    since the field of SEO constantly changes, the idea was to sell an ebook at a premium on the basis that people got updates and it was more current than print books    each update not only helped customers, but acted as free marketing for our brand, since our customers would often mention the updates   The idea of "using a blog" isn't particularly unique today, as there are 10,000's of blogs covering SEO. But the idea was unique back then, and there are equivalent angles and ideas you can use today. Smaller markets are easier to rank it (since they have less competition), cost less to rank in (since they have less competition), and it is easier to create relevant partnerships. The person who sells custom bowling gloves can partner with bowling ball manufacturers, sports stores, etc. Whereas the person who wants to own the category of "sports" is going to need to have deep pockets to spend on marketing. You don't want to go to such a small niche that there no market though. Rather, one should look forways to create a complimentary position. Pick Honest Mentors One could have a long & convoluted set of filters, but on this front mine is pretty simple.   If you hear phrases like "make money online" "business in a box" "silver bullet" "automated wealth generation" "pure content" etc. then they are likely optimizing their sales pitch to rip off desperate newbies. Many of those folks come up with a scammy sales angle and then make a half assed product based around the sales pitch.    Originally the video to the right was about a "product" the FTC fined Frank Kern for, but they complained & got it removed from YouTube.    We replaced it with an even better video, about a "rock bottom blueprint" that is for "anyone." It promotes a real estate investment strategy that has allegedlybeen profitable for 13+ years, even through the bubble period AND the real estate crash.     Anyone who suggests you take on debt to work with them is likely knowingly selling you down the river. Here is a typical boiler room sales script [PDF] which includes tips like: "Find more pain if needed spend time here (everyone has pain it’s your job to find it)."    Anyone who relies heavily on launch sequences with false scarcity is likely knowingly selling you down the river.    If a person only shares "information" when they are selling something they are likely just salesman, rather than a mentor.    Rely on your own experience. If someone says something that matches your own experiences then it is likely safe to trust them more. If multiple people that have earnedyour trust recommend something, then it is probably a safe bet.   Pick the wrong mentors is an easy way to wind up broke (or worse). Here is a video of Ellery Bennett promoting how rich, successful & happy he was. But he was trying the sell the dream and was getting sucked dry by other "sell a dream" marketers. Within 2 years of that video being released tragedy struck as he had over a half million Dollars of debt, his wife filed for divorce, and he murdered her. Create Your Own Value Systems "It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends upon his not understanding it." - Upton Sinclair Existing value systems are created to support the business models of established businesses. As Eric Schmidt says, lobbyists write the laws. Google later announced they hired A DOZEN new lobbying firms! From a practical standpoint this has a couple fundamental business points to consider.   To create success your narrative often has to be counter to whatever the existing market believes. Excite.com turned down buying Google for under $1 million. Google was a success at search largely because everyone else was trying to pump pageviews to sell banner ads &viewed search as a loss leader. I was able to buy the domain name SeoBook.com in 2003 for $8 precisely because others failed to appreciate its value. The concept of a book about SEO seemed like a bad idea to many because search keeps changing.    If you are successful with the creation of your own value systems it will piss some people off. This is because many established competitors will fear you. When I got started online there were attack threads created where I had to defend myself against the attacks of a dozen industry 'experts' who joined together to try to topple me. Another SEO who wrote an ebook told me they experience the exact same thing.    Many people are afraid to look/be/act different. I think this is a mistake. Being inauthentic wears thin on your self esteem and makes you feel fake. Other people like you are attracted to what makes you unique, and those are the people who are most likely to help spread your marketing message for you. A mentor once told me "I think the best brands, the best sites have a large portion of their founders personality in them. Never be afraid to be yourself, after all there are 1/2 billion people on the www, not all of them have to agree with you. Concentrate on the ones that share your views, concentrate on making their experience the very best it can be, the rest forget them. Or to put it another way, the best sites say - this is what we do, this is how we do it, if you don't like it go somewhere else."   Longer / Harder / Faster + Connecting There are 3 big benefits of starting off from scratch:   You do not have a lot of things that you "have to do" everyday, like customer service for hundreds or thousands of people.    You are hungry & are willing to do things others are not willing to do.    Lack of experience means that you might be naive enough to set ambitious goals that you would have never made after you knew more.   Through deeply focusing on specific areas you are interested in, you can do a month of learning in a couple days. As long as you express your own voice & push hard on doing what you are good at eventually someone will notice. However don't wait for the market to take notice on its own. You need to reach out and connect with others, participate amongst the people you want to know and be known by. A good quote from Abraham Lincoln: "Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed." Keep in mind that no matter what you do, some of it will not be fun. After all, the reason people typically pay you is because they are asking you to do something they do not want to do. That said, people are generally more likely to buy from people they empathize with. A more modern version of Abe's message comes from Radiohead's Meeting People is Easy DVD: "If you have been rejected many times in your life, then one more rejection isn't going to make much difference. If you're rejected, don't automatically assume it's your fault. The other person may have several reasons for not doing what you are asking her to do: none of it may have anything to do with you. Perhaps the person is busy or not feeling well or genuinely not interested in spending time with you. Rejections are part of everyday life. Don't let them bother you. Keep reaching out to others. When you begin to receive positive responses then you are on the right track. It's all a matter of numbers. Count the positive responses and forget about the rejections." (Under)Value then (Over)Value Your Time The biggest risk to new online businesses is perpetual obscurity. And the web can be a lonely place for a new entrepreneur. Off the start I think it helps to under-value your time & try to reach out and help as many people as you possibly can. That can be wasteful, but even so it will give you the feedback and interaction and momentum and confidence needed to keep doing better. It will also help you find what you are good at & where you should focus. However, if you do a good job of it then over time you will create more demand than you can possibly accomodate. At that point you need to use economic principals to help balance supply & demand. Allow people to pay for access while limiting access to those who have not paid. Further, once you have enough capital to use it as a tool, it can make sense to hire others to help out with various aspects of your business. No matter how good you are there is a limit to how much you can do by yourself, and working with others should allow you to create greater profits. After you get to a certain level of success, sometimes it also helps to have a couple different businesses and a couple different revenue streams. Doing so lowers your overall risk profile & forces you to value your time, as if you are selling it at below market rates the other businesses will do better. Reinvest Until it Stops Working Most investors under-perform the stock market because they are clouded by their emotions & make irrational decissions. Those who succeed might also lose money on most their trades. The key to success is riding winners until they stop working. Sophisticated stock traders use trailing stop losses to force them out of trades while locking in most of their profits. Likewise with marketing, it can feel like you need to stop doing x because you have already done it before. However, rather than trying to guestimate when it stops working, you are better off reinvesting until the returns stop coming in: ride the entire growth cycle. Many value systems spread then die. Many markets are born then die as they are replaced by more efficient technology. Likewise many marketing techniques spread and then die. "On a long enough timeline, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero" - Tyler Durden. Fully Invest Early Profits into Growing Quicker & Learning Faster One of the paradoxical tricks of the web is that almost everything is available for free. But some things are only made available for free by valuing your time at nothing. If I could take my current knowledge back to 2003 I might not end up being a billionaire, but I would certainly have made hundreds of millions. But opportunity and time head in one direction, so take advantage of whatever advantages you have and fully leverage them TODAY. :D If someone can help you save a week or a month or a year of your life that has exceptional value. Likewise, if a software program saves you a few hours a week it is valuable. And if a professional service makes you look more credible then it can be a cheap investment into your longterm growth.   our first web design was a free template    next came a $99 logo & me hacking away at the CSS of the free template to color match the minimalistic theme to match the logo's colors    our next site design cost $1,500    our most recent design was around $7,000   Each of the above choices was both rational and appropriate given our resources & scale at the time. If you have nothing then you sorta have to make due with what you have, but as you gain resources it makes sense to reinvest. Track What You are Doing If you are not using web analytics you are flying blind. It might seem like you are being altruistic & only want to do what you are interested in to decide that you do not need to track, but if you track how you are performing you learn what the market cares about and what it wants. You can bake this into virtually every aspect of your business:   We use web analytics to track conversions    Our blog posts have comments on them, as does our monthly newsletter.    If customers decide to cancel with us we send them a survey to ask how we can make the service better.   Do Not Let Excuses Deter You If you wait until you are perfect before you start you will never get started, precisely because as you learn more you apppreciate how little you know. You do not need to be a Michael Jordan to be successful. When I look back at my early work I am anything but impressed by it, but if I would have waited until I know what I know now I never would have had the chance to learn so much & gain so much experience. Every day make a list of things to do, and every day make sure you scratch off at least 1 item. Is There Any Opportunity Left Today? It is easy for a person reading this to say "well you only got where you were today because you got lucky." I would be hard pressed to disagree with that. But since I got into search, many "experts" who were at the top of the game have fallen off the cliff. The good news is that successful people get complacent. Stuck in their ways. Which is why business has a water cycle to it. People claimed the death of SEO in 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002. In 2003 I got started online and in the field of SEO, and people claimed that the Google Florida update would kill SEO. I took that as an opportunity to learn, to explore, to write, to gain exposure, and to gain marketshare. Blogging was new back then, and it was another piece of my "dumb luck" strategy. I noticed that people who wrote blogs were getting a disproportionate share of inbound links. Rather than complain about it I said "hey I can do that too!" I was paying attention to how the web was changing & leveraging new channels and new technologies to catch up, so maybe some of the luck wasn't so dumb after all. In the years since there has been a major claim of SEO dying every year. And yet when you consider how awful the US economy is in 2010, you would think it was just the opposite if you were talking to other SEO experts who might "only" grow their profits 20% or 30% this year. The web is changing today, as it was when I got in the game. If you work hard to learn about the web every day and leverage new channels + new techniques the odds are pretty good that you will stumble into your own "dumb luck." Cheers,      Aaron Wall From seobook.com 
          






Keep Readers coming back your site tips writing


Posted: 2011-09-09 06:51:29 UTC+01:00
This is a guest post from James  I spend a lot of time on the internet. As an internet marketer, I look at hundreds of websites a week, and probably thousands each month. And a good number of those sites are blogs. But most of these blogs suck. And It should come as no surprise to anyone who has spent any time on the internet that there are a lot of blogs out there that are badly designed, spammy, and poorly written. In fact, that last observation is the most important to me in deciding whether or not I want to work with or advertise with a blogger. If their writing is bad, it’s a deal breaker.  There are lots of websites out there that claim to show you the pathway to wealth through blogging, but most of them deal with how to market your blog and optimize the SEO for great search rankings. But far too few actually focus on the content of a blog—what it’s actually about.  So many people get caught up in making money that they forget that if their blog is poorly written, no one will want to visit their site.  So, how do we change that? Here are a few tips that I try to stick to write good posts and keep my blog readers coming back for more.  1) Write to your audience  You’d think this would be a no-brainer, but you’d be surprised how many bloggers  think their primary audience is Google. Before you write, think about who you are writing to (an actual person). Analyze what that audience wants to get out of your blog and the things they may want to know. Then you can tailor your post(s) to that audience. When a reader feels you are speaking to them directly and addressing what they came to your site to find, they are much more likely to return regularly, giving your blog sustained high traffic.  2) Create Compelling Titles  Think about your post title as a gateway drug. It needs to grab the reader and entice them to want to read more—especially if the title appears on Facebook or Twitter with no context. For example, for a movie blog, I recently wrote an article titled, “Why the Dark Knight Rises Will Probably Suck.” Now, most of the readers on the site are movie buffs and love the current Christopher Nolan Batman franchise, and they predict that the last chapter will be just as awesome as the first two. A title predicting the suckiness of the final installment, therefore, questions their underlying assumptions—and flies in the face of reason—making it extremely enticing to click on and read.   3) Follow a structure  Hopefully you learned the basic principles of good writing structure in first-year college English. If not, try and think back to high school. Start with an introduction, support your main thesis with supporting arguments (or evidence), and create a clear and satisfying conclusion. If you are scatter-brained and can’t keep a simple logical threat running through your post, your readers will get lost, have no idea what you are talking about, and never return to your blog again.   4) Be coherent   Once you can create an overall structure for your blog posts, pay attention to the details at a paragraph level. Tie your sentences together so one thought logically flows from the previous sentence to the following sentence. Doing so will help you lead your readers along to your final point—which is where you want them to go—so they will get value out of your post, see the value in your blog, and keep coming back for more.        5) Be fun  You don’t have to be a stand-up comedian to add some fun into your blog posts, but readers do like a certain level of engagement. If you can entertain while you teach and make brilliant statements about the topic of your blog, you’ll have readers lining up (metaphorically—of course you can’t line up in the internet) to get back to your site and read more.  6) Ask questions   Do you want your readers to think about your blog post after they stop reading? Ask questions that encourage your readers to leave comments or ponder your words after they’ve left your site.  Content is king. If you have terrible writing on your site, no one will want to come back to read more of it once they’re gone. But if you can compel your readers to stick with you through an entire post with coherent arguments and a bit of humor, they’ll want to come back for more. Oh, and about those questions:  Do you think I’m full of crap? What are your tips for good blog writing?  James Ged is a writer and former college English professor turned internet marketer. Usually he’s blogging about  Comcast cable, but he also likes to share his internet finds on Social Buzzer. From Blog Tips World 
          






Officials confirm 'credible but unconfirmed' 9/11 threat


Posted: 2011-09-09 05:03:45 UTC+01:00
 Washington (CNN) -- U.S. officials said Thursday evening they have "specific, credible but unconfirmed" information about a potential threat against the United States coinciding with the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. Officials confirm 'credible but unconfirmed' 9/11 threat "We have received credible information very recently about a possible plot directed at the homeland that seems to be focused on New York and Washington, D.C.," a senior administration official told CNN Pentagon Correspondent Barbara Starr. The official said the plot was believed to involve three individuals, including a U.S. citizen. U.S. officials believed the threat was a vehicle laden with explosives, but "the intelligence picture is not completely formed," the official said. "Not enough is known about the potential operatives and their plotting." The threat is believed to entail a vehicle bomb, but "we cannot rule out other means," a U.S. official said. A senior law enforcement official involved in briefings about the matter told CNN Justice Department Producer Terry Frieden that his best information is that the three individuals had not yet entered the United States. The information came in around noon Wednesday, one official said. A senior federal law enforcement official intimately involved in counterterrorism efforts told CNN Chief National Correspondent John King authorities "aren't sure if this is or real or just chatter." The official confirmed the threat was vehicle-related. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg told reporters Thursday night that while additional police will be deployed around the city, "There's no reason for any of the rest of us to change ... our daily routines." Gov. Andrew Cuomo urged residents to be cautious, but said "there is no reason to panic." Officials said they were taking the threat seriously, while evidently trying to temper the news by saying such threats are commonplace during key events. "It's accurate that there is specific, credible but unconfirmed threat information," said Matthew Chandler, spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security. "As we always do before important dates like the anniversary of 9/11, we will undoubtedly get more reporting in the coming days. Sometimes this reporting is credible and warrants intense focus, other times it lacks credibility and is highly unlikely to be reflective of real plots under way. "Regardless, we take all threat reporting seriously, and we have taken, and will continue to take, all steps necessary to mitigate any threats that arise. We continue to ask the American people to remain vigilant as we head into the weekend," Chandler said in a prepared statement. A Department of Homeland Security official, speaking on background, said, "We will continue to respond appropriately to protect the American people from an evolving threat picture in the coming days and beyond. This may include an increased law enforcement presence at airports and other transit hubs, land and sea ports of entry, federal buildings, and other high-profile and critical infrastructure locations." The information originated from the tribal border area of Pakistan and Afghanistan, a federal official told CNN producer Mike Ahlers. Another source gave CNN conflicting information about possible details of the threat. Rep. Peter King, R-New York, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said very specific details were made known to lawmakers about the threat. "Many agencies are looking at this from every possible angle," he said. But it is not known yet if the threat is real, he said, adding, "I would tell people now to go about their lives. There's no need to panic." A senior administration official with firsthand knowledge told CNN National Security Contributor Fran Townsend that although there is "specific, credible but unconfirmed threat information," there are a lot of questions about this information -- "weird things." A federal law enforcement official told CNN National Correspondent Susan Candiotti that the threat appears to go beyond intelligence gathered from Osama bin Laden's compound after he was killed by Navy SEALs. That information talked about aspirations to carry out an attack on U.S. interests on the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. "The president was briefed," a senior administration official said. "He directed that the intelligence community and the administration take all necessary steps to ensure vigilance." Earlier Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told reporters that intelligence officials had picked up "lots of chatter" on jihadi websites and elsewhere about the impending 10th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks "and we're taking it all seriously," but nothing yet that warranted issuing a threat advisory. Nonetheless, the department will be at a heightened level of readiness as the nation commemorates the anniversary, "staffing up" the Federal Air Marshals Service and other agencies, she said. Napolitano said it is not uncommon to see increased chatter before major events. "We know it's an iconic day to al Qaeda, in part because of what was found at the (Osama bin Laden) compound. So we are preparing accordingly," she said. "I don't want to give those (details) out because I don't want to tell the bad guys exactly what we're doing," Napolitano said. "But I think it's fair to say that in addition to asking citizens to be vigilant and so forth, that we have ourselves leaned forward and have made sure that we are doing all that we can from the DHS perspective." From CNN 
          






Cybercrime costs $114 billion U.S. a year: report


Posted: 2011-09-09 04:51:10 UTC+01:00
WASHINGTON - Cybercrime claimed 431 million adult victims last year and cost $114 billion U.S., according to a report published Wednesday. The Norton Cybercrime Report 2011 said over 74 million people in the United States were cybercrime victims last year, suffering $32 billion in direct financial losses. Cybercrime cost China around $25 billion, Brazil $15 billion and India $4 billion in the past 12 months, said the report from computer security firm Symantec, maker of the Norton anti-virus software. According to the report, more than two-thirds of online adults - 69 percent - have been victims of cybercrime at some point in their lives, resulting in more than one million cybercrime victims a day. Cybercrime rates were even higher in China and South Africa. Eighty-five percent of Chinese respondents to the Norton survey and 84 percent of South Africans said they have been victims of cybercrime. The report found a growing threat from cybercrime on mobile phones. Ten percent of adults online have experienced cybercrime on their mobile phones and the number of reported new mobile operating system vulnerabilities increased from 115 in 2009 to 163 in 2010. "There is a serious disconnect in how people view the threat of cybercrime," said Adam Palmer, Norton lead cybersecurity advisor. "Cybercrime is much more prevalent than people realize. "Over the past 12 months, three times as many adults surveyed have suffered from online crime versus offline crime, yet less than a third of respondents think they are more likely to become a victim of cybercrime than physical world crime in the next year," Palmer said. For the survey, interviews were conducted with nearly 20,000 people in 24 countries, Symantec said. © Copyright (c) AFP From Canada.com 
          






U.S. warns of 'credible' threat to Washington, New York


Posted: 2011-09-09 04:47:16 UTC+01:00
WASHINGTON — U.S. security and intelligence agencies have "specific" information about a potential terror plot against New York or Washington around this weekend's 10th anniversary ceremonies commemorating the 9/11 attacks, officials said Thursday night. "It's accurate that there is specific, credible but unconfirmed threat information," Homeland Security spokesman Matthew Chandler said in a statement. Intelligence gathered after the killing of Osama bin Laden showed the al-Qaida leader had an interest in "important dates and anniversaries" such as 9/11, Chandler said. He said officials will "undoubtedly get more reporting" in the coming days. "Sometimes this reporting is credible and warrants intense focus, other times it lacks credibility and is highly unlikely to be reflective of real plots underway," Chandler said. "Regardless, we take all threat reporting seriously, and we have taken, and will continue to take all steps necessary to mitigate any threats that arise. We continue to ask the American people to remain vigilant as we head into the weekend." The warning immediately prompted officials in New York City to step up security measures ahead of weekend ceremonies. At a late night news conference in Manhattan, Ray Kelly, New York police commissioner, said people in the city could expect a sharp increase in the number of subway and traffic checks. The NYPD, which already had beefed up security efforts ahead of Sunday's anniversary, is taking additional measures in response to the threat, Kelly said. The police department is adding additional bomb-sniffing dog patrols and holding officers for longer shifts. In particular, police will be increasing their focus on tunnels and bridges leading into Manhattan. Kelly said there would be more bomb sweeps of parking garages and increased towing of cars parked on streets. "The public is likely to see and may be somewhat inconvenienced by vehicle checkpoints," Kelly said. According to ABC News, at least three individuals — one of them possibly an American — arrived in the U.S. last month via air aiming to launch a "vehicle-borne attack" against either city. CNN also said Homeland Security officials had briefed senior officials, including U.S. President Barack Obama, about a specific but unconfirmed plan to attack a U.S. target. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg told reporters the threat "at this point has not been corroborated. It is credible, but not corroborated." Bloomberg cautioned people against alarm and said he planned to take the New York subway to work on Friday morning, "and feel just as safe" as he did on Thursday. "We know the terrorists view the anniversary as an opportunity to strike again," Bloomberg said. "Here's what you have got to do: If you see something, say something." The mayor added, "The best thing we can do to fight terrorism is to refuse to be intimidated by it. So go about your business as you normally would, but just be vigilant." Janet Napolitano, the U.S. Homeland Security secretary, had said earlier Thursday there was no specific information, but American intelligence had picked up "a lot of chatter" on extremist networks around the information. "In the intel world, there is lots of chatter and we are taking it very seriously," Napolitano said. Reuters news agency cited a U.S. official who said "the context" of the plot is still forming. The first information around the plot reportedly had been gathered on Wednesday and concerned the potential of explosive-laden vehicles. Officials are now trying to determine the precise nature and seriousness of any plan. As often happens, news of a threat prompted early confusion. ABC News reported law enforcement officials were searching for at least two rental trucks — one from Budget and another from Penske — that had gone missing from Kansas City, Missouri. CNN later reported the trucks had been located and were not connected to possible terrorism. "I would tell people right now to go about their lives. There's no need to panic," New York Congressman Peter King, chairman of the House homeland security committee, told CNN. "We've come a long ways since Sept. 11. Many agencies are looking at this from every possible angle." Still, people should "keep their eyes open" for suspicious activity, he said. The reports of a terror plot threatened to cast a shadow over commemoration ceremonies at the World Trade Center site in Lower Manhattan and at the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia. Obama and former president George W. Bush are planning to attend the ceremonies in New York. Separate anniversary ceremonies are planned at the Pentagon and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed. salberts(at)postmedia.com Twitter.com/sheldonalberts © Copyright (c) Postmedia News From Canada.com 
          






How To Create An Effective Non-Profit Website


Posted: 2011-09-09 04:40:34 UTC+01:00
 People often refer to the online era as a selfish and cynical era. But seeing how regularly the web is used to fight injustices and motivate people to make a positive change in the world restores your faith in the human spirit. Whether battling world-hunger, saving the environment, protecting animal-rights or assisting people with disabilities – the internet is bringing together those who need help and those who are willing to extend a hand. Though non-profits and commercial websites share many things in common, non-profit websites are essentially different and require a unique strategy.  1. Information is Vital When creating a website for a non-profit organization, clear and elaborate information is key. Before you even start thinking about the site’s layout, make sure you collect texts, images, videos, charts, and any relevant media that will help people understand and identify with your cause. The idea is to mobilize people for action. If people aren’t provided with the proper information they’re less likely to donate their time, money and resources. Make sure however that your website doesn’t look like an Excel spreadseet. Don’t overburden your visitors with raw data. 2. General Design Guidelines Don’t use grim colors. Most non-profit organizations deal with subjects that are far from funny or cute but your website should give visitors hope for change. People want to feel that their contribution makes an actual difference. Make sure your design reflects that. 3. Powerful Homepage Whether or not your visitors will be willing to join your cause depends very much on your website’s homepage. The homepage should be appealing, informative and inspiring. Together with the default essentials (organization’s title & logo, navigation menu), an effective homepage will have:   Images that show the organization’s work.    A short description of the organization’s goals.    A concise “Call for Action” for visitors, explaining how they can take part / make a difference.    If possible, one strong quote that shows the importance of the organization’s work.    4. Tell A Story People usually relate better to a personal story they can identify with. Dedicate one of the site’s pages to one such story – it can be a story of a volunteer, a story of a community or story of one individual who was helped by the organization’s work. This story should offer visitors a first-witness account and will personalize your cause. 5. News & Updates It is highly important to update visitors on  recent activities, media coverage, upcoming events and important developments that are relevant to the cause. It shows that the organization is constantly taking action. You can do this by creating a ‘News’ section on the site, and also by adding an RSS feed or a Twitter feed to your homepage. 6. How Can They Help? You need to clearly explain to yourvisitors what they can do to help. Specify every alternative: donations, volunteering, petitions, demonstrations, etc. In a different page, you can include tips and ideas on how visitors can be part of the cause in their own daily lives. Not everyone can make a donation, but maybe there are very basic things that can make a difference, like using energy-saving light bulbs or drinking fair-trade coffee. 7. Stay Connected Offer visitors multiple ways to get in touch with you for more information. Add an email address, postal address, phone numbers, as well as links to the organization’s profiles on social networks. Make it as easy as possible for visitors to contact you. 8. Socialize Your Site You can turn every site visitor to a promoter by adding social sharing tools like “Like”, “Tweet” or “+1” buttons. Each visitor that clicks on one of these buttons exposes their friends and followers to the organization’s work.    From Wix.com 
          






TECH NEWS: How to SEO your site - Lesson 1


Posted: 2011-09-08 17:20:36 UTC+01:00
Today I decide to share for you the 12-lesson-package of Brad Callen, a Professional SEO: "How to SEO your site". I am sure that these lessons will help you increasing your site traffic. And if you are a newbie, these lessons will provide you the way how to become the professional blogger. 
Now we start with Lesson 1 today with the topic: "Optimize The Wrong Keywords And You'll Likely Never See Results". 
 Here is The lesson 1 of this package: 
Note: Before you begin, if you're NOT 100% serious about getting your website to the top of Google, don't read another word.Only read on if you plan to put into action, everything I will be teaching you. It's best to print each lesson off on your printer, highlight areas and take notes as you learn the exact steps needed for a top Google ranking. Ok, on to lesson 1...
If you're anything like me, you've probably created a brand new website. Submitted it to a few search engines and hoped that people would mysteriously show up at your site and buy whatever it is you were selling. After a couple of weeks go by and only a few stray people show up at your website, you decide to try and "optimize" your website around your main keyword in hopes that you just might rank well in 1 of the millions of search engines. Another couple of weeks go by and still no luck.
 At this point you probably give up and decide to either build another website around a different target market or just lose all hope and quit. Well, news flash, as you've probably figured out by now, this is not the way to go about doing things.
A specific example of what your very first steps MUST be when creating anywebsite.
In our example, let's create a weight loss related website. Before we start creating and collecting content for
the website we need to do a little keyword research. This is VERY important and should not be skipped. To do our keyword research we need to visit a few websites.
The first of which should be http://www.goodkeywords.com/.
They have a very good keyword tool and best of all, it's free! Once we've downloaded this software, we can
enter the most generic keyword for our website into the software. In our example, our keyword would be "weight loss".You'll notice that in the screenshot below, Good Keywords will return a list of related terms. The "count"column will then show us how many times the specific keyword has been searched for the previous month within the Overture.com search engine. Generally, you can take that number times 8, in order to estimate the number of times that keyword has been searched within Google for the previous month.

You'll notice that weight loss was searched 1,592,607 times during the previous month.

Do NOT start off by optimizing for the keyword "weight loss".
Why? you ask... If a keyword is searched that many times in Overture, then 100 times out of 100, the competition you will have to outrank will be extremely fierce. This is not something you should try to take on
right away.

Let's take a quick peek at Google so I can show you exactly how many websites are competeting for this
keyword.

If you were to optimize your website based on this keyword, you'd be competing against over 45 million other websites! I don't know about you, but that's an aweful lofty goal to start with.

By the end of this course, you will be able to eventually target HUGE keywords such as "weight loss", but it's always best to start off on the keywords with less competition. Get some traffic with those keywords, and THEN you can focus on the larger keywords.

Ok, so back to finding which keywords we want to target.

If we scroll down, we can find some more specific keyword phrases like "weight loss story", "weight loss picture", and "safe weight loss".

These could be possible keywords we should target to begin with. Once we have our list of 3 to 4 keywords, we need to go to Google and check out the competition to see exactly how hard it will be to optimize for the specified keyword.

We'll begin with the keyword "weight loss story"

You'll notice that the #1 ranked website for "weight loss story" is:

http://www.runwalkjog.com/weight_loss_success_story.htm which is not a top level webpage, meaning it's not simply http://www.runwalkjog.com/

This is good news for us because, typically, if a website's subpage is ranking well in Google, we have an immediate advantage if we choose to target the same keyword with our homepage (i.e. www.domain.com).

For now, just take my word on this, as I will go into more detail why it's usually easier to rank well for your homepage than any other webpage on your website.

You'll also notice that the website has a Google Page Rank of 5.

Note: Here's a quick definition of Page Rank. Page Rank is Google's way of giving a specific value to how popular your website is. It is based on the number of "votes" other websites cast for your website. A "vote" is simply when another website places a link on their website that is pointing to your website. Generally, the more "votes" or links you have pointing to your website, the higher your Page Rank (PR) will be. Page Rank is 1 of the many factors that Google takes into account when ranking websites.

In order to see your own Google Page Rank, as well as others, you must have the Google Toolbar installed on your computer. You can get that for free here: http://toolbar.google.com/

Seeing that the #1 ranked website for this keyword only has a Page Rank of 5 is also good news for us, because a Page Rank of 5 should be reasonable to obtain. Remember, the ONLY way to increase our website's Page Rank is by getting other websites to link to us. Later, I'll teach you the right way to get thousands of links pointing to your website in a matter of a few days.

View The Source Code

Next we need to view the source code of this website by clicking "view", then "source" within our web browser as shown below:

This will open up a text file for us to have a look at and see if this website is actually optimizing their "Onpage Optimization factors".

* Side Note: There are 2 types of optimization, onpage and offpage optimization. We'll cover offpage optimization in the following lessons.

As we view the source file from this website, we need to look for a few things.

- Whether or not they are using <h1> header tags and are placing the keyword "weight loss story" within those tags. In this case, they are not... AND they aren't even using <h1> header tags at all!  Another great thing for us!

- Whether or not they are using their main keyword in the <title> tags of the website. In this case, they are, which is one of the main reasons they're currently ranked highly for "weight loss stories".

- Whether or not they've bolded, underlined, or italicized the words "weight loss story" anywhere in the body of the webpage. In this case, yes... they have. They've actually bolded the keyword "weight loss stories" 4 different times throughout the webpage. At first glance, it looks as though this is another one of the major reasons they've managed to grab the top spot for this keyword. Bolding is something we can do right away, so now we know that we should also bold some of the keywords throughout our copy.

- Whether or not they are using <alt> image tags and placing the keyword "weight loss stories" within that tag. In this case, that answer is easy because they're not even using any images at all!

This is definitely something we can do when optimizing our website. And another thing we can do to "one-up" this #1 ranked website. It is best to add images that are actually named after our main keyword. For example, we could insert an image and call it weight-loss-stories-graphic1.jpg and soon.

- The final thing we want to note is whether or not they've placed the keyword once at the very beginning of the copy, and once at the very end of the copy. In this case they have placed it near the beginning BUT have not placed it at the end. This is another thing we can do to better optimize our webpage.

We now know we can easily out optimize this #1 ranked website!

Atleast for all the onpage optimization factors that Google deems as important. The reason we know we can out optimize them is because of the following things we've found out by analyzing their website:

- The website is not using the keyword "weight loss stories" in an <h1> header tag.

- The website did not use <alt> image tags containing the keyword "weight loss stories".

- The website didn't place the keyword "weight loss stories" at the very end of the page.

- The website has a low Page Rank of 5, which can be beaten. We can easily achieve a Page Rank of 5 or better. I'll show you the exact steps for this in the coming lessons.

- The website is ranked with their subpage (weight_loss_success_story.htm). By optimizing our index page for this keyword, we can one up them.

* Remember, the main idea behind ranking well on Google is to analyze the top ranked websites and then doing those things that they're doing, BUT just a little more to on up them and obtain a better ranking.

We'll continue to go through the same process for the other 2 keywords we've found. It is best to analyze the top 5 ranking websites for each keyword. If the top 5 websites for a specific keyword have a Google Page Rank of 6 or higher, it's probably not best to shoot for that keyword until we build some momentum and get some initial traffic from the easier ranking keywords with less competition.

Earlier I mentioned that keyword research was very important in building traffic. Some other very good resources for building keywords and finding niche phrases include the following:

http://www.wordtracker.com
http://inventory.overture.com (This is the same as goodkeywords.com but is web-based)
http://www.adwordanalyzer.com

That wraps up lesson 1 - Targeting the right keywords.

Hold on to your hats because next lesson is a doozy! If you like this lesson, please sharing your mind by comments. Thanks!
In next post, I will share for you the Lesson 2 which is titled:

How changing 1 onpage optimization factor can boost your rankings by over 350 positions!

You can download this lesson by PDF at here:  Download



          






Google Offers rolls out to five new markets


Posted: 2011-09-08 05:24:14 UTC+01:00
As Facebook kills its Deals business and Groupon faces heavy criticism, Google Offers trucks along.  Shortly after Facebook shuttered its Deals platform and Groupon was said to postpone its IPO indefinitely, Google announced that Google Offers is doing great!  So great, in fact, that it’s expanding to five new markets: Austin, Boston, D.C., Denver and Seattle. The company launched Google Offers in June, starting with a beta release in Portland, which was followed with rollouts to New York City and San Francisco.  Today’s deals include $5 for $10 worth of Mexican food in Austin, $5 for $10 worth of ice cream in Boston, $3 for $6 worth of falafel in D.C., $5 for $20 worth of books in Denver, and $9.50 for a $19 ticket to the Seattle Aquarium.  All of the deals will be redeemable as of Thursday, September 8. The announcement came less than two weeks after Facebook announced its plans to kill its own Deals business after just four months of testing.  "We think there is a lot of power in a social approach to driving people into local businesses," Facebook said in a statement. "We've learned a lot from our test and we'll continue to evaluate how to best serve local businesses." The social networking giant had been running deals in five cities with the help of its own sales team, while also curating deals from other daily deal sites like Gilt City and ReachLocal.  In the end, however, Facebook was like a fish out of water, since the daily deal/group buying space is only playing at being social.  It’s just not social the way Facebook is social. Google Offers was first hinted at months ago, shortly after Google attempted to buy Groupon for $6 billion and was sorely rejected.  These days, Groupon is facing a bit of a rough patch.  CEO Andrew Mason maintains that Groupon has never been stronger, but the company has had to delay its IPO due in part to the rocky stock market, but it seems likely that mounting criticism of Groupon’s business model and scrutiny from the SEC have played a role as well.  A leaked memo from Andrew Mason outlining the company’s strengths has some accusing the company of violating the “quiet period,” which could further complicate the IPO. Technology trends and news by Faith Merino September 7, 2011 | Comments Short URL: http://vator.tv/n/1ead 
          






iPhone 5 rumors


Posted: 2011-09-08 05:05:44 UTC+01:00
Amazon.com gets a redesign, Toshiba releases what it calls the world's thinnest laptop, and iPhone 5 rumors heat up with employees at Best Buy and Apple stores leaking release information.  Amazon.com gets a redesign, Toshiba releases what it calls the world's thinnest laptop, and iPhone 5 rumors heat up with employees at Best Buy and Apple stores leaking release information. From cNET.com 
          






iOS 5 Newsstand could see influx of content thanks to Adobe tools


Posted: 2011-09-08 04:58:54 UTC+01:00
Adobe has decided to embrace the new Newsstand feature coming to iOS devices as part of the iOS 5 update. Adobe's Digital Publishing Suite will be capable of generating applications and subscription content that fully integrates with Newsstand, the company announced on Wednesday, allowing publishers to utilize Adobe's tools when creating subscription content for the iPhone and iPad.  Apple Senior Vice President of iOS Software Scott Forstall briefly demoed Newsstand in June when Apple announced the iOS 5 update. Newsstand essentially functions as a special folder on the home screen that automatically collects apps that offer access to subscription-based content, like magazines and newspapers. The apps' icons are then displayed on a virtual wooden shelf instead of the usual folder view. Apple's NewsstandKit APIs enable publishers to build apps compatible with Newsstand, allowing them to automatically push new content to the apps in the background as it becomes available. Cover art for new issues will automatically update as well, and will be displayed on the virtual shelf. Basically, users can always be sure they have the latest content, and can even get notifications when the latest issue is available to read. Adobe's Digital Publishing Suite is a set of tools that allows publishers to build iOS apps for downloading and viewing content created with InDesign and other Adobe content creation software. When iOS 5 is released—likely sometime in the next few weeks—Digital Publishing Suite will fully support NewsstandKit APIs for automatic content downloads, cover icons, and push notifications. Apps crated with Digital Publishing Suite will also be automatically recognized and added to iOS 5's Newsstand. Adobe noted that Digital Publishing Suite can also generate apps compatible with Android and BlackBerry tablets as well, though Newsstand support is unique to iOS devices. How publishers will react to Apple's subscription payment rules is still unknown, however. The company originally planned to force publishers to offer subscriptions via Apple's in-app purchasing mechanism at prices that matched outside subscription offers. However, many publishers balked at giving Apple a 30 percent cut of subscription revenue. The company later made a compromise, allowing freedom in pricing as long as apps didn't contain outside links to pay-for content. Financial Times decided to kill its iPad app in favor of an HTML5 Web app instead of giving in to Apple's subscription rules. Fashion and design magazine Clear, however, appears to be embracing the native app approach. "Tablet devices are changing publishing forever," Clear publisher and creative director Emin Kadi said in a statement. "Now, with [Adobe Digital Publishing Suite] support for iOS 5 Newsstand subscriptions, we will be able to further monetize our digital editions and make our content more discoverable." From arstechnica.com 
          






Google to HTC: take these patents, keep fighting Apple


Posted: 2011-09-08 04:16:45 UTC+01:00
Apple is now being sued by HTC with patents that were owned by Google until a few days ago, according to Bloomberg. HTC already had cases going against Apple (Apple, likewise, has gone after HTC on a few fronts), but the new patents stand to bolster its lawsuits, and may even include property acquired by Google when it bought Motorola Mobility. Google transferred nine patents to HTC on September 1, four of which were originally sourced from Motorola and are being used against Apple in a federal court in Delaware. The remaining five, three from Openwave Systems and two from Palm, will help HTC amend a complaint with the US International Trade Commission (ITC) filed in Washington and possibly reverse the preliminary ruling that HTC has infringed on Apple. The Next Web notes that one of these patents in the ITC complaint concerns a realtime API that is widely used in the Android ecosystem, and Apple claims to own it. If HTC lost that ground to Apple, the effects could ripple through the entire Android platform, hence Google's concern and urgent patent "gifts" to bolster HTC's case. Now, we're left wondering if Google will play patent fairy to Apple's other aggressors and targets as well. Samsung, anyone? From arstechnica.com 
          






Firefighters gain ground on largest Texas wildfire


Posted: 2011-09-08 03:43:37 UTC+01:00
Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the damage toll rose to 800 homes. An elite search team was sent out to find any victims as the blaze blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over the capital, Austin, about 25 miles to the east. The air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.  Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economyAs firefighters walk the path of the blaze, the flames are finally gone in some places. But the devastating effects of the fire are scattered across Texas, where thousands hope for an end to the violent blaze. NBC’s Jay Gray reports. The 34,000-acre Bastrop County Complex fire, which has forced the evacuation of about 5,000 people in the rural community, was about 30 percent contained Wednesday thanks to the easing of winds from Tropical Storm Lee, which fanned flames over the weekend. "Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," said April Saginor, public information officer for the Texas Forest Service. The fire is one of nearly 200 that broke out in the past week and killed four across Texas, where the countryside is perilously dry because of one of the most severe Texas droughts on record. Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area, using dogs trained to sniff out bodies. Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them." Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes. The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. Video: Gov. Rick Perry: Wildfires have been ‘devastating’ (on this page) Resident William Clements learned Tuesday that his home in Bastrop was lost. "It was kind of a shock when we came up and saw that it was gone," he said. "But we are recovering from the shock, and landing on our feet." A list of 243 homes confirmed destroyed was posted for Bastrop residents to check at the county's shelters and in a command center, but it only accounted for a fraction of the houses officials say have been burned. Resident Geary Garton, his arms covered with bandages and his nose and ears blistered, was cheerily hopeful as he approached the list looking for his house. Garton said he'd left his home on foot to find a hose on Sunday night when the fires were coming. When he turned back to douse his home with water, fire was blocking him. "It didn't look all that bad at first, but it came up quick," he said, adding that he had sprinted back through blinding smoke to reach his two dogs, the heat blistering his arms as he ran. His dogs, Berkley and Clancy, were hiding under the porch, which was untouched by flames. But Garton was too weak to pick them up and had to leave them behind. He expressed hope that they had escaped and would turn up at a shelter. Then he turned his attention to the list, reading the street names. When he got to K C Drive he stopped talking. He whipped off his glasses, turned on his heel, and wiped his eye as he strode away into the parking lot. He didn't answer questions about whether his home had survived. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, visiting the command center as Gov. Rick Perry was in California preparing for his first Republican presidential debate, said he would ask the federal government to declare the state a disaster area. Slideshow: Wildfires scorch Texas (on this page) More than 3.6 million acres in Texas have been scorched by wildfires since November, fed by a drought that has caused more than $5 billion in damage to the state's agricultural industry and that shows no sign of easing. About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped. The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report. From msnbc.msn. 
          






How to Target My Keyword – and Get Ranked!


Posted: 2011-09-08 17:29:37 UTC+01:00
Many users want to know how to get search engines to recognize  specific keywords that they’d like associated with their website.  The  goal is to attract potential customers who don’t know you, through  organic Google searches.  Follow these steps to have your targeted  keywords correctly inserted into your pages.

1.  Make a List of KeywordsStay organized and focused. Study your competition. Make a list of  keywords that are relevant to your business. Start with the obvious  ones. For example, if you were creating a website for Lisa’s pancake  house you may write the generic word “pancakes” down first, then perhaps  “best pancakes”  and then you might get even more specific and choose a  local keyword, such as “San Francisco pancakes” or “strawberry pancakes  in San Francisco”. 
You may be able to get indexed for each of these  keywords, but the greater question is how well you can get ranked. Even  if you get indexed in the 100th page for pancakes, it  probably benefit your business much. 
Each keyword has different levels  of competition which you can see by the number of results and by  undertaking some research to find out how many people search for that  keyword. Software is available to help such as WordTracker or Google AdWord .Consider the size and amount of traffic you are likely to generate to  your website. If you’re creating a 10-20 or even 50 page website, I  don’t recommend trying to compete with the Apple website, for example.2. Remember Content is KingThis cliché survives because it holds a world of truth.  Your website  must contain quality, relevant content in order for its keywords to be  caught.  Writing the same key phrases over and over again will be  recognized as spam by the search engines. If you’ve chosen good and  relevant keywords you should have no problem inserting them into your  text naturally and organically. 
Insert your keywords throughout your  text.  Spread them out evenly and discretely without making it obvious.
Aim for your homepage to contain 400 words.  A footer is a good place  to add text if you prefer an image-based homepage.  Aim for 250 words  on all other pages. For the best results, you should aim for you keyword  to appear about 3 times for every 250 words. This includes your titles,  headers and regular text.
Google loves headers. More emphasis is placed on any text that  appears in your headers, so make sure you word and phrase your headers  wisely. In the Wix website editor, select the Text button from your  menu, and choose Title. The text you write here is what will be  interpreted as a header tag – it’s that simple. The larger your header  text, the higher it will rank.
The more text you have, the more opportunity to insert a keyword.  Having trouble finding room for more content? For Lisa’s Pancake House,  an “About” page or a ‘Reviews’ page may be good places to add some  content.3. Use Your Meta-TagsSearch engines rely on 2 types of Meta tags to discern the subject of a web page or website.
These are both found in the Settings section of your Editor, in the SEO Settings box.
Title Tag:   The most important part of your page, in terms of SEO.  The title  appears on the very top left-hand corner of your browser when you are  viewing your Flash website. Make sure your title contains relevant  keywords.  Also note that keywords found at the beginning of a title are  much stronger than those placed toward the end.  Titles should not be longer than 70 characters, including spaces.
Description Tag:  The description tag is another great opportunity to use your keywords.  The description cannot be viewed from within the site, but it is the  text that will appear alongside the link to your website in search  results. This is an important text. Try to keep this text between  150-160 words.  Use at least two of your keywords in the description.   Keep it to the point, be direct and catchy.
You may also add up to 7 keyword tags in this same section of the  Editor. Make sure you’re adding keywords or phrases that actually appear  in your content.
Alt Texts: You  can add “Alt Text” to your images that will be read by search engine  crawlers, and cannot be seen by users.  Take this opportunity to use the  keyword you are promoting one more time. In the Wix editor, you can add  Alt Texts to your gallery pictures through the Manage Photos option.4. Internal LinkingInternal linking refers to the navigation within your website and the  infrastructure of links pointing from one page to another within your  Flash website. Since your homepage (or landing page) is usually the page  that gets the most traffic and the most links pointing at it, it is  usually the most important page in your website.  Use text links to  point at the different pages of your website to make sure that the  search engine knows what that page is about.
For example, all links within Jack’s New York Pizzeria website  pointing at the website’s homepage can use the ‘anchor text’ “Jack’s New  York pizzeria” instead of the generic ‘Homepage’. An inner page in  Jack’s website might deal exclusively with pepperoni pizzas, so the link  to that page can use the anchor text “Jack’s pepperoni pizza”.
Pages with more links pointing at them will be considered as having  more importance and relevancy from the point of view of the search  engine crawler. The more often a link is used, the more relevancy and  importance it is allocated.5. External LinkingThe same principles of internal linking are applied to links from the  outside. Get as many backlinks to your site as possible and make sure  your links are properly anchored in relevant text – keywords.
You can optimize specific pages for specific keywords by dedicating  specific keywords to specific pages. For example, all links using the  anchor text: “Jack’s anchovy pizza” to point at a page that has lots of  text on the subject of anchovy pizza. Use all the links with the anchor  text “Jack’s New York Pizzeria” to point at the home page that has that  specific keyword inserted into it repeatedly.
Links will have greater potency when they come from a powerful  website. Powerful websites are websites with a high page rank and a lot  of traffic. A web page that simply has a long list of links from it  (also known as a link farm) won’t have the same effect on your website  as a link in a popular pizza review magazine, pointing at your website  from an article raving about your great pizza.
Bottom line: the more anchor links pointing at your website – the better. Make sure these links are active.

From wix.com 
          






Google’s Spring Clean Sees Admob Focus On Apps, Web Inventory Go To AdSense


Posted: 2011-09-07 13:44:15 UTC+01:00
Google (NSDQ: GOOG) has been closing down a few properties of late in a “spring clean” of its vast portfolio of services—never mind that autumn is upon us—and it’s been doing some reorganization too. One area that’s getting the once-over is the company’s mobile advertising operation: Google has announced that it is moving all of its mobile web advertising to AdSense, while Admob—the mobile ad company it bought last year for $750 million—will becomes Google’s “primary, specialized solution for app developers.”  The news was first revealed in a blog post by Clay Bavor, product management director for mobile ads at Google. He notes that the move is another change in the reorganization that saw AdSense transfer all of its apps inventory to Admob earlier this year. Bavor notes that the transition will be somewhat gradual—Admob will continue to serve ads to older, WAP-based mobile web sites; that service will discontinue at the end of this month, on September 30. HTML5-based mobile web publishers, meanwhile, will have a bit more time to make the move. In fact, Bavor doesn’t specify a specify hard stop for that service: “For sites and ads made to be viewed on high-end devices (like iPhones and Android phones), the AdMob product will be around for a little longer, but we wanted to give mobile web publishers plenty of time to start the transition,” he writes. The move is not a surprising one, given that there may have been some confusion in the market over which platform to use for what end. Indeed, Bavor admits as much himself: “Some of our customers have asked us whether they should use AdMob or AdSense, since there’s some overlap between the two,” he writes. Putting all the web inventory under AdSense also makes sense for advertisers who are looking to create a converged campaign between their mobile web and basic internet services—and gives Google a bigger base from which to work. But on the other hand, it seems to further the separation that has developed between the two mediums of mobile apps and the mobile web—a separation that has come to be known as “apps ‘versus’ the mobile web.” The trend among many publishers seems to be to try to bring the two closer together, rather than further apart, by creating mobile web sites that behave “like apps”, often alongside apps that interface more with updated web content. The idea of having to go to two different places to work out advertising inventory seems to counter that kind of convergence—and is a step back from what was originally one of the strong selling points for Admob in the first place. At the end of May, to mark the one-year anniversary of Google’s acquisition, Admob said that it was working across a network of 80,000 apps and web sites. But it is unclear how those proportions break down. It may well have been small enough that Google didn’t think that it would be too much of a pain to shift them to AdSense. What is perhaps more the case is that the change will leave Admob as potentially a much smaller operation: figures from the end of last year from IDC estimated that of the $1 billion that Google was making in mobile advertising in 2010, only about $150 million was coming from apps. With the continuing boom in apps, that may have changed but it’s unlikely that it can now be outbalancing mobile web revenues. For those who have been using Admob for mobile web advertising, the change looks like it will signal more fuss for them: “We know that these sorts of transitions can cause our customers some extra work,” he admits. But he goes on to claim that the transition will also give those advertisers better technology and reporting, and better revenue. Admob has seen big growth in the last year. As of May of this year, Admob was serving 2.7 billion ad requests every day from mobile devices, three times the amount of traffic it was seeing a year before. Google's Neil Mohan will be appearing at our next conference,paidContent Advertising, September 15 in New York City. You can find out more about the agenda and register here. From paidcontent.org 
          






Facebook Doesn’t Want to Deal


Posted: 2011-09-07 13:38:36 UTC+01:00
The social-networking giant has decided to abandon its online-based daily deal pilot program, Facebook Deals, after a four-month trial period. But why?      When Facebook first entered the daily deal space with a plan to offer its users deals in five cities, daily deal startups—at least those that were not among the lucky few working with Facebook Deals as partners—were apprehensive. The social-media giant, if it did things right, was expected to be a brand-name competitor at the very least, with some observers dubbing it a "Groupon killer." But on Friday, Facebook announced that it is abandoning the online deals it debuted in Atlanta, Austin, Dallas, San Diego, and San Francisco. One analyst suggested that Facebook may not have thought deals to be profitable enough because it is an overcrowded space. "The Groupon group-buying phenomenon is a commodity. There are no barriers to entry. It's just not going to work because everybody offers it and therefore the margins go down," Jeremiah Owyang of Altimeter Group told Reuters when the news was announced. The official statement from Facebook obtained by the news agency explained: "After testing Deals for four months, we've decided to end our Deals product in the coming weeks. We think there is a lot of power in a social approach to driving people into local businesses. We've learned a lot from our test, and we'll continue to evaluate how to best serve local businesses." To that end, the social network will still offer Check-in Deals, a Facebook app that lets users find deals when they are on the go. Read between the lines and it seems that Facebook doesn’t think traditional daily deals that users sign up via email to learn about are the best (read: most lucrative way) for it to work with local businesses. The move is certainly good news for daily deal companies like leader Groupon, which has filed to go public, and LivingSocial, which is the No. 2 deal site and also the subject of IPO talk. But it says a lot about the deal space too. Mobile Is Where It’s At While Facebook is abandoning the online-based deals it was offering, its plan to carry on with the Check-in Deals component, a subset of the now defunct Facebook Places, shows the strength of the fledgling mobile offers space. Check-in Deals allows users to check in from restaurants, supermarkets, bars, and coffee shops using an app that will offer them rewards with discounts, coupons, and free merchandise. It is part of a Facebook push to get its users to share information on where they are whenever they post to the site, although this location sharing is an opt-in feature. Although they have mobile apps too, companies like Groupon rely heavily on email marketing to send out their deals, and those cost more than they would like. Facebook is betting on mobile as the medium of the future for such deals, and we’re going to assume that it is doing so, in part, because it’s a heck of a lot cheaper. Local Sales Forces Aren’t Cheap When Facebook had initially launched Facebook Deals, it did so with a host of site partners that could help it offer social-oriented discounts, including KGB Deals, Zozi, Gilt City, and PopSugar City. Facebook had a small sales team of its own, but it teamed up with the other sites because each had existing staff that made deals with local or specialty merchants in various cities, local “boots on the ground” that Facebook did not necessarily have in those locations. It costs money to have a dedicated staff in various cities. By choosing to continue on with the Check-in Deals app only, Facebook will be able to offer deals more passively. Users let the network know where they are, and merchants who want to be part of it will likely have to make it known to Facebook that they have deals to offer. This may make it easier for national retail chains to get in on the deal action. The Deal Space Is Crowded and Competitive While there are low barriers of entry into the daily deal space, that doesn’t mean it’s an easy business in which to thrive. Even the deal leader, Groupon, which has seen astounding growth for a startup, is losing money as it expands. Still, it's a hot area, and Facebook did seem like a natural fit for social-outing type deals, especially. "It is surprising that Facebook ended their deals product after just four months," Vinicius Vacanti, cofounder of Yipit.com, which aggregates daily deals and tracks the industry, told Reuters. "On the other hand, Facebook Deals had been an underwhelming product and experience." In an interview that appeared today in the Wall Street Journal, LivingSocial CEO Tim O'Shaughnessy points out that even for successful companies in the space (his Washington, D.C.-based startup, just two years old is anticipating $1 billion in revenues this year), the daily deal business holds a lot of unknowns and hundreds of companies that got into it have already left. “This business is much harder to scale than maybe we realized. So I think you've started to see maybe some of the new entrants started to slow down a bit, or there are some sort of retreats occurring,” he said. From portfolio.com 
          






WikiLeaks Assange wanted U.S. cables released months ago


Posted: 2011-09-07 13:35:07 UTC+01:00
(Reuters) - WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange late last year told associates his website's entire cache of U.S. diplomatic cables "must somehow" be released, according to a written record of the discussion. The record -- notes of a meeting -- describes an intense conversation between Assange and other WikiLeaks activists in November at Ellingham Hall, a mansion in eastern England where he has resided since British courts released him on bail pending a decision on a Swedish extradition request for his questioning about sexual misconduct allegations. According to the notes, examined by Reuters, the substance of the meeting was a "heated conversation about rough plans on releasing cables." The debate's details were first reported on Friday on the website of Britain's Guardian newspaper by James Ball, a former WikiLeaks staffer who attended the meeting and who now works for the Guardian. Evidence of the discussions surfaced as WikiLeaks announced that it was releasing its entire database of "251,287 US embassy cables in searchable format." People who examined the database said its contents are unredacted. The topic under discussion at Ellingham Hall was a plan under which WikiLeaks would give mainstream media organizations access to the cable cache in return for their agreement to redact sensitive information from the documents before publication. Last year, human rights groups criticized WikiLeaks for releasing raw U.S. military documents whose contents could have jeopardized the safety of civilians. According to the notes, a Scandinavian activist said: "You do realize the idea of not putting ALL of these cables up is totally unacceptable to people around this table, don't you?" This set off "another shouting match." According to the notes, Assange was "insistent all cables must somehow be eventually released." Assange did not respond to an email requesting comment which was sent to him via the owner of the mansion. The notes do not allege that Assange or others were insisting that the full document cache be released uncensored. In a book on WikiLeaks published earlier this year, two Guardian journalists, David Leigh and Luke Harding, wrote that when he started talking about releasing classified U.S. government documents, Assange expressed reluctance to redact the material, but was persuaded to do so by mainstream reporters. DISCLOSING PASSWORDS In a statement released earlier this week, WikiLeaks appeared to lay the groundwork for its release of the entire document cache by accusing one of the two Guardian journalists of having "negligently disclosed top secret WikiLeaks' decryption passwords" in their book. But WikiLeaks' Twitter feed, which Assange is believed to control, also publicized German press articles describing how the passwords allegedly disclosed by the Guardian journalist could be used to decrypt one or more copies of the entire WikiLeaks cable cache. That cache apparently was mistakenly posted on the Internet months ago at an obscure address. In reply, the Guardian insisted that Assange had told the paper's reporters that the file which the passwords unlocked would only be posted for a few hours on a secure server. "WikiLeaks should take responsibility for its own pattern of actions and not seek to deflect it elsewhere," the Guardian said in a statement. A State Department spokesman confirmed that last month, Assange advised it "of the impending release of information and of its intention to continue to release classified documents." The department said it declined to "cooperate" with WikiLeaks. On Friday, five major media organizations which had collaborated with WikiLeaks and Assange over the release and redaction of items from the diplomatic cable cache denounced the website's release of the whole uncensored database. "Our previous dealings with WikiLeaks were on the clear basis that we would only publish cables which had been subjected to a thorough editing and clearance process ... Today's decision to publish by Julian Assange was his, and his alone," the Guardian, New York Times, Der Spiegel, El Pais and Le Monde said in a joint statement. In an email to Reuters, New York Times executive editor Bill Keller said: "We've never kidded ourselves that we had any control over the behavior of WikiLeaks, and we have taken pains to keep the relationship arm's-length." Keller added: "I think the news media organizations involved were heartened that WikiLeaks gradually, grudgingly seemed to take our example and acknowledge the value of holding back some information that could put innocent people at risk. It's sad that -- whether out of a craving for attention, or an absolutist doctrine of 'transparency,' or some more malign motive, I can't judge -- WikiLeaks has decided on this irresponsible course." 
          






Why Amazon’s Tablet Will Challenge Apple In A Way That Google Cannot


Posted: 2011-09-07 13:30:43 UTC+01:00
The rumours are unstoppable: Amazon (NSDQ: AMZN) is going to unveil a tablet in the next few weeks, and if thehands-on description of an internal prototype by MG Siegler over at Techcrunch are even vaguely correct, then it’s going to be a 7in device with a colour touchscreen running a forked version of Android, at a price around $250.  Note that “forked” bit, because it could be crucial. See more of our latest Tablets coverage or add an alert for future coverage of Tablets. The expectation around Amazon and its entry to the tablet market has been building, partly because it is the first—and possibly the only—company that people think could pose a serious threat to Apple (NSDQ: AAPL) in the tablet space. Why, when there are dozens of different tablets out there—from Samsung to Acer to Asus to RIM (NSDQ: RIMM) to Motorola (NYSE: MMI) to HP’s TouchPad (very limited stocks only!) to, I don’t know, throw a stone and you’ll hit someone making a tablet—why should it be that it’s only when Amazon comes to the tablet table that people think it will make a difference? Two simple reasons: Amazon is a conduit to lots of content; and, just as importantly, it already has a way for you to buy content from it. Like Apple, it is one of the 10 biggest merchant holders of credit card numbers in the world (along with companies such as eBay (NSDQ: EBAY), PayPal, Sony (NYSE: SNE) through the PlayStation Network and Microsoft (NSDQ: MSFT) through its Xbox Live system). Notice the company missing from that list? Google (NSDQ: GOOG). It has almost no relationship in financial terms with the average person. Not surprising, given that it only really got its act together with AdWords to become profitable in 2001, and that all its business is done with customers who are advertisers, rather than “customers” in the form of its users. Yes, it has advertisers’ financial details. But those are a tiny fraction compared to its huge number of users. By contrast Apple and Amazon are familiar as transaction handlers: Apple has 200 million iTunes accounts, of which a very significant number have credit cards attached. Amazon isn’t quite as big, but for people in North America and Europe, it’s a company they trust with their details. Yes, yes, but what has this got to do with tablets? Simply that tablets lack what smartphones have: ready-made content. If you’ve got a smartphone then its obvious use is for making phone calls or sending texts – essentially, you create the content. The data-enabled stuff is a bonus. With tablets, though, that’s reversed. A tablet is a tabula rasa—a blank slate until you get something onto it. Yes, with the standard Android tablet you can do some browsing, and triage your email, and check what the weather is going to be tomorrow on a weather app, but truly, when it comes to content, Android Honeycomb is simply dire; it’s no contest with what you can get in app terms on the iPad. I’ve been trying a Samsung Galaxy Tab 10 over the weekend and while it’s a nice piece of kit, the call for apps that will show off Honeycomb to its fullest draws a silence as wide and deep as the ocean. The most detailed suggestion I got the other day suggested 10 apps, including an office suite (already on the Tab), a Twitter client (there are literally a million already), a keyboard app (there’s already a soft keyboard), Google Music (doesn’t work outside the US), and a browser (Android has one already). So that leaves five more: Google+ (available on the iPad), Pulse (a newsreading app like Flipboard), a sketching app (there’s a zillion on the iPad), a remote control for watching HD content (if you’ve got it on your home network)—and, last but not least, Kindle. From, as you know, Amazon. For the iPad? Ask and people won’t stop—Keynote (for writing presentations), Garageband (for writing music), Flipboard, iPlayer (the Android Honeycomb iPlayer “app” isn’t—it’s just a redirect to the BBC website). And on and on. Why are apps so poor on Android? I think it’s the classic problem: users find it hard to pay for apps, because there’s no simple payment mechanism (is it credit card? Google Checkout? Carrier payment?), which makes them uneasy. So good developers can’t get paid, so they don’t develop good stuff, so the Android Market is overrun with rubbish made at the lowest possible cost, because there’s no point killing yourself to not get paid. (Yes, I know people who have bought stuff for Android will be saying at this point “No, really, you can!” The fact though is that most people see the price and abandon the process because it’s not clear who will be in charge; the stories aboutGoogle setting up payments systems with carriers only confuses things, rather than helping.) Bringing Amazon in changes all that. From paidcontent.org 
          






Does Google Only Listen If The New York Times Calls Them Out?


Posted: 2011-09-07 13:25:45 UTC+01:00
Yesterday the New York Times ran an article that addresses what is becoming a rather serious issue in the local online marketing space. See more of our latest Google coverage or add an alert for future coverage of Google.  The issue is around just how easy it is for someone to get a Google (NSDQ: GOOG) Places listing tagged as “Permanently Closed”. Now, in a world where there was respect and decency this shouldn’t be that big a deal but we are talking about the Internet here. If there is a way for someone to make a buck or prevent someone from making a buck by exploiting a hole in an open system like Google Places you can bet there will be those who will do it and even smile when they do. The article reads:    In recent months, plenty of perfectly healthy businesses across the country have expired — sometimes for hours, other times for weeks — though only in the online realm cataloged and curated by Google. The reason is that it is surprisingly easy to report a business as closed in Google Places, the search giant’s version of the local Yellow Pages. On Google Places, a typical listing has the address of a business, a description provided by the owner and links to photos, reviews and Google Maps. It also has a section titled “Report a problem” and one of the problems to report is “this place is permanently closed.” If enough users click it, the business is labeled “reportedly closed” and later, pending a review by Google, “permanently closed.” Google was tight-lipped about its review methods and would not discuss them.   The Times goes on to basically call out Google’s system and what many perceive as their simple lack of caring about the issue. It is pointed out that even the remedy that Google offers for the situation is inconsistent in its success.   The owner of a closed business, and customers who know better, can click on a button marked “not true,” which appears by all “reportedly closed” and “permanently closed” listings. In some instances, owners say, a business will “open” shortly thereafter. But other owners, like Ms. Cowan, say that the button doesn’t work, or that it takes a week to have any effect. Still others say that immediately after clicking the “not true” button, their business is immediately “closed” again.   Some local search experts were quoted in the article that recounted one of the funnier things a search marketer has done to make a point. Mike Blumenthal reported Google’s headquarters as being closed. His actions, described below, at least got some attention from Mountain View.   In mid-August, a search consultant and blogger named Mike Blumenthal was so rankled by what he considered Google’s cavalier attitude to closings on Google that he committed an act of online disobedience: He “closed” Google’s offices in Mountain View, Calif. For a brief period, Google itself was “reportedly closed,” according to Places. “I did it to point out how annoying this is when it happens,” he said. On Aug. 15, Mr. Blumenthal posted a screen shot of Google’s Places page “reportedly closed,” noting that it took just two people — him and a friend — to pull off this stunt. It seemed to get the company’s attention. At least one change to closings on Places has already been made. Since late August, a business that is newly tagged “permanently closed,” receives an alert via e-mail from Google, informing the business owner of the change.   So will this result in Google finally acting as if it has some responsibility in making sure that yet another one their systems isn’t being gamed regularly? We all know what happens to search results and Google’s “battle” with spam. Now the same gamesmanship is happening in Google Places. Google better get it’s act together on this one especially if the Places listings will in some way be incorporated into Google+ as part of their business offering. There has been no confirmation that this will even be the case but it would make sense especially since Google’s recent whitewashing of these Place page listings indicates they may be preparing to populate these pages in a way that fits the whole social fabric they are trying to knit together through Google+. So what does Google have to say about all of this? Well, theNew York Times certainly must have their ear because a post today on their Lat Long blog says the following:   About two weeks ago, news in the blogosphere made us aware that abuse — such as “place closed” spam labels — was occurring. And since then, we’ve been working on improvements to the system to prevent any malicious or incorrect labeling. These improvements will be implemented in the coming days. We know that accurate listings on Google Maps are an important tool for many business owners. We take reports of spam and abuse very seriously and do our best to ensure the accuracy of a listing before updating it. That being said, we apologize to both business owners and users for any frustration this recent issue of spam labeling has caused, and we’re committed to making sure that users and potential customers continue to have the most up-to-date and accurate information possible.   Wow, Google, those are some very pretty and comforting words. Nice try. Until there is some action taken that is real (how about providing some real support to these businesses if they are so important?) this is an empty gesture. We’ll wait and see what exactly is done in the “the coming days” then see if this is something you are really concerned about or just paying lip service to. Sorry to sound so cynical, Google, but why does it take an article in the New York Times to make you take action on something that you have known about for far longer than just these past few weeks? Frank Reed is the managing editor of Marketing Pilgrim. He also provides consulting, speaking and education services relating to local Internet marketing through Local Basix. Frank contributes weekly to Mike Moran’s Biznology blog and he writes even less frequently at his original home base, Frank Thinking About Internet Marketing. By Frank Reed Marketing Pilgrim  @frankreed  
          






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


