20 Ways to prevent cancer - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»daily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots



















20 Ways to prevent cancerPrevention – Wed, 7 Sep, 2011 11:36 AM EDT

First, the good news: You probably won’t get cancer.
That is, if you have a healthy lifestyle. “As many as 70% of known causes of cancers are avoidable and related to lifestyle,” says Thomas A. Sellers, PhD, associate director for cancer prevention and control at Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa. Still, since cancer is one of the top five lady killers, taking steps to eat a healthy diet, increase exercise, and avoid tobacco products is key; however, recent research has uncovered many small, surprising ways you can weave even more disease prevention into your everyday  life. Try these novel strategies and your risk of cancer could dwindle even more. 
Healthy Cancer Prevention Recipes
1. Filter your tap waterYou’ll reduce your exposure to known or suspected carcinogens and hormone-disrupting chemicals. A new report from the President’s Cancer Panel on how to reduce exposure to carcinogens suggests that home-filtered tap water is a safer bet than bottled water, whose quality often is not higher—and in some cases is worse—than that of municipal sources, according to a study by the Environmental Working Group. (Consumer Reports’ top picks for faucet-mounted filters: Culligan, Pur Vertical, and the Brita OPFF-100.) Store water in stainless steel or glass to avoid chemical contaminants such as BPA that can leach from plastic bottles.
2. Stop topping your gas tank
So say the EPA and the President’s Cancer Panel: Pumping one last squirt of gas into your car after the nozzle clicks off can spill fuel and foil the pump’s vapor recovery system, designed to keep toxic chemicals such as cancer-causing benzene out of the air, where they can come in contact with your skin  or get into your lungs.3. Marinate meat before grilling
Processed, charred, and well-done meats can contain cancer-causing heterocyclic amines, which form when meat is seared at high temperatures, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which get into food when it’s charcoal broiled. “The recommendation to cut down on grilled meat has really solid scientific evidence behind it,” says Cheryl Lyn Walker, PhD, a professor of carcinogenesis at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. If you do grill, add rosemary and thyme to your favorite marinade and soak meat for at least an hour before cooking. The antioxidant-rich spices can cut HCAs by as much as 87%, according to research at Kansas State University.Cancer Quashing Marinade

4. Caffeinate every day
Java lovers who drank 5 or more cups of caffeinated coffee a day had a 40% decreased risk of brain cancer, compared with people who drank the least, in a 2010 British study. A 5-cup-a-day coffee habit reduces risks of oral and throat cancer almost as much. Researchers credit the caffeine: Decaf had no comparable effect. But coffee was a more potent protector against these cancers than tea, which the British researchers said also offered protection against brain cancer.

Look Younger with Coffee5. Water down your cancer risk
Drinking plenty of water and other liquids may reduce the risk of bladder cancer by diluting the concentration of cancer-causing agents in urine and helping to flush them through the bladder faster. Drink at least 8 cups of liquid a day, suggests the American Cancer Society.6. Load up on really green greens
Next time you’re choosing salad fixings, reach for the darkest varieties. The chlorophyll that gives them their color is loaded with magnesium, which some large studies have found lowers the risk of colon cancer in women. “Magnesium affects signaling in cells, and without the right amount, cells may do things like divide and replicate when they shouldn’t,” says Walker. Just 1/2 cup of cooked spinach provides 75 mg of magnesium, 20% of the daily value.

14 Power Foods

7. Snack on Brazil nuts
They’re a stellar source of selenium, an antioxidant that lowers the risk of bladder cancer in women, according to research from Dartmouth Medical School. Other studies have found that people with high blood levels of selenium have lower rates of dying of lung cancer and colorectal cancer. Researchers think selenium not only protects cells from free radical damage but also may enhance immune function and suppress formation of blood vessels that nourish tumors.
8. Burn off your breast cancer risk
Moderate exercise such as brisk walking 2 hours a week cuts risk of breast cancer 18%. Regular workouts may lower your risks by helping you burn fat, which otherwise produces its own estrogen, a known contributor to breast cancer.

Rev Your Metabolism With This 7-Day Plan

9. Skip the dry cleaner
A solvent known as perc (short for perchloroethylene) that’s used in traditional dry cleaning may cause liver and kidney cancers and leukemia, according to an EPA finding backed in early 2010 by the National Academies of Science. The main dangers are to workers who handle chemicals or treated clothes using older machines, although experts have not concluded that consumers are also at increased cancer risk. Less toxic alternatives: Hand-wash clothes with mild soap and air-dry them, spot cleaning if necessary with white vinegar.
10. Ask your doc about breast density
Women whose mammograms have revealed breast density readings of 75% or more have a breast cancer risk 4 to 5 times higher than that of women with low density scores, according to recent research. One theory is that denser breasts result from higher levels of estrogen—making exercise particularly important (see #8). “Shrinking your body fat also changes growth factors, signaling proteins such as adipokines and hormones like insulin in ways that tend to turn off cancer-promoting processes in cells,” Walker says.

Toss A Cancer Fighting Salad

11. Head off cell phone risks
Use your cell phone only for short calls or texts, or use a hands-free device that keeps the phone—and the radio frequency energy it emits—away from your head. The point is more to preempt any risk than to protect against a proven danger: Evidence that cell phones increase brain cancer risk is “neither consistent nor conclusive,” says the President’s Cancer Panel report. But a number of review studies suggest there’s a link.
12. Block skin cancer with color
Choosing your outdoor outfit wisely may help protect against skin cancer, say Spanish scientists. In their research, blue and red fabrics offered significantly better protection against the sun’s UV rays than white and yellow ones did. Don’t forget to put on a hat: Though melanoma can appear anywhere on the body, it’s more common in areas the sun hits, and researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill have found that people with melanomas on the scalp or neck die at almost twice the rate of people with the cancer on other areas of the body.Are You Over Exposed to the Sun?

13. Pick a doc with a past
Experience—lots of it—is critical when it comes to accurately reading mammograms. A study from the University of California, San Francisco, found that doctors with at least 25 years' experience were more accurate at interpreting images and less likely to give false positives. Ask about your radiologist's track record. If she is freshly minted or doesn't check a high volume of mammograms, get a second read from someone with more mileage.
14. Eat clean foods
The President’s Cancer Panel recommends buying meat free of antibiotics and added hormones, which are suspected of causing endocrine problems, including cancer. The report also advises that you purchase produce grown without pesticides and wash conventionally grown food thoroughly to remove residues. (The  foods with the most pesticides: celery, peaches, strawberries, apples, and blueberries. See the full list of dirtiest fruits and vegetables here.) “At least 40 known carcinogens are found in pesticides and we should absolutely try to reduce exposure,” Sellers says.15. Read food labels for folic acid
The B vitamin, essential for women who may become or are pregnant to prevent birth defects, is a double-edged sword when it comes to cancer risk. Consuming too much of the synthetic form (not folate, found in leafy green veggies, orange juice, and other foods) has been linked to increased colon cancer risk, as well as higher lung cancer and prostate cancer risks. Rethink your multivitamin, especially if you eat a lot of cereal and fortified foods. A recent CDC study discovered that half of supplement users who took supplements with more than 400 mcg of folic acid exceeded 1,000 mcg per day of folic acid. Most supplements pack 400 mcg. Individual supplements (of vitamin D and calcium, for instance) may be a smarter choice for most women who aren’t thinking of having kids.

Is Your Cereal Giving You Cancer?

16. Up your calcium intake
Milk's main claim to fame may also help protect you from colon cancer. Those who took calcium faithfully for 4 years had a 36% reduction in the development of new precancerous colon polyps 5 years after the study had ended, revealed Dartmouth Medical School researchers. (They tracked 822 people who took either 1,200 mg of calcium every day or a placebo.) Though the study was not on milk itself, you can get the same amount of calcium in three 8-ounce glasses of fat-free milk, along with an 8-ounce serving of  yogurt or a 2- to 3-ounce serving of low-fat cheese daily. 17. Commit to whole grains
You know whole wheat is better for you than white bread. Here’s more proof why you should switch once and for all: If you eat a lot of things with a high glycemic load—a measurement of how quickly food raises your blood sugar—you may run a higher risk of colorectal cancer than women who eat low-glycemic-load foods, found a Harvard Medical School study involving 38,000 women. The problem eats are mostly white: white bread, pasta, potatoes, and sugary pastries. The low-glycemic-load stuff comes with fiber.

Delicious Whole Grain Breakfasts
18. Pay attention to pain
If you’re experiencing a bloated belly, pelvic pain, and an urgent need to urinate, see your doctor. These symptoms may signal ovarian cancer, particularly if they're severe and frequent. Women and physicians often ignore these symptoms, and that's the very reason that this disease can be deadly. When caught early, before cancer has spread outside the ovary, the relative 5-year survival rate for ovarian cancer is a jaw-dropping 90 to 95%.8 Mistakes That Make Pain Worse

19. Avoid unnecessary scans
CT scans are a great diagnostic tool, but they deliver much more radiation than x-rays and may be overused, says Barton Kamen, MD, PhD, chief medical officer for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. In fact, researchers suggest that one-third of CT scans could be unnecessary. High doses of radiation can trigger leukemia, so make sure scans are not repeated if you see multiple doctors, and ask if another test, such as an ultrasound or MRI, could substitute.
20. Drop 10 pounds
Being overweight or obese accounts for 20% of all cancer deaths among women and 14% among men, notes the American Cancer Society. (You're overweight if your body mass index is between 25 and 29.9; you're obese if it's 30 or more. Click here to gauge your BMI.) Plus, losing excess pounds reduces the body's production of female hormones, which may protect against breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and ovarian cancer. Even if you're not technically overweight, gaining just 10 pounds after the age of  30 increases your risk of developing breast, pancreatic, and cervical, among other cancers. Tell us:  What healthy food do you eat every day?
More from Prevention:

Best Cancer-Fighting Foods

12 Big Myths About Breast Cancer

More Info on Cancer Prevention, Symptoms, and Treatments
 
 
 

Lose pounds and inches and watch your Belly Flatten!


 
 
 


Order Prevention today and receive a free Trial Issue and FREE Tote!






All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        124 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













UraFU
6 hours ago

dont believe people with a p h d
their
proven highly dumb




 








C of Red
6 hours ago

Good article, smoke break




 








UraFU
6 hours ago

heres a garanteed way to prevent cancer and it would do the world good to
go out by a gun and bullets put the bullets in the gun put the gun to your head put your finger on the trigger of the gun and finally squeeze the trigger.
if you dont like guns
go into your kitchen and open the drawer where you keep the knives take the biggest or atleast the sharpest one out put the blade against your throat and press the knife down with all your might and then pull the knife back with all your might and quikness.
since your so stupid 
im saying to kill yourself




 








R R
8 hours ago

Now this is a good....or great article...




 








Hope
10 hours ago

a balanced diet, with lots of fruits and vegies especially dark greens less red meat lots of liquids, reduce time in sun or use a sun screen that truly blocks the uv rays!




 








Marie-Therese
12 hours ago

it is great to read the above




 








Violet
13 hours ago

Drink coffee every day. Cancer cells hate caffeine and you will just protect yourself.
Caffeine is the one what I believe is true.




 








scott
13 hours ago

Forgot one! Tell your government to can with the chem trails!




 








horseygal1101
13 hours ago

definetly going to try, god bless everyone who has cancer and is struggling with cancer.. much love. muah




 









14 hours ago

Fast food , processed meats and to much dairy are the killers.Is it a coincidence that cancer exploded around the same time these things became a part of our regular diet?




 








Hayley Fricker
15 hours ago

sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo




 








twisted
15 hours ago

Awsome tips, some even work, for general health practis




 








Yang
17 hours ago

this is normal ; cancer is an decease of modern day society . You get any weir symptom of any decease in today society they call it Cancer. Most cancer is directly related to what you eat. Also the the water you drink from plastic bottles is not all to good for you. You drink enough of this plastic bottle water it it could cause some form of Cancer ..later in life. So now you have some clues about Cancer ; very simple to change your diet; but for some it may be to late. You are what you eat. Keep on eating junk food or just unhealthy bad food and you will get some form of Cancer..also this does not include self induced Cancer; like lying in the sun for hours on end. Wow you look great with that Tan but what are those little brown spots on your skin...I give up ; common sense will keep most Cancers away.  But remember this 80% comes from what you have eated over the years.




 








Scott
18 hours ago

Studies have proven , life causes death in laboritory animals .




 








Emily
21 hours ago

Everything gives you cancer now-a-days




 








Maggie
21 hours ago

It doesn't matter what kind of preventions you are going to take, if you have to get one, you will. It's in your genes. Different story is only with people getting radiation, working with aluminum, heavy smokers, etc... They are at higher risk.




 








philippe
22 hours ago

Stop topping your gas tank...  not only because of cancer, but it breaks the VCV / canister  vapor recovery system which turns on the 'check engine' light and may cost a few hundread $ to fix...




 








Faisal
22 hours ago

Well we all have to die one die.Why dont die with some good works like helping poors even our behaviour with strangers counts.I have seen people with very healthy life style having heart attacks.we can eve die in accident.Remember Michael Jackson took oxygen in close chambers to increase age but he died unexptedly.So die with smile and grace that you have done something good.I dont understand why people hate each other due to race and skin colors so sad




 








Ralf
22 hours ago

eat less food




 








Ralf
22 hours ago

eat less








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
New York Fashion Week
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesRuffling Feathers in Montreal: Gordon Ramsay's Canadian RotisserieFood Network - 14 hours agoCancer-fighting virus50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 tips for healthy kids50Plus.com - 15 hours ago8 tips for surviving fall allergies50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 habits for a heart healthy lifestyle50Plus.com - 15 hours ago

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play Video'Miracle Babies' Last Hope
Play VideoCould SpongeBob Be Bad for Kid …
Play VideoAnxiety about abductor
Play VideoPink fire truck hits the stree …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 48prevnext
Clinton's surprise gesture at 9/11 memorial
Teen star's TIFF outfit raises eyebrows
The 25 most powerful images from 9/11
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
See the cast of 'Home Improvement' now















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending Nowdaily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















