Alberta small business owners ooze confidence - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       








What are streaming quotes?




 
			{ "market" : {"NAME" : "", "ID" : "ca", "TZ" : "", "TZOFFSET" : "-14400", "open" : "", "close" : "", "flags" : ""} ,"STREAMER_SERVER" : "http://streamerapi.finance.yahoo.com" ,"arrowAsChangeSign" : true ,"throttleInterval": "1000","localize":"0" ,"region": "CA","lang" : "en-CA","mu":"1" ,"up_arrow_icon" :"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/up_g.gif" , "down_arrow_icon":"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/down_r.gif" ,"up_color" :"green" , "down_color":"red","pass_market_id" : "0","market_status_yrb" :"YFT_MARKET_WILL_OPEN"}
		



Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Tue Sep 13, 2011 7:36AM EDT - Canadian Markets open in 1 hr 54 mins









Alberta small business owners ooze confidence













More From Yahoo! Canada Finance



Federal cuts threaten recovery, Liberal McCallum saysBuffett's Berkshire adds successor stock pickerThe Caisse de depot invests another $200 million in Industrial Alliance insurer

More From Yahoo! Canada Finance »





Liam Lahey, 	On Friday September 9, 2011, 9:17 am EDT

Riddle me this: Where are the most optimistic small to midsized business (SMB) owners in Canada? If you guessed 'the prairies', congratulate yourself.
In its latest SMB business barometer report, the Canadian Federation of Independent Business (CFIB) stated Alberta businesses "remain the country's most optimistic", followed closely by Saskatchewan, Manitoba and British Columbia (are you seeing a pattern here?). Prince Edward Island's SMBs are the least optimistic. The report is here (PDF).
So why are the prairies so happy? According to the CFIB, wartmer weather this summer meant better prospects in the prospects in the agricultural, energy and construction sectors. As well, prairie businesses feel better about their access to credit, according to the Regina Leader-Post.
Despite an endless stream of troubling global economic news, Alberta's SMB owners are a confident lot. That contrasts Ontario's SMBs as their confidence has sagged to its lowest level since September 2010.
On the whole however, the news is less upbeat as small business confidence across Canada took a significant dive in August, falling to its lowest level since the 2008 recession flattened the world, according to the Montreal Gazette.
"The drop in confidence is having a predictable impact on capital spending intentions, as more business owners decide to postpone investment decisions on vehicles, equipment and real estate," said CFIB chief economist Ted Mallett.
"However, spending of this type generally has short lead times compared to capital investment in larger enterprises, so it would respond positively and quickly in the event of signs of greater economic stability."
Last week, Statistics Canada said the economy shrank 0.4 per cent in this year's second quarter, the first quarterly contraction since the recession.






 

24 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 24First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment bruce d 18 minutes ago Report Abuse Take a look at the IQ of Canadians by province.   The further west you go the smarter they are.   Maritimers aren't very bright, nor are they very hard working.   In all the regions I've lived in the East Coast is most definitely the place where government hand outs are a way of life, this breeds laziness and a lack of spirit.   Make no mistake, the nicest people live in Nfld, NS and the rest.   Harper, much as I dislike him, was bang on when he called us a "culture of defeat"
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Harry 3 hours ago Report Abuse People in the west don't compete with the Jones next door . They don't scream for overtime work . They love their week-ends for fmily   and satisfied with a little bit . Don't care for fancy cars . The East , my god they need every gadget that's out there. They need the latest sport clothing . that's why they have to work 70hrs a week to upkeep that lifestyle. They are all a buncy ogf greedy hungry pigs , making the rich richer and then they complain.
Mcginty seen another natural disaster . Too many taxes .
 




1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this commentA Yahoo! User 5 hours ago Report Abuse I find the "blame the rich" camp funny.   Who benefits when the rich do bad?   A lot of people get mad when a bank makes a lot of money.   But who owns those banks.   Rich people who are looking to screw the little guy?   No.   Look at the ownership structure, it is owned by pension funds and RRSP funds.   They do well, your retirement does well.   People like to cut off their nose to spite their face.   Look at the charities around you that do so much good.   Who contributes a lion's share to many charities?   A lot of it can be attributed to large companies.   When businesses do good, we all do good.   

That is why Alberta is so optimistic, it's because we don't hate our businesses, we try to make sure they're properly regulated, and then get out of the way.   People say, let's raise taxes on big business.   However, when business taxes are lowered, the actual income from business taxes goes up.   That is because those businesses take their extra revenue and reinvest it, creating a better economy, and better tax revenue.
 



5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Outsider 6 hours ago Report Abuse Western Canada needs to be its own country.
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Snork 6 hours ago Report Abuse you spelled "wartmer" wrong .... you asstards!
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Ron 7 hours ago Report Abuse What you people from Ontario need to do is, vote in Dalton again, wear your red nickers and white wigs and change the name back to Upper Canada.
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment edjoy74 7 hours ago Report Abuse Cjf I live in Ottawa and cannot stand Dalton McGuinty.   I can tell you from first hand all the dumb idiots here who have Dalton McGuinty signs on their lots.   The "sheeple" never learn do they.   Who else is any good to lead since they are all the same anyway and the sheeple know that so they just keep on following the herd to the slaughter.
 



3 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Ron 7 hours ago Report Abuse The eastern provinces have been influenced by the unions, they want to their cake and eat it 2. It is hard for small business to make it in the east as their employees take toooo much of the profits and do not have the business sense to know the business owner is taking the risk and the employees are the horses, with a whip on the arse every once in a while. To many 20-30 year olds still live with mommy and daddy in the east. No will power to succeed.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
2 users disliked this comment BORN AGAIN CHRISTIAN 7 hours ago Report Abuse Praise "GOD" for this weather for the farmer own good "GOD" bless.
B A C.
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment JT 8 hours ago Report Abuse No surprise here.

Comments 1 - 10 of 24First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                






Brands

 
 




RIM dodges lawsuit with license agreement

- The Canadian Press Dolby Laboratories says Research in Motion has agreed to license its audio technologies that were the subject of two recent lawsuits against the BlackBerry maker. 

 
 




Suzuki calls for 'divorce' from VW

- AFP Suzuki said it wanted to end its ill-fated two-year alliance with Germany's Volkswagen following disagreements between the two on how to operate together. 

 
 




McGraw-Hill to split, spin off S&P

- AFP The move aims to better tap the value of the company's two key wings. 

 
  
                            Swatch to seek damages from Tiffany & Co.
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            IBM supercomputer gets post-Jeopardy job
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            Regulators probe minivan headlight failure
                         - The Canadian Press  







Perfect Cents

 
 

The secret to saving: Think first

- Entrepreneur




 Conscious spending usually means cutting out one thing to afford another. Every purchase is a trade-off, but conscious spending makes those trade-offs explicit. 

 
  
                            Budget basics for college students
                         - Investopedia   
                            Early retirement isn't for everyone
                         - US News & World Report   
                            4 things you should try living without
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Engagement rings on a budget
                         - GoldenGirlFinance.ca  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

What to do when you're struggling at work

- US News & World Report




 Maybe you feel in over your head, or you've been warned that you need to improve, or you just can't seem to please your boss no matter what you do. 

 
  
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report   
                            The cure for those who hate self-promotion
                         - Forbes  




Real Estate

 
 




The height of penthouse luxury

- Forbes From expansive terraces to private elevators, these sky-high, multimillion-dollar penthouses have to bee seen to be believed. 

 
  
                            New home construction slows, as predicted
                           
                            Australian mall developer eyes Toronto waterfront
                           
                            New home prices rise, Toronto-Oshawa leads way
                          




CEO Clips

 
 




 More from CEO Clips

Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 












Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.




1184556728










