Urban Christian News: Science Archives


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































Recently in Science Category



 

 



Defunct NASA Satellite to Plunge Back to Earth, Debris Shower Possible 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011 10:52 AM





UARS before being released by the shuttle Discovery crew in September 1991 (NASA)A defunct NASA science satellite will be plunging back to Earth soon, sparking concerns that some debris might shower down on populated areas.


            Continue reading Defunct NASA Satellite to Plunge Back to Earth, Debris Shower Possible .
        





Astronomers Find 'Invisible' Planet 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011 10:51 AM





Astronomers have for the first time discovered a previously unknown exoplanet through its effects on another planet in the system.


            Continue reading Astronomers Find 'Invisible' Planet .
        





NASA's Astronaut Shortage 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011 12:51 PM





NASA astronaut Greg Chamitoff takes center stage in this amazing spacewalk photo taken by crewmate Mike Fincke (visible in the reflection on Chamitoff's spacesuit visor) using a fish-eye lens and digital camera during a May 27, 2011 excursion outside the International Space Station. It was the last spacewalk ever to be performed by shuttle astronauts and occurred during the STS-134 mission, the final flight of shuttle Endeavour. (NASA)NASA needs to keep more astronauts on staff than planned even though no one is being launched from the home turf, a new report urged Wednesday.


            Continue reading NASA's Astronaut Shortage .
        





Scientists: Space Junk Needs to Be Cleaned Up 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:37 AM





A representation of space junk orbiting around Earth.Space junk has made such a mess of Earth's orbit that experts say we may need to finally think about cleaning it up.


            Continue reading Scientists: Space Junk Needs to Be Cleaned Up .
        





Ice Age Woolly Rhino Fossil Discovered in Tibet 


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  4:35 AM





An artist's rendition of a woolly rhino using its horn to look for food (AFP/HO/Science, Julie Naylor)A 3.6-million-year-old woolly rhinoceros fossil discovered in Tibet indicates that some giant mammoths, sloths and saber-tooth cats may have evolved in highlands before the Ice Age, experts say.


            Continue reading Ice Age Woolly Rhino Fossil Discovered in Tibet .
        





Domino's Plans Pizza Restaurant on the Moon, but Who Will Order? 


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:32 AM





Construction firm Maeda Corp has come up with a plan for a dome-shaped concrete Domino's restaurant on the surface of the moon.Domino's pizza has announced plans to conquer the final frontier by opening the first pizza restaurant on the Moon.


            Continue reading Domino's Plans Pizza Restaurant on the Moon, but Who Will Order? .
        





Stars Unleash Supersonic Stellar Jets 


    
                By UCN on September  1, 2011  5:49 AM





Image: Herbig-Haro objects HH 47 (NASA/ESA/P. Hartigan, Rice University) [full high-resolution version]Using 14 years' worth of Hubble Space Telescope images, astronomers have animated the chaos inside the supersonic jets of newborn stars.


            Continue reading Stars Unleash Supersonic Stellar Jets .
        





NASA: Space Station May Be Evacuated 


    
                By UCN on August 30, 2011  6:47 AM





Astronauts may need to take the unprecedented step of temporarily abandoning the International Space Station if last week's Russian launch accident prevents new crews from flying there this fall.


            Continue reading NASA: Space Station May Be Evacuated .
        





Italy's Mount Etna Volcano Becomes More Violent 


    
                By UCN on August 30, 2011  6:34 AM





Lava spews from a crater of the giant Etna volcano in the southern Italy island of Sicily. (Marcello Paternostro / AFP - Getty Images)Sicily's Mount Etna volcano is stepping up its eruption, spewing out ash and shooting lava into the air.


            Continue reading Italy's Mount Etna Volcano Becomes More Violent .
        





Astronomers Find Diamond Planet 


    
                By UCN on August 26, 2011 11:44 AM





An exotic planet that seems to be made of diamond racing around a tiny star in our galactic backyard in an undated image courtesy of Swinburne University of Technology in Melbourne. (Reuters)Astronomers have spotted an exotic planet that seems to be made of diamond racing around a tiny star in our galactic backyard.


            Continue reading Astronomers Find Diamond Planet .
        




« Press Releases |
                                Main Index |
                                Archives
                                | Society »










 




Defunct NASA Satellite to Plunge Back to Earth, Debris Shower Possible 


Astronomers Find 'Invisible' Planet 


NASA's Astronaut Shortage 


Scientists: Space Junk Needs to Be Cleaned Up 


Ice Age Woolly Rhino Fossil Discovered in Tibet 


Domino's Plans Pizza Restaurant on the Moon, but Who Will Order? 


Stars Unleash Supersonic Stellar Jets 


NASA: Space Station May Be Evacuated 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










