 November 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Plywood Christmas Tree
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 30 under Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly
  Christmas is fast approaching and sometimes it saddens me to imagine that some people are still cutting trees for the winter. Cutting trees takes a longer period to replace, especially if people forget to plant another. Since we are always encouraging people to live in a sustainable environment, having plywood tree doesn’t hurt either. [...]


2 Comments



Delta Develops Electric Vehicle Propulsion System
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 27 under Transportation
Rather than entering the automobile electronics sector through onboard IT devices like other electronics companies, Delta Electronics has now successfully integrated existing automation, motor, servo-motor and electrical electronics technologies to develop its own petrol-electric hybrid propulsion system. This is the first petrol-electric hybrid propulsion system developed by a Taiwanese electronics company and the design includes [...]


1 Comment



Sanyo Eneloop Rechargeable Interior Light
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 27 under Eco Gadgets
Rechargeable items are quite dominant in the market. Aside from the hassle that you have to buy now and then to replace batteries, it also decreases the amount of landfills. The eneloop rechargeable interior light is another Eco-friendly product from Sanyo. TheEneloop rechargeable interior light has a contactless charging system. From igreenspot: When the lamp [...]


1 Comment



Plans for more Eco down under
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 26 under Eco-friendly
It is always a delight to read the news and see the effort people and cities make to turn Green. Today is no exception with news from Australia of the Green friendly positive kind. Queensland National Parks have announced plans to open new Eco accommodations at seven different sites in the National Parks. This new [...]


1 Comment



Go Organic by Just Commenting to Win This Cool Prize!
POSTED BY Lira on Nov 25 under Eco-friendly, Organic
Our generous friends at EcoSMART, maker of organic insecticides and pesticides, are giving away an organic home pest control value bundle for free! All you have to do to win this is to tell us: Aside from organic pesticides what eco-friendly idea, concept or innovation are you most thankful for? Chime in the comments below! [...]


18 Comments



The Most Eco-Friendly Homes In The World
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 25 under Eco-friendly
Construction Management Degrees has come up with their list of ten of the eco-friendliest houses ever built in the world. The choices are pretty interesting. Except for one or two though, why do eco-houses always have to look extra-ordinary and whimsical? I don’t know a lot about construction but I’m guessing this oddity has a [...]


1 Comment



The Snaefell Hybrid
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 24 under Eco-friendly
I would have never imagined combiningÂ a motorcycle with a car. To theÂ extent ofÂ being a hybrid even made it more interesting.Â  I was really thrilled to even want to see it in person, it might be even better. The Hybrid CarÂ canÂ leave you breathless and it fully understood Mother Earth’s concept of green living. the snaefell is [...]


1 Comment



The Unicef Snowflake
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 23 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly
UNICEF has saved more lives than any other humanitarian organization, a lifesaving organization that operates in over 150 countries. It is of course no surprise how successful the UNICEF Lighting Snowflake Ceremony was over the weekend. Lucy Liu a longtime supporter and actress was there to illuminate the snowflake and begin special ceremony which took [...]


Comments Off



Start Them Young With Idbibs
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 23 under Eco-friendly
Start your kids early with these really cute toys your kids are bound to fall in love with. Each toy is also a learning tool which should help them learn a little bit about taking care of the environment. There are three plush toys available — a cloud (Scout), a flower (Lola) and a water [...]


1 Comment



ChicoBag’s DayPack for Outdoorsy People
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 23 under Parenting
This DayPack rePETeâ„¢ by ChicoBagâ„¢ should be a good gift idea for your more adventurous and outdoorsy friends this holiday season. It’s made from recycled PET bottles and although it’s very lightweight, the backpack is designed to be durable ang long-lasting. There are a few pouches and pockets to this DayPack for packing little knick [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


lifestyle
saving energy
reuters
prnewswire
epicenter
earth
clothes
organic cotton
earthquake
hurricane irene
pr newswire
environment
consumers
Eco-friendly
ecofriendly
climate change
national hurricane center
global warning
recycled materials
Recycling
green
christmas
money
carbon footprint
mother earth
eco
global warming
barack obama
richter scale
tropical storm lee
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




