Texas cut wildfire-battling agency budget this year | Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!





About
Contact
MADE IN AMERICA
RSS FEEDS
Privacy Policy






 













Blogs & Stories

Featured

From Around The Web

From The Left

From The Right



News Worthy

Side Notes

Social

Sports

Tech

Video Library










Subscribe



Follow Us 



Be Our Fan



Stumble

Share 







Ads Powered by Max Banner Ads Contributors

AP Top Headlines At 6:15 a.m. EDT
AP Top Political News At 6:15 a.m. EDT
articles
C-SPAN Video Library Blog
Media Matters for America – Limbaugh Wire
Michael Moore – This Just In
NBCSports.com: Sports
News & Politics
Open Mike
OpenSecrets Blog
POLITICO.com: 2012 LIVE Blog
Power Line
Reuters: Politics
Reuters: Top News
Right Wing News
Social Media Today – The world’s best thinkers on social media
Taegan Goddard’s Political Wire
The Daily Beast – Videos
The Daily Caller » Politics
The Ed Schultz Show – BlOn Today’s Showog
The Maddow Blog
Top Tech News
VOA News:  News  
Y! Sports Blogs  – Yahoo! Sports








Texas cut wildfire-battling agency budget this year

Tuesday, September 06, 2011
                         Maggie Haberman
            
                               No comments


As Texas Gov. Rick Perry has stayed in-state for the past two days dealing with the record forest fires there, a reader pointed out to me the fact that the state was set earlier this year to cut the budget of the agency that deals with fighting such blazes.
Texas lawmakers are set to slash funding for the agency responsible for fighting wildfires in the midst of a historic wildfire season in which some 2.5 million acres have burned.
The Texas Forest Service faces almost $34 million in budget cuts over the next two years, roughly a third of the agency’s total budget. The cuts are in both the House and Senate versions of the proposed state budget.
The Forest Service has about 200 firefighters and offers assistance grants to volunteer fire departments. Assistance grants are likely to take the biggest hit.
Volunteers — two of whom were killed in fighting this year’s fires — make up nearly 80 percent of the state’s fire-fighting force and are first responders to roughly 90 percent of wildfires in Texas.
“Volunteer programs are our No. 1 defense,” Forest Service Director Tom Boggus told Reuters.
A month earlier, Perry and the Texas congressional delegation had asked President Obama to “grant a disaster declaration” that would have brought federal funds to cover much of the fire-fighting.
It’s not immediately clear what the outcome of the proposed budget slashing, and a Perry spokesman didn’t respond to an email for comment earlier today.
But, putting aside the seriousness of the situation in Texas, this is a problem that many small-government state chief executives find themselves in at a national level – squaring budget cuts with federal asks.




 Full article  

Posted in:  Blogs & Stories, News Worthy
                          Tags: Around the web, blogs, left, right




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Connect with FacebookName *
Email *
Website
 Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  







Notify me of followup comments via e-mail

 












Language


JavaScript is required to use this website translator, site translator, automatic translation, free translation. Buy oil paintings on ArtMaestro.Featured Video








Boehner Debt Ceiling 7.25.11Sponsors 










Recent Posts
Comments
Tags




African Union Stops Short of Backing Libya’s Transitional Government Thursday, September 15, 2011 By VOA News                                         

Memorials set as Marine gets Medal of Honor Thursday, September 15, 2011 By AP Top Headlines At 6:15 a.m. EDT                                         

Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya Thursday, September 15, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         

UBS says $2 billion rogue trader arrested in London Thursday, September 15, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         

US, S. Korea Negotiate Drone Support Near DMZ Thursday, September 15, 2011 By VOA News                                         







Dave Francis: ONE OF THE GREATEST BILLS EVER, AGAINST THE ILLEGA 
                                                »  



Bill Slover: Too funny 
                                                »  



Dave Francis: HIRING ILLEGAL ALIENS MUST COME TO AN END, OR FACE 
                                                »  



Anna: I finally understand Serena- she's one of those th 
                                                »  



Home Party Consultant: Great game to watch 
                                                »  




Around the web
Auto Insurance
Blog
blogs
car free insurance online quote
Daily
Endowment Selling
Facebook
In
Insurance Auto
left
mlb
News
nfl
nhl
right
Secured Loan Calculator
Social
sports
Twitter



Quick Links 

Members of Congress
Lobbying


Congressional Races
527 Committees


Get Local
Pacs


Donor Lookup
Personal Finances


Interest Groups
Earmarks



 RECENT US KEYVOTESAmendments to US Patent Law - Bill Passed - Senate Thursday, September 8, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Concurrence Vote Passed - Senate Tuesday, August 2, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Bill Passed - House Monday, August 1, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Reid Bill) - Cloture Not Invoked - Senate Sunday, July 31, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Tabled - Senate Friday, July 29, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Passed - House Friday, July 29, 2011






             © 2011  Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!. All Rights Reserved. 
        



Powered by WordPress | Designed by: seo services | Thanks to credit repair, web design st louis and std testing










 





FEDUPdate: Memorials set as Marine gets Medal of Honor http://t.co/aYwi667y5 minutes ago











Tweet







