Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm | AAJ News








		SC reserves verdict over Karachi killings case		  
				
		Islamabad fends off US warning on “Pakistan-based” militants		  
				
		US will act against Haqqani network in Pakistan		  
				
		Iraq attacks leave more than 25 dead		  
				









 










  











AAJ News Pakistan Ki Awaz


Home 

Programme 

Blogs 

Urdu News 






















 





 








		Headlines




		Latest 



		World



		National



		Business



		Sports



		Technology



	Entertainment






						Film



						Music






		Life & Style






						Education



						Health



						Women



						Fashion






		Exclusive



	Opinion






						Editorial



						Columns






Blogs



		Videos



				Site Map



				Schedule



				Contact Us



				About Us








 







AAJ News  Text Ads




Essay Writing


Thesis Writing

















 












Share





 





Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm


BASTROP, Texas - 7th September 2011 

By AP


One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing  down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting  crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across  rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.
Raging  with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more  than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around  Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will  begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed  two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
Crews finally got a  reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped  the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was  moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some  containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols  said.
“Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good  day we hope,” Nichols said late Tuesday. “The reason why it hasn’t  been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active  fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind.”
The  blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have  erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most  devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have  destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the  state’s firefighting ranks to the limit.
In a housing development  near Bastrop, Willie Clements’ two-story colonial home was reduced to a  heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and  turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that  went up in flames.
“We lost everything,” said Clements, who with  his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned  with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We  Stand.”
“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year-old said.
Texas  Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to  South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a  blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin.
He later  deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York  following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the  aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
“Pretty powerful visuals of  individuals who lost everything,” Perry said after the tour. “The  magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The conservative  Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but  complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other  heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop.  The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House  spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven  federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About  1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away  as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the  federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons  of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed  largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells  the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most  devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze  that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11  other fires exceeded 1,000 acres on Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre  blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to  Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire  burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles  northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes  and threatened hundreds more.
In at least one neighborhood in  Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among  oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal Service delivered mail to burned  homes where only mailboxes were left standing.
John Chapman’s  home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but  the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or  under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a  Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames,  the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac  GTO, a ’57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said:  “You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.”
“The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I’m not going to worry about it,” he said.
About  40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in  the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have  been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food  and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
“The  first night, we had a child 17 months old,” she said. “We didn’t have  milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what  we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.”




 











Your Comment


Name 

Mail 

Website







Please note: JavaScript is required to post comments. Spam protection by WP Captcha-Free








 






















 RELATED NEWS
MOST READ NEWS





Heavy rains cripple in biggest city Karachi


		September 14, 2011



Floods triggered by monsoon rains crippled biggest city and commercial hub of
		



 



Govt mobilizing all resources to help affected people in Sindh


		September 12, 2011



Federal and provincial governments have been mobilizing all the resources to help
		



 



Rains continue to cripple life in Sindh


		September 15, 2011



Relentless rain continued to play havoc with life and brought misery across
		



 



At least 120 dead in Kenyan pipeline fire


		September 12, 2011



At least 120 people were burned to death on Monday when a
		



 



Fehmida appeals to civil society, politicians, int’l community to play role for rain affected people


		September 8, 2011



Speaker of National Assembly Dr. Fehmida Mirza on Wednesday urged all members
		



 



26 die, 2849 cattle perished in Badin district


		September 11, 2011



Some 26 persons have died and 2,849 cattle heads perished in Badin
		



 



TTP demand prisoner swap deal


		September 8, 2011



The Pakistani Taliban who are holding more than 20 young tribesmen hostage
		



 



Karachi: Over 1,000 detained in search operation


		September 8, 2011



Rangers here today continued their search operation in different violence-hit areas 
		



 



Heavy rains likely in Sindh, South Punjab, Balochistan


		September 8, 2011



Another spell of rains will likely to continue in lower Sindh, South
		



 



Train collision in south India kills 10


		September 14, 2011



A passenger train collided with another train stopped at a signal in
		



 


 







President takes aerial view of flooded areas in Sindh



		September 8, 2011


President Asif Ali Zardari on Wednesday said that the government would not
		



 




Commanders discuss flood, karachi situation



		September 8, 2011


The Corps Commanders’ Conference was underway in Rawalpindi to discuss major issues
		



 




Actors’ salaries too high, says Wikileaks



		September 9, 2011


In its recent revelation, whistleblower Wikileaks have said that the entry of
		



 




18 dead in Sindh disastrous rainstorm



		September 8, 2011


Torrential rains continued to lash parts of Sindh province, perishing 18 people
		



 




Zardari phones Ban Ki-moon, urges humanitarian help for flood victims



		September 8, 2011


President Asif Ali Zardari on Thursday phoned UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
		



 


 




 


 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 













BUSINESS RECORDER


AAJ TV


PLAY TV


CONNECT




Pakistan News
World News
Business News
Market News
Sports News
 


Latest News
World News
National News
Sports News
Business News
Exclusive News
 


Entertainment News
Programs
VJS
Videos
Blogs
 


Contact Us
Sitemap
About Us
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Distribution Details







Copyright © 2005-2010 AAJ NEWSAll rights reserved.
	  Privacy Policy











 



