Netroots blame wrong people for Texas wildfire problems. | RedState













About
Contribute
Contact
Advertise Here
Help




Conservative News, Books, & Views
Conservative Book Club
Regnery Books




RedState.com
                : Conservative Blog and News
                






















Hot Topics: Barack Obama
 • debt ceiling
 • Obama
 • 2012
 • politics
 • Rick Perry
 • Morning Briefing
 • Coffee and Markets
 



Recent Posts
Log In
Sign Up

















Netroots blame wrong people for Texas wildfire problems.



					Yes.  You are shocked.				










						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Wednesday, September 7th at 7:00PM EDT					
5 Comments 


Very quickly, and to get this out of the way: the Online Left is babbling about supposedly-cut Texas firefighting budgets, mostly because they lack the research skills – or possibly, the native intelligence – to tell the difference between a $109 million Forest Service/Wildfire Fighting budget in 2010/2011, and a $196 million Forest Service/Wildfire Fighting budget for 2012/2013 (the 2012 fiscal year started at the beginning of this month).  Fortunately, Battleswarm Blog can both think and do research – as seen here and here – which means that I don’t have to do any of the heavy lifting this time.  Bottom line: never, ever stop just because you got the answer that you wanted.
[UPDATE: Via WILLisms, via @bdomenech, comes another reading error from the netroots.  Turns out that some of the n-dimensional geniuses over on that side of the blogosphere looked at last year's Forest Service budget and inexplicably failed to notice that it included a one-time new equipment allocation: which caused them to mistake this year's budget as a reduction.  What makes it particularly funny is that the allocation was due to stimulus funds... which meant that in their haste to go negative, the netroots completely messed up the opportunity to make a positive argument about their policy positions.  And they wonder why nobody respects them...]
But.  Since we’re talking about supposed derelictions of duty, how about we talk about some of the stuff that the federal government is doing?  – Or, more accurately, what the federal government is not doing.
For example: the federal government is not letting volunteers help.
Firefighting-trained volunteers from around the state converged on  Bastrop and Smithville Tuesday to lend a hand to the beleaguered local  firefighters battling the Bastrop County Complex Fire — only to be sent  away as federal officials arrived at the scene and took command,  apparently because local officials never made a formal request for  volunteers.
“We were at the station getting set up into strike teams, and this guy  came up and said that the U.S. Forest Service had ‘assumed control of  the situation, and that ‘If you don’t have a vehicle that squirts water,  go home,’” said Gordon Greer of Kirbyville, who drove all night Monday  to arrive in the town beset by the worst wildfire in Texas history.
And the federal government is not letting critical federal firefighting resources be used… because of a contract dispute.
Nearly half of the federal government’s firefighting air tankers are  siting idle at a California airport, grounded by the Obama  administration in a contract dispute just weeks before wildfires swept  through Texas killing a mother and her child, and destroying 100,000  acres.
[snip]
The U.S. Forest Service terminated the contract with Aero  Union five weeks ago to operate seven P-3 Orions that are critical to  the agency’s firefighting mission, leaving the federal government with  11 tankers under contract to help battle more than 50 large uncontained  wildfires now burning nationwide.
And, of course, the federal government is not precisely rushing to provide assistance to a state that won’t vote for Obama next year anyway Texas:
Gov. Rick Perry is again criticizing the Obama Administration for  ignoring his appeal for a federal disaster declaration for Texas, where  wildfires continue burning out of control over wide areas.
That quote is from April, by the way.  You see, the wildfire problem is a known one that’s been going on for a while, which is why the special session of the legislature pumped up next year’s budget for wildfires (not that you’d know that, if you were relying on the Online Left for information).  On the other hand, back in 2007 when California had a similar problem, George Bush was just as partisan… yes, yes, of course I’m kidding.  President Bush was a better man than that:
The Bush administration’s disaster assistance chief promised no repeat  of the Hurricane Katrina experience Wednesday, saying “this is a new  FEMA” as Washington weighed options to help California wildfire victims.
[snip]
Bush, who mobilized the federal disaster relief  establishment Tuesday, has scheduled a visit to California Thursday.
 
[snip]
 
To make the trip, Bush is canceling a previously  scheduled trip to St. Louis, where he was to deliver remarks on the  budget and headline a fundraiser for the national Republican Party.
But you knew that already.  For that matter, so does the Online Left: which is why they were and are so desperate to rush out an attack here.
Moe Lane (crosspost)




Sponsored Content





Category: Texas, us forest service, wildfires 















RSS feed
5 Comments 

	Leave a comment














																					It's Good News						

Christian 

								Wednesday, September 7th at 8:11PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Why should the federal government get involved in this anyway?  Texas is perfectly capable of taking care of itself!


Log in to Reply 







																					It's not good news						

NRPax

								Wednesday, September 7th at 8:32PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Texas, like every other state in the Union, pays money to the federal government and in return should expect things like assistance for wildfires. In other words: They have paid money for services that the federal government is denying them. 
However, If the feds don’t want to do their jobs, then the money could go back to the state and USFS can be told to go pound sand.


Log in to Reply 







																					Stop paying the money						

Christian 

								Wednesday, September 7th at 8:53PM EDT							

								(link)
							








This is a predictable, recurring, local issue. There is no reason to federalize it.


Log in to Reply 




 




 




 





















																					possible FAA issue with p3's  ??						

dmacleo

								Wednesday, September 7th at 8:38PM EDT							

								(link)
							








can’t find link now (so this may be suspect) but had read something earlier that there was faa violation driving the contract issue.
take that with huge grain of salt though as that  could be anything from AD, EO,SB issue to mel/tdmi/cdl paperwork error and because I cannot find link right now.


Log in to Reply 







																					some info						

dmacleo

								Wednesday, September 7th at 8:41PM EDT							

								(link)
							








http://lubbockonline.com/local-news/2011-04-16/three-firefighting-planes-remain-grounded-fires-continue#.TmgOHoKwXII


Log in to Reply 




 




 




















Leave a Comment





							Click here to cancel "reply".
						








												Comment title:
											








												Your thoughts:
												(smaller size
larger size)
											






 


												Be respectful, or be banned.  No Profanity.
											



 









 












«Reminder: primary deadline in Louisiana tomorrow.
Jay Carney’s ‘shuck-and-jive.’»











Get Local

Colorado
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania



Select state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming





















			
            COMMENTS
            
							

								COMMENTS
							







Politicians and the phrase "I was wrong"
by Craigpennsylvania


What ever happened
by popster


stimulus bill revealed
by repubnut


As much as you would like to
by Scope


A couple of OTHER situations?
by lucitee


Probably right
by wennejunk


Going Concern
by Right_Again


What about the other cancers...
by ragstoriches


Kind of like Al quaida leadership
by wennejunk


selected not elected
by wennejunk


mine-
by evilleramsfan


Actually
by ag8tor


Not very bright
by ag8tor


Unlike the 
by ag8tor


Florida? If he's lost the liberal Jewish vote
by The_Gadfly


While the percentage of Jewish voters may not apply
by The_Gadfly


Here's what I find most amusing
by bk


Not this time cat,
by The_Gadfly


Yeah but what about all the girls it would make retarded?
by bk


It is like someone pretending to faint and get carried away
by davesinsanantonio


Did you foget obama told Grandma she would just have to take a pill a long time ago.
by bobojake


5555!
by davesinsanantonio


Perry needs to settle these issues...
by iidvbii


aesthete:  The video in which the young woman appears
by pttx333


It's not just moderates that won't support her
by jkines


Bachmann Must Go
by jkines


Affirmative Action
by mikefrey


So the "mistake"
by aesthete


Moderate != Fiscal Conservative
by DonPMitchell


Mine... I guess you are deaf then
by onemovoter


Not the point
by Adjoran


Brought tears to my eyes too
by mine


aesthete, you should get some sleep
by onemovoter


Civilizational Treason
by RonLewenberg


Oh, come on!
by aesthete


No wonder Romney and Bachmann
by onemovoter


I saw this over at TheBlaze.com
by onemovoter


Perry takes the lead in latest Florida primary poll
by californiagold


Thanks for posting this
by easyb


Bill S:  This link has the story with the video.  I was
by pttx333



























RECOMMENDED DIARIES
								
RECOMMENDED DIARIES








You Should Read Title 4 of the "American Jobs Act". Then puke.
						by 
							SteveM
						


Rick Perry's Political Judo
						by 
							sayoung80913 
						


Burning bin Laden
						by 
							Neil Stevens
						


Pawlenty endorses Romney
						by 
							bk
						


Calling a Spade a Spade
						by 
							suzieQ
						


"Oh my God...they're jumping...they're jumping!"
						by 
							Eric Olsen
						


Concrete national goals, and how "we the people" can make them a reality
						by 
							ColdWarrior
						


If Gov. Palin is the Nominee, Will "Moderate Republicans" Support Her?
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						


2012 GOP Presidential Nomination Rankings
						by 
							chrysostom15 
						


Raising Cain: An Interesting Twist on the "Independents"
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						

























REDHOT









                  Dan Spencer: Rasmussen: 50% Say Obama’s Policies Have Hurt the Economy. #tcot #RSRH



                  Jake Walker: Now that #NY9 and #NV2 are settled, we Repubs need to start focusing our efforts in Oregon's 1st district. http://t.co/g7DaSR5R #tcot #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh QotD, Wait, They Went After A DEMOCRAT? edition. http://t.co/BIfzmHea



                  Daniel Horowitz: Dem Rep. Cooper: Gov't Has No Contractual Obligation 2 Pay Social Security Benefits http://t.co/Oufi25x6 #rsrh worse than a ponzi scheme?
                  


                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh @DLoesch 'accepts' Harvey Weinstein's 'kind' offer... http://t.co/1B999dpp



                  streiff RS: RT @RedState: Obama: “If you love me, pass this bill!” http://t.co/fz6Kul9 #rsrh #AttackWatch



                  Caleb Howe: #rsrh RT @amandacarpenter Rep. Tim Murphy to DoE's Silver: "So no one is responsible?!..what do you do for a living?"
                  


                  Dan McLaughlin: Meta-narrative on "Is Obama Depressed" story: even Gawker, starved for hits, now sees kicking Obama as traffic gold. #rsrh



                  Steve Maley: @AttackWatch: new Minitrue to stop oldthink speedwise. http://t.co/0EYGeUG   || Nice blackwhite website. #rsrh ref: http://t.co/XDYsrUO



                  Jake Walker: "Five Quick Lessons from NY-9" by Robert Costa of NRO http://t.co/3VKfrih #tcot #rsrh























GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL
								
GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL












Delivered by FeedBurner






















MEMBER DIARIES
								
MEMBER DIARIES






Conservative Electoral Surge Continues by Nikitas3
Obama Bear Hugs “Arab Spring” But Disses the “Republican Fall” by savejersey
In case this news has not yet been regurgitated here: Perry/Trump by ColdWarrior
CPAC FL: A Prospective Survey of Attractions by Paul Fallavollita
Even Republicans Rejected Info About Obama’s Past by augustine25
Sen. Graham's Bumper-Sticker Response to Perry's Afghanistan Policy by Paul Fallavollita
Mr. Obama – Letter From a 71 Year Old Grandmother by littletboca
Anybody but Obama? How far would you take that? by rogershru2
Conservative job creation strategy by paint_it_red
Antidote for Palin Conspiracy Theories: The Primaries? by jerry39
Breaking: AttackWatch.com is a Threat Site  by Scott Conklin
Community Organizing, Texas Style  by Scott Conklin
Liberals Can NEVER Again Be In Power by chicagobluesgirl
Amazon’s Argument Falls Apart by Stephen DeMaura
"If you love me..." by samboone
Doubts Raised about Virginia ObamaCare Decision  by Loren Heal
Awesome: Jewish Rock Anthem for Rosh Hashanah  by lithamcongal91
FEMA TO THE RESCUE IN ALABAMA. NOT! by rightwingmom52
Free market energy solutions don’t jeopardize national security by Bob Weeks
Obama's "Jobs" Bill: More of the same, but for how long? by cmndr45
Raising Cain: An Interesting Twist on the "Independents" by conservativecurmudgeon
Where do you suppose Obama will come down on this one? by Right Reason
AIM: Veteran Journalist Ken Timmerman recalls 9/11 by accuracyinmedia
Big Brother Obama Launches AttackWatch.com by The Rat
Ode to Cold Warrior: Redistricting of Ohio 14 means LaTourette can and should be defeated by red_oakster
Freedom of Speech? No Thanks, We Prefer to Censor Ourselves. by deweyfromdetroit
Immigration: Rick Perry is Unfit for the Presidency by georgeinla
The reported Side Effects of Gardasil [Closed and fixed.] by davidcampion
Hideous Ground Zero, Pentagon Memorials by Nikitas3
Mandates and Vaccines by sdsali
If I were President...Part 1 by mjnellett
A Multi-Digressioned Ode to MY Gardasil Pumping Warm Bucket of #!$$ by ntrepid
GE, Unions, and American Manufacturing by DerKrieger
Does Obama Care About America – Absolutely Not! by littletboca
Ron Paul Supporter Shows His Understanding of The Constitution by Kenny Martsolf
Ann Coulter joins the idiocy core... by onemovoter
Is Social Security Taxable? Should It Be? by alandlugash
GOP VP Rankings by chrysostom15 
AIM: Leader Eric Cantor recalls 9/11 and the death of bin Laden by accuracyinmedia
The Questions That Should Have Been Asked at The Debate by Change Jar Conservative






















SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE
								
SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE







Front Page
Recommended Diaries
Member Diaries
Red Hot
Morning Briefing























RECENT JOBS
								
RECENT JOBS









View All Jobs


Post a Job



			Get your job site at SimplyHired.com


Jobs by Simply Hired














 RedState on Facebook











About
Contact
Contribute
Help




Eagle Publishing
Conservative Book Club
Conservative News, Books, & Views
Regnery Books



                Generated at: 11:31:14 am UTC                    © 2011 Redstate, Inc., 2008 Eagle Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved.
                Legal, Copyright, and Terms of Service.
        
















