Online Catholic News Portal | PewSitter.com | Audio, Video, Print




















Page 2 News | 
		Submit News | 
		Search News |
		Contact a Bishop/Diocese |
		Become a News Clipper | 
		News Ticker | 
		Book Reviews






Facebook

Twitter

RSS

Tell A Friend

Bookmark Page


		September 15, 2011	








PewSitter.com
			Your Online Catholic Newspaper For The 3rd Millennium
		





New York abortions by zip code 

... more

Benedict XVI: how to turn pain into hope 

... more

The "opportunities" and risks of Beijing's purchase of Italian debt 

... more

Glee Star Kristin Chenoweth "I'm Christian And Gay Is Not A Sin" 

... more

Armenian genocide and modern memory 

... more

Jury Gives Parents $4.5 Million Because They Missed Chance to Abort Disabled Son 

... more

Obama 2012 & The Jews - the ground just shifted 

... more

Amarillo Bishop calls for donations ban just as Priests For Life starts 2012 election push 

... more

Vatican hands SSPX doctrinalstatement for assent 

... more














Father Frank Pavone Arrives in Texas, Gets Pro-Life Support.  ... more

Operation Rescue Supports Father Pavone of Priests for Life.  ... more

Dr. Peters weighs in.  ... more

Bsp. Fellay Interview on Sept 14th meeting with Cardinal Levada.  ... more

Vatican offers Lefebvrians personal prelature if they come back to the Catholic Church.  ... more

Communique of Holy See on meeting between SSPX and CDF.  ... more

SSPX given a "doctrinal preamble" by Vatican; assent required for reconciliation.  ... more

Vatican gives SSPX doctrinal statement to sign.  ... more

Vatican offers terms for reconciliation to SSPX.  ... more

SSPX Bp. Fellay interviewed after CDF meeting today.  ... more

Interview with Bishop Bernard Fellay after his meeting with Cardinal William Levada.  ... more

Contents of Vatican-SSPX doctrinal preamble to remain secret.  ... more

Official interview with Bishop Bernard Fellay on the September 14 meeting with Cardinal Levada.  ... more

Vatican to SSPX: sign here.  ... more

Archbishop Chaput Already Drawing Flak.  ... more

Sexual diversity, the Catholic Church, and all that remains unsaid: Fordham "diversity" conference kicks off Friday.  ... more

Time to End Clergy Tax Breaks?.  ... more

Bishop to Fr. Pavone: We want the Priests for Life books.  ... more

Fr. Frank Pavone appealing to the Vatican.  ... more

Wapo: Third high-profile priest this year.  ... more

Fr. Pavone's response when asked about the perception that he put PFL ahead of his priestly obedience.  ... more

9th Circuit Upholds School's Order For Teacher To Remove Religious Banners.  ... more

Judgement day has come for Lefebvrians and the Vatican.  ... more

Breaking: Vatican SSPX Meeting Appears to Open Door for SSPX Reconciliation; Aspects of Vatican II Open for Discussion.  ... more

 More News on Page 2

Links to Other Publications

Acton Powerblog
Aggie Catholics
America
American Catholic
American Life League
American Spectator
American Thinker
Anchoress
Archbishop Dolan
Asia News
Baptist Press
BBC
BishopTobin
California Catholic Daily
Cardinal Newman Society
Catholic City
Catholic and Enjoying It
Catholic Answers
Catholic Culture
Catholic Current
Catholic Exchange
Catholic Herald
Catholic Insight
Catholic Key
Catholic Lane
Catholic League
Catholic Net
Catholic Online
Catholic Register
Catholic Spirit
Catholic Sun
Catholic Thing
Catholic Vote
Catholic World Report
Cato Institute
Chiesa
Christian Post
Christian Telegraph
Church Report
City Journal
Claremont Review of Books
CNS News Service
Compass Direct News
Creative Minority Report
Crisis
Deacon’s Bench
EWTN
Financial Times
First Things
Fish eaters
Fox Nation
FrontPageMag
Gateway Pundit
Get Religion
H20 News
Hermeneutic of Continuity
Holy See Press Office
More Resources
 




White House Official Compares Illegal Immigration to Jaywalking.  ... more

U.S. Catholic: Speak out for Obama's pale-by-comparison-but-better-than-nothing jobs proposal.  ... more

HS Fans' Upset Foes with Religious Chant of 'We've Got Jesus'.  ... more

CNS Urges Hundreds of Thousands to Oppose Obama Admin's Mandate Assaulting Religious Freedom.  ... more

Regis University reacts to Colorado contraception mandate.  ... more

Tsunami of new Obama regulations.  ... more

Obama now trying to intimidate consultants and PR firms of businesses.  ... more

Foul ball: Cincinnati schedules opening day for Good Friday.  ... more

How a Catholic Republican won a Democratic Jewish district.  ... more

NY-9: A Win for Marriage and Cultural Conservatives.  ... more

Same-Sex Marriage Played a Role in NY Congressional Race, Advocacy Group Says.  ... more

Behind Turner's Win: Jewish Voters Opposed to Gay Marriage.  ... more

Spinning the post-Weiner election.  ... more

Victory for Marriage in New York!.  ... more

What the Bob Turner Win Means.  ... more

Clint Eastwood's macho pro-gay marriage point.  ... more

Lesbian writer: I'm not born this way, I choose it freely.  ... more

Democrat Thanks Obama for Bypassing Congress on Immigration Reform.  ... more

Obama Forces New Hampshire to Fund Planned Parenthood.  ... more

President Obama and "Civil Society".  ... more

Federal Government Keeping Us Safe from Gender Inequity Attacks.  ... more

Dear Mz. Sanger, You Did It!!.  ... more

I'm a Widdle Drunk.  ... more

Perry Talks Religion at Liberty U..  ... more

 More News on Page 2

Links to Other Websites

Homiletic and Pastoral Review
Huffington Post
Human Events
Human Life International
Ignatius Insight Scoop
In the Light of the Law
Integrated Catholic Life
Investors Business Daily
Irish Times
Japan Times
Jihad Watch
Kath Net
Katolsk Observator (Swedish)
L'Osservatore Romano
Life News
LifeSiteNews
Mirror of Justice
Msgr. Charles Pope
National Catholic Bioethics Center
National Catholic Register
National Catholic Reporter
National Review
New Advent
New Liturgical Movement
New Oxford Review
New York Times
Newsbusters
Newsmax
OC Register
Our Sunday Visitor
Persecution
Politico
Real Clear Politics
Real Clear Religion
RealCatholic TV
Religion Clause
Renew America
Rome Reports
Rorate Caeli
Secondhand Smoke
Spero News
St. Anthony Messenger
St. Thomas More Society
Standing on My Head
Sydney Morning Herald
Ten Reasons
The Public Discourse
The Society of Catholic Social Scientists
Tidings
Townhall
UCA News
UK Guardian
UK Telegraph
US Catholic
USCCB
Vatican
Vatican Insider
Vatican Museums
Vatican Radio
Vatican Webcam
Wall Street Journal
Wanderer
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
WDTPRS
Weasel Zippers
Whispers in the Loggia
World Net Daily
Zenit
More Resources
 




Vortex:  Your Daily Catholic Commentary on the News.  ... more 

UK: blood donation rules changed for equality's sake.  ... more

Chinese premier dampens hopes over Europe's debts.  ... more

The Swiss National Bank's Loss of Nerve Will Cost It Dearly.  ... more

Constantine, Santa Croce and the True Cross.  ... more

The Continuing Failure of America's Welfare State.  ... more

Canada Legalizes Infanticide.  ... more

Pope's brother releases book on their lives.  ... more

God is never far from the persecuted, says Pope Benedict.  ... more

The Pope: even in the face of an apparent "silence of God", we need to realise that God is present.  ... more

Christians Face a 'Freedom Gap' in Our Culture.  ... more

Virginia School Board Sued For Posting Ten Commandments.  ... more

Australia Priest Denies Raping Anglican Archbishop.  ... more

London: The 9/11 flag-burners oppose what is true and beautiful.  ... more

Plinio Corrêa de Oliveira: The Crusader of the Twentieth Century. Part II.  ... more

Pro-life heroine Mary Wagner sentenced to jail for peacefully witnessing to life.  ... more

Report: Europe Becoming More Intolerant Towards Christians.  ... more

Nigerian bishops blame federal government for laxity against Islamist terrorists.  ... more

Focus on the Family reaching out for common ground with pro-choice organizations?.  ... more

After protest, diocese agrees to keep NJ church.  ... more

Palestinian ambassador to U.S. repeats call for Jew-free Palestinian state.  ... more

Killer words: Muslims text death threats to Christians.  ... more

Majority of Canadians see "irreconcilable" rift between Islam and the West.  ... more

ACLU fights Oklahoma ban on Islamic law; Muslim group supports Michigan ban.  ... more

 More News on Page 2
 
 
					Visitor Statistics
					
Last 24 hours-0008871
Last Week-0053914
Last Month-0228485
Last Year-2187694




Recent Book Reviews

1. A History of Christianity, The First Three Thousand Years
2. Everyday Simplicity
3. Brother Andre: Friend of the Suffering, Apostle of Saint Joseph
4. The Rock on Which the Family is Built
5. Handbook of Catholic Apologetics
6. Lenten Journey with Jesus Christ and Saint John of the Cross
















Catholic PR Service  |  
		Privacy Policy  |  
		About Us  |  
		Advertising  |  
		Editorial Review  |  
		News Ticker  |  
		Linking Information  
		


		Pewsitter.com
		PO Box 105, Danboro, PA 18916
		© Copyright, 2006-2010, All rights reserved
	












Tell a friend
X

		Friend's email address
		Your name
		Your email address
		Comments


You may enter up to10 email addressesseparated by commas.



I just found this new Catholic news website, Pewsitter.com, in which I thought you would be interested.  It features national and international news of the day on Catholic related topics.  In addition, it allows you to submit news articles.

The concept behind the site is to enlist an army of 'pewsitters' to be the eyes and ears for this new site. For far too long, faithful Catholics have witnessed abuse after abuse within the Church and have been powerless to do anything about it. No more!  By submitting newsworthy items to Pewsitter, the laity can help shape and influence the Church and be a powerful force for positive change.







