Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire | Stoneleigh on Spring Creek



News FeedComments






Home
Living at Stoneleigh
Your Team at Stoneleigh
Gallery











Apartment Living

Around Town

Community Notices

Food

Getaways

Go Green

Health & Fitness












	Browse > 

Home / Apartment Living, Around Town, Featured / Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire
	





Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire

Posted on September 8, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet






Lend a helping hand to Central Texas wildfire victims by supporting one of these organizations.
Texans can agree that this has been an especially rough summer. Regular dosages of triple digit temperatures have made outdoor activities nearly unbearable, and the drought has caused worlds of trouble for farmers and ranchers across the state. Unfortunately, these two weather phenomena have collided and caused one of the biggest wildfires in recent memory. Even though the wildfires have destroyed many homes across Central Texas, people across the nation are poised to lend a helping hand.
Here are a few ways that you and your family can help the victims of the recent wildfires:

The American Red Cross of Central Texas has been actively assisting families that were displaced due to the wildfires. Currently, the organization is taking donations to help them further accommodate victims of the wildfire. To donate directly to the American Red Cross of Central Texas, visit their website at http://www.centex.redcross.org/ or donate over the phone at 512-928-4271.
United Way Capital Area is running a hotline that directs families to the nearest shelter and details evacuation routes around Central Texas. The organization is also seeking volunteers and donations from the general public. For more information on the organization, visit them online at http://www.unitedwaycapitalarea.org/.
Central Texas Wildfire Fund is a nonprofit donations drive for communities affected by the wildfire. The fund was created by The American-Statesman and Austin Telco Federal Credit Union. To donate online, visit www.austincommunityfoundation.org.
Cub Scout and Boys Scout Troops across the state have been running donation drives for routine items for victims of the wildfire. Items such as clothes, personal hygiene supplies and food can be donated to your nearest Troop. Follow this link for more information on how to help, http://www.bsacac.org/.

Supporting the organizations listed above is an easy way to give back to your fellow Texans in need. The wildfire is nearly contained, but the effects of the fires will be felt for years to come. Give some immediate comfort to victims of the wildfire by helping these organizations provide them with the necessary shelter and supplies to be comfortable until the fires are squelched.





Add To Calendar
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FeaturedTags: Charitable organizations in Garland TX, living in Garland TX, things to do in Garland TX, Volunteer in Garland TX
You might also like...

 Garland Animal Services Helps Out Apartment Living: Be Amazed by Your Own Awesomeness Ways to Live Green at Stoneleigh Rock & Roll Extravaganza in Garland Texas 







Speak Your Mind

Tell us what you're thinking... 

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website














Are We Connected?
Enter your email address:






You Like Us, You Reeeally Like Us!


Recent Comments

Mr WordPress: Welcome to Stoneleigh! 

 



Event Calendar


« Aug





Oct »


September 2011

M
T
W
T
F
S
S


 1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
2627282930EC




 Recent Posts

Book Clubs in North Dallas
Learn ways to Stay Healthy at Garland’s Healthy Living Expo 2011
Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire
Ways to Live Green at Stoneleigh
Learn about Outdoor Recreation at ‘Second Annual Outdoor Festival’







Categories

Apartment Living

Around Town

Community Notices

Featured

Food

Getaways

Go Green

Health & Fitness




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010






















Copyright © 2011 · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress and NCI · Privacy Policy  · User Agreement · Fair Housing · Log in












