Texas wildfires: Is Rick Perry's federal aid demand 'hypocritical'? - The Week










 










Follow Us:




subscribe to the week
					/
					
										subscriber login




















Home
News & Opinion
Business
Arts & Life
Cartoons
Photos
Video







 



Target's Missoni madness: By the numbers 


 



Why college athletes deserve six-figure salaries 


 



Michele Bachmann: 'Anti-vaccine wingnut'? 


 



Rick Perry's immigration stance: Too moderate? 


 



Time to remake Point Break? 


 



What the Dems' 'humiliating' NY-09 loss means for 2012 


 



Apple's new HQ: Cool or a 'retrograde cocoon'? 


 



America's highest poverty rate in nearly 20 years: By the numbers 


 



Ringer: Sarah Michelle Gellar's 'disappointing' return to TV 


 



The GOP's 'great Perry pile-on' debate: Winners and losers 


 



Top 6 SpongeBob SquarePants controversies 


 



NASA's falling satellite: Where will it hit? 


 



The 9/11 memorial: 'Poignant' or 'flawed by bad taste'? 


 



Is Anderson Cooper the next Oprah? 


 



Paying for Obama's jobs bill: Tax hikes for the rich? 




 
 









The Perry Campaign


 
                                    



Cartoon View
Perry and SpongeBob's common ground














				Opinion Brief







  








	      Texas wildfires: Is Rick Perry's federal aid demand 'hypocritical'?      	
Texas' governor — who's criticized reckless federal spending — is browbeating the feds for not sending enough money and resources to his fire-ravaged state
 
posted on September 8, 2011, at 10:49 AM





Texas Gov. Rick Perry, an outspoken critic of excessive federal spending, is criticizing the Obama administration for not sending more disaster aid while his state rages with wildfires.																		Photo: Erich Schlegel/Corbis
SEE ALL 26 PHOTOS












Is Rick Perry's call for federal disaster aid in Texas hypocritical?

 







  Yes. You can't trash federal spending while simultaneously demanding it.







  Yes. But it's still the right call to deal with Texas' terrible wildfires.







  No. Emergency aid is different than Big Government programs like Social Security.







  No. Texas pays its share of federal taxes, so the feds owe Texans at least this much.





 

 
 

Best Opinion:  Salon, Economist, CSM
Texas is burning. Since Sept. 4, flames have engulfed more than 100,000 acres of the drought-stricken state, destroying more than 1,000 homes and killing four people. The worst wildfires in state history are also "forcing Gov. Rick Perry to walk a philosophical tightrope," says Patrik Jonsson in The Christian Science Monitor. "A strong advocate for a smaller federal government," the new GOP presidential frontrunner has nevertheless been "berating the Obama administration for dragging its heels in sending federal taxpayer money and resources to Texas." The federal government has stepped in, and President Obama told Perry more aid is coming. But is Perry's posture "hypocritical"?
Yes. Perry can't have it both ways: If "Perry hates the federal government so much," why is he "berating the feds for not spending more" on his fire and drought-ridden state? asks Alex Pareene at Salon. Yes, Texas needs the help — but only because Perry and the GOP legislature slashed funding for the Texas Forest Service and firefighters. "It is rational of him to ignore his rhetorical distaste for the federal government and demand that it help," but it still reeks of hypocrisy."Rick Perry's Texas cuts firefighting budget while wildfires burn"
Hold on. Perry isn't necessarily being inconsistent: Favoring small government and FEMA doesn't necessarily make you a hypocrite, says Erica Grieder in The Economist. "I think it's consistent for a 10th-amendment advocate" — that amendment essentially says that powers not specifically granted to the federal government are reserved for states — "to maintain that the federal government has an obligation to provide extra resources to states that are faced with unanticipated challenges." After all, "Texas didn't cause its drought" any more than New York caused Hurricane Irene."Texas on fire"
Hypocritical or not, Texas needs help: Perry can always fall back on the "unilateral disarmament argument," says North Carolina State University political scientist Andrew Taylor, as quoted in The Christian Science Monitor. Why should Texas "go without aid when no one else does?" But if I were Perry, I'd let other people fight over philosophy and "err on the side of just doing your job," however you think best. When your state is literally burning, "politics goes out the window.""Texas wildfires: Is Rick Perry being hypocritical asking for federal aid?"




See all opinion briefs on this topic


 
                                    



Cartoon View
Perry and SpongeBob's common ground








Comment
Print
Email









RELATED keywords

Rick Perry, Texas, wildfires, natural disasters, states' rights, 2012 elections, Republican Party, GOP, President Obama, FEMA, federal spending, federal deficit 



 see other topics



The Abortion BattleA jilted boyfriend's 'humiliating' anti-abortion billboard



The U.S. RecoveryCould we still face another Great Depression?



War on Obesity Is DASH the best diet ever?












						Opinion Brief


LATEST: Rick Perry's immigration stance: Too moderate for today's GOP?




						Cartoon View


		Perry and SpongeBob's common ground




						The Bullpen


		Governor Perry, you're no Ronald Reagan




						Controversy


		'Is Rick Perry dumb?' — fair question or biased attack?




						Flashback


		Rick Perry's Democratic past: 4 key questions




						The List


		6 signs Rick Perry is the true GOP frontrunner




						Analysis


		6 reasons Rick Perry is not another George W. Bush




						Best Video


		Ben Stein's 'harsh' economics lesson for Rick Perry 
See our complete coverage of:
The Perry Campaign
2012 Elections















Get 4 Free Issues!
This week's issue
Subscribe now
Give a gift subscription
customer service











The Week Newsletter












Close


Sample Newsletter / 
			Privacy Policy











 Previous
Slideshows
 Next





 


Fall's most anticipated albums: A slideshow




 


Fall's most anticipated new TV shows: A slideshow 




 


Homes in company towns: A slideshow




 


Weekend talking points: 7 top stories




 


Ten years of remembering 9/11: A slideshow
















Do college athletes deserve six-figure salaries?
















Only in America
The obese burger fan who's suing White Castle because its booths can't contain his bulk — and more in our collection of strange revelations about the nation
See the full gallery






 Previous
Cartoons
 Next





 


Unemployed in America




 


The Perry Campaign




 


Aging in America




 


2012 Presidential Race




 


The Perry Campaign












MOST READ
MOST EMAILED


The giant crabs invading Antarctica
Fatherhood: The ultimate libido-killer?
Target's Missoni madness: By the numbers
Michele Bachmann: 'Anti-vaccine wingnut'?
The last word: He said he was leaving. She ignored him.
Windows 8 vs. the iPad: Who wins?
Is there electoral gold in Solyndra?
Why college athletes deserve six-figure salaries
Why anti-Israel anger is mounting in Egypt: 4 theories
Where in the world is Happy Feet the 'wayward' penguin?




Is there electoral gold in Solyndra?
Are computers the cheap, new journalists?
Paul Simon's 'heartbreaking' 9/11 tribute
Why men with deep voices get the girls
Brazilian Blowout: Hair treatment of death?
Gibson guitars: A new form of contraband
The heroes of Flight 93
This week’s travel dream: The most exotic corner of Italy
Casual sex: Bad for men?
Target's Missoni madness: By the numbers











from our partners
 



U.S. warns Pakistan after suspected Haqqani attack 
    (Reuters)
European treasury needed to avoid Depression: Soros 
    (Reuters)
Merkel says euro bonds are "absolutely wrong" 
    (Reuters)






How Was The Joker Potty Trained? Mental Health Experts Psychoanalyze Batman Villains
Alaska's Alleged Sea Monster Caught On Film
WATCH: Exploding manhole Tosses Car In The Air






43,000 Piece LEGO Star Destroyer
The Russian Chuck Norris
Paula Deen Gives Out Ramen Noodles






Cameron, Sarkozy Visit Libya
GOP Rep's Jobs Act Abolishes Corporate Taxes
The Rogue Fails to Shock or Awe


 



Happy Birthday, Harry! Celebrating 27 Princely Years
10 Things You Didn't Know About Elizabeth Warren
Sept. 14: Report: Palin's One-Night Stand and Albright Loves Vera Wang






4 Old Men Who Played College Football
14 Literary Settings Inspired by Real Places
Beyond Schweddy Balls: 10 Discontinued Ben & Jerry’s Flavors






Obama Tainted by Loan Guarantees to Solar Firms
Bachmann's Vaccine Panic
Perry and the GOP's Feckless Establishment






Rick Perry goes it alone
Vaccines still safe, non-celebrities with medical expertise report
Will "Joe the Plumber" run for Congress?







demeter


SUBSCRIBE / 
			GIVE A GIFT / 
			PRIVACY POliCY / 
			TERMS & CONDITIONS / 
			AD INFO / 
			THE WEEK UK / 
			THE WEEK AU


SUBSCRIBER SERVICES / 
			CLASSROOM SUBSCRIPTIONS / 
			SITE MAP / 
			ARCHIVE / 
						RSS / 
			CONTACT US
© 2011 THE WEEK PUBliCATIONS, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.     
						
			THE WEEK® IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OWNED BY FEliX DENNIS.
        	THEWEEK.COM IS A TRADEMARK OWNED BY FEliX DENNIS.

 






Rick Perry's immigration stance: Too moderate for today's GOP?

see more in news


U.S. News
World News


In-Depth Briefings
The Bullpen










Target's Missoni madness: By the numbers

see more in business


U.S. Business
Technology


World Business
Personal Finance










The over-the-top Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1 trailer

see more in arts & life


Books
Film & TV

Music



Puzzles & Contests
Lifestyle











Dems suit up for the jobs fight

see more in cartoons


The Digital Age
Outer Space


Democratic Party
Middle East










Fall's most anticipated albums: A slideshow

see more in photos


News & Politics
Recent Slideshows


Arts & Life
Real Estate
Flipbooks







































Hide /
Get 4 Free Issues
Close











State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming








