Firefighters 'optimistic' about containing giant blaze north of Houston - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Firefighters 'optimistic' about containing giant blaze north of Houston

By MIKE GLENN  and CAROL CHRISTIAN, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

                                                                                Updated 12:32 a.m., Sunday, September 11, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







SMILEY N. POOL : CHRONICLE BATTLE FROM ABOVE: A DC-10 drops retardant to help fight a large wildfire Saturday near Magnolia. The air tanker made six runs over the fast-moving wall of flames, dumping more than 11,000 gallons of fire retardant in each pass.
							Photo: Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								SMILEY N. POOL : CHRONICLE BATTLE FROM ABOVE: A DC-10 drops...






MAYRA BELTRÀN : CHRONICLE SHELTER: Brandy Collmorgen, who evacuated her home with her family in Waller County, rests at St. John's Lutheran Church in Waller on Saturday.
							Photo: Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								MAYRA BELTRÀN : CHRONICLE SHELTER: Brandy Collmorgen, who...






Members of the Believers Fellowship Congregation pray for fire victims in Magnolia.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Members of the Believers Fellowship Congregation pray for fire...






Kathy Kuhne embraces her daughter Starla Lopez, 4, at the prayer gathering.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Kathy Kuhne embraces her daughter Starla Lopez, 4, at the prayer...






Nancy Schnell hands donated supplies for evacuees of the recent wildfires to husband, Michael, at Wildwood United Methodist Church, Saturday in Magnolia.
							Photo: For The Chronicle, Eric Christian Smith
										/ HC
								Nancy Schnell hands donated supplies for evacuees of the recent...






Members of the Irving Fire Department view the Riley Road fire briefing map at the unified command center as the tri-county fire continues to burn on Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011, in Magnolia.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Members of the Irving Fire Department view the Riley Road fire...






Volunteer Abbey Anderson, 10, pets cats of a recent wildfire evacuee at Wildwood United Methodist Church, Saturday in Magnolia. Banfield Pet Hospital in Magnolia is offering free boarding to pets of recent wildfire evacuees. They can be reached at 281-259-0027.
							Photo: For The Chronicle, Eric Christian Smith
										/ HC
								Volunteer Abbey Anderson, 10, pets cats of a recent wildfire...






Home destroyed by wildfire along FM 1774 where firefighters continue to battle the tri-county wildfire on Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011, in Magnolia.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Home destroyed by wildfire along FM 1774 where firefighters...






Tractor destroyed and a home along FM 1774 due to the wildfire on Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011, in Magnolia.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Tractor destroyed and a home along FM 1774 due to the wildfire...






Sylvia Perez prays for fire victims and emergency personnel during a prayer rally at Unity Park on Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011 in Magnolia, TX.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Sylvia Perez prays for fire victims and emergency personnel...






Noe Garza, 15, sleeps in the shelter at the St. John's Lutheran Church where evacuated families are staying due to wildfires on Saturday, Sept. 10, 2011 in Waller, TX. Harada evacuated from the Field Store area in Waller County, and believes her home is untouched by fire.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Noe Garza, 15, sleeps in the shelter at the St. John's Lutheran...






MAYRA BELTRÁN : CHRONICLE INFORMATION: Andrews Fire Department workers view the briefing map at the unified command center as a water helicopter hovers over a wildfire on Saturday in Magnolia.
							Photo: Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								MAYRA BELTRÁN : CHRONICLE INFORMATION: Andrews Fire Department...









































































 







 







Houston and Texas









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


Almost a week after a wildfire erupted that has consumed more than 21,000 acres in three counties north of Houston, officials charged with leading the battle are confident of a light at the end of the tunnel.
"We feel pretty optimistic," Magnolia fire chief Gary Vincent said Saturday. "We've had continual improvement overnight and additional resources have arrived."
Flames have destroyed 59 homes and one commercial property. An additional 23 houses have suffered severe damage. Thousands of people and animals have been forced off their property since the fires started Monday, spreading across parts of  Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties.
"The lines are continuously getting reinforced and beefed-up. Out in the field, the troops are feeling like they're getting the upper hand on this," Vincent said.
No fatalities or major injuries have been reported, but several firefighters suffered smoke inhalation and a cow was euthanized because of fire-related injuries Saturday.
Status reports on the fire and damage are scheduled for 1:30 p.m. and 3 p.m. Sunday at Waller High School auditorium, 20950 Field Store Road.
U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, whose 10th Congressional District includes Waller County, is scheduled to meet today with local officials to assess fire damage and requests for federal assistance, according to Waller County officials.
On Friday, a DC-10 air tanker made six runs over the fast-moving wall of flames, dumping more than 11,000 gallons of fire retardant in each pass. It had originally been loaned for the day from the fire effort in Bastrop but will now be focused primarily on the Tri-County Fire. On Saturday, the jet and helicopters continued dousing flare-ups near the command post in Magnolia.
"It really helps to knock a lot of that forward steam and progress out of the fire and gives us a chance to get right in there behind it," Vincent said.
Four other planes
In addition to the DC-10, four other fixed wing airplanes - able to haul between 600-2,000 gallons of fire retardant - along with five water-carrying helicopters were continuing to slash away at the flames.
"We have the best air resources that we could have for this fire," said Rocky Opliger, a California-based U.S. Forest Service official who is one of the incident commanders for the Tri-County Fire.
On Saturday, officials at the Tri-County Fire's joint command post said they would no longer release estimates about how much of the blaze has been contained at any one time.
"We've tried that several times this week. Every time we put something out, something changes," said Ralph Collum, a Texas Forest Service spokesman.
A fire can easily send burning embers drifting great distances out of an area that was thought to have been brought under control. The Magnolia fire chief acknowledged that some flames on Friday managed to slip past the fire containment zone.
"We jumped on top of it with the resources and contained it. We got it boxed up again," Vincent said. "That is going to be the pattern until this is over."
500 aiding the battle
About 500 firefighters are at the scene, from several different departments throughout Texas along with other states. The added number of troops means commanders are now staging a round-the-clock battle against the fire. Bulldozer crews worked throughout the night to create earthworks to contain the flames.
"Just because you have it contained doesn't mean there's not a threat," Opliger said.
"You've got to start mopping up and getting well into those containment lines."
As the temperature rose throughout the day, a long line of firefighters continued moving along the roads into the heavily wooded areas.
"The afternoon is always going to be the high-risk period. As the afternoon winds escalate, it forces oxygen into the fire which in turn grows the fire," Vincent said.
Just after 4:30 p.m., a two-alarm grass and woods fire involving a two-story house and several acres broke out on the edge of the City of Panorama Village, just north of Conroe.
Firefighters from North Montgomery County and surrounding areas quickly called for additional resources, and the DC-10 Jet working the Magnolia fire was diverted, authorities said.
The jet made three drops over the top of the fire scene, directly over the crews working the fire, allowing firefighters to get control of the blaze, authorities said.
Officials said they can continue pouring firefighters into the battle and bombard the flames from the sky, but the struggle will continue until sustained rains finally move into the area.
Staff writer Anita Hassan contributed to this report. 
 
mike.glenn@chron.com
carol.christian@chron.com







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Firefighters 'optimistic' about containing giant blaze north of Houston
 In addition to the DC-10, four other fixed wing airplanes, along with five water-carrying helicopters, were continuing to slash away at the flames. 































Latest Slideshows








 Dynamo 2, Crew 2


 Four-legged victims of the wildfires


 NASA's New Deep Space Exploration System



 
 











Latest Houston and Texas Headlines














			
				Houston may get break from 100-degree days





			
				Man shot in neck during robbery in N. Houston





			
				1 killed, 2 hurt at SW Houston apartments





			
	Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden





			
	Spring High expected to reopen on Thursday





 











Latest News










James Nielsen
					

Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden
The pair were forced to leave quickly because the raging fire was at their back door, said Waller County animal control officer Don...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Wendy Taylor aims beyond Houston
Taylor-made for singing: Wendy Brown/Focus on U Photography



Wendy Taylor has a big, booming personality that’s matched only by her...


 

 







Latest Sports










Robert Sutton
					

A&M can expect warm welcome from SEC fans
Taken fan by fan, restaurant table by restaurant table, tailgate party by tailgate party, folks in the heart of Southeastern...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













