Anderson Cooper Kate Gosselin | Kate Gosselin Pizza | Kate Plus Eight | Mediaite











 Obama Campaign: AttackWatch Gains Over 100,000 Sign-Ups In Less Than 24 Hours






 Megyn Kelly Blasts Dr. Keith Ablow Over Chaz Bono DWTS Dis






 Stephen Colbert Praises Michele Bachmann’s Scientific Research On HPV Vaccination






 Medal Of Honor Recipient Has But One Request: To Have A Beer With Obama






 Ron Paul Hits Back At Dick Cheney By Calling Former Vice President A ‘Dictator’



 



















 


Anderson Cooper Destroys Kate Gosselin Over Pizza Freakout
video
by Jon Bershad | 12:53 pm, September 7th, 2011

» 102 comments


Recently on an episode of Kate Plus Eight, Kate Gosselin freaked out over her babysitter’s handling of a pizza pie (because that’s a totally normal thing for someone to do). Last night on Anderson Cooper 360, Cooper absolutely demolished Gosselin over the ridiculous clip.
The real news here: Anderson Cooper watches Kate Plus Eight?
Cooper showed the footage of Gosselin screaming at her babysitter during a road trip for daring to keep pizza from her bodyguard by instead giving it to, y’know, the children. Afterwards, Cooper had some helpful advice:
“It is a cautionary tale, really. So many lessons for all of us to learn. Wash your hands, guard your food, and, if you somehow, against all odds, find a woman who’s willing to help you take eight kids on a cross country road trip, for God’s sake, let her divide the pizza any way she wants.”

Mostly what I’ve gotten from this clip is the most exposure I’ve ever had to the Kate Plus Eight series in any of its iterations (“Jon And” is apparently this show’s “And a Pizza Place”). Having now seen what this show is actually like, I would just like to present this figure: 78.
The average lifespan of an American is only 78 years.
A half hour spent watching Kate Gosselin fight over pizza may not seem like a lot at the time, but that crap adds up.
Watch the clip from CNN below:


Follow us on Twitter.


Sign up for Mediaite's daily newsletter.

filed under
anderson cooper, CNN, Kate Gosselin, Kate Plus Eight
share this post











 









Anonymous



That crap adds up….
Classic.






Anonymous



Was that the last damn pizza on earth or something….?  Not for nothing but I myself would be a little embarrassed if someone was making such a fuss over a slice of pizza that children were eating when I’m standing in the parking lot of a friggin’ pizza shop.
I think most people would have just said  “Aahhh don’t worry about it”.
Was there anyone else who could not manage to arrange their own lunch….?






Anonymous



who watches this stuff?????






    http://twitter.com/Big_Taters                            Big Taters



 From the guy who couldn’t contain himself over a ‘poop joke’. Yes, indeed. What a chuckle.






Vasallese



ANd maybe this is why her show was canceled






Anonymous



Don’t underestimate Kate Gosselin. She has the power to make Sarah Palin look like a great person.






Anonymous



What. A. Man. 
JOURNALISM!






Anonymous



Andy is an eleven on the manly scale. Way up there with doughboy and the mouth.






Anonymous



Yes Kate Gosslin is a self absorbed person made so by a media telling us she was a celebrity and all the people sitting around in house caoats and undershirts believed it. There is something eerie ablut a public that is entranced by multiple kids in a family-Kate +, OctoMom-the 20 munchers——TLC now means The Lemming Channel-no wonder our high school graduation rate is only 75%—






The Real Royal Emperor



Remember when Kate visited the Palins, and she was upset because all the Palins ate and had to offer to eat were hot dogs, chips, sodas and s’mores?






Librablue



Anderson spent more time on this boring “Ridiculist” than he did on the I Hop murders which he relegated to The Bulletin at the end of the show.






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_PKEQSTA4WOBYU5Z7QNSBUR2LXI                            MASSMURDERMEDIA



they had better food than that…  what kate was pissed at was freezing her ass off and having to kill her own food…  don’t go camping if you’re wanting room service…






Anonymous



Apparently Anderson Cooper.






    http://twitter.com/MerryMarjie                            MerryMarjie



Let’s see, pizza, salad and French fries, the standard balanced lunch, but the fries were only for the adults — how can they possibly keep track of all that food?!!  And then to think that a dirty little kid (are ya listenin’, Maddy?) hands a pizza OUT THE WINDOW, without wrapping it in foil (something every little kids knows to do), using her bare hands because she had no plate, fork and knife to hand him  —- oh, the humanity!
I have never seen the show, but is it possible that I’m missing the greatest drama of 2011?  How does this story end?  Do they ever ALL get pizza?  Do we have to stay tuned to find out the results after Ashley is forced to quit and Maddy is banned from the bus?  Someone, I implore you, please let me know how this ends!!!!!!!






Anonymous



An “Anderson Cooper”; isn’t that a “cute” little British car?






News Of The World



I feel bad for those kids.  What a skank.






    http://smallthoughtsfromasmallmind.wordpress.com/                            Small Thoughts



This is a surprise. I thought I read Gosselin died in an accident at Niagra Falls a few years ago.






    http://twitter.com/danikristen                            Danielle Greeley



kate gosselin makes me ill. she truly does. i feel so bad for that babysitter and totally commend her for standing up for herself against that witch, kate. and the kids. there was a clip on aol not too long ago about ashley quitting and the camera pans to the kids’ faces when she tells them she is leaving and they are all sobbing and crying. so sad. kate is a self absorbed, crazy, celeb-wanna-be, and only got a tv show because she has 8 kids. if she didn’t have those sextuplets, she wouldn’t be a “tv star” and i use that term very very loosely. there was another article about how now that her show is cancelled she is freaking out because she doesn’t know how she is going to provide for her kids….. um, well, let’s see, if you had any sense at all, you would have started a savings fund for each kid with the $$$$$ you got from TLC and then had an account for yourself to save for when this exact thing would take place. it aint rocket science. i mean, you don’t see other families with lots of kids, or even just a few, jet setting around the globe to awesome places like Alaska, Australia, New York City and the like and getting paid to do it and have your own show. time to face reality sweetheart, you are yesterday’s news. who watches this garbage anyhow? i stopped watching a LONG time ago. right around the time Jon got smart and left you. he should get the kids, not Kate.






Anonymous



Where was Candy Andy when Kate totally wimped out & spoiled her children’s camping trip with the hardy, rough & ready, blue-collar, pioneer Palin family up in Alaska…hmmmm?






Anonymous



Sounds like a nice cookout to me.






Ilaufer88



Very surprised that Anderson Cooper keeps searching for the ‘low road’ when he has so much other potential.
If he keeps up with this Ridiculist which really isn’t very humorous he will have no more status….and 60 Minutes and others would lose interest.  He seems to be very well connected and is getting his own show and could become another Heraldo who had promise at CBS but became a second-rate host…..






Anonymous



NOW do you understand why Jon (unfairly reviled by The View ladies for years) left this b…h?  As she herself says, “Eventually everybody leaves me.” 






Anonymous



Kate isn’t a mama grizzly, having a bad hair day is tooo much for her.
Todd went off fishing by himself, that was funny..
These two women are oil & water, both are annoying IMO.
I’ve gotta wonder if her body guard is involved with her, & if so WHY?
Way too much baggage, not including the kids!






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_KSH52GTU7ATNOTCD52RAL3P6XA                            Jon



Her show’s been canceled, and given the spending lifestyle Kate seems to have become accustomed to over the last six years — thanks to all the trips and perks TLC has footed the bill on, odds are the kids are going to be dining on uncooked microwavable Ramen noodles a year or so from now.






Anonymous



Did that make you feel like a ” real ” woman Andy?






Moderate



What a wuss, CNN seems to go out of their way to be boring.






Anonymous



Really feeling for the kids, their mom has more tantrums than the kids.  






Anonymous



Lol, the headline should of read “Jon Bershard owns Kate plus 8.” Not to ass kiss here, but this article has had me laughing all day long.






Anonymous



LOL@ “haven’t you learned anything about the kid’s mom’s body guard’s picadillos?” 
I hope her fame dies a quick and painful death (quick because I’m sick of hearing about her and how she was a the ‘victim’) and painful because I jut want her to GO AWAY.






Anonymous



My question is, why is there only ONE  pizza when there’s 10 kids & more than a few adults? 
There’s KGs 8 kids, plus her friends 2 kids, & there’s got to be a mimimum of 4, maybe 6 adults consisting of body guard/s & film crew. Two pizzas mimimum for the kids, that they can put their “dirty bare hands” on all they want, and one or two pizzas for the adults, would have solved this assinine & as always when it comes to KG herself, over dramatized problem.






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_XUQZVST7LU732HLNQFQJFSCV6Q                            Jamie Reed



Whats the point of it? A  kid can hand me a pizza with out tinfoil.






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_ZIQS6YEA47QFXGOR4JWUBU2QRM                            Shark City



And CNN wonder why their rating sucks. You take care of your own family mr. Anderson Cooper and let Kate take care of her’s. Never heard the show (Kate plus somethin) but i think you need to be concern about your AC360 and not other people families. KAPISH!






Anonymous



Yawn.  You really think a guy who makes over $4m a year at CNN and whose mother is Gloria Vanderbilt gives a crap about 60 Minutes?  Also, it’s Geraldo.  Maybe before criticizing the professional choices of others you should learn to spell their names.






Anonymous



It’s his job to report on public people publicly acting badly.  Also, learn to speak English please  (and Italian while you’re at it).  It’s “Capisce.”  SMH 






You got a purty mouth



Yo, genius… You know what they say about homophobes, right? Just sayin’.






Anonymous



Andy needs to put himself on the ridiculist…..he has jumped the shark with his lack of news reporting.  Complete nonsense network strikes again.
Geeze Anderson – give it up;you look foolish.






Ha Ha Very Funny Bitch



It’s amazing the two people I loathe the most in the world are born on the same day. Lady GaGa and Kate Gosselin. That can’t be a coincidence! FU**ING HATE THEM BOTH WITH A PASSION!






Amy



I absolutely caanot stand Kate! She is a maniac control freak. She snaps at the drop of a hat over the MOST PETTY things! I am not in the least bit suprised now that her marriage didn’t last. Who can live with that?! I feel for those kids. I bet she snaps on them a zillion times a day for just breathing wrong! I commend Anderson Cooper for making fun of her and showing her what a complete ass she was making of herself. And Ashley, well, good for you for quiting. But, you knew what kind of nut job you were going to work for. So, you asked for it sister! I hope John gets those kids. Someone needs to take them from Kate. She will have them all emotionally shot to hell by the time they’re 18. No wonder Maddy is a little nut case. The apple didn’t fall far from the tree.






Ha Ha Very Funny Bitch



I want to punch this fu**ing CUNT right in her face!






Anonymous



I am embarrassed for Anderson Cooper.  Does anyone take him seriously?  Yeesh.






Ha Ha Very Funny Bitch



I always felt so sorry for that guy Jon Gosselin. I mean just look at this thing. SHE/ IT IS VILE! I wished he would have just hauled off and punched her in her twat.






Ha Ha Very Funny Bitch



I totally agree! I HATE, HATE THIS VILE WOMAN who pimps her kids out for cash and notoriety. These 
“reality stars” all wind up the same. Heidi Montag, Spencer Pratt and now Kate Gosselin. If this woman was smart she would have capitalized on her fame and she would have hooked up with some inventive company that developed products for mothers and licensed her name to them. But she didn’t BECAUSE SHE IS NOT SMART and SHE IS AN EGOMANIAC and she only cared ABOUT THE FAME. She is A SICK, SICK BITCH and her kids are going to suffer for it. Just watch! A fool and his money are soon parted!






Anonymous



That was actually the Gosselins portraying how libs handle incredibly difficult  problems such as what to have for lunch.






Anonymous



That was actually the Gosselins portraying how libs handle incredibly difficult  problems such as what to have for lunch.






Anonymous



You have one of the funniest screen names of all time!






Anonymous



I heard she was upset because she couldn’t take the cold, cruel outdoor camping. What a wimp!






Anonymous



Wow, your such  a classy guy! at least that’s what your wife told me last night,






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_FSPIVAFYI672OH5NOKVRTEZA4U                            MadCharles



Don’t you mean who reads this stuff ?  Do you really read this stuff beyond a paragraph or two on any of these blogs ? You might as well buy the supermarket checkout stand magazines.






Anonymous



another fing bigot in America. question is, did your statement  make YOU proud?






Anonymous



People who “hate” celebrities like The GaGa and The Gosselin yet voted for Prezzo Bunny Barry are walking contradictions.  And then there is the boorish MooChelle “Don’t Attack Me I am His Wife” Whatever Their Last Name Is…appearing on Home Makeover “Media Whore Edition”….  now there is something worth puking about. 
Andy Cooper is a two-bit fudge packer with a rich mommy.  He obviously is jealous of Kate’s female status within the species.  So he tears her down as only a g-boy can.  They are both bitchez so why doesn’t he just call it a draw?
But back to celebrity “hate”.  That is a national past time.  Sports freaks hating on Derek Jeter for not paying off some fans students loans because he gave him back his ball(s?); hating on Bret FaRRRRV (omg spell it right); or on LeBron James…..  what’s to hate? That “you” dont have their lives?  You’d think that these low lives would get a grip and start by cleaning up their bathrooms so it isnt the first thing you smell when walking into the trailer.  Then, get a few “A’s” in school along the way and learn how to earn a decent living doing something you love. Granted it’s hard to see what Kate Gosselin loves besides her dye jobs north and south.  She has meal ticket taste.  Beyond that, does she deserve scorn?  Maybe she was envious of the Palin’s being able to be around guns and not wanting to eat those.  I think Kate is severely depressed.  It’s a medical thang, Darlin Kate.  Happiness is chemically available if you would just stop worrying over what the tabloids are gonna say about you.  I mean they might give you a pass like they do Prezzo Bunny and his methadon habit.  (Oh!  We didn’t know this about the Soros Lap Puppet, did we?  Just pretend i didnt say it. Those evil Clintons find out all the good dirt first.)
But anyway….hating celebrities is protected speech.  I think most Prezzo Bunny followers would rather give up their property rights than to scathe celebrities that Andy Copper doesn’t hold in high regard.  I think Andy Cooper and Wolf Spritzer Blitzer are toast after the 2012 elections.  Too much time associated with Prezzo Bunny the Loser…bad for ratings.  Christiane Amanpour will be out after Israel decapitates the MoBros in Egypt, the Barbarians of Syria, and the reptilian Iranian surrogates in Lebanon (HezHamola).
There has been such hubris on the Left since McStain was “defeated” in 2008.  The wax wings have been seared and the “base” is debasing itself to the lowest depths in American political history.  Payback is a boitch for the Left…and they have a lot to atone for, the least of which is all the violent threats made against their political opponents while yammering on about civility.  The Media Harlots like Andy and company are going to look like all them Russian babes riding in Napoleon’s wagons on their way out of Russia.  Didn’t quite make the full ride to Paris as promised.  It’s gonna be ugly.  But hey!  When the lines get drawn behind you, by the reality of inflation and commodity prices (something the Left ‘Believes” shouldnt matter in “all of this”) there is not much that can be under your control.
I am loving this.






Anonymous



i have never watched any gosselin crap.  if it wasnt for anderson cooper, i still would not have seen any of it.  so this crap adds up, and if i watch anderson cooper, it will continue to add up.  i have never before watched anything gosselin, and i never again will watch anything gosselin.  in addition i will not watch anything anderson either, because, you know, this crap adds up






Anonymous



What exactly was the point of your comment?  Was it meant to be funny?  Homophobic?  What?  Please explain.  Or not.  Zzzzzzzzz.






Anonymous



What exactly was the point of your comment?  Was it meant to be funny?  Homophobic?  What?  Please explain.  Or not.  Zzzzzzzzz.






Guest



For what she gets paid for this BS this is all she can come up with, and the show was worse with Jon.
Please tell me the only people that watch this is someone that just got a fresh supply of pot and Pabst because their welfare check just came in!!!!!
 






Anonymous



How can you hate people you don’t know?  Doesn’t make sense.  Kate annoys me, but hate?  Not so much.






Anonymous



Why are they libs?  YOU should be on the Ridickulist!  (btw, the “sp” was intentional)






Anonymous



Couldn’t read most of that.  Refused to actually.  You lost me with the “fudge packer” bit.  Jealous much?  Homophobic imbecile…that’s a given.  When you’re done trolling why don’t you leave your mom’s dank basement for a spell and get some fresh air?  (Read: go to the store and replenish your supply of Little Debbie cakes and Snickers bars.)






Anonymous



you are talking about anderson right?






wlv



Watching this debacle does, perhaps, put Jon Gosselin in some perspective.  Kind of like escoriating Bill Clinton, until you listen to Hillary yell at people.  All of a sudden, understanding enters the room …






Anonymous



Cooper laughs just like a little girl, and has very effeminate mannerism.
So does Lemon.
CNN is a known  “Safe Harbor”  for these type of people who have lost all hope of never becoming a real man.






    http://twitter.com/MerryMarjie                            MerryMarjie



Bear:  I assume that “1909″ is the year of your birth, since your whole post reflects archaic thinking and historic nonsense. (That line about Napoleon — couldn’t be you witnessed it, right?)  Check your meds as they, too, may be out of date.






Anonymous



And her marriage!






Anonymous



Come on! It’s part of his JOB. Of course one doesn’t “take him seriously”. I think it is a good thing that he points out how shallow and shrewish this self-made “celebrity” is. She definitely should have the children taken away from her. She just uses them, and when it doesn’t work out she yells at them just as she yelled at her ex.






Anonymous



Stonepark3 is such a genius. So, you are certain Kate is a “Lib” and you miss the point, completely. You contribute so much to a conversation.






Anonymous



Bear1909 – did you actually get all this political clap-trap out of this little tale? WOW!






Anonymous



You did watch this, didn’t you? Enjoy the pot and Pabst?






LibelFreeZone



Anderson Cooper has devolved from a respected journalist to a slimy jeernalist.  Don’t watch him anymore.






Anonymous



Is this the crap that people that watch AC want to see?
Didn’t he used to be advertised as a credible reporter?  Is this build up for the wine chugging stay at home moms that he hopes to grab for his day time show?






Anonymous



It is interesting to skim over the comments on this extreme right news portal. Only because AC is not working for FoxNews his work is reduced: 1) to a reference to the only light-hearted segment of his show “Ridiculist”, 2) to the heard of extremists only focusing onto Anderson’s sexual orientation.
OK Mediaite, move on and echo the spin from The O’Reilly factor andr The Hannity Show. You’re so damn good at it!






Anonymous



It is interesting to skim over the comments on this extreme right news portal. Only because AC is not working for FoxNews his work is reduced: 1) to a reference to the only light-hearted segment of his show “Ridiculist”, 2) to the heard of extremists only focusing onto Anderson’s sexual orientation.
OK Mediaite, move on and echo the spin from The O’Reilly factor andr The Hannity Show. You’re so damn good at it!






GUESSWHO



OK, YES, I’M LATE….BUT STILL, I’M CURIOUS:  ISN’T “STEVE” THE ONE THAT KATE’S ‘DATING’?  IF SO, DOESN’T THAT EXPLAIN WHY HIS WANTS ARE MORE IMPORTANT THAN HER CHILDREN’S NEEDS?  IF NOT, WELL, SAME EXPLAINATION…..RIGHT?






Jo



I think Kate has many psychological issues with control, neatness, cleanliness etc…but the women does have 8 children.  Her ex isn’t supportive and goes on T.V. blasting her.  Of course, she has also done that to him.  I have two kids and have a lot to do.  I can’t even imagine working even part-time with that many kids and getting laundry done, ect…Can she really work and help these kids with homework, get them to activities, feed them, etc after working all day and without help?. Try it for a week yourself and then write about her.  That is just talking about the basics, not being there when they want to talk about something etc…John opens his mouth, but the kids would not be happy forever in a small apartment or house…they would be getting by.  Kate does have a lot and could downgrade, but face it, if most families could take their kids all over the country for little or nothing and give them a big house and fund their college, they would do it in a heartbeat.  Look at what the wealthy and movie stars do for their kids AND they have several houses so they can vacation and not stay at resorts.






    http://www.facebook.com/tony.westover                            Tony Westover



Does Anderson Cooper actually think that was real? It’s a reality show! By definition, it’s the farthest from reality that you can get. Take a look at the episode guide on Wikipedia. Does anyone you know actually do any of the shit they do with their kids?






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Jj-Wisniewski/100002654075475                            Jj Wisniewski



Why is he even giving publicity to another reality TV freak and famewhore. If you’re actually interested in reality, you won’t find it on reality TV. 






David_smith



I divorced two Woman Much smarter than this bitch. Selfish peice of trim.






Anonymous



Okaayyy – am I getting this right?- most of you don’t like Anderson Cooper (begs the question: why are you reading this article?) and you don’t like Kate Gosselin (strange how much so many of you know about her and her show…) and think they are both a waste of time – which we know because you spent so much time telling us all about it. 78? At the rate you’re going you’ll be lucky to be aware of half that many years.
Yeah, I watch Anderson; and yeah, I spent a couple of years checking out Kate, her husband and her brood. One saw the whole process of this is fun!; this is work!@#!; this no longer anything like fun!!; this su-u-cks! but I have no education and no time to learn any other way to earn a living/ but I quit my job, have become fat and lazy and no longer want to do anything… it was a sociological hoot until one thought about the children.
I still hope that at some point Kate will care about the children as much as she did when she created the whole freak show as a means of paying off her medical and hospital costs conceiving and giving birth to these eight children.
So far, Kate has been absolutely predictable: freaking out and screaming at her husband until he quit his job to stay home and help raise the kids, then freaking out and screaming at him and the kids because that seems to be her nature. Screaming at the “help” wouldn’t faze her in the least, and it tells me Anderson Cooper has not been a frequent watcher of Kate and her ever changing freak show because he would not then have been so surprised by her behavior.






Bill Kilpatrick



This is journalism?  If Anderson Cooper wants to be Jon Stewart, he’s wasting his time as a journalist.  If, on the other hand, he wants to be a journalist, he’s wasting his time trying to be Jon Stewart.
Anderson, pick a career and stick with it.






Anonymous



That is a full 30seconds of my life that I will NEVER get back, a non-reporter reporting a non-issue.
What is anderson getting paid for??






Jibrasier



Kate and her 8 or so yesterday… Tomorrow is the Future.  Think About how deep that is. 






I.M. Wright



If Kate was just .000001% as wonderful as she thinks she is, then she’d be able to walk on water! I hope she eventually gets her comeuppance.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Vince-Everett/100002334381646                            Vince Everett



I heard that Justin Bieber is a big fan of this show.  I don’t know if he watches all of the episodes, though.






Mickey Mouse



Not so sure she has a twat, just a big d*ck






Lobo 74



I’d still hit it






Lobo 74



I like the episode where Jon was trying to talk her into trying analsex. It was truly the funniest episode.






Ron Helton



Kate who?
I have tried watching some of the “reality” tv shows, but my brain can not justify the inane waste of time.  I would rather read a good historical account or watch a well presented documentary.  
How could anyone possibly learn any life lessons from watching these shows is beyond me.  Honestly, don’t most of us have enough drama in our own lives that we don’t need pointless “reality” tv shows?
Come one, even a funny sitcom is preferable to this “entertainment”.






Andy



Andy is queer






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Thomas-Mc/100001605142837                            Thomas Mc



I’ve never wasted a minute of my life watching Kate Gossling. Never will.






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_C73FGACLM4HIQBHIIIT47VRLI4                            Palin go gal.



A good beer while watching all this BS unfold TV at it’s best!!!






Clearvoice



Nobody Listens! Liberalism is a disease… Anderson Cooper is the perfect example. Go from Journalist to a demonic liberal lune. 






Katla_yoghurt



God forbid they’re happy and comfortable with being themselves instead of conforming to whatever stereotype you think befits “real men.”  Maybe you should concentrate a little more on why you care so much.






Anonymous



Ya, O.K.






LUSTA



ok i wont






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_CD2R2JP67GHC74BGNYG7X6HKEY                            Squeegie



I don’t think I can take Mr. Cooper seriously any more. If you have to write about crap like this you should rethink what you are doing. It reminds me of Tom Cruise running off at the mouth to Brook Shields trying to tell her how to live her life. Come on, Mr. Cooper, don’t lower your self to this level.






Hagen619dj



I have watched the show. Kate is a tempermental type person. Jon is a big baby who felt another “girlfriend’ was in order. Between the two of them…they are not behaving like parents and are under qualified to be parents. having that many children would be hard to handle but then you don’t bite the hands of those that help you either. If show has cancelled it will be hard for both parents to support that many children. The children are who will suffer.  Meanwhile, Kate will continue with her personality and Jon will continue with his. No one wins.






Hagen619dj



Jon is no angel either. No man should feel so sorry for himself that he has to look at another women. It’s time …or was time for him to “man up” on his responsibilities. The people who taped this show should have had some one there to talk w/both of them. Especially, when times were so tough and hard to control the children. Having that many kids to entertain is a very hard job. They both had things pretty well off by being paid to have a show on their family. They both didn’t plan ahead and now the children pay.






Hagen619dj



Can’t you at least write without all the “dirt’.   You must think it makes you look important. Little do you know.






Hagen619dj



Me too.   Tried but got bored.  Should keep blogs short…your rambling isn’t interesting otherwise.






Control Freaks



I had to read this article and watch the video, only because the headline said that Cooper was stuck up someone’s a$$ again.
Once again, I wasn’t dismayed at seeing Cooper make a complete a$$ of himself. It’s his style of reporting nowadays that keeps me from watching anything that he’s a part of. CNN needs to re-think who they keep in their employ.






    http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=1470278608                            Dahna M. Chandler



Really, people? This level of commentary suggests way too much time on your hands. Perhaps you should just watch the show and maybe you might actually know what you’re talking about. It can’t be worse to watch the show than to have so much vitriol for the woman. But, I’m glad you’ve given her this much time. Maybe she can cash in on it and help support her brood. They still have to eat whether you agree with their existence or not. They DO exist and so does their mother. And, yes, she can be hard to take but her babysitter and best friend hatin on her were no better. Where’s the distaste for them? Oh, right. You’ll all too busy hatin’ on Kate. Got it. No, really. Trust me. I got it because I’ve gotten that level of vitriol from people who only SEE me and hate me too. Got it. So, who’s the real waste of time? You or Kate?






Anonymous



Sometimes people should do something better with their life than watching people screaming for pizza (except for the TMNT, it’s never fun)
Regards,
Amy
Cowboy Millionaire Review






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_JY2GEN2ZNKY67XF6TNLFXEYYRA                            Lisa



This woman is a ‘hot mess’ and she cares only for herself, NOT her children. I quit watching the show the first season after I saw her emasculate­, manipulate and embarass her husband IN FRONT OF THE KIDS AND THE NATION!!! I did watch the final episode because I wanted to see if she accepted responsibi­lity for the demolition of her marriage and wrecking her children’s lives. But of course, all Kate can do is complain how she will no longer be able to afford living on a 24 acre farm and sending all 8 kids to private school (yet she buys a $50,000 Audi sportscar that can only hold 3 people!). She even scares her kids into thinking they will lose their home without the income from the reality show! Kate will only have her hair cut, colored and styled at a trendy Manhattan hair salon and the kids get their cuts from Supercuts! It sickens me to see how she bad mouths Jon to his kids and acts as though she is better than other people. I hope Kate NEVER appears on TV anymore (heard she was going to be on ‘The Talk’, please producers think again!) and I pray the kids choose to move in with Dad as the years go forward. Maybe Jon (who did not want his kids on TV) can help these stressed, confused and unhappy children get back to a more positive, normal and healthy life without having every moment viewed publicly.






    http://twitter.com/servar33                            Sergey V



Wow. I have always been astonished by Kate’s behavior. She seemed like a nicer person before all those kids, but her and Jon always seemed so unhappy together. I’m sure the constant publicity didn’t help the relationship or the kids emotionally (although it did financially).  K&N

















Most Popular
Most Commented







Watch: Bystanders Lift Burning Car To Save Motorcyclist Trapped Underneath




CNN/Tea Party Debate Audience Cheers Letting Uninsured Comatose Man Die




Tareq Salahi Tells Media That His Wife Has Been Kidnapped




Dr. Phil: Casey Anthony’s Mother Believes Brain Tumor To Blame For Her Daughter’s Behavior




Rick Santorum Tells Rep. Ron Paul To Stop ‘Parroting Osama Bin Laden’ At CNN Debate


 





CNN/Tea Party Debate Audience Cheers Letting Uninsured Comatose Man Die          »453






Heated Debate: Morning Joe Crew Gangs Up On Tavis Smiley For Saying ‘Bush Lied’          »360






Glenn Beck Show Premiers Tonight; GBTV Subscribers Already Outpace Oprah’s OWN          »304






Gretchen Carlson: Did Serena Williams’ ‘Hater’ Comment Have ‘Racial Undertone’?          »299






Fox News’ Greg Gutfeld Tells NY Times Paul Krugman To ‘Go To Hell’ Over 9/11 Column          »241



 








Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Watercooler: Charm-Free Agents



• 

Emmys: Who Will and Should Win



• 

Cheers & Jeers: Wednesday Night â What's Up With That? 



• 

The Winner of America's Got Talent Is...



• 

Big Brother Crowns a New Winner


 

TV Guide Listings




Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Job hunting?
Use our proprietary jobs tool to access the largest pool of jobs aggregated from around the country.



Power Grid
Who are this week's most influential people in media? Check the Power Grid.





 







  TV
»»



Hot:
CNN | Rick Perry | Barack Obama 







Bachmann’s Former Chief Of Staff: Her False Statements Are The Result Of Her ‘Impulsive Nature’


by Alex Alvarez | 10:23 pm, Wednesday

 

» 44 comments






Stephen Colbert Praises Michele Bachmann’s Scientific Research On HPV Vaccination


by Colby Hall | 7:10 am, Thursday

 

» more inside



 



Ron Paul Hits Back At Dick Cheney By Calling Former Vice President A ‘Dictator’


by James Crugnale | 5:14 pm, Wednesday

 

» 134 comments






Rep. Eliot Engel To Lawrence O’Donnell: Obama Can Win Back Democrats With Renewed ‘Feistiness’


by Alex Alvarez | 8:40 pm, Wednesday

 

» 34 comments



 



Megyn Kelly Blasts Dr. Keith Ablow Over Chaz Bono DWTS Dis


by Colby Hall | 2:41 pm, Wednesday

 

» 144 comments






When Asked If Bachmann Should Be President, Ed Rollins Tells Chris Matthews ‘She Will Evolve’


by James Crugnale | 7:37 pm, Wednesday

 

» 25 comments







More TV:



 
                  Beckel Refuses To Join The Five Hosts In Segment Of ‘Slanderous’ Attacks On Obama                                      »78








 
                  Fox News Channel Plans Countrywide Tour To Celebrate 15 Years On Air                                      »60








 
                  Keith Olbermann Calls Bush-Era Republicans ‘Leading Terrorist Groups’ In US                                      »54








 
                  Will Arnett Discusses Losing Emmys With Jimmy Fallon: We’re ‘Just A House ‘O Losers.’                                      »1








 
                  Michael Moore And Elizabeth Hasselback Spar Over Trying Osama bin Laden                                      »195








 
                  Not Exactly Haiti: A Shirtless Anderson Cooper Joins Snooki At The Tanning Salon                                      »41








 
                  Watch: Al Gore Accidentally ‘Outs’ Stephen Colbert As ‘Your Character’                                      »63








 
                  CNN’s David Gergen: Many Americans Were ‘Horrified’ By GOP Debate                                      »229








 
                  Sam Stein On Morning Joe: NY-9 Results Show Obama Is ‘Immensely Unpopular’ Among Democratic Base                                      »183








 
                  Referendum Or Local Politics? Dems Lose Congressional Seat In Special Election                                      »94








 
                  Stephen Colbert: Future GOP Nominee Should Choose The Grim Reaper As Running Mate                                      »57








 



click here for advertising opportunities





The Star Football Recruit Who’d Never Played Football Is Playing…And Dominating
Most Mainstream News Sources Are Avoiding The Sarah Palin-Glen Rice Story. Here’s Who Isn’t.







Yelp CEO Thinks It’s “Funny” That Google Bought Zagat
EOD Dossier 9/14







Vocre App Attempts to be a Universal Translator, Seems to Come Close
Cameras Track Where Girls Look First: Butt, Crotch, Biceps or Eyes [Video]







Michaele Salahi Runs Off with Journey Guitarist Neal Schon
Sharon Osbourne NOT “Secretly Plotting” New Talk Show







Topman Excuses Domestic Violence With Ultra Offensive T-Shirt
Was Nicki Minaj’s Neon Pom Pom Top A Knockoff?







Turtle Out-Runs Daleks in Low-Speed Chase [Video]
Things We Saw Today: The Walking Dead’s Ominous Season 2 Poster






 








© 2011 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Self-Serve Advertising |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
       RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram





























