Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire - The Denver Post









Commenting: Sign In  |  Register


 Home
 | 
Media Kit
 | 
 Sign up for breaking news email alerts















weekly ad specials from the denver post

























Site
Yahoo








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Home > News >  Breaking News Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeFirefighters gain ground against Texas wildfireBy APRIL CASTRO     Associated PressPosted: 09/07/2011 01:02:36 AM MDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 08:27:07 PM MDTClick photo to enlargeMontgomery Fire Firefighter, Reed Griffith crosses the fire south of Todd Mission, Texas in Waller County on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.   MANDATORY CREDIT «123»BASTROP, Texas—Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.     Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.     The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.     Firefighters reported that the flames were at least An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.  ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.     The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.     One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.     Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.  ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.     Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."     Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.     Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.     The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.     The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a An area destroyed by wildfire is seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.  ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.     Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.     Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.     However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.     A converted DC-10 jetliner Smoke from wildfires outside of Austin, Texas, covers the view of the Texas Capitol Dome from South Congress Avenue, Wednesday,  Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighting crews started to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.  ((AP Photo/Harry Cabluck))from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.     Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.     Obama also assured Perry Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.  ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.     At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.     Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.     "It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.     Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.     "I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."     Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.     "The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."     Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.     "Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry.     "It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."     ———     Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

















Tweet


 






















   Like this article? 
 Recommend it ()   all reader-recommended news 












Login | Sign Up | Email Support



Article Comments



You must be registered to comment (your comment will be saved for you while you register). It's quick (it takes about 30 seconds) and we only require your email and name. Comments that include any offensive material are prohibited. By using our site you agree to our terms of use.




You have javascript turned off. To comment on this article from the article page, javascript must be turned on. Alternately, you can search for this topic thread in our forums.

Comment:


Use the "Report Abuse" link when necessary (you don't have to be a member, or be logged in to use it)
Keep it clean and respect others — don't use language you wouldn't use with your parents
Read the Post's Article Commenting Ground Rules here (link will open in a new window)


















Blogs
Front Page
Aurora
| Boulder
| Denver
| Feeds
| More

Denver & the West
Griego: Daughter was too young to need a final resting placeSinger takes top spot in "Talent" show, edging out Colorado dancersRape suspect in custody in Colorado linked to case in Washington state 


Rockies
| Avs
| Nuggets
| Preps
| RSS
| More

SportsKrieger: A "minor" problem for RocksWoody's Mailbag: Out with the Orton; in with the TebowFan Mail: Ex-Rams star Joey Porter talks CU-CSU rivalry and big NFL games 
Balance Sheet Blog
| Penny Parker
| Tech


BusinessDenver airport program for small retail kiosks unlocks large opportunitiesHigh-rise apartments planned for Union Square areaAssociated Press Media Editors conference in Denver focuses on mobile-device future 
Husted
| Movies
| Music
| TV
| RSS
| Video

EntertainmentBar & Grilled: Lawrence and Cathy Covell"Bieber Meets Al Qaeda" a culture clash that misfiresPhoto essay: Charles Bradley at the Bluebird Theater 

Columnists
| Letters
| Cartoon
| RSS

OpinionEditorial: Shot of reality for BachmannMike Littwin: GOP's circular firing squadMike Rosen: Hocus-pocus and Obamagoguery 
Arcade
| Crossword
| Sudoku

WatercoolerShe hasn't clipped nails in 18 years! Wins recordMan accused of biting off man's eyebrow in fightRabbit that woke owner of burning house dies 

  Most-Commented, Past Hour 


  Teens attack 4 men near 16th Street Mall in Denver    2 
  Navarrette: Americans, and not giving up    2 
  Look for "Play Tim Tebow" on downtown Denver billboards    2 
  Dawkins has legs up on Father Time    2 
  Colorado high country braces for first snowfall of the season    2 

   Recently Recommended     Denver airport program for small retail kiosks unlocks large opportunities   (about 29 minutes ago)
  Strong earthquake hits northeast Japan, no tsunami   (about 1 hour ago)
  Divorce over Alzheimer's fine, Robertson says.   (about 2 hours ago)
  Longtime film studio chief John Calley dies at 81   (about 2 hours ago)
  Former Wyoming U.S. Sen. Malcolm Wallop dies at age 78   (about 2 hours ago)
 More Breaking NewsSinger takes top spot in "Talent" show, edging out Colorado dancers - 09/14/2011 10:52 PM MDTWoman killed in Boulder crosswalk - 09/14/2011 10:01 PM MDTImages of Denver assault suspects released - 09/14/2011 07:13 PM MDTTrial begins for lobbyist charged with burglarizing ex-wife's home - 09/14/2011 06:48 PM MDTDenver Water to vote on 5.5% rate hike - 09/14/2011 05:57 PM MDTAccused Colorado rapist charged in 2008 Washington case - 09/14/2011 04:57 PM MDT 

Most Popular: News: Past 3 Days


See The Denver Post's list of most-clicked news articles on our Most Popular page




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Poll Quiz - Fifth LargestAnswer: Lakewood.
What's the fifth most-populous city in Colorado? (the answer will appear here the first page view after voting, and see more quizzes here)
 Pueblo Thornton Boulder Arvada Lakewood Colorado Springs Aurora Denver I have no ideaVoting Requires Javascript


News: Recent Comments



Visit the news forum for more discussion
More recent comments on Denver Post news articles


Front PageButterball announces plans to close Longmont plant that employs 350 by year's endMartino the "troubleshooter" is bankruptIDs of Aurora City Council members stolenColorado officials detail what was bought with more than $160 million in homeland-security funds Front Page: Local NewsGriego: Daughter was too young to need a final resting placeColorado high country braces for first snowfall of the seasonIDs of Aurora City Council members stolenColorado officials detail what was bought with more than $160 million in homeland-security funds 







All contents Copyright 2011 The Denver Post or other copyright holders. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed for any commercial purpose.
Advertise | Archives | Careers  | Contact Us |  Ethics Policy  |  E-mail Alerts | Mobile | Privacy Policy | Web Feeds | RSS | My Yahoo   | Repurposing Denver Post content - Guidelines | Site Map | Home Delivery  | Terms of Use 
Our other sites:  Viva Colorado | Boulder Daily Camera | Boulder's Colorado Daily | Broomfield Enterprise | Sterling Colorado Journal-AdvocateEstes Park Trail-Gazette | The Lamar Ledger | The Fort Morgan Times | Brush (Colorado) News-Tribune






















Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




