Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Obama administration”
        
                                



9/11 Anniversary: 'Credible but Unconfirmed' Terror Threat Is Out There 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:38 AM





Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano walks onstage to speak about the importance of intelligence gathering to protect the United States, on September 7, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images North America)A threat tied to the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks is revealed. An Obama administration official says the information is focused on New York City or Washington.


            Continue reading 9/11 Anniversary: 'Credible but Unconfirmed' Terror Threat Is Out There .
        





Federal Appeals Court Throws Out Obama Health Care Challenges 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:50 PM





The law's supporters have embraced the tax argument because Congress has a clear authority to tax. (AP Photo)A federal appeals court on Thursday threw out two challenges to President Barack Obama's health care overhaul on procedural grounds.


            Continue reading Federal Appeals Court Throws Out Obama Health Care Challenges .
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





WH Estimates Irene's Federal Cost Will Be $1.5 Billion 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:32 AM





"We will need roughly $1.5 billion in additional disaster relief," Budget Director Jack Lew says. (AP Photo)The White House estimated on Monday that Hurricane Irene will cost federal taxpayers $1.5 billion in disaster relief, further ballooning a government account that was already the focus of fresh partisan friction between President Barack Obama and Congress.


            Continue reading WH Estimates Irene's Federal Cost Will Be $1.5 Billion .
        





GOP Candidates at S. C. Forum Court Tea Partiers 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:26 AM





Republican presidential candidates Rep. Michelle Bachmann (R-MN), businessman Herman Cain, former Georgia Congressman Newt Gingrich, Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX) and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney attend the American Principles Project Palmetto Freedom Forum, September 5, 2011 in Columbia, South Carolina. (Stephen Morton/Getty Images North America)Pledging fidelity to the Constitution and vowing to carry the tea party's priorities to the White House, the Republicans chasing the GOP's presidential nomination pitched themselves Monday to their party's libertarian activists as the strongest candidates to roll back four years of President Barack Obama's tenure.


            Continue reading GOP Candidates at S. C. Forum Court Tea Partiers .
        





President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:23 PM





President Barack Obama walks with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Fayette Avenue in Wayne, N.J., Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011, as he visits flood damage caused by Hurricane Irene. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)President Barack Obama stood on a bridge overlooking the rain-swollen and fast-rushing Passaic River in Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city, and said Sunday the federal government would work to rebuild towns recovering from Hurricane Irene's wrath.


            Continue reading President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery .
        





Obama Halts EPA Regulation Under Pressure From Business Leaders, GOP 


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011  3:24 PM





U.S. President Barack Obama (R) departs the White House with his daughter Sasha Obama September 2, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Win McNamee/Getty Images North America)President Barack Obama on Friday scrapped his administration's controversial plans to tighten smog rules, bowing to the demands of congressional Republicans and some business leaders.


            Continue reading Obama Halts EPA Regulation Under Pressure From Business Leaders, GOP .
        





Zero Jobs Added in August. America Headed for Another Recession?


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:46 AM





Analysts had forecast that between 60,000 and 100,000 jobs would be created. (AP Photo)Employers stopped adding jobs in August, an alarming setback for an economy that has struggled to grow and might be at risk of another recession.


            Continue reading Zero Jobs Added in August. America Headed for Another Recession?.
        





Lockerbie Bomber Near Death, Family Says 


    
                By UCN on August 30, 2011  7:49 AM





Mr. Megrahi attended a pro-government rally in Tripoli in July. (Reuters)The former Libyan intelligence officer convicted in the 1988 Lockerbie plane bombing is close to death and slipping in and out of consciousness, his family said Monday, a week after the government that protected him was ousted from power.


            Continue reading Lockerbie Bomber Near Death, Family Says .
        





al-Qaida's Second-in-Command Killed by US in Pakistan 


    
                By UCN on August 28, 2011  4:44 AM





Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, right, has said he believes al-Qaida's defeat is within reach. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images North America)U.S. and Pakistani officials said Saturday that al-Qaida's second-in-command, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, has been killed in Pakistan, delivering another big blow to a terrorist group that the U.S. believes to be on the verge of defeat.


            Continue reading al-Qaida's Second-in-Command Killed by US in Pakistan .
        





VP Biden Blasted by GOP Presidential Candidates for Condoning China's 'One-Child' Policy 


    
                By UCN on August 23, 2011  2:28 PM





U.S. Vice President Joe Biden lectures at Sichuan University during his visit to China on August 21, 2011 in Chengdu, Sichuan Province of China. (ChinaFotoPress/Getty Images AsiaPac)Republican White House candidates accused Vice President Joe Biden on Tuesday of condoning what one of them called China's "gruesome and barbaric" one-child population control policy.


            Continue reading VP Biden Blasted by GOP Presidential Candidates for Condoning China's 'One-Child' Policy .
        





U.S. Issues New Deportation Policy's First Reprieves


    
                By UCN on August 23, 2011 10:21 AM





In Florida, Manuel Guerra, center, has been fighting deportation for five years. His case was among the first suspended. (Jason Henry/The New York Times)The call came in the morning to the lawyer representing Manuel Guerra, an illegal immigrant from Mexico living in Florida who had been caught in a tortuous and seemingly failing five-year court fight against deportation.


            Continue reading U.S. Issues New Deportation Policy's First Reprieves.
        





Obama Admin. to Launch Case-by-Case Review of Illegal Immigrants 


    
                By UCN on August 18, 2011  5:59 PM





Department of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano said the case-by-case review will enhance public safety. (Getty Images)The Obama administration said Thursday it will allow many illegal immigrants facing deportation the chance to stay in this country and apply for a work permit, while focusing on removing from the U.S. convicted criminals and those who might be a national security or public safety threat.


            Continue reading Obama Admin. to Launch Case-by-Case Review of Illegal Immigrants .
        





Texas Gov. Rick Perry Officially Enters G.O.P. Race for President 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011 12:20 PM






Rick Perry: Time to Get America Working AgainWe will not sit back and accept our current misery...because a great country requires a better direction...because a renewed nation requires a new president. That's why, with faith in God, the support of my family, and an unwavering belief in the goodness of America, I am a candidate for President of the United States.Rick Perry, the conservative governor of Texas, declared himself a candidate for president on Saturday, shaking up the race for the Republican nomination to face Democratic President Barack Obama in 2012.


            Continue reading Texas Gov. Rick Perry Officially Enters G.O.P. Race for President .
        





Appeals Court: Obama Healthcare Law Is Unconstitutional 


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  1:43 PM





U.S. President Barack Obama walks toward Marine One while departing the White House August 11, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images North America)An appeals court ruled Friday that President Barack Obama's healthcare law requiring Americans to buy healthcare insurance or face a penalty was unconstitutional, a blow to the White House.


            Continue reading Appeals Court: Obama Healthcare Law Is Unconstitutional .
        





Timothy Geithner to Remain as Treasury Secretary 


    
                By UCN on August  8, 2011  1:12 AM





U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner checks the time on his watch as he arrives at the West Wing of the White House prior to President Barack Obama's Rose Garden statement on the debt ceiling vote August 2, 2011 in Washington, DC. (August 1, 2011 - Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images North America)Timothy Geithner has told President Barack Obama that he will remain on the job as Treasury secretary, ending speculation he would leave the administration.


            Continue reading Timothy Geithner to Remain as Treasury Secretary .
        





U.S. Credit Rating Downgraded - What Does It Mean? 


    
                By UCN on August  6, 2011  8:07 AM






S&P Downgrades US Credit Rating From AAAThe United States has lost its coveted top AAA credit rating. Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's has downgraded the nation's rating for the first time since the U.S. won the top ranking in 1917. (Aug. 5)A day after Standard & Poor's rating agency downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from its top rank of AAA, there were more questions than answers Saturday about what effects the move will have on the economy and American consumers.


            Continue reading U.S. Credit Rating Downgraded - What Does It Mean? .
        





S&P Downgrades US Debt for First Time, America Loses AAA Credit Rating 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  8:41 PM





The downgrade from S&P has been brewing for months. S&P's sovereign debt team had grown increasingly skeptical that Washington policy makers would make significant progress in reducing the deficit. (Bloomberg News/WSJ)Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's on Friday downgraded the United States' credit rating for the first time in the history of the ratings.


            Continue reading S&P Downgrades US Debt for First Time, America Loses AAA Credit Rating .
        





More than 250 Colleges Sign Up For Obama's Interfaith Program 


    
                By UCN on August  4, 2011  4:42 PM






Advancing Interfaith Cooperation and Community Service in Higher EducationMore than 250 colleges, universities and seminaries have submitted plans to the White House for yearlong interfaith service projects in response to a campaign launched by the Obama administration.


            Continue reading More than 250 Colleges Sign Up For Obama's Interfaith Program .
        





Insurers to Cover Birth Control with No Copays


    
                By UCN on August  1, 2011  7:57 PM





Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius gives brief remarks at the beginning of a news conference about Medicare at HHS June 20, 2011 in Washington, DC.A half-century after the advent of the pill, the Obama administration on Monday ushered in a change in women's health care potentially as transformative: coverage of birth control as prevention, with no copays.


            Continue reading Insurers to Cover Birth Control with No Copays.
        





                                    1 2 3 4 5 6  Next >












 




NBA Lockout Continues 


Dodgers Owner Reach Temporary Spousal Support Deal 


Djokovic, Nadal Prepare to Lead Countries in Davis Cup 


New Mega-rocket Design Unveiled by NASA 


Study: Rise in Sea Levels to Hit California Beaches Hard 


Crystal Cathedral Bankruptcy Plan Will Proceed 


Some Churches Doing Away With Sunday School to Embrace Family-Integrated Congregations 


Fuller Youth Institute to Release Report on Why College Students Leave Church 




 


















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










