Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims












Thursday, September 15, 2011Recent Articles Feeds | All Feeds






 





 




					  
					  Hello Guest | 
Register | 
Login 







Home
Articles
Submit Article
FAQs
RSS

































Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims 









Posted on September 7, 2011 by staronepr  ::  Category: Business 










|
More








 
									
								









Space Certified smoke removal systems available for loan or purchase. Technology used by the Red Cross and by The Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after 911.












Georgetown, Texas, September 07, 2011 -- Locally based Ecomajik Corporation announced today it will try to do its part to help neighbors dealing with smoke damage and health concerns after the wildfires across the Austin, Texas area. The company distributes Air Purifiers with technology designed for NASA for use in the Space Shuttle. These air purifiers have long been used by the Red Cross and were employed by the Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after the 911 attack.Ecomajik will provide air purifiers to residents on a loan basis without charge. Additionally if residents are interested in purchasing units they have established a special program to help fire victims."My husband and I survived the wildfires in San Diego several years back. We know what challenges families have to deal with, even when your home makes it through the crisis untouched. Sometimes smoke damage can linger for weeks or months and is very unhealthy for inhabitants. Our Air Purifiers eliminate smoke and mitigate smoke damage from fires killing all odors and removing contaminants from the air." noted Susan Braun Ecomajik Corporation President. "Breathing this contaminated air can be very hazardous to your health, especially if your are an "at risk" individual." she added.Residents in Bastrop, Moonglow, Steiner Ranch, Pedernales, Union Chapel, Luther Hill, and surrounding areas qualify for the free loan of equipment while supplies last. The air purifiers remove all contaminants from the air in homes and sanitize exposed surfaces as well. About the size of a bookshelf speaker they can clean a home up to 3,000 sq feet."Affected residents can call Ecomajik at 512-222-PURE (7873) and leave their names and numbers. We will contact them shortly. There are a limited number of units available for loan but we will do our best to help anyone we can." noted Braun. Additional information is available at http://www.Ecomajik.com.Media Contact:Carl BraunEcomajik CorporationGreen Products and Technologies1102 South Austin Ave Suite 110-197Georgetown, Texas 78626512-222-7873carl@ecomajik.comhttp://www.ecomajik.com



Related Tags: 
ecomajik
										
											, 
										
										air purifiers
										
											, 
										
										texas
										
											, 
										
										smoke
										
											, 
										
										smoke damage
										
											, 
										
										wildfires
										
											, 
										
										air




 Email |
 Print |
 + Favorites 
|









|
More
|




 




About the author

										Carl Braun									 



Syndicate this article 

Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire VictimsPosted By: staroneprGeorgetown, Texas, September 07, 2011 -- Locally based Ecomajik Corporation announced today it will try to do its part to help neighbors dealing with smoke damage and health concerns after the wildfires across the Austin, Texas area. The company distributes Air Purifiers with technology designed for NASA for use in the Space Shuttle. These air purifiers have long been used by the Red Cross and were employed by the Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after the 911 attack.Ecomajik will provide air purifiers to residents on a loan basis without charge. Additionally if residents are interested in purchasing units they have established a special program to help fire victims."My husband and I survived the wildfires in San Diego several years back. We know what challenges families have to deal with, even when your home makes it through the crisis untouched. Sometimes smoke damage can linger for weeks or months and is very unhealthy for inhabitants. Our Air Purifiers eliminate smoke and mitigate smoke damage from fires killing all odors and removing contaminants from the air." noted Susan Braun Ecomajik Corporation President. "Breathing this contaminated air can be very hazardous to your health, especially if your are an "at risk" individual." she added.Residents in Bastrop, Moonglow, Steiner Ranch, Pedernales, Union Chapel, Luther Hill, and surrounding areas qualify for the free loan of equipment while supplies last. The air purifiers remove all contaminants from the air in homes and sanitize exposed surfaces as well. About the size of a bookshelf speaker they can clean a home up to 3,000 sq feet."Affected residents can call Ecomajik at 512-222-PURE (7873) and leave their names and numbers. We will contact them shortly. There are a limited number of units available for loan but we will do our best to help anyone we can." noted Braun. Additional information is available at http://www.Ecomajik.com.Media Contact:Carl BraunEcomajik CorporationGreen Products and Technologies1102 South Austin Ave Suite 110-197Georgetown, Texas 78626512-222-7873carl@ecomajik.comhttp://www.ecomajik.comAbout the Author: Carl BraunArticle Source: http://www.articleshub.org/article/112620/Ecomajik-Corporation-To-Offer-Air-Purifiers-to-Texas-Wildfire-Victims.html




Comments
No Comments Yet!


 


 


 


 



 












 




Related Articles


Risk and Liability in Air Law





Airlines with the Best Business Class Seats





How To Grow Black Hair Longer And Stronger





Seasonal hair care in summer





Haircare the New Buzz in Body Care Industry





Lets check out the valuable benefits of business class airfare





Cheap Air Travel for Domestic Flights





Tips on Finding an Extramarital Affair Online





Are you suffering from Hair loss





20 Reasons to Buy DFW, Texas Real Estate





How can I look fashionable in hair loss headwear?





Your Guide to DIY Xbox 360 Repair





Effective Home Remedies for Hair Care





Another Vairy Elegance





Repairing your Xbox 360 the Easy Way








 
							
						





Latest Articles


Student Loan Unemployed- Get additional funds for your education expenses





Abridge mobile expenses with Mobile Phone Deals





Website Publishing Detailed Report On The Best Garden Games





Unsecured loans for tenants- Ideal funds to assist you overcome monetary hassles





Recreate History Through Renaissance Apparels





3 Star Hotels In Ranthambore National Park





Unsecured Loans for Unemployed- An Efficient Monetary Scheme for Unemployed People





About Baby Shower Gifts





Pan American Metals of Miami Cautions Investors Not to Forget About Silver





Cash Loans with no paper work - Execute necessities without faxing hitch





The Benefits Of Using Top 10 Lists





Flights to Sydney- Visit this City and Feel the Difference

















Copyright (c) 2009 Articleshub.org. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Terms
Designed by Web Designer











