U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction    Tehrān :  Iran
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy             9 1      
Views: 488
          President Mahmoud AhmadinejadMahmoud Ahmadinejad predicted the bail exchange release to be "in a couple of days" for Shane Bauer and Joshua Fattal, the two American citizens who were arrested in Iran in 2009, but Iran's powerful judiciary said their release is still under review, according to the Washington Post.  "The two Americans are going to stay in prison for a bit longer. Reports of their imminent release are wrong," reported Iran's English-language Press TV. If the hikers end up staying incarcerated, President Ahmadinejad could be in for an embarassing premature prediction to answer to while the media scrambles to retract his hopeful statements to the American public, to the world.  Timetables and conditions of release are not set by the president but Iran's judiciary, the ruling clerics who control of the court. Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal were sentenced in Iran last month to eight years in prison. Ahmadinejad told US media that they would be freed "in a couple of days" in what he referred to as a humanitarian gesture.        1 of 23        
Sarah Shourd is interviewed during a rally for Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, U.S. hikers being held in Iran on charges of espionage, in New York
     
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (60.8%) Canada (9.5%) China (3.1%) Portugal (3.1%) 28 other countries (20.6%)           READ MORE: Shane Bauer, Joshua Fattal, two American hikers, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iranian, Bauer, Men, Iran, American, President   More News From: Tehrān :  Iran      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 16            Reply  Posted By       FCEtier
| about 23 hours ago
  
Another "Midnight Express?" Rated UP.
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 23 hours ago
  
Ha ha ha -- yeah, Chip, it's going to be interesting to see the next move by the president. I can't imagine him just saying, "Okay," regardless of who is in control.
             Reply  Posted By       Qaiser_Riaz
| about 23 hours ago
  
excellent work rated up
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
Thanks QaiserRiaz, appreciate it.
             Reply  Posted By       RaulDeSouza
| about 22 hours ago
  
Atleast someone is standing against the U.S.A they should concentrate on thier own country first.
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
But to use innocent hikers to make their point seems wrong.
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
  
Thanks for the share rated up.
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
Thanks Vicky, good to hear from you. Hope you are well.
             Reply  Posted By       KhAmmarAhmed1
| about 19 hours ago
  
Really great job keep it up rated upand please also comment on my report
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
KhAmmarahmed1,I sure appreciate you giving me a good rating.
             Reply  Posted By       BMcPherson
| about 18 hours ago
  
It is unfortunate to see these two as chips in a deadly poker game, but the US really has no moral high ground here as they have kept people locked up for years before giving them an appearance at a kangaroo court. Am I talking about Guantanamo, you bet.
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
It is so sad, there has got to be a way to help them!
             Reply  Posted By       northsunm32
| about 11 hours ago
  
It seems the two hikers are still part of a power struggle in Iran. There are many powerful people in the Iranian govt. especially clerics who dislike Ahmadinejad and want to curb his power. They are trying to show him who his boss by stalling on allowing the hikers go.
             Reply  Reply By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 5 hours ago
  
Isn't that terrible Northsum, that they would use the hikers to prove their point and show their control or power?
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 9 hours ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news report. Anyone want to sing High Hopes?
             Reply  Posted By       Orakul
| 14 minutes ago
  
I have to say why did they go to such a dangerous area for hiking? Come on if I am going on vacation I don't think that is a place I am going to get much relaxing done especially in an area where people don't like Americans anyway. Good story good rate.
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          The release of the US hikers in Iran is not imminent By: Samantha86      The release of the two US hikers in Iran is not imminent, according to an Iranian judiciary official. The US hikers were arrested while hiking in Iran and convicted of spying last month.
An Iranian judiciary official on Wednesday said that the two Americans who had been arrested while hiking in Iran and convicted of spying will not be released ...  about 18 hours ago     Iran's Justice Ministry: hikers Shane Bauer, Josh Fattal will NOT be ... By: afzal_mehmood      Two jailed U.S. hikers aren't going anywhere anytime soon, at least according to Iran's Justice Ministry.
The debate over their release appeared settled Tuesday when the Islamic Republic's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, declared Shane Bauer and   about 22 hours ago     Iranian judiciary denies any decision to release U.S hikers By: faraway      
 
The Iranian judiciary has denied on Wednesday, seeking information that the two American hikers who were sentenced to eight years in prison for espionage and illegal entry into Iran are released these days.
 
Tuesday, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced that Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal would be released by Thursday. ...  about 22 hours ago     Americans suspected of spying in Iran should continue arrested By: junaid1990      The two American tourists arrested in Iran for alleged spying and sentenced to eight years in prison, should not be released immediately, advances the Guardian. The information counter, so the news yesterday and disclosed according to which Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, had announced the immediate release of two men. "The two ...  1 day ago     Good news for US hikers imprisoned in Iran By: prabirghose      
It is understood that the President of
Iran has agreed to release the two US hikers who have been imprisoned in Iran
on charges of espionage. Bond of $500,000 has been set for each of them by the Court. Some see in this an effort of President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad to boost his image before his visit to NY on the occasion of the session
...  1 day ago     Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid By: Orakul      $500,000.00 for each of the imprisoned students,  Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, is what it is taking to get them free. The same was paid for the release of the third student that was detained, Sarah Shourd, who was released in a similar deal made last year.
The last time anybody saw them were when their mothers got to visit them last ...  1 day ago     Iran: U.S.hikers to be released in two days on $ 500 000 bail each By: faraway      
The two American hikers who sentenced to eight years in prison for espionage and illegal entry into Iran on August 21 will eventually be released "in two days," said Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to U.S. television network NBC.
 
Counsel for the two Americans, Massoud Shafii, who has appealed the sentence, for his part, told ...  1 day ago     Ahmadinejad announced his intention to release the Americans accused ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will be the release of two Americans accused of spying "after two days" in exchange for payment of bail of half a million dollars each.  Ahmadinejad said in an interview with U.S. network NBC News that "the two Americans were sentenced to eight years in prison for spying and entering Iran illegally ...  1 day ago     Petition To Release Hikers From Iran By: ahol888      Earlier this month, the Care2 petition site established a petition to have the two hikers released from Iran.  Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal were sentenced to eight years in an Iranian prison on charges of illegal entry and espionage.  Despite the fact that prosecutors from Iran showed absolutely no proof that the hikers were spies, the ...  14 days ago     Iran sentenced two U.S. citizens eight years in prison for spying  By: lethibichlan      
 Clinton Hillary Clinton has voiced disappointment after the two climbers were sentenced to eight years in prison Iran on charges of illegal entry and espionage.  Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, both aged 29, was sentenced Tuesday 20 / 8 to each of three years imprisonment for illegal entry charges and five years in prison ...  23 days ago     Two American Hikers Sentenced Eight Year prison in Iran.  By: muhammedashfaque      
According to report Iran
reported to have sentenced two American hikers to eight year in prison for
illegal entry and spying for US
intelligence agency, state television said on Saturday quoting an international
judiciary source.
 
Shane Bauer – and Josh Fattal, the two detained American
citizens have been each sentenced ...  24 days ago     Iran Court confirmed eight-year jail terms for two US hikers By: faraway      
They have twenty days to appeal. The Tehran Prosecutor Abbas Jafari Dolatabadi confirmed on Sunday at a press conference, the conviction of two American hikers Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, aged 29, to eight years in prison for espionage and illegal entry into Iran.
A statement that certifies an unidentified source of information given by the ...  24 days ago     US hikers jailed in Iran on espionage charges By: prabirghose      Two US hikers have been imprisoned in Iran for eight years each on charges of spying. There were three of them Shane Bauer, Josh Fattal and Sarah Shourd who had strayed into the Iran-Iraq unmarked border in July 2009. They had explained that they were hikers hiking in the northern province of Kurdistan and had unknowingly strayed into the Islamic ...  25 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     US hikers' release not imminent, says Iranian official  
The Guardian
 AFP/Getty Images Two US nationals arrested while hiking in Iran and convicted of spying will not be released imminently as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had announced, a judiciary official has said. "The two Americans are going to stay in prison for a bit...    Iran judiciary studying bail for 2 Americans  
The Journal Gazette
 Iran Iran's judiciary says it's still reviewing details of a plan to offer bail for two Americans jailed on spying charges. The statement today is a potentially embarrassing rejection of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's prediction that Shane Bauer and...    Release Of American Hikers Not Imminent, Iran's Judiciary Says  
National Public Radio
 The limits of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's authority appear to be showing again with word from that country's official news outlet that : "Iran's Judiciary has rejected recent media reports on the imminent release of the two American...    Iran judiciary denies decision taken on freeing US hikers  
NOW Lebanon
 Iran's judiciary said on Wednesday that no decision has been taken on releasing two US hikers convicted of spying, a day after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said the duo would be released soon. "While denying ... release of two Americans...    Iran judiciary: bail for 2 Americans under study  
Seattle Post Intelligencer
 Iran (AP) A bail offer for two Americans convicted of spying is still under review, Iran's powerful judiciary said Wednesday in a potentially embarrassing rejection of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's prediction that their release could be in a...    Iran to free 2 Americans  
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
 Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday that he intends to release two Americans who have been jailed on charges of espionage for two years and grant them a "unilateral pardon." "I am helping to arrange for their release in a couple of...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Sarah Shourd is interviewed ...    Sarah Shourd is interviewed ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Sarah Shourd is interviewed during a rally for Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, ...        (L-R) Shane Bauer, Sarah ...    (L-R) Shane Bauer, Sarah ... Image Source: www.afp.com (L-R) Shane Bauer, Sarah Shourd and Josh Fattal waiting to meet their ...        Bauer and Fattal were arrested ...    Bauer and Fattal were arrested ... Image Source: www.afp.com Bauer and Fattal were arrested on the unmarked border between Iran and ...        Washington said Saturday that ...    Washington said Saturday that ... Image Source: www.afp.com Washington said Saturday that two US hikers Shane Bauer (L) and Josh Fattal ...        Shane Bauer (L) and Josh ...    Shane Bauer (L) and Josh ... Image Source: www.afp.com Shane Bauer (L) and Josh Fattal (R) have been sentenced for illegal entry ...        The two US hikers were ...    The two US hikers were ... Image Source: www.afp.com The two US hikers were arrested near the mountainous Iraq-Iran border in ...      More Related Images    More From Tehrān          U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction        Washington fears that Iran will develop technologies related to military        Iran vows to fight Kurdish separatists        PM GILLANI returnend to pakistan ans said that pakistan/Iran agreed to increase Yrade up to $10billion in comming year.          New depth in Pak-Iran ties        Good news for US hikers imprisoned in Iran        Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Two murderers were hanged public in Iran.          Iran to release American accused of spying       Pak-Iran have agreed on speeding up the work progress on Gas pipe line and 1000 mega watt electricity plans        joint airline of pak & iran        Iran: U.S.hikers to be released in two days on $ 500 000 bail each         Iran bans half-naked men, love triangles on TV                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10333774          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 29       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 23       Comments: 16    16       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10333774), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10333774 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10333774 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10333774-iranian-judiciary-dampens-presidents-prediction.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         