Wildfire burns near Magnolia - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Wildfire burns near Magnolia

By DALE LEZON and ZAIN SHAUK, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

                                                                                Updated 09:12 p.m., Tuesday, September 6, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







A burned out house and cars are seen in the Remington Forest subdivision near Magnolia, Texas, on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011. A large blaze burning in forests in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties north and west of Houston contributed to  more than 1,000 homes that have been destroyed in at least 57 Texas fires.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								A burned out house and cars are seen in the Remington Forest...






David Courtney, front and his friends take all of his  valuables from his home as changing winds bring a wildfire closer, Tuesday,  Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County. ( Nick de la Torre / Houston Chronicle ) 
David Courtney, front and his...






Blackened forest is left behind as wildfire burns on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Magnolia, Texas. The blaze near Magnolia has charred 3,000 acres.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Blackened forest is left behind as wildfire burns on Tuesday,...






Joan Contreras 13, looks at cots that are being set up for wildfire evacuees, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Magnolia High School in Magnolia. Joan says he thinks his house was burned down.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Joan Contreras 13, looks at cots that are being set up for...






Charred ground surrounds a playground basketball court after a wildfire swept through a neighborhood Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Magnolia, Texas.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Charred ground surrounds a playground basketball court after a...






A spotting plane crosses a spot of smoke that's allowed the day light to peak through as it helps a tanker locate the best spot to drop a load of fire retardant material during a wildfire, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								A spotting plane crosses a spot of smoke that's allowed the day...






A wildfire burns in the forest behind homes on FM 1586 near Magnolia, Texas on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011. A large blaze burning in forests in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties north and west of Houston contributed to  more than 1,000 homes that have been destroyed in at least 57 Texas fires.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								A wildfire burns in the forest behind homes on FM 1586 near...






Fire consumes a forest as a wildfire burns on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Magnolia, Texas.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Fire consumes a forest as a wildfire burns on Tuesday, Sept. 6,...






Amy Barton, a Magnolia Independent School District employee, volunteers her time to organize food donated to the Red Cross' evacuation center, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Amy Barton, a Magnolia Independent School District employee,...






Jack Novak, in red, head pastor with The Grove church, leads a prayer outside Magnolia High School where residents evacuated from their homes near  a 300-acre wild fire gathered Monday, Sept. 5, 2011 in Magnolia, Texas. Nearly 8,000 residents were evacuated from their homes. (AP Photo/The Courier, Eric S. Swist)
							Photo: MBR, Eric S. Swist
										/ AP
								Jack Novak, in red, head pastor with The Grove church, leads a...






Charlotte Rudle takes one of her dogs to her vehicle as she  evacuates from her home as a wild fire changes direction, Tuesday, Sept. 6,  2011, in Montgomery County. ( Nick de la Torre / Houston Chronicle )
Charlotte Rudle takes one of her...






Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.   (AP Photo/Erich Schlegel)
							Photo: FRE, Erich Schlegel
										/ FR 62355 AP
								Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on...






Law enforcement vehicles are seen amidst many homes that have burned to the ground in the Remington Forest subdivision near Magnolia, Texas, on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011..
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Law enforcement vehicles are seen amidst many homes that have...






Law enforcement officers investigate the scene of a burned house in the Remington Forest subdivision near Magnolia, Texas, on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Law enforcement officers investigate the scene of a burned house...






A wildfire threatens homes  near Magnolia, Texas on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011. The Montgomery County Emergency Operations Center says approximately 4,000 homes were evacuated in Montgomery County.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								A wildfire threatens homes  near Magnolia, Texas on Tuesday,...






Firefighters stage equipment on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Todd Mission, Texas.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								Firefighters stage equipment on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near...






A small plane flies near a wildfire on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Magnolia, Texas.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Smiley N. Pool
										/ © 2011  Houston Chronicle
								A small plane flies near a wildfire on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011,...


































































































 







 







Houston and Texas









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


Deadly wildfires have burned more than 118,000 acres and destroyed at least 700 homes statewide, including a large blaze burning in forests in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties that has blackened thousands of acres, forced hundreds of residents to flee and shut down several roads and schools.Firefighters have brought under control fires that erupted in the FM 1774 and FM 1486 area, officials said late this afternoon, but continue to extinguish hot spots that flare up. Fires in the three-county area have burned more than 7,500 acres, officials said.Later Tuesday, officials lifted mandatory evacuations for Montgomery County residents east of FM 1486. The area includes the Shady Oaks Boulevard, Shady Oaks, Shady Lane, Country Oaks, Weeren Road, North Hall Drive, South Hall Drive, Doma, and Sandy Hill Roads, officials said.In Central Texas, a massive wildfire that destroyed at least 600 homes has killed two people, authorities said Tuesday. Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said he had no details about the victims, including when or how they died. The blaze near Magnolia has charred 3,000 acres near FM 1488 and FM 1774, and flames are moving southwest, according to Montgomery County Emergency Management. Magnolia Independent School District said schools would be closed Wednesday for a second day because of the flames.Some 20 homes have burned in the fire; 150 are immediately threatened; and 100 more are in the blaze's path, say Texas Forest Service officials.John Turner and John Morrison don't know if they are still neighbors in their Magnolia RV trailer park off FM 1488in Waller County.The two friends were living in identical trailers next to each other when they evacuated Monday because of a wildfire burning out of control. But a constable late Tuesday told them the fire gutted their trailer park. He showed them photos he'd taken with his cellphone for proof.The two evacuees could see nothing left but a single trailer that looked like one of theirs. They don't know if it's even livable. Neither had fire insurance."I don't know if we could live together, though," said Morrison, 67, a retired machinist. "We both have dogs that fight as soon as they get near each other."The two neighbors had moved there after fleeing a wildfire at a different trailer park in June. "And now here it got us," said Turner, 66, a retired heavy equipment operator.Both were numbed by the news and unclear what to do next. "Denial comes to mind," said Morrison. "Just can't get it in there yet and process it. "They told us it could be days before we can get back in there and look."The leading edge of the fire is near Greenbriar Drive in the Walnut Bend area in Waller County, where firefighters have been able to contain the flames early Tuesday. But crews continue to try to gain the upper hand on the flames in nearby areas.When asked if the fire was under control, Grimes County Sheriff Donald Sowell said: "Absolutely not under control. I'm looking at smoke from a mile away from where I am."Sowell said a shift in wind has rekindled the fire. Officials have issued evacuation orders for the following subdivisions: River Park Ranch, Wisteria Farms, Ranch Crest, Magnolia West, Deer Haven, Woodland Lakes, Week End Retreats, Shady Brook Acres, Ranch Crest, River Park Ranch and Clear Creek Forest lots 10-12.At 3 p.m., fire was threatening the Montgomery County communities of High Chapperal, Toby's Village and Magnolia East and residents there were being evacuated.The fire has forced officials to close FM 1488 at FM 1774 west of the Waller County/Montgomery County line as well FM 1774 west of FM 1486 in to Grimes County.The Montgomery County Emergency Operations Center says approximately 4,000 homes were evacuated in Montgomery County, 150 acres have burned and two homes were destroyed. Many areas south of FM 1774 and FM 1488 in the county are being allowed back to their homes. This area includes Alford Estates, Woodland Land Lakes, Week End Retreats, Magnolia West, Ranch Crest, Wisteria Farms, River Park Ranch, Deer Haven, River Park Ranch and others.No deaths or serious injuries have been reported locally. However, four firemen have been treated at a hospital for heat exhaustion and another had a minor ankle injury.Officials said the fire has destroyed two homes, one on Ruel Road and another on Pecos Ranch Rd. At least 12 out buildings in the Ranch Crest and River Ranch Park subdivisions also were destroyed.Wildfires are raging east of Austin as well.The Bastrop County Complex blaze had charred at least 30,000 acres and appears to have destroyed at least 600 homes, according to the Texas Forest Service. The the fast-moving fire has jumped the Colorado River twice and forced the evacuation of The Circle D, K.C. Estates, Pine Forest, Colovista and Tahitian Village subdivisions.At least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park have burned. The park is home to endangered Houston toads and several historic rock and stone buildings built in the 1930s and 1940s that officials are trying to protect, said Mike Cox of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.From the park's front gate, Cox told the Associated Press: "All I see is a wall of smoke."Officials said the Pedernales Bend blaze is burning 4 miles southeast of Spicewood. The fire has blackened 7,000 acres and burned at least 67 homes. The blaze is 40 percent contained.The 150-acre fire has forced the evacuation of 150 homes in Steiner Ranch, where Gov. Rick Perry was inspecting damage on Tuesday. The fire, which started just north of the area, has burned 150 acres and destroyed 25 homes.Texas firefighters have battled 181 fires that have burned 118,413 acres, and more than 700 homes have been destroyed in the last 48 hours.Parched conditions and highs winds fanned the flames during the last few days. Winds may decrease slightly, but dry air that has settled above the area and low humidity may hamper firefighters.Cindy Horswell and the Associated Press contributed to this report.dale.lezon@chron.comzain.shauk@chron.com







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Wildfire burns near Magnolia
Deadly wildfires have burned more than 118,000 acres and destroyed at least 700 homes statewide, including a large blaze burning in forests in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties that has blackened thousands of acres, forced hundreds of residents to flee and shut down several roads and...































Latest Slideshows








 Dynamo 2, Crew 2


 Four-legged victims of the wildfires


 NASA's New Deep Space Exploration System



 
 











Latest Houston and Texas Headlines














			
				Houston may get break from 100-degree days





			
				Man shot in neck during robbery in N. Houston





			
				1 killed, 2 hurt at SW Houston apartments





			
	Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden





			
	Spring High expected to reopen on Thursday





 











Latest News










James Nielsen
					

Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden
The pair were forced to leave quickly because the raging fire was at their back door, said Waller County animal control officer Don...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Wendy Taylor aims beyond Houston
Taylor-made for singing: Wendy Brown/Focus on U Photography



Wendy Taylor has a big, booming personality that’s matched only by her...


 

 







Latest Sports










Robert Sutton
					

A&M can expect warm welcome from SEC fans
Taken fan by fan, restaurant table by restaurant table, tailgate party by tailgate party, folks in the heart of Southeastern...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













