 July 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Big “Green” Couches
POSTED BY Elaine on Jul 30 under Eco-friendly, Organic
For some quality rest and relaxation after a hard days work it is nice to come home to a comfy couch to lounge on. There is a wonderful selection of Eco-Friendly models in the marketplace, so if your looking into doing some re-modeling in your living room then shop for one of these! A lot [...]


Comments Off



British Engineers Reveal Scale of Threat and Clean up Gulf of Mexico
POSTED BY Press on Jul 30 under Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
LONDON, July 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Today, British clean tech company Ultra Green unveils its new technology that can potentially clean up the majority of the estimated four million barrels of oil spilled in the Gulf of Mexico by the end of September. After successfully passing all rigorous safety checks to ensure the rig is [...]


Comments Off



Cable & Wireless Worldwide Reduces CO2 With Earth/Satellite Location Centre Closure
POSTED BY Press on Jul 30 under Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
LONDON, July 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — As part of its ongoing pledge to significantly reduce its carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050, Cable&Wireless Worldwide has successfully closed Thameside, its earth/satellite location centre in London. Originally the Docklands Telecommunications Centre, Thameside was a collection of huge satellite dishes in the midst of the city. The [...]


Comments Off



More Phones hit the Marketplace
POSTED BY Elaine on Jul 29 under Eco-friendly, Green Gadgets, Solar Power
There can never be enough Eco-Friendly phones out in the marketplace to choose from. People on average change their phone at least twice a year, so with all that switching going on it is good to know that their is a large selection of cell phones available. Vodafone have the very latest release, titled the [...]


Comments Off



Camping Tips for Summer
POSTED BY Elaine on Jul 28 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Pollution, Recycling, Water
Summer is the perfect time to explore nature and enjoy the outside with friends and family. One particular activity which really helps you to relax and have fun outdoors is camping. Many popular destinations around the country-side earn praise for being Eco-Friendly and promoting recycling, therefore it is important to be as environmentally conscious as [...]


Comments Off



Seoul, Named a UNESCO City of Design Designation Expected to Upgrade the City’s Brand
POSTED BY Press on Jul 28 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
SEOUL, South Korea, July 28, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Seoul was appointed a UNESCO City of Design as of July 20, 2010. The designation is in appreciation of the city’s abundant cultural heritage and creative potentials as well as its strong pursuit of diverse design policies. The U.N. agency also highly evaluated the city’s potential to [...]


Comments Off



In the Circumstances of the First Half 2010, Valeo Demonstrates its Ability to Achieve its Profitability Objectives With an Operating Margin Level of 6.1% of Sales, the Highest Level in 10 Years
POSTED BY Press on Jul 28 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
PARIS, July 27, 2010 /PRNewswire/ – – Original equipment sales growth of 44%, higher than production growth in each geographic region – Significantly improved net income, at 168 million euros, or 3.5% of sales – Strong cash generation of 291 million euros and significant reduction of debt to 438 million euros at June 30, 2010 [...]


Comments Off



The Ford Explorer arrives
POSTED BY Elaine on Jul 27 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Eco-friendly Vehicles, Transportation
Walking is the best form of traveling. However, long distances, strong weather and many other factors make it impossible to always choose the healthy-eco option. Car manufacturers are working hard to release some quality vehicles which live up to the high standards environmentalists demand. We all want to cut our carbon emissions. Now Ford have [...]


Comments Off



SDE has Finalized the Construction of the First Sea Wave Power Plant in Jaffa Port, Israel
POSTED BY Press on Jul 27 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
TEL AVIV, Israel, July 27, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — SDE has finalized the construction of the first large-scale sea wave power plant, in Jaffa Port in Israel. In the past, the sea wave energy conversion method has received support from the Chief Scientist of Israel, Ministry of Industry and Trade, approval no. 23425, which had enabled [...]


Comments Off



Eco Animal Adventure
POSTED BY Elaine on Jul 26 under Animals, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Books
A new animated feature is coming to screens. Cuentas de la selva is an motion picture set in the jungles of Argentina. Greedy humans are deforesting hundreds of hectares to set up a lucrative business: a spa with every imaginable luxury for privileged guests. Camp foreman Oncade heads the team in charge of the criminal [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


recycled materials
prnewswire
eco
global warning
earthquake
tropical storm lee
green
pr newswire
clothes
richter scale
barack obama
Recycling
ecofriendly
christmas
money
reuters
climate change
carbon footprint
organic cotton
saving energy
Eco-friendly
global warming
epicenter
lifestyle
consumers
mother earth
hurricane irene
national hurricane center
environment
earth
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




