Texas Fire Destroys 1,554 Homes, 17 People Missing | Fox News





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   Disasters - US
Texas Fire Destroys 1,554 Homes, 17 People Missing




Published September 11, 2011 | Associated Press

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




AP
Sept. 10: A fire burns in the wooded lots west of Hawk Road Saturday, near Diana, Texas.

BASTROP, Texas –  The number of homes destroyed by a Texas wildfire has risen to 1,554 and is expected to further increase as firefighters enter more areas where the blaze has been extinguished, officials said Sunday. Seventeen people remain unaccounted for.
Bastrop County officials joined by Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett sought to provide new information to hundreds of residents evacuated from their homes a week ago when blustering wind whipped up by Tropical Storm Lee swept across parched, drought-stricken Texas, helping to spark more than 190 wildfires statewide. The worst of the fires has consumed more than 34,000 acres in this area 30 miles southeast of Austin.
While sharing the bad news that the tally of destroyed homes will increase, officials also told some 100 residents who gathered at a news conference on Sunday that people would begin going back into the scorched areas on Monday. A detailed plan will allow residents to slowly enter the evacuated areas over the coming week as firefighters and emergency responders ensure the land has properly cooled, hotspots are extinguished and the blaze is contained.
Tensions and frustrations boiled over at a similar gathering on Saturday when residents demanded to be allowed to return to their neighborhoods to see what remains of their homes and attempt to salvage a few belongings. Many people were given only minutes to evacuate as the raging blaze surrounded homes and neighborhoods. Some had time to only gather a few important belongings.
Others left with only the clothes on their back.
Still, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said there was no immediate concern for the lives of the 17 people who remain unaccounted for.
"They could have been on vacation," he said.
George Helmke, 77, a retired Delta airlines gate agent, is scheduled to return to his home on Thursday. A police roadblock some 150 yards from his home is preventing him from accessing his property even though there is no fire damage.
"It's almost inhumane and I'm very frustrated," Helmke said. "They've had us out eight days already."
The fire has prevented him from taking heart and esophagus medication he has in his house.
"These are expensive medication. I tell these folks that, but they just sort of brush you off," Helmke said.
The federal government on Friday declared Texas a disaster area, paving the way for individuals to get financial aid. Doggett said the Federal Emergency Management Agency will incur 75 percent of the costs of fighting the fires, and families will be eligible for up to $30,000 to pay for expenses not covered by insurance policies, such as hotel bills, temporary housing and even construction costs.
"The $30,000 can only go so far toward the expenses that some of you have," Doggett said. "But I think it can be a lot of assistance."
On Monday, schools will open for the first time since the Bastrop blaze erupted. So many people are living in the town's Super 8, Best Western and Holiday Inn that school buses will stop at all three.
County emergency management director Mike Fisher said the Bastrop blaze is now 50 percent contained.
"We're gaining every hour every shift," Fisher said.
The monster blaze that has done the most damage to Bastrop resulted when two fires joined a week ago. Investigators have been focused on containing the blaze and won't know for several weeks what caused it, Pickering said. Officials are investigating reports of arson in smaller fires, he said.
"We had reports from around the community of vehicles driving around that we suspect are starting fires," Pickering said. "I have no confirmation of that."
North of Houston, meanwhile, firefighters say a tri-county blaze that has consumed more than 20,000 acres and destroyed nearly 60 homes is also half contained.



Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article

















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Break in Case of Missing Utah Mom?
		      
		          
		              








Across America: Transformer Explodes Outside Chicago
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Police Find Unidentified Remains in Search for Missing Utah Mom
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

Archie Comics Announces Gay Character Will Marry -- Will Anyone Object?
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Court: California Teacher Loses Fight to Keep 'God' Banners in Classroom
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After Donating Kidney Is Put Back on Salary
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies
		  
		      
		  
		


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey
		  
		      
		  
		


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness
		  
		      
		  
		


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party
		  
		      
		  
		


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















Introducing DailyFinance's New Portfolio Experience


Walmart Woos Women; Ladies, Watch Your Backs


Used Car Buyers Beware: Flood-Damaged Vehicles Will Hit the Market Soon


Homeowners Shelve Remodeling Plans Over Economic Fears


Popcorn Throwdown: 3-D Flicks Getting Massacred


















Peterson and Nadler: A Blue-State Bailout in Disguise


Orin Kerr: Should Faking a Name on Facebook Be a Felony?


Herman Cain: My Plan to Revive Economic Growth


Mediscare Flops


The Solar Orphan


















Colorado kitty in New York after 5-year, cross-country trip


19-year-old arrested after toddler shot in the face in Staten Island


Cabby ‘stole from rider’


Hubby ‘killer’ near faint


‘Bars’ mitzvah


















U.K. Aug. Retail Sales Fall; Riot Impact Unknown


Global regulators deepen anti-market abuse ties


SNB Repeats Commitment To Weaker Swiss Franc


UBS trader in $2 billion loss on unauthorized trade


Groupon IPO back on track: report


















Wal-Mart Pledging $5B to Women's Businesses Annually


Tweet Business of the Day: Pi Pizzeria


King-Size Marketing Lessons for Small Business


Tips for Starting a Business in an Volatile Economy


Small Business Confidence Sinks, Lowest Since March 2010


















Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








