Wildfire In Central Texas Is 30 Percent Contained, Authorities Say  | Fox News





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   Disasters - US
Wildfire in Central Texas Is 30 Percent Contained, Authorities Say




Published September 07, 2011 | FoxNews.com

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet






A massive wildfire that has killed at least 2 people and consumed nearly 800 homes in Texas is 30 percent contained, the Texas Forest Service said Wednesday.
Firefighting crews started to gain control of the wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee. The fire has so far blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin, authorities said. 
As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry was faced with the decision to leave the state and participate in a GOP presidential debate or stay at home and command operations to fight the disaster.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.
The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts.
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.
The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.
Bastrop residents weren't all appeased by reports that the fire had been somewhat contained. Paul St. Louis, who left behind goats, pigs and roosters when he evacuated his home on Sunday, lashed out at state and local officials and said federal emergency management officials should have been brought in sooner.
St. Louis said he was frustrated by a lack of information and that he hadn't seen an updated fire map that would tell him if his home was still standing. A map posted outside the fire response headquarters Wednesday morning was last updated at 2 p.m. Tuesday."It seems there was no plan to deal with a catastrophe," he said. "I have animals to feed. You can't get back there. You're stranded. No one will tell us anything. All they say is `I don't know."'
McKee said the task force members would be producing updated maps, but that their role had yet to be defined.
"The purpose of deploying Texas Task Force 1 is to support the community of Bastrop," he said.
"Once we get there today and get into the local area, then they'll decide where we can be best used," McKee said.
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop. The governor has yet to decide whether he will attend the Republican presidential debate in California Wednesday night.
The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland.
About 40 people who fled their homes in a Bastrop neighborhood were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
"The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Related Slideshow




Wildfires Rage in Texas; Thousands Evacuated
Firefighters try to control at least 63 wildfires across the Lone Star state -- including one that has destroyed nearly 600 homes in Central Texas -- as thousands of evacuees take shelter.


Related Stories
Parched Conditions Fuel Southern California Wildfires; 650 Homes Threatened


Related Video





Gov. Rick Perry Talks Wildfires, 2012 Race
Texas governor on 'Fox & Friends'


Related Video





Weather Modification to Ease Texas Drought?
What is cloud seeding and will it work?




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article

















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Break in Case of Missing Utah Mom?
		      
		          
		              








Across America: Transformer Explodes Outside Chicago
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Police Find Unidentified Remains in Search for Missing Utah Mom
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

101-Year-Old Woman Evicted From Home Allowed to Return
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Court: California Teacher Loses Fight to Keep 'God' Banners in Classroom
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After Donating Kidney Is Put Back on Salary
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies
		  
		      
		  
		


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey
		  
		      
		  
		


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness
		  
		      
		  
		


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party
		  
		      
		  
		


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















Introducing DailyFinance's New Portfolio Experience


Walmart Woos Women; Ladies, Watch Your Backs


Used Car Buyers Beware: Flood-Damaged Vehicles Will Hit the Market Soon


Homeowners Shelve Remodeling Plans Over Economic Fears


Popcorn Throwdown: 3-D Flicks Getting Massacred


















Peterson and Nadler: A Blue-State Bailout in Disguise


Orin Kerr: Should Faking a Name on Facebook Be a Felony?


Herman Cain: My Plan to Revive Economic Growth


Mediscare Flops


The Solar Orphan


















Cabby ‘stole from rider’


Hubby ‘killer’ near faint


19-year-old charged with shooting toddler in the face in Staten Island


‘Bars’ mitzvah


$3M slap for 9/11-fund scammer


















U.K. Aug. Retail Sales Fall; Riot Impact Unknown


Global regulators deepen anti-market abuse ties


SNB Repeats Commitment To Weaker Swiss Franc


UBS trader in $2 billion loss on unauthorized trade


Groupon IPO back on track: report


















Wal-Mart Pledging $5B to Women's Businesses Annually


Tweet Business of the Day: Pi Pizzeria


King-Size Marketing Lessons for Small Business


Tips for Starting a Business in an Volatile Economy


Small Business Confidence Sinks, Lowest Since March 2010


















Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








