Bush and Obama: Side by Side at Ground Zero - Karameloo News USA

















&nbsp









Home
U.S.

World

Sports

Business

Entertainment

Technology

Health

  Latest News

Top Stories

Politics

Odd News





 


U.S.  » 	 
	11 September 2011


Bush and Obama: Side by Side at Ground Zero



The president defined by his response to Sept. 11 standing alongside the one who has tried to take America beyond the lingering, complicated legacy of that day.



[!] Report this news


 Processing your request, Please wait....
	




Report as: 

---------
Broken link
Invalid Contents
Privacy Violation
Inappropriate Contents
Other



Write in Words:  (Optional) 
















View Article »   |   Source: feeds.nytimes.comTag: legacy, sept 11

Other News:President Bush at Ground Zero quotes Lincoln’s words
Family members of 9/11 victims begin reading names at ground zero. The first name is Gordon M. Aamoth, Jr.





	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    
    	
		  
			Report as: 
			
					---------
Broken link
Invalid Contents
Privacy Violation
Inappropriate Contents
Other

				
		  
		  
			Write
4 people injured after fixture falls at Near West Side restaurant
                       
					  Four people were injured when a fixture fell from the ceiling in a Near West Side restaurant Thursday night.

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		
American Apparel’s in-house guru shows a lighter side
‘48 Laws’ author Robert Greene acts as chief Dov Charney’s informal older brother, preaching ‘crush your enemy’ but practicing tolerance. His books are big with rappers, executives and prison inmates.
When author Robert Greene wrote his bestselling book “The 48 Laws of Power,” his win-at-all-costs message turned him into a cult hero with the hip-hop set,
Video: Home videos show softer side of Qaddafi
Home video footage of the Qaddafi family in the Bab al-Aziziya compound shows the ousted dictator Muammar Qaddafi’s playing with his grandchildren and having dinner with his family.




	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    
    	
		  
			Report as:
Hope and heroism: Obama hails post-9/11 resilience
 President Barack Obama honored the legacy of Sept. 11 victims on Sunday by personally tracing the trail of the terrorist attacks, proudly declaring that the decade since has proven “America does not give in to fear.”


	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
  
House GOP share some ground with Obama on jobs
 House Republican leaders are offering President Barack Obama an opening for compromise on measures that would spur job growth. They say neither Republicans nor the administration should consider their own initiatives “an all-or-nothing situation.”


	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    

Students With President Bush On 9/11 Look Back
Ten years after 9/11, members of a second grade class reading to President  during his visit to Emma Booker Elementary recall vividly how his expression changed when his chief of staff whispered in his ear that America had been attacked. 


	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request,



 






Yanks sweepless in Seattle, fall 2-1 in 12
Mariano Rivera’s pursuit of history is headed north of the border. Luis Rodriguez belted a walk-off home run against Cory [...]


Myers: Giant loss won’t fly with Eagles on deck
While there was hardly any feeling of desperation in the Giants locker room Wednesday, it will be there next week [...]


If have Alzheimer’s, divorce OK: Pat Robertson
Televangelist Pat Robertson has given his blessing to divorce – as long as one spouse is afflicted with Alzheimer’s Disease.


Do the math, Mets officially out of playoffs
In reality, the end came quietly Wednesday afternoon when the Braves beat the Marlins, officially eliminating the Mets from postseason [...]


She mixed cocaine into boyfriend’s dinner
Monica Cookman’s lover sensed something wasn’t right with the grub after he scarfed down a few mouthfuls and his heart [...]


Federal report cites causes for Gulf oil spill
A report on the Gulf oil spill blames poor safety practices, a faulty cement seal and a rush to meet [...]


 

10th anniversary
amp
apple
authorities
bank of america
barack obama
cbs
cbs news
congress
credit rating
dow jones
east coast
economy
europe
fears
federal reserve
game
google
gop
hurricane irene
investors
job
jobs
libya
losses
moammar gadhafi
new york city
obama
rebels
recession
regime
reuters
rick perry
stocks
tripoli
united states
victory
wall street
white house
yankeesWP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck and Luke Morton requires Flash Player 9 or better.
 




Odd News 

Video: World record for longest female fingernails
Video: How neon signs are made
Trucker on cell phone at time of crash that killed 11 
    (Reuters)
Gumby attempted robbery suspect surrenders to San Diego police 
    (Reuters)
Banning half-naked men, love triangles on TV 
    (Reuters)
General’s son crashes into wall of outrage 
    (Reuters)
Poe Museum Nevermore? 
    (Reuters)
Video: Couple recreates Noah’s Ark
Smoking marijuana not linked to obesity: study 
    (Reuters)
Woman bites elderly man in "vampire" attack 
    (Reuters)





Recent News

Gulf Drilling Rebounds
Police in London arrest suspect in UBS losses
Fire forces evacuation of Norway cruise ship
Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya
Stock Futures Point to Gains
Memorials set as Marine gets Medal of Honor
‘ANTM’ premiere: Fan favorites return
Metal’s Big Four overtake Yankee Stadium
Tony Bennett won’t perform Amy Winehouse duet
Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor





© Karameloo News USA - Latest World News and U.S. News Headlines
