Enviroknow: Energy Policy, Climate Change and Environmentalism
EnviroKnow
Energy policy, climate change and environmentalism. 

24 Hours of Reality

If you're new here, you may want to subscribe to the RSS feed. Thanks for visiting!I mentioned Al Gore’s 24 hours of Reality project back when it was announced a few months ago. Here’s what it is all about:
What can change in a day? Everything. On September 14, the world will focus its attention on the truth about the climate crisis. For 24 hours, we will all live in reality. Pick a faraway place or a city near you. Make it yours for one day. We’re hitting every time zone — but only once. 7 p.m. in your time zone. Choose a location and get involved.
The event starts in one hour, at 8PM eastern time. Watch it here:

Update — Watch in English here.



Written by Josh Nelson 
September 14th, 2011 at 7:00 pm


Posted in Videos


Coal Plants Scheduled for Retirement

Via Reuters, this is what progress looks like:
The following is a partial list of U.S. coal plants that energy companies could retire in the coming years.




Written by Josh Nelson 
September 14th, 2011 at 5:00 pm


Posted in Coal


Why Environmentalists Should Work to Elect More Women to Congress

There are lots of good reasons to put more women in positions of power. Rachel’s Network, a nonprofit whose mission is to “promote women as impassioned leaders and agents of change dedicated to the stewardship of the earth,” just released a new report that highlights one of the reasons that doesn’t get a lot of attention.
The report, When Women Lead (PDF), uses LCV scores to compare the voting records of male and female members of Congress on environmental issues. The results are striking.
Here’s the chart for the U.S. House:

And here’s the chart for the U.S. Senate:

As environmental organizations with 501(c)4 entities begin thinking about which candidates they’ll be working to elect to Congress next year, I hope they’ll take this report into account.



Written by Josh Nelson 
September 14th, 2011 at 2:00 pm


Posted in Charts


Oversight Chairman Stearns Doesn’t Understand Loan Guarantees

In an attempt to take a shot at President Obama over the Solyndra situation, House Oversight Chairman Cliff Stearns displayed his misunderstanding of loan guarantees and how they’re supposed to work. Speaking at a a Heritage Foundation luncheon, Stearns said, “I think the president is unwise to spend the government’s money on industries that are not viable.”
But that’s exactly the point of loan guaranees: making loans available to companies and industries that couldn’t get them through the free market, because they’re developing new or ambitious technologies that the market may not yet be ready to support. According to Wikipedia, a loan guarantee is “a promise by one party (the guarantor) to assume the debt obligation of a borrower if that borrower defaults.”  If a company was a sure enough bet for potential lenders, it wouldn’t need a loan guarantee.
With Solyndra in particular, the DOE 1703 program was intended to make funding available to companies that would “avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases” and “employ new or significantly improved technologies as compared to technologies in service in the United States at the time the guarantee is issued.” If none of the companies that received loan-guarantees went under, that would be a surefire sign that the program wasn’t ambitious enough.
The federal government has in one way or another subsidized early work on many of the technologies that we now take for granted. Consider microchips, or GPS, or the Internet, each of which has been a considerable contributor to economic growth.
In order to develop the technologies of the future that we’re going to need to be competitive in the decades to come — not to mention ensure a livable planet for future generations — the federal government is going to have to continue subsidizing companies working on those technologies at the very early stages. Some of those companies will fail, but that’s OK.



Written by Josh Nelson 
September 14th, 2011 at 11:00 am


Posted in Republicans


9.14 Coal News Roundup

Two Alabama environmental groups have filed a Clean Water Act lawsuit against Walter Energy, which has spilled large quantities of coal slurry into Hurricane Creek.
Is West Virginia’s Republican Gubernatorial candidate taking a stand against coal? Here’s what he had to say in last night’s debate: “We’re fortunate to be a natural resource producer when things are going well, especially in the coal industry and we cannot continue to rely on our natural resource producers to keep us in this kind of position.”
Nebraska utilities have a can’t do attitude about cleaning up their coal plants.
Reuters catalogs the coal-fired power plants in the U.S. that are scheduled to be retired soon.
Luminant has launched reconsidertherule.com to push back on the EPA’s Cross State Air Pollution Rule.
Federal regulators have differing opinions on whether EPA’s air pollution rules will negatively affect electricity reliability.
Despite the fact that a local utility is not interested in buying their natural gas, the developer of a proposed coal-to-gas plant on the south side of Chicago is moving forward anyway.



Written by Josh Nelson 
September 14th, 2011 at 9:00 am


Posted in Coal



« Older Entries














Search for:



Categories
Select Category
Activism
Charts
Coal
Miscellaneous
Republicans
Videos


Recent Posts 
24 Hours of Reality
Coal Plants Scheduled for Retirement
Why Environmentalists Should Work to Elect More Women to Congress
Oversight Chairman Stearns Doesn’t Understand Loan Guarantees
9.14 Coal News Roundup
3 Facts Republicans Won’t Tell You About Solyndra
New Coal Industry Ad: Rodeo
Herman Cain’s Greatest Nightmare: EPA Gone Wild
9.13 Coal News Roundup
White House CoS Daley Doesn’t Care About the Popularity of EPA Rules




The Journalist template by Lucian E. Marin — Built for WordPress






Tweet











