 May 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Green Friendly Skating Rink
POSTED BY Elaine on May 31 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
There are many different sporting activities which can be considered Eco-Friendly. Many of them are based outside with little interference with mother nature. Skating has often been considered quite a planet friendly activity and now it has just got even better in Hyderabad India thanks to the brand new Eco-Friendly skating rink officially opened for [...]


Comments Off



Eco-Friendly Industrial Gas Engines from Hyundai
POSTED BY Rokai on May 30 under Alternative Energy, Conservation, Eco-friendly News
Hyundai Heavy Industries have reportedly completed a test run of newly developed high output eco-friendly HiMSEN gas engine in Korea. This new engine can be used for ships and power plants and features “Lean Burn” technology which should contribute in making the engines lighter and thus fuel saving. The new engine emits 20% less CO2 [...]


Comments Off



Dr. Timmy’s Micro Hand-cranked LED Torch
POSTED BY Rokai on May 29 under Alternative Energy, Eco Gadgets
We have seen a couple of crank-powered devices as of late and here is one that may yet come in handy. This is Dr. Timmy’s Micro hand-cranked LED torch, a handy flashlight that can last as long as you crank it. It can be easily included in your key rings and should be essential at [...]


Comments Off



Save A Drop Hose Nozzle Helps Save Water
POSTED BY Rokai on May 28 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Green Gadgets, Water
Gardening or watering your plants may have its share of being hit as far as water utilization is concerned but perhaps saving water is all in the “hose”. We have seen a lot of hoses given certain accessories to help you control your water use and the Save a Drop Hose Nozzle should be a [...]


Comments Off



Isoude Gown Featured at The Museum of FIT’s Eco Fashion
POSTED BY Rokai on May 27 under Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly News
Designer Katie Brierley of Isoude will present “The Eirene Gown” at The Museum of FIT’s Eco Fashion: Going Green exhibit. The name Eirene, comes from the namesake Greek goddess who symbolizes peace and the coming of spring. Isoude, by designer Katie Brierley will present “The Eirene Gown” at the exhibit. The name Eirene, comes from [...]


1 Comment



HDNet Concert Series Rocks Out With Green Day This Sunday
POSTED BY Rokai on May 27 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
HDNet Concert Series presents, “Green Day Live at the Fox Theatre” this Sunday, May 30 at 8:30 p.m. ET. In this classic Green Day performance, the band returns to the stage for the first time since their multi-award winning album, “American Idiot.” The concert is a live performance of their album, “21st Century Breakdown,” which [...]


Comments Off



Top Eco Cities
POSTED BY Elaine on May 26 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Transportation
The results are finally in. The 50 Eco-Cities have been announced to the public and it looks like Canada should be proud today with a total of 5 different cities making it in the list. They even claimed the number one spot with the beautiful city of Calgary. In 2006 the facts stated that over [...]


1 Comment



The Sheraton Hotel
POSTED BY Elaine on May 25 under Appliances, Conservation, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Solar Power
For those visiting Latin American this year you might be pleasantly surprised to discover a lot of green hotels. One that currently stands out is the stunning Sheraton Hotel in Montevideo Uruguay. Already a well known hotel name, the Sheraton has committed itself to applying the “green” philosophy to different areas, from saving on printing, [...]


Comments Off



The green competition
POSTED BY Elaine on May 24 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Pollution, Transportation
There is nothing more interesting and appealing than regular people sharing some Eco-Tips for your day to day life. In Taiwan over the weekend that is exactly what happened. Hundreds of foreigners and locals got together and described in great detail ways in which you can live an Eco-Friendly life. A lot of excellent tips [...]


Comments Off



Solar Powered Nintendo DS Lite Building Render
POSTED BY Rokai on May 21 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly, Solar Power
Here is something cheeky and creative for the people looking for some creativity in the field of technology. The Nintendo DS Lite may be better known as a gaming console but to make it a model of sorts in building a structure should be something cool. Photographer Joseph Ford came up with a series of [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


consumers
earth
Recycling
global warming
hurricane irene
green
clothes
eco
tropical storm lee
epicenter
barack obama
organic cotton
lifestyle
environment
climate change
prnewswire
carbon footprint
pr newswire
global warning
saving energy
richter scale
reuters
christmas
earthquake
mother earth
recycled materials
national hurricane center
ecofriendly
Eco-friendly
money
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




