Dieting? There's A New App For That – Demo Video | QuickNewsX








 







 

Latest News

Christina Applegate in 'Up All Night': How 'real' is new NBC comedy?
SinglesCruise.com Promotes Halloween Cruise
America's Got Talent: So who won this thing?
School has big plans for Constitution Day
Conjoined twins separated
Annual arts festival returns for biggest year yet
Can HPV vaccine cause mental retardation?
Celebrate Constitution Day and learn about this key document
Solyndra Loan: Now Treasury Dept. Is Launching Investigation
Ancient Tim Wakefield celebrates win No. 200



Search Terms

nfl
9/11
hurricane irene
dallas cowboys
earthquake
dow jones
9 11
new england patriots
miami dolphins
nnamdi asomugha
world trade center
hp touchpad
cnn
hp
redskins
patriots
denver broncos
philadelphia eagles
oakland raiders
nfl news

Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011











Free Laptop  |  Test and Keep a FREE Apple® iPhone 4G!
  |  Free Smiley Bubble Shooter!  |  Iron Man(R) 2 or Sex and the City(R) 2? 

Dieting? There's A New App For That – Demo Video




SENSA, the natural weight loss diet system which requires users to sprinkle a product on their food before it is consumed, has created an iPhone application to help dieters stick to their sprinkling routine, as well as track their progress and weight
The brilliant folks at Everything Is Terrible have cut together some television ads/infomercials for Sensa, a product that advises you to sprinkle the drug onto your food in order to drop pounds. We had a laugh at the ridiculously dated commercial
From Sensa Reviews Together with the weight problems epidemic that's going on nowadays, a diet program patch looks like it may very well be a miracleFull ne.
Sensa is product with the texture of sugar and you sprinkle it on your food. The developers claim it stimulates your smell and taste receptors to tell your brai.
Sensa Quench contains maqui berry, green tea and 100% RDA of vitamins A, B6, B12, C and D. Capsa has expanded its portfolio of functional milks with Natur Col, Jalea and Fibra. All sold in Tetra Pak 1-​litre Evera aseptic bottles.
Related Posts:No Related Post





Related Posts:No Related Post 




Tags: sensa 











Copyright © 2011 · QuickNewsX






