Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims


PressReleaser™
Global Media Outlet and Press Release Distribution Service






Home
Latest News
Submit a Press Release
Log In










Submit








Arts / Entertainment
Business
Education
Environment
Government
Health / Fitness
Industry
Lifestyle
Internet
Science
More »










Other News:

A Practical Look at Discipline and Termination - Webinar By TrainHR
New Social Media Monitoring Tool Buyer's Guide From Web Liquid Helps Marketers Make The Right Choice
Best and Comfortable Stroller Accessories for Your Babies
Florida Power & Light Moving Massive Transformer
BusinessVibes showcases the Animal Production Industry

View all »








Latest News  »  Business



Print
Email
PDF
Facebook
Twitter




Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims
Space Certified smoke removal systems available for loan or purchase. Technology used by the Red Cross and by The Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after 911.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Original article: http://pressreleaser.org/ecomajik-corporation-to-offer-air-purifiers-to-texas-wildfire-victims/1357680




Georgetown, Texas (PressReleaser) September 07, 2011 — Locally based Ecomajik Corporation announced today it will try to do it's part to help neighbors dealing with smoke damage and health concerns after the wildfires across the Austin, Texas area. The company distributes Air Purifiers with technology designed for NASA for use in the Space Shuttle. These air purifiers have long been used by the Red Cross and were employed by the Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after the 911 attack.
Ecomajik will provide air purifiers to residents on a loan basis without charge. Additionally if residents are interested in purchasing units they have established a special program to help fire victims.
"My husband and I survived the wildfires in San Diego several years back. We know what challenges families have to deal with, even when your home makes it through the crisis untouched. Sometimes smoke damage can linger for weeks or months and is very unhealthy for inhabitants. Our Air Purifiers eliminate smoke and mitigate smoke damage from fires killing all odors and removing contaminants from the air." noted Susan Braun Ecomajik Corporation President. "Breathing this contaminated air can be very hazardous to your health, especially if your are an "at risk" individual." she added.
Residents in Bastrop, Moonglow, Steiner Ranch, Pedernales, Union Chapel, Luther Hill, and surrounding areas qualify for the free loan of equipment while supplies last. The air purifiers remove all contaminants from the air in homes and sanitize exposed surfaces as well. About the size of a bookshelf speaker they can clean a home up to 3,000 sq feet.
"Affected residents can call Ecomajik at 512-222-PURE (7873) and leave their names and numbers. We will contact them shortly. There are a limited number of units available for loan but we will do our best to help anyone we can." noted Braun. Additional information is available at http://www.Ecomajik.com.
Media Contact:
Carl Braun
Ecomajik Corporation
Green Products and Technologies
1102 South Austin Ave Suite 110-197
Georgetown, Texas 78626
512-222-7873
carl@ecomajik.com
http://www.ecomajik.com
###



Contact Information

Name:           
                      Carl Braun
Company:
                      Ecomajik Corporation
Telephone:
                      512-222-7873
Email:

Website:
http://www.ecomajik.com













© 2011 PressReleaser.org
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us


