 April 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Rattan and Log Furniture for an Eco-friendly and Stylish Home
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 30 under Eco-friendly
A stylish home doesn’t need furniture made with the latest innovations in technology and crafted from the newest synthetic materials made to look like the real thing. Furnishing with furniture made from synthetic materials may be a more affordable choice, but it’s not a healthy choice for our environment. If you’re wondering about what else [...]


Comments Off



4 Simple yet Interesting Science Fair Projects on Alternative Energy
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 29 under Alternative Energy, Eco Toys
Alternative energy is the type of energy that comes from sources that makes use of renewable resources like water, wind, and sun. For your science fair project that involve alternative energy, you can study how wind mills work; determine what factors affect the storage and production of energy in solar cells; make a steam-powered boat; [...]


11 Comments



Green Movement Changes Meaning of Earth Day
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 28 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly
April 22nd marked the 40th anniversary of the first Earth Day and with a new anniversary comes a new meaning for the day. Started in 1970, Earth Day was originally conceived as a day in which the people of the world could come together and educate themselves about the needs of the planet. However, with [...]


Comments Off



Green taxi services
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 28 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Transportation
Companies that offers Eco products and services should be ahead of the rest. They are thinking of the planet and providing their customers with a Green friendly service. Now the list of companies and businesses has expanded to include taxi’s. There are a variety of services available in different countries which offer to bring you [...]


Comments Off



4 Interesting Ways to Help Educate Students on Environment and Renewable Energy in a Classroom Setting
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 28 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly
Renewable energy involves the use of renewable sources such as sun, wind, water, and steam to produce energy. It is important to create awareness among people, especially kids, for the use of such energy sources to help save the environment. In a classroom setting, what teachers can do is help educate students by including topics [...]


18 Comments



Joule to Make Diesel at Solar Fuels Plant
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 28 under Alternative Energy, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Garbage and Waste, Transportation
Start-up Joule Unlimited plans to open a test facility later this year that will use micro-organisms, fed only sunlight and carbon dioxide, to make diesel fuel. The Cambridge, Mass.-based company, which changed its name from Joule Biotechnologies, said on Tuesday that it has secured $30 million to build the plant in Texas where it is [...]


Comments Off



Starbucks shared planet
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 26 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Recycling
Its nice during the day to relax with a cup of coffee, you will often see people dashing about with cups of steaming hot coffee in their hand. Look closer at the label next time, if its Starbucks then you are witnessing an Eco-Friendly company at its best. Known for being the largest coffeehouse company [...]


1 Comment



LED VS Flourescent Tubes: Take the Survey
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 24 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Lighting
Here is something that should be debatable. While we all know that moving away from the CFL bulb era is evident, the question remains; which is better LED or fluorescent. For sure a lot of you have varying opinions but to see how these really weigh, a survey to see which has made more impact [...]


2 Comments



Take action this April 22nd
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 22 under Conservation, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Organic
Today is a special day for our planet. Its Earth day 2010 where over 190 countries take notice and start taking action in the fight against global warming. Aside from all the special events taking place around the world today, take a brief interlude during the day and do some of the following small but [...]


1 Comment



Happy Earth Day 2010 But…
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 22 under Conservation, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly, Recycling
So today is Earth Day 2010. Now while we all know that this is the day that we all have to consider the harmful effects our actions have done on nature, it is also a time where we should start brainstorming ideas for a better tomorrow, not for us but for the next generation. We [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


climate change
epicenter
recycled materials
clothes
national hurricane center
earthquake
richter scale
Recycling
barack obama
money
ecofriendly
earth
global warning
reuters
tropical storm lee
lifestyle
pr newswire
eco
saving energy
global warming
hurricane irene
organic cotton
prnewswire
Eco-friendly
mother earth
green
consumers
environment
carbon footprint
christmas
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterchangewood decksPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




