String of blazes takes toll on Texas firefighters  | ajc.com










ajc


Atlanta Weather

Mostly cloudy
70° F
Pollen 41
Air quality 51
 | Traffic


Customer Care
Print/Digital Subscriptions









 ajc.com
 Archives
 Services
 Web




Home
News



Metro / Georgia
Atlanta / South Fulton
Cherokee
Clayton
Cobb
DeKalb 
Fayette
Forsyth
Gwinnett
Henry
North Fulton
Georgia Politics
Traffic
Weather


Nation & World
News Q&A
Photos – News
Videos – Local News 
Videos – Nation/World



Special Reports

Atlanta Forward
CRCT Coverage

Blogs

Get Schooled
Political Insider
More blogs »


Opinion

Opinion page
Letters to the Editor
Jay Bookman
Mike Luckovich
Kyle Wingfield
Atlanta Forward blog





Sports



Braves
College Recruiting
Dream
Falcons 
Georgia State 
Georgia Tech 
Golf 
Hawks 
High School 
AJC Peachtree Road Race 
UGA 
Photos – Sports  
Videos – Local Sports
Videos – National Sports



Blogs

College Recruiting
Mark Bradley
Jeff Schultz
More blogs »

Topics

SEC Sports
More topics »

Features

Scoreboard
Sports Vent
More features »




Entertainment



Best of Big A
Celebrities & TV
Events
Food & Restaurants
Holiday Guide
Movies
Music
Fashion & Style
Games & Comics
Photos – Entertainment
Videos – Entertainment



Blogs

Food and More
The Buzz
Radio & TV Talk
More blogs »

Topics

Concert Photos
Real Housewives of Atlanta
Tyler Perry
More topics »

Features

Find Five Challenge
Puzzles & Games
TV listings




Travel



Atlanta Airport
Beaches
Deals
Southeast Travel
Travel Guide
U.S. & International
Photos – Travel 
Videos – Travel



Topics

Budget Ideas
Day Trips
Weekend Getaways
More topics »

Features

Vacation rentals




Business



Coke 
Delta Air Lines 
Georgia Top Stocks
Atlanta Top Workplaces
Photos – Business
Videos – Business



Features

Find cheap gas
Georgia executive pay
More features »




Lifestyle



Announcements
Health
Holiday Guide
Gardening
Home Decor
My Style
Recipes
Photos – Lifestyle 
Videos – Lifestyle 



Blogs

Atlanta Bargain Hunter
Misadventures in Atlanta
Momania
More blogs »

Topics

Private Quarters Photos
Weight Loss and Fitness
More topics »

Features

Living Vent
Volunteer Locally
More features »




Obituaries



Funeral Directors
Obituary Archives
Obituary Help
Atlanta Obituary News




Homes
Jobs
Cars
Classifieds














National / World News


3:31 p.m. Saturday, September 10, 2011



Text size:

Decrease


Increase



String of blazes takes toll on Texas firefighters










Print


E-mail






By  ANDREW DeMILLO 


The Associated Press

BASTROP, Texas  — The flames of the massive wildfire that had swallowed nearly 1,400 homes in Central Texas had been tamed, but Webster Fire Chief Patrick Shipp and his crew — veterans of a fire season pushing his team to the limit — know the danger doesn't end there.






Wildland firefighter Jayan Palecek from the Sequoia National Forest in California  douses a hot spot on the fire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011.  (AP Photo/LM Otero)









Firefighter Frank Buentello holds onto a pet dog he found while working a hot spot with a rake on the smoldering wildfire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011. (AP Photo/LM Otero)









A fresh team of firefighters just arrived from the Sequoia National Forest in California line up to march in and  douses  hot spots on the fire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011.  (AP Photo/LM Otero)









In this Sept. 8, 2011 photo, firefighter Patrick Shipp of Webster, Texas, wipes his eyes as he prepares to rest after a day of fighting a wildfire near Bastrop, Texas. As the Texas wildfire season drags on, Texas firefighters are feeling the strain.  (AP Photo/LM Otero)







More Nation & World stories »




Ill. high court to hear police torture arguments


Poll: Obama disapproval soars to 54 percent in Va


Ill. high court to hear police torture arguments


UAW extends Chrysler, GM contracts after deadline




Carrying a 40-pound safety pack and protective clothing covering nearly every inch of skin, Shipp and his team hunt down hot spot after hot spot in the Bastrop area, where one of the most destructive wildfires in the state's history has burned for a week. Heavy ash paints a bleak, almost monochrome landscape. It's hard to breathe. Every 10 minutes or so, Shipp squirts Visine in his eyes to ease the sting.
"Every step you take is like a dust storm all around you, it's pretty surreal," Shipp said.
It's a familiar environment for Shipp and hundreds of other firefighters who have spent the past several months battling blazes across the state, and there's little sign of relief. Shipp has been deployed two other times from his home 160 miles away from Bastrop, and he knows the fight won't end anytime soon.
"We'll probably leave here and go somewhere else," Shipp said.
Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the Texas Forest Service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.
The forecast for the months ahead offers little optimism. A La Nina weather pattern is setting up across the region that will likely sustain the dry, windy conditions that are so crucial to sparking and sustaining dangerous fires like the one near Bastrop.
Since Texas' fire season began in December, local and state firefighters have responded to more than 20,900 wildfires that have consumed about 3.6 million acres — roughly the size of the state of Connecticut.
Shipp is among firefighters from around the state who are battling the blaze through the Texas Intrastate Fire Mutual Aid System — a Texas Forest Service program that uses local departments to help in major blazes and other emergencies. They're working alongside teams of federal and local firefighters against the Bastrop fire, which officials say is about 40 percent contained.
Hundreds of firefighters from Texas and nationwide have been sleeping and resting at Camp Swift, a National Guard post near the blaze, with engines from cities around the state crowding a field as they returned from Thursday's shift. By Thursday night, firefighters said the largest flames had been tamed and they were now focusing on putting out hotspots and ensuring homes were safe for resident to return.
As they rested at the camp and prepared themselves for another long day ahead, firefighters acknowledged the weariness of chasing blaze after blaze.
"It wears you down, but it's what we do," said Jim Rodgers, chief of Northeast Fire and Rescue in Humble, Texas, who was working alongside Shipp.
Shipp said the intensity of the fire on the first day was unlike anything he had seen.
"We would mark a place on the map and say, 'We're not going to let the fire get there,' but when the fire would get there, it would jump over us," Shipp said. "We would have to retreat to the next road and finally made our last stand before we got beat again."
Since the start of the year, Shipp and his crew — a collection of 11 firefighters from five fire departments — have battled wildfires in West Texas in the spring and in Midway earlier this summer. They already were eyeing fires in Montgomery County that they expected to be dispatched next.
"This crew has missed Easter, Father's Day, Memorial Day, the 9/11 anniversary and my kid's first football game," Shipp said. When he returned Thursday night, Shipp had received a text message that his 12 year-old son's team won the game earlier that evening.
The impact on the state's firefighters is undeniable, officials say.
"There's no doubt that this fire season has taken its toll on fire departments in Texas," said Chris Barron, executive director of the State Firemen's and Fire Marshal's Association of Texas.
Barron, whose group has set up a fund to raise money to buy protective equipment and clothing for volunteer firefighters, said it's too early to say what the physical and emotional impact on the state's firefighters will be from this season.
And, Barron notes, "Fire season isn't even close to being over yet."
Those who may be feeling the most fatigue are volunteer departments, which make up 77 percent of the state's firefighting force.
Scott Sutcliffe, assistant chief of the Heart of Pines volunteer fire department in Bastrop County, said only two of the department's 24 firefighters saw their homes spared by the wildfires. Sutcliffe, whose wife is also a firefighter for the department, lost his home.
He said he got his first full night's sleep on Tuesday night after working virtually non-stop over the weekend. Wednesday, the department told its firefighters to stand down because nearly all of their vehicles had been damaged by the wildfire.
Friday morning, Sutcliffe said his firefighters were back on the front line and worried about winds picking up.
"We're still just keeping on," he said.
The volunteer departments have relied on help from neighboring firefighters. That includes 15 firefighters from Arlington and one from San Antonio who traveled to Bastrop to help relieve the small volunteer department's firefighters. Several of the department's roughly 50 firefighters saw their homes destroyed by the wildfire.
"These guys just don't have a lot of people to pull from and they need some rest," said Russell Johnson, a battalion chief from the San Antonio Fire Department. "They're overwhelmed."
___
Andrew DeMillo can be reached at www.twitter.com/ademillo
___
September 10, 2011 03:31 PM EDT 
Copyright 2011, The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.











Inside AJC.COMCan you see the change?What's altered in the two photos? See how you score when you play the Find 5 Challenge!	Hot new carsGet a look at the auto industry's newest models, including the 2012 Fiat 500 Cabrio convertible from Chrysler.Luckovich: MLK MemorialEditorial cartoonist Mike Luckovich gives his take on local news, politics, sports and celebrities.	Meet the AJC Super 11Creekside High School's Josh Holsey talks about his ideal date and looking forward to college.Fernbank readies 'Darwin'From a collection of unique artifacts will evolve an exhibit on Charles Darwin, opening Sept. 24. Pick HS football winnersRack up bragging rights in the AJC's High School Football Pickoff by choosing each week's winning teams.


























Today's news
Tools and widgets
Reprints, Permissions
Archives




Today's top videos


 

Watch more video

Local sports | Local video from AJC, Channel 2



Most viewed stories
Top photo galleries






DragonCon founder Kramer arrested at motel with boy, DA says


Former Georgia Bulldog Curran arrested


Fayetteville exec accused of defrauding college athletes


Mom charged in fatal meth fire gives birth again


Jury finds mom guilty in Decatur library case



More popular stories »
Put this on your site








Falcons visit with firefighters



Century-old home destroyed by fire



Georgia Tech vs. MTSU



Harrison vs. Milton




More photo galleries »
Put this on your site


 loading...
Free: Get DealSwarm alerts by email | Today's deal




 Services » Find the right people for the job


 








From our news partners



Teen in custody after rocket launcher found in car


Police: Slain Ga. mom missing both ears


Woman suing Toyota for 'stalker' ad campaign


Teens accused of egging cars in cause $10K in damage


Mothers charged; accused of telling daughters to fight


Fellow SF supervisor pokes fun at Wiener's public nudity legislation


Man gets 6 months for touching plane passenger


Rapper T.I. could learn furlough fate this week


Man falls off Mt. Rainier cliff as son watches


Fire chief: Ga. man blown up trying to burn ex-girlfriend's body









Tell us what you think about the site

Send us your suggestions about this page.
Send a feedback technical issue









Subscribe »



Customer Care »
Vacation stops, manage subscriptions and more

AJC Services

Staff contacts
Reprints and permission
Contests
Submit event listings
Send us news tips
Careers at AJC
Careers at Cox
AJC Store
AJC Conversation



Sections

News
Sports
Entertainment
Travel
Business
Lifestyle
Obituaries

Other Editions

Sign up for newsletters
Digital Products
AJC for iPad
Sign up for ajcMobile
RSS and Widgets
Today's news | A1 image
Archives



Guides

Best of Atlanta
School Guide
Neighborhood Guide
AJC in Education
Atlanta Home Sales
Atlanta Topics
Travel Guide
Atlanta Holiday Guide
Atlanta Crime & Safety
Find Atlanta Jobs



Advertising

About our ads
Advertise with us
E-Sheets

AJC Sites

ajc.com
AccessAtlanta
Atlanta Jobs
Atlanta Homes
Atlanta Apartments
Atlanta Cars
Atlanta Classifieds
Mundo Hispánico
BuenRato
Cars on AutoTrader.com




 Visitor Agreement | Privacy Statement© 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution






















 






