TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) .                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) .    Nuevo Laredo :  Mexico
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By CATALINA BELEÑA MARTINEZ            5 2      
Views: 1,490
         Goes on and now it's up to two joves hayados whose bodies were hung on a pedestrian bridge in Nuevo Laredo (Mexico). On Tuesday, two youths found dead and hanging from a pedestrian bridge from Laredo, Tamaulipas (Mexico), were executed for denouncing criminals on the Internet. These young people, like many others, using social networks to report on organized crime. The bodies of two young men, a man and a woman, had many signs of torture, and were motorists who alerted authorities to the fact. The girl, topless, wearing white shorts and a polo boy, white with blue stripes and red shorts and yellow. To finish off the criminal they were placed two separate image posters with the message: "This is going to happen to all the Internet relax, please bring rods and short, atte Z". This signature is evident who is going: to sign drugs of Los Zetas operating in this city, near the U.S. border.  The crime resembles what happened in early August, where two men were hanged alive on a footbridge Mexican municipality of Allende and then murdered. That's what the Security Council informed of Nuevo Leon state bordering U.S.        1 of 21        
A worker hangs up a black ribbon outside the government offices of the state of Nuevo Leon in Mexico City
     
CATALINA BELEÑA MARTINEZ is based in Valencia, Valencia, Spain,
and is a Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (84.4%) Mexico (5.2%) Canada (2.8%) Philippines (1.6%) 18 other countries (4.8%)           READ MORE: Nuevo Laredo, mexico, Zetas, Internet, Tamaulipas, Assassins, bridges   More News From: Nuevo Laredo :  Mexico      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 3            Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 15 hours ago
  
Good update rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       dunite
| about 10 hours ago
  
good report thanks ^!
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 8 hours ago
  
Talk about censorship of the press in Mexico by the drug cartels.
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Prison riots in Mexico resulting 7 deaths and 59 escaped prisoners By: crown62      At least seven people were killed in clashes in a prison in Nuevo Laredo, northern Mexico near the U.S. border.At least 59 prisoners have escaped from the detention facility on Friday.Several of the escapees were charged with federal crimes related to drug trafficking, authorities said.The state of Tamaulipas, where the prison is located, is at ...  2 months ago     Mexico: 59 dead and seven fugitives after a riot in a prison in ... By: rsa76      At least seven prisoners died and 59 others escaped Friday after a riot in a prison in Nuevo Laredo, a city bordering the United States, northern Mexico, said the state government of Tamaulipas.Of army troops surround the facility, after the incidents occurred in the morning in this prison that houses 1,238 inmates, officials said in a statement, ...  2 months ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Two corpses carry threat to Mexico internet users  
Zee News
 The messages lay near the two bodies, found half naked, alluding to websites set up for people to report drug violence in the area, police said yesterday. "That will happen to all of them," read the text of one message signed with the letter 'Z'...    A chilling message for Mexico's social media users  
CNN
 Two posters left near the bodies declared that the pair -- a young man and woman -- were killed for denouncing drug cartel activity on a social network. Bloggers who specialize in sharing news about trafficking have been threatened in the past, but...    Are bodies on Mexico bridge a warning?  
CNN
 Two posters left near the bodies declared that the pair -- a young man and woman -- were killed for denouncing drug cartel activity on a social network. Bloggers who specialize in sharing news about trafficking have been threatened in the past, but...    Bodies Hanging From Bridge Warning To Social Media Users  
KTUV
 A woman was hogtied and disemboweled, her intestines protruding from three deep cuts on her abdomen. Attackers left her topless, dangling by her feet and hands from a bridge in the border city of Nuevo Laredo. A bloodied man next to her was hanging...       Images    >         A worker hangs up a black ...    A worker hangs up a black ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A worker hangs up a black ribbon outside the government offices of the ...        State police officers are ...    State police officers are ... Image Source: www.afp.com State police officers are pictured in Nuevo Laredo        At least 59 bodies have been ...    At least 59 bodies have been ... Image Source: www.afp.com At least 59 bodies have been found on a ranch in Mexico's northern state of ...        At least 59 bodies have been ...    At least 59 bodies have been ... Image Source: www.afp.com At least 59 bodies have been found on a ranch in Mexico's northern state of ...        Fifteen people were shot dead ...    Fifteen people were shot dead ... Image Source: www.afp.com Fifteen people were shot dead in separate incidents in a single day in the ...        The Zetas was founded by ...    The Zetas was founded by ... Image Source: www.afp.com The Zetas was founded by Mexican army Special Forces deserters in the 1990s ...      More Related Images    More From Nuevo Laredo          Mexico hangings a warning?        Many Killed in Mexico Prison Violence         Mexico prisoners break jail        Prison riots in Mexico resulting 7 deaths and 59 escaped prisoners          Mexico: 59 dead and seven fugitives after a riot in a prison in northern        13 killed in US-Mexico border town gunfight: army        "Do not travel to Mexico this weekend"        Mexican drug lords want Ximei tourist authorities issued a warning          Mexican police Replaced in 22 cities on the border with Texas        A Nogales AZ Based humanitarian Group is Trying to Save Immigrants From Been Killed by the Zetas Cartel        72 deadbodies are now found from Mass Graves. Maxico.       The prison director in Mexico killed drug war               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10335432          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 4       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 1       Images: 21       Comments: 3    3       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10335432), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10335432 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10335432 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) .” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10335432-two-youths-hanging-on-a-bridge-of-nuevo-laredo-mexico.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         