Evacuees of Texas Wildfires Turn to the Internet - NYTimes.com



Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular
Times Topics


 





Search All NYTimes.com












U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationBay AreaChicagoTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos












Well-Connected Evacuees of Texas Wildfire Turn to Internet

Michael Mulvey for The New York Times
Bill Savage set up his cot in the Mineral Wells Junior High gymnasium after fighting wildfires near Possum Kingdom Lake. 
 
 By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

Published: April 24, 2011    






Sign In to E-Mail


Print




 









Reprints











MINERAL WELLS, Tex. — When wildfires threatened the upscale community at Possum Kingdom Lake just west of here a week ago, the residents were desperate for, among other things, better cellphone service.        




Related



Lighter Winds Help in Battle Against Texas Wildfires
(April 21, 2011)


Times Topic:
Forest and Brush Fires 



Enlarge This Image




Michael Mulvey for The New York Times
Jackie Fewell, left, getting updates on fire damage. She started a blog for people displaced by fire that has become influential.                            



Enlarge This Image









Enlarge This Image




Rodger Mallison/Fort Worth Star-Telegram, via Associated Press
A home near Possum Kingdom Lake was burned to the ground on Thursday.                            




Jackie Fewell, a local real estate agent who had been evacuated to a hotel here from her home at Possum Kingdom Lake, posted complaints about AT&T on a blog that she had started on her company’s Web site.        
At the same time, Amy Sabbatini, who owns a weekend home at Possum Kingdom Lake, called a friend whose business is a major AT&T customer. That friend called executives at the phone company.        
Other readers wrote to the blog, saying they also had high-level contacts at AT&T and would see if they could help. One reader said he worked there and would get on the case “A.S.A.P.”        
Within hours, an AT&T truck with a mobile cell tower had pulled up to the Mineral Wells hotel where Ms. Fewell was staying. The tower has been providing five strong bars ever since.        
“We all are feeling really empowered,” Ms. Fewell said in an interview at the blog’s command center here, about 25 miles east of Possum Kingdom Lake and 50 miles west of Fort Worth.        
The blog is another example of citizens harnessing social media to cope with a disaster, but this one has an advantage: it is written by and for a moneyed and well-connected clientele. These are people who are used to making things happen, not being passive victims. Their power, combined with that of the Internet, has produced a blog with clout.        
“We’ve got influential people, and let me tell you, we capitalize on it,” Ms. Fewell said.        
One is Ms. Sabbatini, 35, who works with the evacuees during the day and at night returns to Fort Worth, where she lives with her husband, Rory Sabbatini, the professional golfer, and their three children. She grew up in the Possum Kingdom area, and her parents live there full time.        
“My husband plays pro golf on the P.G.A. tour, and I’ve been fortunate enough to travel the country and meet a lot of people, and I have had a lot of resources at my fingertips,” said Ms. Sabbatini, who was working the phones in the command center. “At the same time, the Internet is an amazing place.”        
Some of the blog’s readers and area residents were able to have aerial surveys conducted of their properties — even though the airspace was restricted because of the fires — and they shared them on the blog.        
Another resident, Mike Rhoden, a former president of the area’s Chamber of Commerce, asked his son, who has a friend who once worked at Google Earth, to see if its satellites could rescan the lake community to provide updated images. On Friday evening at the command center, Mr. Rhoden flashed around his cellphone with a message that Google Earth was “already on it.”        
The blog sprang up here in the shadow of the blazing fires that have scorched great swaths of drought-ridden Texas. At Possum Kingdom Lake, they have destroyed at least 167 homes, 124 outbuildings and two churches and scorched 126,000 acres of ranchland, making it one of the worst-hit areas of the state.        
The fires are 50 percent contained, but the ground is still smoldering, and officials said the flames could reignite. Power and water are only sporadically available, and live electrical wires are exposed, so the authorities are continuing to bar some residents from their homes.        
Anita Foster, a spokeswoman for the Dallas chapter of the American Red Cross, who is overseeing a shelter here (mostly for firefighters) at the junior high school, said Ms. Fewell’s blog was one of the first that she had seen take hold during a natural disaster in the United States.        
“It’s the first time in my experience in a domestic disaster where citizens are taking control of their information,” Ms. Foster said. “We’re on the cusp of how we can use digital media to respond to these things. But it takes citizens to keep it together.”        
The blog also took off because there is no single government entity that oversees the lake community, leaving a vacuum in terms of centralized information. Several Facebook pages and other Web sites, including one for the local newspaper and the federal fire management team, are also devoted to the Possum Kingdom Lake fire.        
But the citizen blog is the most comprehensive and immediate. Ms. Fewell, 53, a Sally Field type who has no qualms about challenging authority, started typing from her hotel room nine days ago because she was frustrated by the lack of reliable information and as getting questions from property owners.        
About 80 percent of the 3,000 houses at Possum Kingdom Lake — some worth up to $6 million — are vacation property or weekend retreats, with owners living in Dallas, Fort Worth or farther afield. (“This is our Hamptons,” Ms. Sabbatini said.)        
Right away, the site drew 650 page views; within a week, it had drawn more than 900,000. By then, Ms. Fewell and Michelle Steuber, 30, who works with her at a marketing firm, and other evacuees had taken over the conference room of the Holiday Inn Express in Mineral Wells and turned it into a campaign-style war room.        
The bloggers spend their days on the phone getting notes from the field, trying to sort rumor from fact, and directing help where it is needed.        
Responses can be fast.        
“We posted that we needed 200 gloves at such and such a location,” Ms. Fewell said. “And someone wrote right back and said, ‘We’ll buy every glove in Fort Worth.’ And we suddenly had 50 people all wanting to bring 200 gloves, and they couldn’t be stopped.”        
The command center has become a gathering spot for those unable to go home, and the mood is fairly upbeat for a natural disaster. The blog has already raised $100,000 for the volunteer firefighters. And someone showed up the other day to donate $500 in cash and a 12-pack of beer.        
Still, some residents who have been home for brief periods come back with grim reports.        
“There are stalks sticking up in the sky, like a surreal dream, just black stalks,” said Ruth White, 71, whose bookshop and home were spared.        
Ira Mercer, Palo Pinto County sheriff, called the blog “a stroke of genius” and said it had helped his office do its job. “We don’t have the time, the staff or, frankly, the wherewithal to do it,” he said. “It’s a very effective tool.”        
But he is worried about the long-term effects of the fires and predicts that despite the affluence of the community, recovery will be slow.        
“It looks like a moonscape now,” the sheriff said. “Long after the circus has left town, we will be dealing with it.”         



 






A version of this article appeared in print on April 25, 2011, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Texas Fire Victims Find A Refuge on the Web.



 









Sign In to E-Mail


Print




 Reprints












 Get 50% Off The New York Times & Free All Digital Access.








Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics









Forest and Brush Fires




Social Networking (Internet)




Blogs and Blogging (Internet)




Texas




 





 

 




Advertise on NYTimes.com


 




 

 

 



 

 





Your femininity is showing
Also in Style »

You look familiar somehow
You can see spring coming


 




 



Advertisements	    







 Canoe journeys: a new tradition for a very old people. nytimes.com/us












 





 











 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Sharing the Stresses of Being a Doctor





 Home & Garden » 



For Waterlilies, an Odd Refuge in Texas





Arts » 



A Bold and Ferocious Swirl




Opinion »
The Stone: Beyond ‘New Atheism’
Personal experience, not philosophical argument, drives most religious belief. A new brand of atheism takes this fact seriously.





 Style » 



Grabbed by Their Lapels




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Walking Out on China
Writer Liao Yiwu chronicles his daring escape over the border to Vietnam.





Arts » 



She Could See This Guy From Her House





 Style » 



Back to School, Demurely




Opinion »
Bloggingheads: Is Perry Lying?
David Corn of Mother Jones and James Pinkerton of Fox News debate Rick Perry’s claims about Obama’s record.





Real Estate » 



A Home That Looks Like the Sounds of the ’60s




Opinion »
Viability of Two States, or One
In Room for Debate: To survive and thrive, does Israel need a Palestinian state?





 Home & Garden » 



Lights Out, Game On










Home

World


U.S.


N.Y. / Region


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Opinion


Arts


Style


Travel


Jobs


Real Estate


Autos

Site Map
 
© 2011 The New York Times Company
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Corrections
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Work for Us
Advertise







