Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs. - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







China's arms buildup
•
Expanded sanctions on Syria
•
Milky Way created by cosmic crashes
•
Palin and Glen Rice?








			You are here: 
			Home
			 / Odd News			/ Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs. 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

Odd News



Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs.

        		Published: Sept. 13, 2011 at 3:03 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Slideshow


1 of 2
 



				Garry Hine, left, and Gary Wychocki attach a giant chocolate bar to a scale for verification.  The bar, made by Chicago-based World's Finest Chocolate, a leader in chocolate fundraising products, will tour schools across the United States as part of a portion-control education campaign called 'Think Big. Eat Smart.'       UPI/Brian Kersey  






Related Stories

Survey: Women prefer sex over chocolate
Man asked 911 for hug, hot cocoa
University makes 4,010-pound stir-fry
21-foot crocodile captured in Philippines



Advertisement

CHICAGO, Sept. 13 (UPI) -- A Chicago company said Tuesday it has created the world's largest chocolate bar at 12,000 pounds.
The company, World's Finest Chocolate, said the 6-ton bar measures nearly 3 feet high and 21 feet long. The bar is to be unveiled before a World Guinness Record judge before beginning a cross country tour of schools.
GALLERY: Chocolate Fashion in Paris
The tour is part of the company's "Think Big, Eat Smart" campaign, bringing to life the concept of "portion distortion," the company said. 
The company said the bar will provide 209,000 1-ounce servings -- enough servings for every fan in Chicago's Wrigley Field, U.S. Cellular Field, Soldier Field and United Center with 45,000 leftovers. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints


Next Story: Raccoon found on school bus
or see all Odd News stories



Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional Odd News Stories



Entertainment News


Salahi leaves hubby for Journey guitarist
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			"Real Housewives of D.C." cast member Michaele Salahi is in Memphis with Neal Schon, the lead guitarist for Journey, the band's publicist said.
		
Rachel Reilly wins 'Big Brother 13'
Murphy crowned 'Talent' winner
'Big Brother' renewed for 14th season
People in the news


Top News


Boy investigated for grenade launcher
NOVATO, Calif., Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Police said they were investigating a 15-year-old California boy after a car he was driving was found to contain a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.
		
China cracks down on 'gutter oil'
Man to be sentenced in sons' disappearance
Search for Utah mom leads to remains
Gunman dies in Ark. courthouse shooting




Odd News


Restaurant fines diners for leftovers
DAMMAM, Saudi Arabia, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			A restaurant owner in Saudi Arabia says he is cracking down on food wastage by fining diners who don't eat everything they order.
		
Your Daily Horoscope
Suspected meth lab was brewing beer
City approves partially nude goddess mural
The almanac


Business News


ATI helping with interagency op centers
CHARLESTON, S.C., Sept. 15 (UPI) -- 
			Advanced Technology International has won a "Watchkeeper" contract extension to help the U.S. government establish Interagency Operations Centers.
		
BAE enters Aussie supply chain agreement
Auto talks inconclusive at deadline
UPI NewsTrack Business
Crude oil backpedals to under $89
















 
 


Featured Photo Galleries

Social Media Scandals



World-record holding fingernails



"It's Always Sunny..." premiere



2011: The year in space





Most Popular



1.
Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs.


2.
Man sues White Castle for bigger chairs


3.
Officials sticking with Stoner Avenue


4.
Boston statues dressed in Belichick hoodie


5.
Jet-powered school bus reaches 320 mph





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 29
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Scientists tread carefully through a seemingly endless landscape of ice, sea, and meltwater in the Canada Basin of the Arctic on July 22, 2005. The blanket of ice coating Earth's northernmost seas was thin and ragged in July, setting a record low for sea ice extent for the month. Sea ice stretched across only 3.06 million square miles whereas the long-term July average is 3.9 million. Scientist note that this breakup of ice is a result of global warming.  Photo made from the  U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Healy.   UPI/Jeremy Potter/NOAA		













 





Bodies hanging from bridge in Mexico are warning to social media users, "This is going to happen...

Group says mainstream Muslims are violent and Mohammed was a "cult leader". Is the group: a) a Tea...

Hey, let's all play a game of cowboys and decomposing corpses

Drivin' around town blaring music at 9:40 in the morning when your fifteen-year-old self should...

Photoshop Theme: Reinventing the wheel

The pinnacle of things on a stick technology has been reached with the introduction of liquor on...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Auto Dealers -
 Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Motivational Speaker 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















