 February 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Cell phone recycling
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 26 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Recycling
With millions of cellphone users worldwide one might have to wonder, with all the new models coming onto the marketplace all the time and people constantly changing phones what exactly happens to their old models? On average people tend to change their phones every 6 months or less so you have millions of unwanted cellphones [...]


Comments Off



A special mall
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 22 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
Its nice to relax and unwind somewhere they entertains you and you can hang out and meet friends. A mall is the perfect meeting ground to catch up with people, do some chores, your weekly shop or just to treat yourself with something nice. A special mall in Singapore is all of the above, with [...]


Comments Off



Home cleaning
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 19 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Recycling
Cleaning your home is an important job, first of all there are many hidden area’s which people neglect to clean for a variety of different reasons, plus when it comes to the act itself we use far to many products which can be quite toxic to the environment. The first rule of Eco-Friendly cleaning is [...]


15 Comments



New book educates children about our planet
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 17 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Books, Parenting
It can be quite difficult to get children excited about different things, when it comes to our planet the job becomes tougher. Many parents try and give their kids some basic knowledge which will then progress over time, however the simplest way to really educate children to be Eco-Aware is through activities they enjoy like [...]


3 Comments



The best radio’s
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 15 under Appliances, Conservation, Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
For the music lovers out there you might find yourself wanting some music during the day and turning on the radio, however it may drain to much energy so why not switch your regular ones with more Eco-Friendly radio’s for everyday use at home or the office depending on your needs. Ecogadgets have an amazing [...]


Comments Off



My First Green Toys Launched by Green Toys Inc.
POSTED BY Rokai on Feb 12 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
Parents are often on the lookout for eco-friendly toys for their kids and toddlers and now Green Toys Inc. announced the release of My First Green Toys which are designed for infants and toddlers. The new green toys include the Green Toys Stacker, Green Toys Tugboat, Green Toys Blocks, and Green Toys Feeding Spoons, Spoon [...]


Comments Off



CD and DVD cases
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 11 under Eco-friendly
The daily news can be a serious wake up call to people everywhere when we see just how dangerously close to global warming and other threats we are. Aside from the obvious big changes we need to make to give us clean air, we also need to make changes in the simpler area’s of our [...]


Comments Off



Totally Bamboo Large Salt Box
POSTED BY Rokai on Feb 11 under Appliances, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly
The Totally Bamboo Large Salt Box is simple and easy to use. It has an easy slide-off top that rotates a full 360 degrees. The wide opening allows plenty of room for larger hands or spoons to reach in to grab your favorite seasoning. No stains or paint are used to create the Salt Box’s [...]


Comments Off



Bags for all occasions
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 10 under Eco-friendly, Recycling
A bag can be crucial to getting around during the day, for women it could be their handbag with all personal items in it. Men could have a lunch bag or briefcase, kids have their school bags. We all need them at one time or another. Whatever your reason and purpose for using a bag [...]


Comments Off



Sleeping in ease
POSTED BY Elaine on Feb 9 under Eco-friendly, Organic
There are many different area’s in your life which you can devout time and practices of living green. Instead of focusing on the occasional activities you partake in why not choose an area of your life in which you spend almost half your life in. Thats your bed of course, we all use them, many [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


ecofriendly
Eco-friendly
money
saving energy
mother earth
epicenter
tropical storm lee
earth
Recycling
global warming
climate change
global warning
clothes
reuters
pr newswire
recycled materials
organic cotton
barack obama
richter scale
lifestyle
green
environment
christmas
prnewswire
earthquake
hurricane irene
eco
carbon footprint
consumers
national hurricane center
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




