Larger women more apt to have sex on date - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







China's arms buildup
•
Expanded sanctions on Syria
•
Milky Way created by cosmic crashes
•
Palin and Glen Rice?








			You are here: 
			Home
			 / Health News			/ Larger women more apt to have sex on date 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

Health News



Larger women more apt to have sex on date

        		Published: Sept. 11, 2011 at 6:00 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Slideshow


1 of 3
 



				File photo. UPI/Alexis C. Glenn  






Related Stories

Doctors have the sexiest job in Sweden
Young adults 'staying over' not cohabiting
Most singles agree on dating dress code
Socializing with other couples ups romance
Dating site caters to the 'ugly'
Kid tries to call contest, gets sex line



Advertisement

LONDON, Sept. 11 (UPI) -- A survey of 10,000 members of a British Web site indicates larger women and tall (and skinny) women are more likely to have sex on the first date. 
FreeDating.co.uk's survey also indicates the larger a woman is, the more open she may be to having sex on the first date, although there was no similar effect in larger men, but athletic men are most likely to be open to sex on a first date.
Web site officials say they actively discourage people who are looking to cheat on their partner from using FreeDating.co.uk, but they recognize that any dating site will have some married people so they say they ask that they classify themselves as "married." 
Although, it's hard to know how many are really married, the survey indicates that men on the Web site who say they are married are most likely to have sex on the first date. 
Attributes in women that predict sex on the first date are: medium drinker, interest in cars and spends time in bars, while the attributes in women that don't predict sex on the first date are being a teetotaler and having an interest in bicycling. 
PHOTOS: Curvaceous Celebrities
Attributes in men that predict sex on the first date are being a medium drinker and smoking, while those not apt to have sex on the first date don't drink, don't smoke and have an interest in cycling. 
In women, declining education levels lead to increased willingness to have first-date sex, while in men, the better educated were more willing to have sex on the first date, the survey says.  
No further survey details were provided.  



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints


Next Story: Mother's diet may affect baby's allergies
or see all Health News stories



Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional Health News Stories



Top News


Boy investigated for grenade launcher
NOVATO, Calif., Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Police said they were investigating a 15-year-old California boy after a car he was driving was found to contain a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.
		
China cracks down on 'gutter oil'
Man to be sentenced in sons' disappearance
Search for Utah mom leads to remains
Gunman dies in Ark. courthouse shooting


Entertainment News


Salahi leaves hubby for Journey guitarist
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			"Real Housewives of D.C." cast member Michaele Salahi is in Memphis with Neal Schon, the lead guitarist for Journey, the band's publicist said.
		
Rachel Reilly wins 'Big Brother 13'
Murphy crowned 'Talent' winner
'Big Brother' renewed for 14th season
People in the news




Local News

Top Chef: Just Dessert Recap- Pure Imagination
Campaign to Cut Waste in Action: $2 Billion Saved
Guest Editorial: C-2-B Zone District is Appropriate for the Colonel Brooks' Site
1972 Renovated Techbuilt in Garrett Park $884K
Rex Grossman still thinks the Redskins will win the NFC East

Business News


EADS EFW picks U.S. cargo system
WOOD DALE, Ill., Sept. 15 (UPI) -- 
			EADS EFW of Germany has selected Illinois' AAR to manufacture main deck cargo loading systems for its Airbus A300-600 and A310-300 freighter conversion program.
		
ATI helping with interagency op centers
BAE enters Aussie supply chain agreement
Auto talks inconclusive at deadline
UPI NewsTrack Business







 


Featured Galleries

World-record holding fingernails



9/11 Memorial opens in New York



Signs of China's new wealth





Most Popular



1.
Larger women more apt to have sex on date


2.
External artificial lung saves teen's life


3.
Why drunken people do embarrassing things


4.
Source sought for novel swine flu cases


5.
School nurses work to get teens vaccinated





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 29
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Scientists tread carefully through a seemingly endless landscape of ice, sea, and meltwater in the Canada Basin of the Arctic on July 22, 2005. The blanket of ice coating Earth's northernmost seas was thin and ragged in July, setting a record low for sea ice extent for the month. Sea ice stretched across only 3.06 million square miles whereas the long-term July average is 3.9 million. Scientist note that this breakup of ice is a result of global warming.  Photo made from the  U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Healy.   UPI/Jeremy Potter/NOAA		













 





Bodies hanging from bridge in Mexico are warning to social media users, "This is going to happen...

Group says mainstream Muslims are violent and Mohammed was a "cult leader". Is the group: a) a Tea...

Hey, let's all play a game of cowboys and decomposing corpses

Drivin' around town blaring music at 9:40 in the morning when your fifteen-year-old self should...

Photoshop Theme: Reinventing the wheel

The pinnacle of things on a stick technology has been reached with the introduction of liquor on...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Auto Dealers -
 Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Motivational Speaker 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















