Help Me Help You - Apogee Results - The Online Marketing Authority










Call 855.360.4601

Search for:



 


Skip to content
Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Managment
Content Development & Copywriting


Resources

Get Our Free Online Marketing Newsletter
Online Marketing Glossary
Webinars
White Papers
Paid Search Advertising FAQ
Organic Search Engine Optimization (SEO) FAQ
Ethical Search Engine Optimization Commitment


About

About Apogee Results
Management Team
Solution Partners
Our Clients
Careers


Events
Blog
Contact Us








← Wildfires Rage In Central Texas



Help Me Help You

Posted on September 13, 2011 by tracyg 


Working in sales, my job is quite comical from time to time.  I work with prospects who come to Apogee for help with a variety of online marketing capacities.  Some are looking to drive more traffic through organic (SEO) efforts, some are trying to pay their way to the top (through PPC), and others are simply trying to make more revenue, but don’t know which vehicle will propel them to online success.
We go through a series of questions to identify areas where we could assist prospects with these initiatives, and then go into the final budgeting stage. This is where the comedy comes into play.  Some folks will say, “Well, I don’t have a set budget per se.  Let me know what you would recommend we spend, and we can go from there.”  As the online world continues to gain the lion share of marketing efforts, the list of what I would recommend for a situation may entail more than what the client has in mind.
Here in lies the comedy.  They probably do have a budget, but think that if they tell me what the budget is I will then offer services that cost right under that budget.   However, if they don’t give me a budget I may offer them services that come in at a cost below their budget and I was never the wiser.  What if we have existing clients who typically spend much more than the prospect’s allocated budget?  Should we go through the exercises of scoping out their projects just to be told we cost more than they can afford?
Or, another common budget response goes something like this, “We are wanting to dip our toe in the water with a limited budget, see how effective your campaigns become, and then consider spending more on these initiatives.”  Wow, this one definitely takes the cake.  It is similar to one giving a custom home builder a couple hundred dollars and assessing his or her overall home building skills on a mini mansion for your tea-cup Chihuahua.  This “mini mansion” will probably not accommodate your furniture or state-of-the-art entertainment center, and you may start to really question the competence of your home builder.
The buyer/seller dance is made up of art with a sprinkle of science.  So, the next time you are wanting to inquire about a service company’s capabilities, consider sharing some of your budget constraints as well as top-level goals to ensure mutual expectations are met.
 

						This entry was posted in B2B, B2C, Blog, eCommerce, Online Marketing and tagged Online Marketing, sales, sales process. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Wildfires Rage In Central Texas




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Name 
Email 
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 












Let's Be Social!


Twitter
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg

Delicious
RSS Feed







Free Online Marketing Newsletter 
Stay on top of online marketing trends and insight. Delivered to your inbox once per month. See example.






Email











Email Marketing You Can Trust

ServicesSearch Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development and Copywriting
 



Blog Categories 
Blog (22)

Business Vertical (75)

B2B (6)

B2C (4)

eCommerce (72)

Lead Generation (4)

Project Management (1)



Events (61)

Austin Community (29)

Speaking Events (5)

Tradeshows (6)



Online Marketing (657)

Content Development Strategy (5)

Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO) (11)

Online Reputation Management (7)

Pay-Per-Click (PPC) (168)

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) (216)

Social Media Marketing (42)

User Experience (UX) (24)

Web Analytics Optimization (27)




 











 
 







Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development & Copywriting



About Apogee Results


Management Team

Our Clients’ Success
Solutions Partners
Careers
Privacy | Legal | Sitemap



Let's Be Social

Subscribe to our Blog
Email Newsletter
Linkedin
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg
Delicious



Contact Apogee Results
8701 North Mopac Expy, Suite 400Austin, Texas 78759

855.360.4601












