Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks in Canada                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks in Canada    Toronto :  Canada
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By northsunm32             15 2      
Views: 726
          Writing in Veteran's Today, Gail Davidson of Lawyers Against War says the Canadian government must either bar Bush at the border because of his alleged involvement in torture and other war crimes and crimes against humanity, or order his arrest when he enters CanadaCanada both to ensure he is prosecuted here or elsewhere, and to prevent him from returning to safe haven from prosecution in the United States. Bush is scheduled to speak in Surrey B.C. In an August 25 letter to Prime Minister Stephen HarperStephen Harper and the Canadian Ministers of justice, immigration, public safety and foreign affairs, the group says "there is overwhelming evidence that George W. BushGeorge W. Bush ...aided and abetted and counseled the torture of non-Americans at U.S. controlled prisons outside the U.S."The 7-page letter cites evidence of complicity in torture (and other crimes) from numerous international reports and authorities, including Bush himself: "In his 2010 memoirs, (Bush) admitted to authorizing the use of interrogation techniques that constitute torture such as water boarding."The letter notes that Canada has a"legal duty to deny safe haven from prosecution to anyone suspected on reasonable grounds of torture committed anywhere against any persons."  If Bush is not banned but enters the country then Canada must then act to ensure that George W. Bush is prosecuted for torture (and other crimes) by either prosecuting him in Canada or extraditing him to a country willing and able to prosecute. Canada's duty to prevent Mr. Bush from having safe haven from prosecution for the many crimes that he stands reasonably accused of, would require Canada to prevent him from returning to the United States. As well as being signed by Davidson the letter is also signed by Professor Francis A. Boyle of the University of Illinois College of Law.  Boyle has filed a complaint with the International Criminal Court (ICC) against George W. Bush, Richard Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, George TenetGeorge Tenet, Condoleezza Rice, and Alberto GonzalesAlberto Gonzales for extraordinary renditions, which include torture and enforced disappearances, both crimes under the Rome Statute for the ICC to which Canada is a party.Professor Boyle's ICC Complaint played a decisive role in deterring Bush from going to Switzerland in February 2011 because he feared prosecution there. Perhaps Bush will decide not to come to Canada but I doubt it.. Any arrests made will probably be of protesters protesting his visit.        1 of 3        
Will Canada arrest George W Bush when he comes to speak in October?
        
northsunm32 is based in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (58.5%) Canada (7.9%) Philippines (5.5%) India (3.7%) 38 other countries (21.5%)           READ MORE: Canada, war crimes, George W. Bush, Lawyers Against War, Francis Boyle, Mr. Bush, safe haven, Francis A. Boyle   More News From: Toronto :  Canada      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 9            Reply  Posted By       nikmahadi
| about 10 hours ago
  
Well written story. if it's true Geaorge W Bush deserve to be punished for his "political crime", good work, pls comment on my reporting as well,tq
             Reply  Posted By       dunite
| about 10 hours ago
  
i liked the photo too northsunm thanks ^^^!
             Reply  Posted By       Stephanie Sklar
| about 9 hours ago
  
I like the 58 likes on this article. I look forward to seeing more regarding this article. I like the photo too, you guys!
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 9 hours ago
  
I know Canadians don't look Americans too kindly. Ask Debi Thomas after her faux pas in Calgary in 1988. I am sure she will say like French actor Bourvil in the movie "The Brain". Trying to forget it.
             Reply  Posted By       Yoko Otake
| about 8 hours ago
  
We tend to look Canada and US in the same category, but actually they are not! Esp. Canada is doing better than US economically and politically these days. I also like this photo. Maybe Bush would be recorded as one of the most infamous president of US. But actually, he was just acting the role, wasn't he?
             Reply  Posted By       Orakul
| about 8 hours ago
  
You know I wasn't that pleased he got us into two unwinnable wars but enough already. Nobody is perfect and how do you know what obama has done behind our backs. We know the sneaky things he's let us know he's done but he is as slimy as they come. We can't all be Canada now can we.
             Reply  Posted By       MichelleDevlin
| about 7 hours ago
  
that is really funny orakul! i would love it but they'll never do it!
             Reply  Posted By       crazeesheep
| about 3 hours ago
  
love this article, would love to see one of the *leaders* in chains for their crimes against humanity !! I spent time in BC and I DO know the difference between canadians and americans and it is considerable!
             Reply  Posted By       mikefreeman
| about 2 hours ago
  
Yes I fully agree that George Bush is a war criminal and ought to charged as such. Three cheers for Canada: why we are on the subject I think that his co-conspirator in Britain Tony Blair (the then Prime Minister) is equally guilty of crimes outlined above and that Canada also should apply the same restrictions on his entry to your country. rated up
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Sign of the Times as Rumsfeld cancels paper subscription  
Sydney Morning Herald
 Reuters There may be more unknown unknowns for former US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld after he cancelled his 60-year The New York Times newspaper subscription to protest against a column it published . Mr Rumsfeld, 79, a strong supporter of the...       Images    >         Canada    Canada Image Source: allvoices Will Canada arrest George W Bush when he comes to speak in October?        Today is Canada Day for Our ...    Today is Canada Day for Our ... Image Source: farm4.static.flickr... Today is Canada Day for Our Neighbors      More Related Images    More From Toronto          Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks in Canada        Avocado Product Recall in California: Positive for Listeria        Justin Bieber refused to leave with fanatic        Keira Knightley Looking Fabulous at the Press Con of A Dangerous Method (Photos)          Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Canada: Income distribution inequality increasing rapidly        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts Entertainment Luminaries       What are the basic conditions for Human Demodex to cause diseases?          Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere;       Edge’s Role On This Week’s SmackDown, Mendes Continues Rant        Don't Give Her Hydrangeas        Michelle Monaghan is a Goddess in White at the Premiere of The Machine Gun Preacher at the Toronto International Film Festival (Photos)          (30+ Photos) The Exquisite Portraits from the 36th Annual Toronto International Film Festival                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10339412      Related People              Canada         George W. Bush           Alberto Gonzales         George Tenet     12 >            Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 2       Comments: 9    9       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10339412), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10339412 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10339412 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks in Canada” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10339412-canada-group-wants-george-w-bush-arrested-on-oct-20-when-he-speaks-in-canada.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        