 January 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Last Chance to Win The EcoSmart Safe Personal Care Value Bundle Pack
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 29 under Eco Friendly Events, Organic
Hey everyone! The EcoSmart Safe Personal Care Value Bundle Pack will be ending in 2 days time and we would just like to remind you about it. The contest is open to all U.S. residents and all you have to do is answer this question and comment to win this insect repellent/ organic insecticide giveaway. [...]


1 Comment



A longer life for trees and grass
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 29 under Alternative Energy, Conservation, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Garbage and Waste, Recycling
Its always interesting to see how exactly we can give a longer life and recycle even the simplest things. Its a big part of what living the Green life is all about, instead of just throwing things into the waste we should learn to reuse them. Its due to this fact that scientists have discovered [...]


1 Comment



Taking better care of your hair
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 28 under Animals, Eco-friendly, Organic
For women and men hair is one of the most important features of our face, we devout a lot of time and money into keeping it just right and in style. For many this includes many trips to the hair stylish and a big range of expensive hair care products to keep it looking its [...]


Comments Off



Green Careers
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 27 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Eco-Friendly Careers, Organic
As people are finally beginning to take notice of the shared planet around us, and the ways in which our daily activities can have a negative impact many people are turning to various ways they can help, even with careers. There are many hobbies, activities and careers you can make for yourself, some would be [...]


Comments Off



Building materials with a difference
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 26 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Organic, Recycling
For those who are in the building trade or considering having work done, its time to look around at all the materials that go into constructing and building a new home or a workplace. The bad news is there is a lot of toxic materials which are involved in putting together a construction job. Why [...]


Comments Off



Joie de Vivre’s Eco-Romance Package
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 26 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly News
The new “Sowing the Seeds of Love” eco-romance package lets guests who book a hotel stay at one of Joie de Vivre’s 35 hotels between Jan. 21 and Dec. 15, 2010 (for travel between Feb. 11 and Dec. 31, 2010) enjoy “ecodisiacs” (environmentally-friendly aphrodisiacs), from organic chocolates to “green” bath amenities, as well as a [...]


Comments Off



Coffee Tips
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 25 under Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
Its a simple part of our everyday lives, we make coffee for breakfast, maybe another time during the day and once more at night. A daily dose of caffeine features into most peoples diets, so little do we know that the whole coffee process can be negative to the whole environment, but with some basic [...]


Comments Off



Green Friendly Underwear
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 22 under Animals, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
Clothes really are a statement for people, for others its a display of their individuality, and of course for others there’s nothing special to it, just something to cover yourself up with. How about getting some excitement back into your wardrode, specifically your underwear draw with some very comfortable Eco-Friendly underwear for everyone! Firstly there [...]


Comments Off



The best phone accessories
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 21 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly, Recycling
Where would we be without our phones? It seems to be a part of our everyday lives to be out and about with our main companion which is our cellphone. It has all our important details contained from phone numbers, addresses and notes to client information so if you are someone that can not live [...]


1 Comment



Protecting our Oceans
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 20 under Animals, Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Pollution
Now, more than ever we all really need to make every effort possible to protect our oceans from the constant contamination and pollution that they face everyday from human negligence. You may not realize it yourself but literally every step you make can some how effect our oceans, it could be in the form of [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


ecofriendly
green
epicenter
money
lifestyle
national hurricane center
barack obama
global warming
Recycling
christmas
earth
clothes
global warning
climate change
eco
organic cotton
hurricane irene
saving energy
richter scale
mother earth
prnewswire
reuters
environment
pr newswire
consumers
Eco-friendly
tropical storm lee
carbon footprint
earthquake
recycled materials
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




