Frustration Grows For Texas Wildfire Evacuees | Fox News





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   U.S. - US
Frustration Grows for Texas Wildfire Evacuees




Published September 10, 2011 | Associated Press

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




AP Photo/ The Texarkana Gazette
Sept. 6: Tammy Heath spreads dirt on the smoldering ground in an attempt to keep a fire from jumping a fire break in Linden, Texas.  

BASTROP, Texas –  Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.
Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape.
"We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that," Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst told evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.
Still, thousands of evacuees were prevented from returning to their homes for a sixth day because trees continued to burn underground, loose power lines hung from scorched poles and more than 800 firefighters were working to tamp down the remainder of the fire 25 miles east of Austin.
"It's just really frustrating," said Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for answers. "You want to know if your house is there or if it's not. ... They don't let you in, you know. You can't get assistance."
Dewhurst said the state is working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state emergency management personnel on specific fire declarations. FEMA spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said on Friday the agency "received the first request from the governor for individual aid to help Texas residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the fires, or who suffered other personal losses."
She said FEMA would "work with the White House to review this request as expeditiously as possible."
Dewhurst also made a public plea for President Barack Obama to make a major disaster declaration that he said would remove red tape and give the state access to more resources. Hours later, White House officials announced that Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas.
The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.
"We need help yesterday ... Mr. President, we need a statewide disaster declaration right away," Dewhurst said prior to Obama's declaration.
Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.
The Texas Forest Service said Friday that the Bastrop fire had racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. But the agency cautioned the figure was an early estimate and was expected to climb. The early price tag includes firefighting costs but not damage caused by the blaze.
A DC-10 jet originally meant to dump fire retardant on the Central Texas wildfires was diverted Friday to help firefighters with a stubborn 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties northwest of Houston. The fire in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties forced some people in the area to leave their homes, but was not threatening any towns or cities, Texas Forest Service spokesman Ralph Collum said.
In Bastrop, tables set up at the entrance to a neighborhood that had reopened a day earlier filled up with donated clothing and toiletries. A first aid station was assembled and streets began to buzz with tree-trimming crews and building contractors.
Officials also announced that schools would reopen Monday. But Bastrop Independent School District superintendent Steve Murray said, "We anticipate the homeless student count in Bastrop ISD to triple, quadruple or even more."
To deal with that, school officials were developing plans to pick up students at hotels, shelters and other locations.
Monica Turner, 34, was growing more frustrated every day. She had seen photographs of her family's house in ashes.
"We have pictures, but pictures don't do any good when you need to have closure and you need to see it face to face," she said. "I need to have that closure so that I can go and move on."



Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article

















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Break in Case of Missing Utah Mom?
		      
		          
		              








Across America: Transformer Explodes Outside Chicago
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Police Find Unidentified Remains in Search for Missing Utah Mom
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

101-Year-Old Woman Evicted From Home Allowed to Return
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Court: California Teacher Loses Fight to Keep 'God' Banners in Classroom
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After Donating Kidney Is Put Back on Salary
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies
		  
		      
		  
		


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey
		  
		      
		  
		


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness
		  
		      
		  
		


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party
		  
		      
		  
		


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















Introducing DailyFinance's New Portfolio Experience


Walmart Woos Women; Ladies, Watch Your Backs


Used Car Buyers Beware: Flood-Damaged Vehicles Will Hit the Market Soon


Homeowners Shelve Remodeling Plans Over Economic Fears


Popcorn Throwdown: 3-D Flicks Getting Massacred


















Peterson and Nadler: A Blue-State Bailout in Disguise


Orin Kerr: Should Faking a Name on Facebook Be a Felony?


Herman Cain: My Plan to Revive Economic Growth


Mediscare Flops


The Solar Orphan


















Colorado kitty in New York after 5-year, cross-country trip


19-year-old arrested after toddler shot in the face in Staten Island


Cabby ‘stole from rider’


Hubby ‘killer’ near faint


‘Bars’ mitzvah


















U.K. Aug. Retail Sales Fall; Riot Impact Unknown


Global regulators deepen anti-market abuse ties


SNB Repeats Commitment To Weaker Swiss Franc


UBS trader in $2 billion loss on unauthorized trade


Groupon IPO back on track: report


















Wal-Mart Pledging $5B to Women's Businesses Annually


Tweet Business of the Day: Pi Pizzeria


King-Size Marketing Lessons for Small Business


Tips for Starting a Business in an Volatile Economy


Small Business Confidence Sinks, Lowest Since March 2010


















Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








