Here & Now











Follow @hereandnow












Ways to Listen
Past Shows
About the Show
Robin Young
Contact Us
Support Here & Now














Wednesday      
September 14, 2011


Listen to the show

Elizabeth Warren Enters Mass. Senate Race

Harvard Law School professor and Wall Street critic Elizabeth Warren says she’s running for Senate because, “Middle class families have been chipped at, hacked at… for a generation now… And I don’t think Washington gets it.”

Listen | 
                8 Comments


 

Diplomatic Flurry Surrounds UN Vote On Palestinian State
The White House is working furiously behind the scenes to avoid a confrontation at the United Nations over a Palestinian state. Meanwhile, the Palestinian Authority has been gathering support for its bid for U.N. recognition.

Listen | 
                12 Comments


 

Bystanders Turn To Rescuers Following Fiery Crash

They’re calling it the miracle in Logan, Utah: A group of about a dozen people lifted up a burning car and dragged out 21-year-old Brandon Wright, who had been trapped underneath.

Listen | 
                1 Comment


 

Sen. Bernie Sanders On Repairing Vermont And Obama’s Jobs Plan

Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) explains why he wants the government to invest in infrastructure and approve emergency FEMA aid without corresponding spending cuts. 

Listen | 
                Comment


 

Fall Network TV Heavy On Comedy, Light On Drama

It’s fall, and new TV shows are in the air. Boston Globe TV critic Matthew Gilbert says the networks are focusing on comedy, like in NBC’s “Up All Night.”

Listen | 
                2 Comments


 

Music From The Show
From The Lickets to Radiohead.

Comment


 




With Sponsorship from:

Accelerating the pace of engineering and science


Ten Years On, Remembering 9/11

See all of our Sept. 11 coverage: from losing a twin in the terror attacks to the impact of Sept. 11 on our culture.



Popular Stories


Musician Rhett Miller’s 9/11 Diary 
Could Video Games ‘Re-engage Boys In Learning?’ 
A Reluctant 9/11 Hero Looks Back 
Norway’s Prisons: A Model For The U.S.? 
Bystanders Turn To Rescuers Following Fiery Crash 




H&N Favorites

Norway’s Prisons: A Model For The U.S.?
 Reporter Ryan Duffy visited a Norway prison in 2010 and was shocked to find no walls or chains, and guards that carried no weapons. With Norway’s low recidivism rates, should the U.S. be taking notes?
(Tuesday, September 13, 2011)
17 Comments | more »


Oregon’s ‘Blind Pilot’ Goes From Busking To Big-Time
 “Blind Pilot” bandmates Israel Nebeker and Ryan Dobrowski have come a long way since they started out performing on the streets of London and promoting their music through bike tours. Hear new songs and our interview with them.
(Monday, September 12, 2011)
2 Comments | more »


Could Video Games ‘Re-engage Boys In Learning?’
 Research shows that boys are more likely than girls to be suspended from school or to drop out. One scholar says video games in the classroom, among other things, could help them. 
(Monday, September 12, 2011)
92 Comments | more »




Underwriting:



Recent Stories

Taliban Blitz Rocks Afghan Capital 
 Insurgents in Kabul attacked the U.S. embassy, NATO headquarters and government buildings. Afghan police said this is the “first time that all parts of Kabul are under attack.”
Comment | more »


New York Special Election Unexpectedly Close, Seen As Bellwether 
The race to fill Anthony Weiner’s congressional seat in New York is getting national attention and money as the election nears.
Comment | more »


A Shout, An Umpire’s Call And Another Outburst 
 We take a closer look at the events surrounding Serena Williams’ tirade against an umpire at Sunday’s US Open tennis finals.
3 Comments | more »


Bank of America Plans 30,000 Job Cuts 
 Bank of America said on Monday that it is planning to cut 30,000 jobs in the next few years to save $5 billion per year. 
2 Comments | more »





© Copyright 2011 Trustees of Boston University
Contact us
Ways to listen
Robin Young
About the show
Past shows
Rss (2.0)







