 December 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






E-Bill is the way of the future
POSTED BY Elaine on Dec 29 under Eco-friendly, Recycling
As we are coming towards the end of the year its nice to hear of some positive Eco related news, and now that has come in the form of the brand new way of the future when it comes to bills. Now normally you would get mail with due bills, or even emails all of [...]


1 Comment



Today on Our Other Blogs
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 29 under Eco-friendly
2009’s Woman of Style is Lady Gaga Not So Merry Christmas For The Sheens Group Looking to Ban Pete Townsend From Performing at The Superbowl Kindle and eBook Xmas Success to Fuel Change? Organizing Holiday Decorations: Quick Tips Duel iPhone App Now Available Advice About Considering Marriage to Someone From a Different Culture Pacquiao Suing [...]


Comments Off



New Years Eve party!
POSTED BY Elaine on Dec 28 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Organic, Pollution, Recycling
Christmas day has come and gone but there is still a lot more fun to be had this festive season, many people are now already planning for new years eve which shall be quickly upon us. It has often been considered the biggest party night of the year so why not join in the fun [...]


Comments Off



New Year’s Day Tips To Handle Leftovers
POSTED BY Lira on Dec 28 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste
Everyone gains a pound or two during the holiday season, as food is forever abundant. There is one more holiday left, one last party to prepare for: New Year’s Eve. This year, though, I am vowing to keep it light and simple and welcome the year by cost-cutting and reducing waste. For one thing, I’m [...]


Comments Off



Keeping the Air Clean In Winter
POSTED BY Lira on Dec 26 under Health and Fitness, Pollution
I like the cold air that the holiday season blows. It makes sleeping a lot more conducive, which is why bears are not the only one hibernating during this time. I like that you can do a lot of activities and still feel fresher, compared to when doing it in the heat of summer. Although, [...]


Comments Off



Things To Do With Gift Wrappers Post-Holiday
POSTED BY Lira on Dec 23 under Recycling
You’ve opened and unwrapped your gifts. You’ve collected all of the wrappers for recycling, as we’ve suggested. So what do you actually do with them after the holidays? We’ve got some nifty suggestions below: Use them as book covers. If you have old books lying around, use the gift wrappers to cover and protect it. [...]


Comments Off



Stocking stuffers!!
POSTED BY Elaine on Dec 22 under Eco Toys, Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
So you have the Eco stocking all bought, made or prepared, its hanging up on the wall and now you are wondering what exactly to put in it. Dont go for the usual small items, why not choose wisely and make it extra special this year with some good Eco goodies to fill your stocking [...]


Comments Off



Christmas stockings
POSTED BY Elaine on Dec 21 under Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
There is no escaping from it Christmas time has finally arrived, and we are all surrounded by busy people rushing to get their last minute presents, workers trying to finish up on time, excited kids and Christmas tunes of every radio station and Television channel. The most popular thing about this time of year has [...]


Comments Off



Green Travel Tips For The Holidays
POSTED BY Lira on Dec 21 under Eco-friendly
With the upcoming long holidays, a lot of families are preparing to travel across the country and be reunited with families for the celebration. It’s great to be doing this…but do keep in mind the following green traveling tips, before you hop into your car and drive away: Make sure that everything is all ready [...]


Comments Off



Do your part for the planet with a home office!
POSTED BY Elaine on Dec 18 under Eco-friendly
We all like to make the effort and live a good lifestyle, many change their eating ways, home products and some even make a career out of it and spread the world all day everyday. However, there is a new trend hitting the planet, this involves no more heavy traffic as you go to work [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


saving energy
hurricane irene
earthquake
clothes
Eco-friendly
consumers
global warning
tropical storm lee
organic cotton
epicenter
national hurricane center
pr newswire
eco
money
climate change
barack obama
mother earth
richter scale
carbon footprint
ecofriendly
earth
global warming
christmas
recycled materials
reuters
lifestyle
green
prnewswire
environment
Recycling
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




