 May 2011 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Pick of Summer Accessories
POSTED BY Elaine on May 31 under Appliances, Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly, Green Gadgets, Organic
May is almost over which means summer is fast approaching. What better way to celebrate the warmest season of the year than by checking out some quality Eco Friendly accessories, ideal for holidays away, or simply staying at home and enjoying the heat. A heatwave is rumored to be approaching so get down the high-street [...]


Comments Off



Green Rental Car Choices
POSTED BY Lira on May 30 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Vehicles
Are you planning a road trip this summer and taking a rental car with you? It would probably please you to know that many major rental car shops now offer hybrid cars in their line-up. Consumers are demanding it and the choices today have never been this varied. It’s actually quite good because if you [...]


Comments Off



Clothing Swap Parties
POSTED BY Lira on May 26 under Eco-Fashion
Summer is here! And people are going to party! If you have done your spring cleaning a few months back and have a box full of clothes you don’t know where to put, this summer is probably the best time to organize a clothing swap party among our friends. I’ve had the pleasure of going [...]


Comments Off



Edible Flowers!
POSTED BY Elaine on May 25 under Eco Business, Eco Toys, Eco-friendly
Green gadgets and luxury items are expanding all the time making them more widely available. The latest item to catch Eco eyes is the very clever creation that is designed to grow flowers that are edible. Imagine the possibilities of educating young minds about the importance of mother earth, while making some tasty treats along [...]


1 Comment



Green Nations of Interest
POSTED BY Elaine on May 25 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Pollution, Recycling
With summer fast approaching people everywhere are researching into their vacation. Make a change this year for the better and try to visit one of the amazing countries that inspire us all to be green with their quality techniques and clean air. It will certainly be an eye opening experience, and one which will make [...]


Comments Off



Greenwashing Is A Growing Concern Among Consumers
POSTED BY Lira on May 24 under Eco-friendly News
There’s an interesting report in the LA Times about consumers getting wary over “green products” flooding the market. According to the news, it’s perhaps one of the reasons why many consumers aren’t doing their part to help preserve the environment. It’s because these consumers aren’t even sure if the items being sold in shelves are [...]


Comments Off



Eco Baby Essentials!
POSTED BY Elaine on May 24 under Animals, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Organic, Parenting
With the recent baby boom happening all over the world from celebrities to our next door neighbors its time to focus some attention of keep Eco Friendly when a new member of a family comes along. In this case a new born baby. A lot of preparation will be needed, including purchasing a few essentials [...]


Comments Off



Be Suntan Safe This Summer!
POSTED BY Lira on May 23 under Eco-friendly, Health and Fitness
It’s summer and everyone is on vacation mode. I’m sure that hitting the beach is going to something you and your family will have to do. And even if you don’t plan on going to the water, you will be spending a lot of time outdoors. Which is why keeping your skin protected from the [...]


Comments Off



How to Reduce Your Couple’s Carbon Footprint
POSTED BY Rokai on May 21 under Eco-friendly, Health and Fitness, Transportation
The world is changing. No longer can we live our carefree lives of mass consumption and not feel the consequences. Well we could, but no green-minded person would like us very much – and they make up at least half the country nowadays. So to save the planet, or at least your own consciences from [...]


Comments Off



The World’s Most Economical Dishwasher – Bosch ActiveWater Eco²
POSTED BY Rokai on May 21 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly News, Press Releases
People believe that washing dishes by hand is cheaper than using a dishwasher. Quite the opposite is true: a Bosch dishwasher lowers your utility bill saving you energy and water. Also, it is more hygienic to use a dishwasher than handwashing with a dish sponge – microorganisms are killed eight times faster when temperatures are [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


richter scale
clothes
global warning
recycled materials
lifestyle
prnewswire
pr newswire
earth
barack obama
reuters
saving energy
global warming
Recycling
green
christmas
money
mother earth
tropical storm lee
national hurricane center
ecofriendly
earthquake
environment
epicenter
Eco-friendly
consumers
climate change
carbon footprint
organic cotton
hurricane irene
eco
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterchangewood decksPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




