BBC News - Texas wildfire crews gaining ground









          BBC Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Help Accessibility Help   




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia-Pac
Europe
Mid-East
South Asia
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















7 September 2011
Last updated at 12:14 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Texas wildfire crews gaining ground







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























The fires still burn and many homeowners have lost all they own to the flames



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories

Your photos of the fires


Texas firefighters say they have contained 30% of the state's most destructive wildfire in years. 
Efforts to contain the Bastrop County blaze, which has razed about 45 sq miles (116 sq km) of land, have been aided by a second day of milder winds.
The Bastrop fire is the biggest of more than 170 that have broken out across Texas in the past week, torching more than 1,000 homes.
The forest service says it responded to 19 new fires on Wednesday.
The Bastrop fire extended 24 miles (39km) long and 20 miles at its widest point. It has consumed 785 homes.
About 1,200 firefighters are on the ground, including crews from the states of California and Oregon.
Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said a second day of lighter winds on Wednesday were helping crews to subdue the blaze.
The blazes have kindled amid one of the worst droughts Texas has ever seen, while winds from Tropical Storm Lee have stoked the flames.
The firefighters have been struggling to refill at parched lakes and rivers across Texas. 
More than 3.6m acres (1.5m ha) have been scorched by wildfires in the state since the end of last year.







More on This Story

Related Stories


Your photos of the fires
08 SEPTEMBER 2011, 
                        US & CANADA











Related Internet links


Office of the Governor - Rick Perry



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




White House 'rushed' solar firm's loan

House Republicans say the Obama administration could have rushed approval for political reasons on a federal loan to a failed solar panel firm, which is being investigated by the FBI.



Republicans win key New York seat




Blame shared over Gulf oil spill












Top stories



Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya


UBS man held over 'rogue trades' 


Eurozone 'coming to a standstill'


Bomb attack hits Pakistan funeral


New species of dolphin discovered









Features & Analysis




Heading for showdown

Palestinian UN bid puts Israel and US in quandary 	
				  




Lucky socks

Why we think rituals can influence results 	
				  




Attack of the trolls

Why do people abuse others on the internet? 	
				  




Inside Camelot

Sharp, tender and gossipy, the Jackie Kennedy treasure trove 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: America's 'man cave' boom



2: Moves to stop Palestinian UN bid



3: 'Fonz' is honoured by the Queen



4: Nasa backs new astronaut vehicle



5: Van overloaded with 66 children



Read




1: Scarlett Johansson nude photo leak investigated by FBI



2: Nasa backs new astronaut vehicle



3: UBS finds $2bn unauthorised trade



4: Apple withdraws French Jewish app



5: New species of dolphin discovered



6: India actress film ban overturned



7: Nato chiefs visit Libya for talks



8: Attack of the trolls



9: Eurozone 'coming to a standstill'



10: 'Fonz' is honoured by the Queen



Video/Audio




1: America's 'man cave' boom Watch



2: Van overloaded with 66 children Watch



3: 'Beast from the East' seeks Yeti Watch



4: Next-generation pylons unveiled Watch



5: Nato leaders in Tripoli for talks Watch



6: Rocket design unveiled by Nasa Watch



7: Gaddafi 'planning attacks in Libya' Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: How Polynesians survive in Utah Watch



10: Seaplanes retrace classic race Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



Man v machine

It's only 2% about technology and 98% about people, says Colt Group tech boss















Programmes



HARDtalk Watch

The chairman of the BBC Trust, Lord Patten, pledges to 'bear down' on BBC executive pay
















Services

 News feeds
 Mobile
 Podcasts
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
World Service Trust




  Mobile      Search term:     bbc.co.uk navigation  News Sport Weather  Travel  TV Radio More       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food Health   History Learning Music Science Nature   Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links   About the BBC   BBC Help   Contact Us   Accessibility Help   Terms of Use   Careers   Privacy & Cookies   Advertise With Us   Ad Choices     BBC © 2011 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  




































  







