What Does It Mean to Be Conservative?



















Home
2012 Election News
Politics
Opinion
Videos
Political Cartoons
CDNews Radio

Mitchell and Ray
The Dark Side


Reader Polls
Advertise
About

Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Privacy Policy


Write for CDN


In The News
States’ News
9-11 Remembered
Conservative Philosophy

Conservative Book Club


Support Our Troops
A Broken System

Education
Foster Care
Immigration
Public Sector Unions


Blogs

Allenah Manzanagrano
Michelle Ray
Rich Mitchell
SmalGov


CDN Staff











      What Does It Mean to Be Conservative?    




Aug 15th, 2009 | By R. Mitchell | Category:
    Conservative Philosophy, Featured, Opinion





What does it mean to be a conservative in America?  The leftist groups in America would label a conservative as a selfish, power-hungry, profit-monger that desires nothing more than their own individual success.  Conservatives have been consistently shamed into inaction with these messages.
Why have these negative labels been successful?  Is it because conservatives are really just out for money, power, and themselves?  Many have met through the ages to help identify what conservatism is and while these discussion have brought about debate on some finer points, a set of fundamentals resulted from a conservative think tank.  In 1964, Frank Meyer, called together a group that included a broad base of political thinkers to help create the tenets of conservatism:

They accept “an objective moral order” of “immutable standards by which human conduct should be judged.”
Whether they emphasize human rights and freedoms or duties and responsibilities, they unanimously value “the human person” as the center of political and social thought.
They oppose liberal attempts to use the State “to enforce ideological patterns on human beings.”
They reject the centralized power and direction necessary to the “planning” of society.
They join in defense of the Constitution “as originally conceived.”
They are devoted to Western civilization and acknowledge the need to defend it against the “messianic” intentions of Communism.

These are the foundations of conservatism.    America was founded on the rights of the individual and limited government.  Conservatives pride themselves on protecting  those concepts.  Left-wing radicals use conservative-bashing labels as an attempt to vilify conservatives instead of trying to attack their ideals.  Attacking the true ideals would yield the liberal movement no ground as those principals are a basis for most Americans .
Saul Alinsky understood that attacking the basic conservative tenets would offend some of the liberal base as-well.  In order to achieve a sea-change in the American order, liberals had to use radical tactics to consolidate power by ridicule – not the reasoned debate liberals so often herald.  Saul Alinsky said, “My aim here is to suggest how to organize for power:  how to get it and how to use it.” This is not to be done with assistance to  the poor, nor even by organizing the poor to demand assistance.”.
Alinsky was an organizational genius.  By  shaming the middle-class into believing that their successes were not due to their own hard work but were instead due to being lucky, the whole idea of the classic American dream could be questioned.   These strategies have started to shift power from the American individual to the liberal-ideal of a collective – and more succinctly, an elitist-controlled collectivist empire.  The little bits of power that had been spread among a great majority of Americans could then be high-jacked and given to
a chosen few leaders and advisers in the central government – the true elitists.
Centralizing power into the government violates a basic principal of conservatism and so the battle lines are drawn.  Liberals would argue that by allowing the government to provide for us, greater equality is achieved.  Understanding the elitist end of every collectivist effort so far (i.e. Russia, Cuba, N. Korea, Venezuela, etc), an answer to the liberal argument might be that of Orwell, “All animals are created equal, some more equal than others.”.
The elitist media and leadership are going to shove a load at you over the next 6 months.  Understand that every move is about making you more dependent upon them, more understanding of them, and just more… them.  Being a conservative is simply realizing that fact and not going quietly into that good night.
Follow Rich Mitchell on Twitter
     




Next-->> 
Related Posts
 
A Conservative View on Non-Conforming Sexuality: Part I
The Misconception of Intolerance

Conservatives have been mistakenly branded intolerant of LGBTQ's (Lesbian, Gay, Bi, Trans, Queer).   This is a notion that is far from the truth.  Conservatives ...

READ MORE 
Don’t Be Conservative
Don’t be Conservative or Liberal or Democrat or Republican or Progressive or radical or stoic or any adjective that leads you in a political direction.  Be informed, knowledgeable, honest, historical, ...

READ MORE 

Union Thug Attacks Conservative Without Provocation
I met Tabitha Hale at BlogCon, the Conservative blogger's conference, last year. Charming, straight forward and obviously a hard worker for the Conservative cause. I was out with the family ...

READ MORE 
First Principles – Open Thread
No good understanding of Conservatism can be had without studying what might be considered its first principles.  Philosophically, a first principle is a "basic, foundational proposition or assumption that cannot ...

READ MORE 

Conservatives – Are We Crazy?
I tripped across a Los Angeles Times article by David Klinghoffer, entitled "From neocons to crazy-cons" that provoked some serious thought on my part.  Are we Conservatives out-of-our-minds?

The most thought-provoking ...

READ MORE 

A Conservative View on Non-Conforming Sexuality: Part I 

Don’t Be Conservative      

Union Thug Attacks Conservative Without Provocation   

First Principles – Open Thread    

Conservatives – Are We Crazy?    







Tags: Conservatives, Saul Alinsky, tenets











    3 Comments    to “What Does It Mean to Be Conservative?”










Tim says: 

			March 31, 2011 at 4:45 pm 
I’m not a fan of using labels to describe myself. There are times when I lean conservative, and there are times when I lean liberal–it just depends on the issue or topic of discussion. My guess is that most Americans follow a similar pattern–with the exception, of course, of the most radical elements in society.
Having studied public policy, I’ve learned that both sides have valid points. Neither owns the copyrights on a particular political ideology.  Yet, I oftentimes find that both sides are ignorant of the other and spout off whatever nonsense they can to upset the other–oftentimes using slanderous comments.  Such mentalities only serve as a means to further divide our society.  And people wonder why there is so little dialogue in this country! The constant bickering coming from both far left and far right idealogues drowns out the discussions happening down the middle of the aisle in which cooperation is key.  
It’s time Americans ignore these restrictive labels and ideologies being promoted by both far left and far right extremists, and work together as a society to reach a consensus on the most pressing issues affecting this great country.  This isn’t being conservative or liberal; this is just common sense.

Reply 





Nona Haverly says: 

			December 16, 2010 at 5:13 am 
I dunno, it seems to be simple calculus to me. Democrats were always in favor of middle class tax cuts, so that aside what is the extra cost in a two year extension of millionaire tax cuts? 140 billion. For that they got 56 billion of unemployment extensions and reduction of payroll tax. All in all not a bad deal considering the alternative of doing nothing at all. Politically, the Republicans have a problem in forcing this issue.

Reply 





gym equipment for sale says: 

			February 11, 2010 at 8:08 am 
Great reading.  I have some questions but I will keep reading other material here first

Reply 











      Leave a Comment    
 
Click here to cancel reply.  




          Name                    




          Mail (will not be published)                    




          Website          









 












          B.I.A.- One of the Oldest Government Bullies          

          Solyndra Loans – What Did the WH Know and When?          

          Glenn Beck Comes Out Swinging with  New GBTV Show          

          Attaaaackkkk Waatttcchhhh! Snitches Dig Ditches          

          Another Obama Attack Website          


 Subscribe to the CDNews Feed
CDNews: The Best News, Right Now 

CDNews Weekly Reader Poll
Who's To Blame for the Mortgage Mess [Can Select More than One)
Progressive Housing Policy (67%)
FHA - Fanie and Freddie (54%)
Banks (32%)
Sub-prime borrowers (31%)
George W. Bush (14%)
I'm not sure (1%)


 Loading ...
Polls ArchiveFind Us on Facebook 


Advertise HERE!! 


Recent Comments

WillofLa { Mark Levin played the recording of that girl who worked for the construction company who was building this company and she said that Obama came... } –  Sep 15, 12:22 AM
WillofLa { Okay, now I'm going to be trivial here. So where is the money? Did Mr. Kaiser take it as money he can give Obama for... } –  Sep 14, 6:44 PM
Erin Haust { LOL! You should see what the Twittersphere has to say. Search the hashtag #AttackWatch and prepare to laugh out loud! } –  Sep 14, 3:29 PM
Allenah Manzanagrano (twitter: @FreedomsBlsings) { So Max, let me guess.... you don't like Herman Cain, right? HERMAN CAIN: "America has got to learn how to take a joke." } –  Sep 14, 2:30 PM

The Best in Conservative Political News 


Subscribe to CDNs Regular NewsletterFill out the form below to signup for the Conservative Daily News newsletter and we'll drop you a line as new articles come up.


Our strict privacy policy keeps your email address 100% safe & secure.G-Lock opt-in manager for newsletter mailing softwareArchives  Select Month  September 2011  (165)
 August 2011  (264)
 July 2011  (147)
 June 2011  (174)
 May 2011  (209)
 April 2011  (97)
 March 2011  (108)
 February 2011  (67)
 January 2011  (42)
 December 2010  (9)
 November 2010  (32)
 October 2010  (79)
 September 2010  (51)
 August 2010  (55)
 July 2010  (32)
 June 2010  (22)
 May 2010  (15)
 April 2010  (6)
 March 2010  (18)
 February 2010  (5)
 January 2010  (17)
 December 2009  (3)
 November 2009  (23)
 October 2009  (42)
 September 2009  (44)
 August 2009  (4)

 




































 © 2009 - 2011
    Conservative Daily News

    | Conservative Daily News is a property of Anomalous Media LLC

Log in
    |

    Register |
    49 queries.

    1.710
    seconds. 





