 April 2011 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Al Gore Debuts the “Our Choice” iPad App
POSTED BY Lira on Apr 30 under Alternative Energy
Al Gore is really serious about educating us on what we can do for the earth. After the success of An Inconvenient Truth, he is now launching a multimedia tool called Our Choice. This is playable in any Mac device and it’s actually a digital book containing photos and interactive graphics. Users of this application [...]


Comments Off



Keep Cool Even Without The Airconditioning
POSTED BY Lira on Apr 29 under Alternative Energy
It’s unavoidable to turn the airconditioning on during the Summer season. When the weather is too hot, you want to be indoors most of the time and have the unit  blasting, so you can function and move about comfortably. The problem, however, is that the electric bill can skyrocket at this point. And the more [...]


2 Comments



Normal Cars Vs Hybrid
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 28 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Vehicles, Pollution, Transportation
Walking may be good for your health but its not always possible to get where you need to go doing it. For the environmentalist, one of the most essential purchases are Hybrids and other Eco friendly cars! However, recent statistics are showing a decrease in the amount of sales for a variety of reasons, so [...]


Comments Off



Respect the Trees
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 26 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste
The world is in a crisis, financially and environmentally! While finances can grow however we can’t always jump back and mend the planet. The main source of oxygen in this world are trees, therefore each individual should treat them with respect and play their part in preserving our green objects in all their glory! From [...]


1 Comment



Savvy Summer Traveler Eco-Beauty on the Go
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 26 under Eco-Fashion, Health and Fitness
TSA hasn’t been making it exactly easy on women when packing for a trip. To make your life easier, Skin by Monica has manufactured travel size versions of your favorite Skin by Monica products packaged in a clear TSA approved travel kit. Just because you’re on the go doesn’t mean you can’t treat yourself to [...]


1 Comment



Tips To Living An Eco-Friendly Lifestyle, Part 1
POSTED BY Lira on Apr 25 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Pollution
Our quest to live a pretty much sustainable lifestyle, one that also makes the Earth a lot more livable and beneficial, depends on the way we make use of her resources. Here are a few ways to do that; to achieve an eco-friendlier lifestyle where our kids and their kids could benefit from in the [...]


Comments Off



CCTF LED Bulbs available at The Handyman Philippines
POSTED BY Rokai on Apr 24 under Conservation, Eco Gadgets, Lighting
MANILA, Philippines – LED bulbs are considered the new solutions as far as lighting solutions for homes or offices are concerned and for the consumers, there are now some available in the market. Pegged to help save electricity together with long life, the only hindrance on their release is the cost at which they come. [...]


Comments Off



Observing Earth Day with a Staycation
POSTED BY Lira on Apr 22 under Eco-friendly
Today is Earth Day and it also happens to be part of a long weekend leading to Easter. But instead of going away to relax and relish the holidays, staying home for the duration of the vacation is a lot more beneficial to the environment. A staycation makes use of less carbon emissions and waste. [...]


Comments Off



Good Friday and Easter Foods
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 21 under Animals, Eco-friendly, Health and Fitness, Organic
The long weekend has arrived. With good Friday, and the easter weekend upon us its important to reflect on the days ahead and what they mean. Commonly on Friday people do not eat meat, but instead of just doing it for the one day why not expand it till the whole weekend, it could open [...]


1 Comment



Spring Cleaning!
POSTED BY Elaine on Apr 20 under Eco-friendly, Pollution, Water
Its officially the ideal time of the year to do some spring cleaning. The sun is beaming through windows all over the country, windows are open, and clothes can be hung out on lines without fear of heavy rainfalls. Even the dogs are getting more of a regular wash. Get your home in order today [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


global warning
barack obama
richter scale
national hurricane center
reuters
clothes
earthquake
consumers
money
recycled materials
Recycling
christmas
epicenter
pr newswire
prnewswire
organic cotton
mother earth
ecofriendly
climate change
green
global warming
lifestyle
saving energy
carbon footprint
environment
earth
eco
Eco-friendly
hurricane irene
tropical storm lee
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




