Wildfire takes aim at Harris County - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Wildfire takes aim at Harris County

By CINDY HORSWELL, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

                                                                                Updated 09:25 a.m., Friday, September 9, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







A smoky haze from wildfires hangs over the Galleria area skyline Thursday.
							Photo: Staff, James Nielsen
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								A smoky haze from wildfires hangs over the Galleria area skyline...






Bastrop residents anxiously look over lists and maps Thursday as they try to learn if their homes were OK. The fire has destroyed more than 1,000 homes.
							Photo: STF, Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Bastrop residents anxiously look over lists and maps Thursday as...






A cat lounges in a pin at the Waller County Fairgrounds, where evacuating residents' pets are being housed for free.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								A cat lounges in a pin at the Waller County Fairgrounds, where...






Elizabeth Ledesma pets a cow at the Waller County Fairgrounds.
							Photo: Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Elizabeth Ledesma pets a cow at the Waller County Fairgrounds.








































 







Houston and Texas









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




More Information
TOO BUSY TO BE HONOREDAUSTIN  - A weekend tribute to Texas firefighters has been canceled because the honorees are busy battling wildfires.A spokeswoman with the Texas Wildfire Relief Fund says the group's ceremony, scheduled for Sunday on the steps of the Texas Capitol, has been canceled.Kelsey Coleman told The Associated Press that the people being honored, volunteer firefighters, are working to put out wildfires.The nonprofit Texas Wildfire Relief Fund has been working to raise money for volunteer firefighters whose resources have been drained during the wildfire season.ASSOCIATED PRESS


Page 1 of 1


A runaway wildfire that's consumed more than 15,000 acres north of Houston, just one of dozens of blazes firefighters across the state are battling, continued to gain ground and was 60 percent contained as of Friday morning, according to the Texas Forest Service.The fire, which began on Monday, is on the verge of dipping into Harris County - after already burning through thousands of acres in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties, infrared camera data from a fly-over showed. Authorities said the fire's on the edge of the Waller-Harris County line. Houston-area residents downwind from the blaze have already seen smoke from the wildfires. Northwest portions of Harris County remained under an air quality advisory as public health officials are concerned about small particulate matter in the air, which includes smoke, soot and dust.In Bastrop County, the most destructive wildfire in state history remained 30 percent contained Thursday evening, although officials said they were optimistic that might improve. Starting north of here Sunday afternoon, it spread rapidly, killed two people, caused the evacuation of about 5,000 others and destroyed 1,386 structures by the latest count.Elsewhere in the state, fires are erupting at a fast pace, especially in East Texas, officials said."There were 176 fires burning in Texas on Wednesday and 120 of them were in East Texas," said Warren Bienlenberg, Texas Forest Service spokesman. "Of the 20 new fires that popped up this same day, we found 19 of them in East Texas."Request to FEMAState officials sent the Federal Emergency Management Agency a request to have Texas declared a major disaster area and were waiting for a reply. President Barack Obama on Wednesday promised Gov. Rick Perry the government's full support and offered condolences for the loss of life in the state. Perry on Thursday wrote the president to thank him and urge him to follow through.Back home, an estimated 4,600 residents remained evacuated from their homes in a large northeast section of Waller County and the adjacent southern end of Grimes County, as weary firefighters made a strong stand in Waller to stop the leading edge of the fire, which was racing into parched, dry forest there."It's only a half-mile from the Waller-Grimes County line," said Grimes County Sheriff Don Sowell. "Right now it looks like its coming to us. But it's changed directions seven times today. Every time the wind shifts. It's very unpredictable."Sparks fly in the wind, igniting the bone-dry underbrush and flaring up into the equally dry trees, making it easy to jump the fire breaks, authorities explained.Magnolia schools closeThe fire has destroyed about 75 homes in Waller County, while Montgomery County and Grimes County together reported three homes were destroyed.All schools in the Magnolia school district will be closed today, in part, officials said, because employees who live in the area of the fires are not able to return to work. ReinforcementsAs the scope of the fires has expanded, resources have been stretched and reinforcements are being called in.A "type one" incident management team from California was flown in to manage the fire."These teams are specially trained to handle complex situations," Bienlenberg said.In addition, the U.S. Forest Service announced it is working with Texas officials to see if its aircraft, such as a giant air tanker with a capacity of 12,000 gallons of water, can help."The fire got more active late in the afternoon," said Tricia Kristofferson, the new central command's spokeswoman.'A long week'Waller County sheriff's Capt. Joe Hester watched the fire jump across a road that he was trying to travel."Hot spots are everywhere. We've got people running all over the place. I think it's going to be a long week," he said. "It's not going to be over any time soon."Michelle Mondo contributed from San Antonio.cindy.horswell@chron.com







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Wildfire takes aim at Harris County
A runaway wildfire that's consumed more than 15,000 acres north of Houston, just one of dozens of blazes firefighters across the state are battling, continued to gain ground and was 60 percent contained as of Friday morning, according to the Texas Forest Service.

Northwest portions of Harris...































Latest Slideshows








 Dynamo 2, Crew 2


 Four-legged victims of the wildfires


 NASA's New Deep Space Exploration System



 
 











Latest Houston and Texas Headlines














			
				Houston may get break from 100-degree days





			
				Man shot in neck during robbery in N. Houston





			
				1 killed, 2 hurt at SW Houston apartments





			
	Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden





			
	Spring High expected to reopen on Thursday





 











Latest News










James Nielsen
					

Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden
The pair were forced to leave quickly because the raging fire was at their back door, said Waller County animal control officer Don...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Wendy Taylor aims beyond Houston
Taylor-made for singing: Wendy Brown/Focus on U Photography



Wendy Taylor has a big, booming personality that’s matched only by her...


 

 







Latest Sports










Robert Sutton
					

A&M can expect warm welcome from SEC fans
Taken fan by fan, restaurant table by restaurant table, tailgate party by tailgate party, folks in the heart of Southeastern...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













