
      Texas wildfire partly tamed; up to 22 people unaccounted for
| Reuters







 







Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Technology
Media
Small Business
Green Business
Legal
Deals
Earnings
Summits
Business Video




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
M&A
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
Futures
Funds
peHUB




World



World Home
U.S.
Brazil
China
Euro Zone
Japan
Mexico
Russia
Afghan Journal
Africa Journal
India Insight
Global News Journal
Pakistan: Now or Never?
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Front Row Washington
Politics Video




Technology



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
Felix Salmon
Breakingviews
George Chen
Bernd Debusmann
Gregg Easterbrook
James Pethokoukis
James Saft
John Wasik
Christopher Whalen
Ian Bremmer
Mohamed El-Erian
Lawrence Summers
The Great Debate
Unstructured Finance
Newsmaker
MuniLand




Money



Money Home
Analyst Research
Global Investing
MuniLand
Reuters Money
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life & Culture



Health
Sports
Arts
Faithworld
Business Traveler
Left Field
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video



























































Article
Comments (0)



























































Follow Reuters

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
YouTube








					Read



Scarlett Johansson naked pictures leaked on Web
| 


14 Sep 2011 
UBS says $2 billion rogue trade suspect held in London
| 


7:02am EDT 
Nude Scarlett Johansson Photos Pop Up Online -- FBI's Hot on the Trail

14 Sep 2011 
Nicolas Cage awoken by naked man with Fudgesicle

14 Sep 2011 
EU warned of credit crunch threat, French banks hit
| 


14 Sep 2011 












					Discussed



154
Al Gore in 24-hour broadcast to convert climate skeptics
128
Number of poor hit record 46 million in 2010
55
Obama confronts jobs ”crisis” with $447 billion plan










					Watched









Scarlett's naked pics, Tyler Perry is highest paid
Wed, Sep 14 2011




Crowd lifts burning car, saves motorcycle crash victim
Tue, Sep 13 2011




Buenos Aires Fashion week sizzles
Mon, Aug 22 2011










Texas wildfire partly tamed; up to 22 people unaccounted for







Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










Related News


Fresh crews, light winds help fight Texas wildfiresSat, Sep 10 2011Officials triple number of homes charred in Texas fireFri, Sep 9 2011Governor Perry comes out swinging at debateThu, Sep 8 2011UPDATE 2-Firefighters gain some control over deadly Texas blazeWed, Sep 7 2011Wildfires sweep across Texas, four deadTue, Sep 6 2011




Analysis & Opinion


Anthony Scaramucci’s sleazy sales pitch

Can Barack Obama channel Teddy Roosevelt?







Related Topics


U.S. »

















By Jim Forsyth

SAN ANTONIO | 
        Sun Sep 11, 2011 6:27pm EDT


SAN ANTONIO (Reuters) - As many as 22 people who were ordered to evacuate by one of the worst brush fires in Texas history remained unaccounted for on Sunday, authorities said, even as firefighters appeared to be gaining the upper hand over the blaze.
The names of the 22 were posted in the Bastrop Community Center on Sunday alongside the now 49-page-long list of the 1,554 homes that have been destroyed in the so-called Bastrop Complex Fire -- the worst, in terms of property loss, in state history. The fire has now consumed 34,000 acres.Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering cautioned that the list only reflected people whose whereabouts were unknown -- and as the day progressed, officials said "some" of the missing had been found.The others, Pickering said, "have not checked into a shelter. They could be on vacation. They could be with friends. If you know them, please have them contact us so we can be sure they are safe and sound."Stepped-up efforts to battle the massive brush fires burning across Texas, including the arrival of 2,000 firefighters and dozens of helicopters and aerial tankers, have helped push back the flames in many places, including Bastrop, authorities said on Sunday."Starting Monday morning, more people will be allowed to re-enter their homes or their property," Pickering said to loud applause on Sunday at the community center, which has become a gathering place for the 5,000 people forced from their homes.The fire is now more than 50 percent contained and Bill Paxton of the Texas Forest Service said he expects the containment numbers to grow over the coming two days."Today has been very productive," he said. "We are making a lot of progress."The winds that whipped up the fires last week have died down, providing a boost to firefighters, Paxton said."The forward progression of the Bastrop Complex fire has stopped," he said. "But now we're doing house to house firefighting, and the dead grass between these homes continues to provide fuel for these fires."Paxton said the other major fire burning in Texas, the Riley Road Fire northwest of Houston, is also 50 percent contained. But he warned that fire, which has destroyed 59 homes, is still aggressively moving toward populated areas.State emergency officials are now turning their efforts to helping the people affected by the fires, which have destroyed nearly 2,000 homes in Texas just in the past week.Many people who live in the area affected by the Bastrop fire said they were becoming increasingly frustrated that they are not being allowed back into their homes."I know exactly where my street is. I can tell you that my house is gone. OK, move on. But I can't do that," said Monica Taylor, who found her address on the list of destroyed homes which is updated daily at the community center.Governor Rick Perry's office announced Sunday that $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund is being distributed to people who have lost homes to provide one-week hotel vouchers.The declaration of Bastrop County as a federal disaster area on Friday will make victims eligible for a wide range of other programs. Perry said the declaration should be extended statewide, pointing out that 140 separate fires have erupted across Texas just in the past seven days, consuming 154,000 acres.The Federal Emergency Management Agency has extended fire suppression grants, which help local fire departments pay for the costs of fighting the brush fires, to 55 Texas counties.The root problem is a year-long drought. More than 80 percent of Texas is listed as experiencing "exceptional drought," the most severe category, in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's U.S. Drought Monitor.Paxton said the grass was already dead and trees were dying, describing the moisture content of Texas grass today at what he called an "unheard of" 2 percent."We have another day or so to get a handle on these fires, because on Tuesday we're expecting the winds to pick up," he said. "What we really need is rain. But right now, there is no relief in sight."(Editing by James B. Kelleher and David Bailey)

U.S.








Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints










 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (0)
Be the first to comment on reuters.com.
Add yours using the box above.



Social Stream (What's this?)









































 








 
 

 
 

 






  


Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Contact Us
Advertise With Us


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Newsletters

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use





Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us



 


Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































