In the defense of our republic         



















Home
2012 Election News
Politics
Opinion
Videos
Political Cartoons
CDNews Radio

Mitchell and Ray
The Dark Side


Reader Polls
Advertise
About

Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Privacy Policy


Write for CDN


In The News
States’ News
9-11 Remembered
Conservative Philosophy

Conservative Book Club


Support Our Troops
A Broken System

Education
Foster Care
Immigration
Public Sector Unions


Blogs

Allenah Manzanagrano
Michelle Ray
Rich Mitchell
SmalGov


CDN Staff











      In the defense of our republic             




Sep 7th, 2011 | By D. Ray Varner | Category:
    Opinion




Within our beloved nation today, we find ourselves under attack. When the adversary is well defined and approaching from across the battlefield, ultimate success is sought and found. One of the greatest threats to our security as a free and sovereign republic, at this moment, is illegal immigration.
We have an administration currently out of control with spending, high unemployment and consistently advancing a progressive socialist agenda. It should come as no surprise they lack the resolve to secure our borders, as much as they lack the ability to govern.
If we are serious about the problem of illegal immigration, then, we must be equally serious in obtaining a solution. We should begin to explore the idea of closing the majority of our overseas military installations and utilizing those troops to secure our national borders. After all, we no longer subscribe to the long held, antiquated notion that “the Russians are coming “. Is it not the primary objective of our military to defend and secure our nation and our way of life? There is no greater threat to our security as a nation today, then, that of illegal immigration. For the past sixty years we have been guarding our neighbor’s homes, while leaving the back-door open to our own house. Clearly, now is the time to shut that door completely and lock it.
Our current projected budget for defense spending in 2012 is $1.030-$1.415 trillion. This is primarily comprised of $707.5 billion for military bases and overseas contingency operations. This budget provides an additional $46.9 billion for the Department of Homeland Security. An agency of the federal government that is completely ineffective in it’s management of the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol division since taking it over in March, 2003. The DHS has closely aligned itself politically within the current White House administration and has a proven record of incompetence when dealing with the border and illegal immigration. It was soon after the DHS took over the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol Agency when this nation began to see the greatest influx in illegal immigration in our nation’s history.
We currently have 767 overseas military installations in 63 countries with additional U.S. military deployments in 90 other countries. Most of these military bases are remnants of a “cold-war” era, long gone, and simply are not needed. It is time these nations step up to the plate and defend themselves. Some of these military installations in strategic locations could be retained by us with a rapid-reactionary force, where deemed necessary.
That which we have to gain by re-assigning our troops on our southern border is tremendous. The greatest gain would be a reduction in lives lost or wounded on foreign soil. Another benefit would be our increased security from future terrorist attacks due to an increased ability to apprehend terrorists at the border, prior to entry. We would also save approximately $700 billion annually from the allocation of funds towards overseas operations. This money could be re-allocated by congress to go directly towards our national debt. Just think of the economic boom from the revenue generated in the border towns and states where our service members would be deployed. There would also be a reduction in the strain currently placed on our health care and education systems by eliminating the free health care and education being provided to illegal immigrants and their children. The unemployment rate would also begin to come down as Americans began to fill the positions currently being held by illegal immigrants. There would also be a reduction in the crime rate and a decrease in the population of our jails and prisons which are currently beyond capacity. All of the benefits mentioned and the numerous other benefits, not mentioned, would greatly lower our tax burden. That means, more of your money will remain in your pocket. Not their’s.
Imagine, for just a moment…a group of illegal immigrants making their way through Mexico and approaching the border. They pass over the final ridge and are just about to cross over the Rio-Grand river, into the United States, when they look across and see…25,000 Marines armed with M16A2′s and 50 cal’s…just waiting, in the defense of our republic.
written by, D. Ray Varner     


 

Next-->> 
Related Posts
 

Back To The Border


Have you ever thought about what effect illegal immigrants have on legal immigrants?

In the United States most people equate illegal immigrants to Hispanics even though there are people of many ...

READ MORE 

The Obama Economy is So Bad – Even the Illegals are Leaving
Ever since Obama took office, Americans (translation: citizens) have been asking him to deal with the illegal immigrant situation. Unbeknownst to the majority of Americans, Obama did actually have a plan to curtail ...

READ MORE 

On The Border

The subject of immigration reform has become almost taboo these days. There are people on both sides of the subject that take immigration ideas to extreme. There are some that ...

READ MORE 

Securing Our Southern Border
While the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security has declared that "The border is as secure now as it has ever been" which is a complete joke, there are ...

READ MORE 

Obama’s Idea of Immigration Enforcement: Whack-a-Mole
Other than suing any state willing to go after illegal immigrants, the White House has done precious little to secure our borders.  Lately, the Obama administration has turned to that ...

READ MORE 

Back To The Border     

The Obama Economy is So Bad – Even 

On The Border      

Securing Our Southern Border     

Obama’s Idea of Immigration Enforcement: Whack-a-Mole   







Tags: border, Illegal immigration











    One Comment    to “In the defense of our republic”










Max says: 

			September 12, 2011 at 7:22 am 
“We should begin to explore the idea of closing the majority of our overseas military installations and utilizing those troops to secure our national borders. After all, we no longer subscribe to the long held, antiquated notion that “the Russians are coming “.
If we abandon our security blanket overseas, it won’t be just the Russians coming.  And the Chinese, and North Korea, and Iran, and every Hugo dictator who would fill the “void.”
Like it or not, a strong American military presence overseas has prevented WW III, has prevented another WW II scenario, and is absolutely critical in maintaining military alliances strong.  
Sure, bring the troops home.  Encircle our borders with a Marine / Army human wall.  Meanwhile, we can sit back and watch a global arms race like no other…. racing to the point of mutual destruction.   But hell, at least those “stinking mexicans” will be somewhere south of our border.

Reply 











      Leave a Comment    
 
Click here to cancel reply.  




          Name                    




          Mail (will not be published)                    




          Website          









 












          B.I.A.- One of the Oldest Government Bullies          

          Solyndra Loans – What Did the WH Know and When?          

          Glenn Beck Comes Out Swinging with  New GBTV Show          

          Attaaaackkkk Waatttcchhhh! Snitches Dig Ditches          

          Another Obama Attack Website          


 Subscribe to the CDNews Feed
CDNews: The Best News, Right Now 

CDNews Weekly Reader Poll
Who's To Blame for the Mortgage Mess [Can Select More than One)
Progressive Housing Policy (67%)
FHA - Fanie and Freddie (54%)
Banks (32%)
Sub-prime borrowers (31%)
George W. Bush (14%)
I'm not sure (1%)


 Loading ...
Polls ArchiveFind Us on Facebook 


Advertise HERE!! 


Recent Comments

WillofLa { Mark Levin played the recording of that girl who worked for the construction company who was building this company and she said that Obama came... } –  Sep 15, 12:22 AM
WillofLa { Okay, now I'm going to be trivial here. So where is the money? Did Mr. Kaiser take it as money he can give Obama for... } –  Sep 14, 6:44 PM
Erin Haust { LOL! You should see what the Twittersphere has to say. Search the hashtag #AttackWatch and prepare to laugh out loud! } –  Sep 14, 3:29 PM
Allenah Manzanagrano (twitter: @FreedomsBlsings) { So Max, let me guess.... you don't like Herman Cain, right? HERMAN CAIN: "America has got to learn how to take a joke." } –  Sep 14, 2:30 PM

The Best in Conservative Political News 


Subscribe to CDNs Regular NewsletterFill out the form below to signup for the Conservative Daily News newsletter and we'll drop you a line as new articles come up.


Our strict privacy policy keeps your email address 100% safe & secure.G-Lock opt-in manager for newsletter mailing softwareArchives  Select Month  September 2011  (165)
 August 2011  (264)
 July 2011  (147)
 June 2011  (174)
 May 2011  (209)
 April 2011  (97)
 March 2011  (108)
 February 2011  (67)
 January 2011  (42)
 December 2010  (9)
 November 2010  (32)
 October 2010  (79)
 September 2010  (51)
 August 2010  (55)
 July 2010  (32)
 June 2010  (22)
 May 2010  (15)
 April 2010  (6)
 March 2010  (18)
 February 2010  (5)
 January 2010  (17)
 December 2009  (3)
 November 2009  (23)
 October 2009  (42)
 September 2009  (44)
 August 2009  (4)

 




































 © 2009 - 2011
    Conservative Daily News

    | Conservative Daily News is a property of Anomalous Media LLC

Log in
    |

    Register |
    58 queries.

    2.500
    seconds. 





