On the Records: FEMA's Wildfire Spending — Texas Forest Service | The Texas Tribune


























Register


Login








Enter Search




Front Page


            Topics
        


            Data
        



            Blogs
        

Directory


            Multimedia
        

Events
Texas Weekly
QRANK


Public Ed
Higher Ed
Immigration
Health Reform
Abortion
Death Penalty
Energy
Census
Water
2012 Races






















On the Records: FEMA's Wildfire Spending
    by Becca Aaronson                                                9/7/2011                                    




Print


Republish


Share


Facebook


Tweet


Reddit


Stumble


Digg


Buzz




Comment


Email


Tweet


Recommend



Keywords:

Data,
Data Visualizations,
Federal Government,
Wildfires



Enlargephoto by: Bob DaemmrichThe remains of a mobile home lie smoldering in a small subvision east of Bastrop where the wildfire went through earlier in the day on September 6, 2011.As wildfires continue to sweep across the state, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has authorized seven more grants to help Texas manage the flames, bringing the tally up to 52 grants to help fight fire this year. Although the figures for the grants given to Texas after June 2011 are not yet available, the Tribune decided to take a look at the $3.8 billion FEMA has given Texas to mitigate disasters over the course of more than a decade.Texas received the largest lump sum for Hurricane Ike in 2008 when FEMA gave over $2 billion in hurricane relief grants to alleviate costs on the Texas coast. Hurricanes, coastal storms, severe storms and floods account for nearly 98 percent of the disaster funding Texas has received from FEMA.Use this interactive map to see the number of declared disasters in each state from 1998 to June 2011 and the total funding in public assistance grants the state has received from FEMA to mitigate the costs. Texas has also received $40 million from FEMA to fight fire on two occasions, in 1999 and 2006. The Cross Plains fire in 2006 occurred during a fire season that lasted 515 days, destroyed more than 2,000 buildings (including 734 homes) and killed 19 people. The Texas Forest Service was given more than $28 million from FEMA to help put out the flames that year.The Tribune thanks our Supporting SponsorsThe current wildfires have already destroyed more than 1,000 homes in Texas and at least one firefighter has been killed, according to the latest press release from the Texas Forest Service. The FEMA fire grants will be available to cover 75 percent of the expenses for field camps, equipment, supplies and mobilization activities after Texas reaches a minimum cost threshold. (Data is not currently available on the costs of fighting the fires or the amount of funding FEMA will ultimately provide.) The largest “fire” FEMA ever helped put out was the attack at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. New York received $4.7 billion and New Jersey received $88 million from FEMA to help emergency teams and government agencies after the towers fell. The attack on the Pentagon that day was considered a “terrorist” incident, not a “fire,” and Virginia received $4.9 million from FEMA to handle the emergency.New York is one of three states that have received more total aid for disasters than Texas. Louisiana, which received $10.8 billion after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans and in 2005, tops the list, followed by Florida, which has received more than $4.6 billion for numerous hurricanes over the years.California has accrued more grants to fight wildfires than Texas, at a cost of $409 million to FEMA. More than a quarter of that spending ($110 million) was used to fight the largest fire in California’s recorded history. The Cedar Fire that hit San Diego in 2003 destroyed 2,820 structures, 273,246 acres of land and killed 15 people. (Grants given to Texas to fight the current fires are not accounted for in this data. All of the figures derived for this story are taken from the Public Assistance Funded Projects Summary data, which is available to download here. This database tracks all of the sub-grantees that have received funding from FEMA to help recover from major disasters and emergencies declared by the president from 1998 to June 2011.)
PrintRepublishShareFacebookTweetRedditStumbleDiggBuzzCommentEmailTweetRecommendRelated ContentNo related articles foundRelated TopicsData SyndicationPublic Information ActTexas Forest Service


Back To Top






Sign up for Texas Tribune alerts

Get daily coverage delivered to your inbox










The Tribune thanks our Supporting Sponsors









New on the Trib


Data App: Our Latest Public Employee Pay Update

    by Ryan Murphy, Ioanna Makris and Chris Hooks                                        September 15, 2011                    

Innocence Advocates Worry About Pending Arson Review

    by Brandi Grissom                            September 15, 2011                    

With Execution Set, Perry Faces Further Scrutiny

    by Matt Largey                                        September 15, 2011                    

The Weekly TribCast: Episode 97

    by Reeve Hamilton                            September 14, 2011                    





The Most




Shared


Viewed


Commented










Government Employee Salaries


On the Records: Perry Understated Merck Money


Perry Gets Roughed Up in Second GOP Debate


DePinho: Opposing HPV Vaccine "Unethical"


Pardons Board Denies Clemency in Racially Tinged Case


College Rankings a Mixed Bag for Texas Universities


Ron Paul Gets Taiwanimated


Some Texas Teachers Left to Clean Up Budget Cut Mess


Agencies


The Texas Tribune Festival - Home






On the Records: In Debate, Perry Understated His Merck Support


Mexico Mandates HPV Vaccine; Other U.S. States Consider It


Perry Gets Roughed Up in Second GOP Debate


Officials Insist EPA Rule Could Turn the Lights Off in Texas


Updated: Groups Urge Feds to Stop Voter ID Bill




















        We thankour sponsors
    







Writers

Becca Aaronson


Julian Aguilar


Justin Dehn


Kate Galbraith


Brandi Grissom


Reeve Hamilton


Mark Miller


Ryan Murphy


David Muto


Ben Philpott


Ross Ramsey


Emily Ramshaw


Jay Root


Evan Smith


Morgan Smith


Thanh Tan



Topics


2011 Budget Shortfall


Rainy Day Fund


Texas-Mexico Border


82nd Session Transcripts


Tom DeLay


Wind Energy


Texas Government Payroll


Immigration


2011 House Speaker's Race


Texas Legislature




Texas Ethics Commission


Higher Education


Environmental Problems and Pol…


Redistricting


Texas Department of Transporta…


Death Penalty


Voter ID


Social Studies Standards Debat…




TT Social Media

Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Vimeo



© 2011 The Texas Tribune

Terms of Service


Privacy Policy


About Us


Contact Us


Feeds


Mobile


Donate


















