Obama Launches Aggressive Push For Jobs Plan | Christian Media Cross

 
 
































Christian

Men
Women
Youth
Family
Missions


National
World

United Nations
Britain
China
Asia
Mexico
Iraq
Iran
India
North Korea
Japan
Africa
Latin America
Russia


Politics
Business
Tech

Tech Reviews
Web Apps
Business Tech
Green Tech


Entertainment

Album Review
Music
Movies


Devotional

Bible Pathway
My Utmost For His Highest


More

Culture


 







 
















Obama Launches Aggressive Push For Jobs Plan
On September 10, 2011  · Leave a Comment · In Business 


 







Share this Post
Tweet





Enlarge Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
President Obama speaks about his new jobs proposal at the University of Richmond in Richmond, Va., on Friday.




Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images
President Obama speaks about his new jobs proposal at the University of Richmond in Richmond, Va., on Friday.




President Obama is selling his jobs plan as a much-needed shot in the arm for a still struggling economy. It includes new public works projects, help for local school districts, training opportunities for those who have been out of work a long time, and more than $  200 billion in tax cuts for workers and the companies that hire them.
“It will lead to new jobs for construction workers, teachers, veterans, young people, and the long-term unemployed, provide tax credits for businesses and workers. And it will not add to the deficit.  It will be paid for,” he told a crowd of 8,000 at the University of Richmond in Virginia on Friday.

Obama said Americans are understandably frustrated. Unemployment is stuck above 9 percent, and a divided federal government seems unable to reach agreement on how to fix it. But calling himself “an eternal optimist,” Obama said he still believes Congress can come together around a jobs plan like the one he’s proposed. He insisted there’s nothing “radical” in his proposal, and that Republicans and Democrats have both supported similar measures in the past.
“I believe if you just stay at it long enough, eventually, after they’ve exhausted all the options, folks do the right thing,” he said.
The president’s campaign-style event was in the home district of Virginia Congressman Eric Cantor, the leader of House Republicans. Cantor, along with House Speaker John Boehner, say they’re willing to consider some of what the President proposed, though Cantor told Fox News he doesn’t support Obama’s plans for rehabbing roads, airports and schools, or the other parts of the bill that require new government spending.
“I mean more stimulus spending is not something that we believe is effective in terms of job creation. I think the nation has seen that,” he said. “But there are some ideas in the president’s speech that are geared toward small businesspeople, creating incentives for people to invest money and hire folks. Those are the kind of things I think we ought to work on right now and get moving.”
Last year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office ranked different ways of boosting the economy, and found money spent on unemployment insurance offers the most bang for the buck, because the unemployed aren’t likely to sit on their cash. The CBO found infrastructure spending can also provide a big payoff, though it tends to come slowly. Cutting payroll taxes, especially for workers, ranked as a somewhat less efficient way of pumping money into the economy, but it’s relatively straightforward and it may be the part of the president’s plan that’s most likely to win Republican support.
Obama hopes to boost those odds by taking his jobs message on the road.
“The reason I’m here in Richmond is because to make it happen, every one of your voices can make a difference. Every one of your voices can have an impact,” he said Friday.
“I want you to call, I want you to email, I want you to tweet, I want you to fax. I want you to Facebook, send a carrier pigeon. I want you to tell your Congressperson the time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now. The time to create jobs is now,” he said. “Pass this bill.”
NPR Topics: Business
You might also be interested in:Obama Starts Campaign For Jobs Plan
Obama asks voters to help pressure Congress on jobs plan
As Lawmakers Wait on Legislative Language, Obama Hits the Road to Pitch $450 Billion Jobs Plan
Obama hits road to tout jobs plan
Obama to Lay Out $450 Billion Jobs Plan in Prime-Time Speech





								Tagged with: afp • congress • construction workers • crowd • eternal optimist • federal government • getty images • jim watson • local school • long time • new jobs • proposal • public works projects • republicans • richmond • school districts • tax credits • tax cuts • unemployment • university of richmond 
							









						If you enjoyed this post, please consider sharing it!	
					

















 



 































 Latest Posts 
Facebook Could Buy WebOS: Analyst
Man Arrested in $2-Billion UBS Rogue Trading Probe; Third Quarter Loss Likely, Shares Tumble
UK Economy: Does Ed Balls Have a Credible Alternative?
French, Greek, German Leaders Discuss Greek Crisis
Will Graham to join Rock Thurrock
Charity uses radio to reach out to people in debt
Toddlers and Tiaras and the inner beauty God desires
This Phone Has No Apps But It’s Made Of Gold
Solyndra Flop May Cost Taxpayers, Embarrass Obama
Palestinians To Seek Full U.N. Membership Next Week

 
Christian Media Cross Connect 






 



 
Christian News 






Christian Music 







Hot Topicsafp
amp
associated press
barack obama
christian broadcasting network
christian music
christians
cnn
cnnmoney
david cameron
debt ceiling
debt crisis
debt limit
espn
facebook
faith
getty images
god
google
heart
house speaker
iphone
jesus
jesus christ
john boehner
love
lyrics
michele bachmann
mitt romney
moammar gadhafi
music
music video
news world
obama
photo
protesters
reuters
rick perry
target
tea party
tripoli
twitter
washington post
yahoo
yahoo news
 






 




 

















 
 
 














Christian News

Christian Post


CBN News


Christian Telegraph


One News Now


CrossWalk News


Christian Today


World Mag


Christianity Today


Urban Christian News



Christian Music

Da South


K Love


Air 1


Todays Christian Music


Breathecast


Holy Culture


CCM Magazine


Gospel Music Channel


New Release Tuesday


CM Spin


Hear it First


Jesus Freak Hideout


Christian Sonic



Christian Resources

E-Sword


Life Way


CrossWalk


Free Christian Resources


Bible Gateway


Christian Book


Gospel


Viral Outreach


Youth Worker



More Christian Sites

Ultimate Tube


Relevant Magazine


God Tube


Reach Life



Christian Social Network

LIBAW Social



Connect

Facebook


Twitter


Youtube


RSS

















© 2011 LIBAW / Christian Media Cross 






