 » Wildfires Rage In Central Texas » Apogee Results - The Online Marketing Authority | Austin, Texas










Call 855.360.4601

Search for:



 


Skip to content
Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Managment
Content Development & Copywriting


Resources

Get Our Free Online Marketing Newsletter
Online Marketing Glossary
Webinars
White Papers
Paid Search Advertising FAQ
Organic Search Engine Optimization (SEO) FAQ
Ethical Search Engine Optimization Commitment


About

About Apogee Results
Management Team
Solution Partners
Our Clients
Careers


Events
Blog
Contact Us








← Are Your Rich Media and Traditional Marketing Efforts Making Your Competition Rich?
Help Me Help You →


Wildfires Rage In Central Texas

Posted on September 8, 2011 by Aubrey Curry 


The fire in Bastrop on Sunday, September 4. Authorities described it as a "fire of biblical proportions."
As you may or may not have heard by now, there are some pretty serious wildfires going on around our beautiful city. While no one at Apogee has been directly affected by any of the fires, our hearts still go out to those who have lost their homes, livestock, pets, livelihoods, and unfortunately, lives.
For anyone who may be wondering, the largest fire, known as the Bastrop Complex Fire, is about 25 miles east of downtown Austin. Smoke has hung heavy over the area for the past couple of days, due to thankfully calm winds. The smoke should blow out today due to a weak front we have pushing through, but that also means higher winds that increase the risk of flareups, new fires, or exacerbating the situation for the fires that still aren’t contained. At this point, we desperately need rain, but the entire state will gladly accept prayers, rain dances, good vibes–whatever you’ve got.
Capt. Alan Donaldson of the Bastrop Fire Department looks at his his destroyed firefighting helmet at his burned down home on Tonkawa Drive in Bastrop's Circle D Estates neighborhood on Wednesday Sept. 7, 2011. Photo courtesy of Austin American Statesman
These fires, though, have prompted a lot of people to ask: What SHOULD/WOULD you grab if a fireman knocked on your door and told you to evacuate immediately? The Austin-American Statesman has compiled a list of things it would be nice to be able to take in case of an evacuation (let’s face it, though, if you have two minutes to get out odds are you’re thinking, pets, underwear, purse, cell phone and that’s about it).
Here’s the packed in advance evacuation kit list:

Water—one gallon per person, per day for three days
A three-day supply of nonperishable food
Flashlights
Battery or hand-crank radio, with extra batteries
First aid kit, including prescription medications
Personal hygiene items, including hand sanitizer, soap, toilet paper, wipes, sunscreen and insect repellent
Copies of personal documents (deed/lease to home, passports, birth certificates, insurance policies) and a plastic pouch to keep them in
Cell phones with chargers
Names and phone numbers of emergency contacts
Extra cash, checkbook and credit cards
Eyeglasses, hearing aids
Baby supplies, including diapers and formula
Games and toys for kids
Pet supplies, including leash, bowls, cat litter, cat box and pet food
Extra set of car keys and house keys
Manual can opener
Whistle
N95 or surgical masks
Matches
Rain gear
Extra clothing, hat and sturdy shoes
Duct tape
Blankets, sleeping bags and towels
Wedding albums and other important photographs

Looking at that list, it makes total sense to have those things ready to go in case of an evacuation. If you know a hurricane is barreling towards you, or in our case, if you know a fire could pop up at any minute, it’s completely feasible to have those things loaded into the car and ready to go. But what if you only have a few minutes? You won’t have time to gather those things. My “must grabs” would be:

My dog (he’s my “baby”), his leash, and dog food
My fiance (okay, so I would grab my fiance first, and then the dog)
Both of our cell phones
Purse, wallet(s)
Underwear
Eyeglasses
If time: birth certificates, social security cards, irreplaceable photographs of my grandparents and myself as a baby, external harddrives
Ideally, I would LIKE to be able to escape with our tandem bicycle, but that might be asking a bit much–and nothing that homeowner’s insurance can’t replace

Overall, I hold the very firm belief that a house can be replaced. Televisions and computers and bicycles and Keurig coffeemakers and toys can be replaced. Appliances can be replaced. Fences rebuilt. Trees replanted. But you can’t replace a life.
If you were facing evacuation orders, whether it be from a hurricane, flooding or wildfire, what would you take with you? Also, if you would like to help the victims of the local wildfires, here’s a list of Austin area agencies accepting donations, and what they most need. And last, but certainly not least, thank you to all of the firefighters and volunteers who have put their lives on the line and who have worked almost non-stop–you are all very appreciated.
 


 

About Aubrey Curry
							Aubrey Curry is the Marketing Manager for Apogee Results, and loves all things marketing and cycling related.							

									View all posts by Aubrey Curry → 




						This entry was posted in Blog. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Are Your Rich Media and Traditional Marketing Efforts Making Your Competition Rich?
Help Me Help You →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Name 
Email 
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 












Let's Be Social!


Twitter
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg

Delicious
RSS Feed







Free Online Marketing Newsletter 
Stay on top of online marketing trends and insight. Delivered to your inbox once per month. See example.






Email











Email Marketing You Can Trust

ServicesSearch Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development and Copywriting
 



Blog Categories 
Blog (22)

Business Vertical (75)

B2B (6)

B2C (4)

eCommerce (72)

Lead Generation (4)

Project Management (1)



Events (61)

Austin Community (29)

Speaking Events (5)

Tradeshows (6)



Online Marketing (657)

Content Development Strategy (5)

Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO) (11)

Online Reputation Management (7)

Pay-Per-Click (PPC) (168)

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) (216)

Social Media Marketing (42)

User Experience (UX) (24)

Web Analytics Optimization (27)




 











 
 







Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development & Copywriting



About Apogee Results


Management Team

Our Clients’ Success
Solutions Partners
Careers
Privacy | Legal | Sitemap



Let's Be Social

Subscribe to our Blog
Email Newsletter
Linkedin
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg
Delicious



Contact Apogee Results
8701 North Mopac Expy, Suite 400Austin, Texas 78759

855.360.4601












