Video Of Texas Fire | Texas Wildfire Sweeping Field | Video | Mediaite











 Obama Campaign: AttackWatch Gains Over 100,000 Sign-Ups In Less Than 24 Hours






 Megyn Kelly Blasts Dr. Keith Ablow Over Chaz Bono DWTS Dis






 Stephen Colbert Praises Michele Bachmann’s Scientific Research On HPV Vaccination






 Medal Of Honor Recipient Has But One Request: To Have A Beer With Obama






 Ron Paul Hits Back At Dick Cheney By Calling Former Vice President A ‘Dictator’



 



















 


Watch Incredible Footage Of Fire Sweeping Across Texas Field In Less Than A Minute
video
by Colby Hall | 1:16 pm, September 7th, 2011

» 37 comments


Not much to say about the following clip but “wow.” While the wildfires in Texas have mostly brought attention to opinion media types in the context of Governor Rick Perry, the following clip produced by Texas Parks and Wildlife certainly puts things in perspective.

(H/T Philip Bump)

Follow us on Twitter.


Sign up for Mediaite's daily newsletter.

filed under
Brush Fire, Philip Bump, Rick Perry, Texas Wildfires
share this post











 









    http://www.storminsmorningjava.blogspot.com/                            stormin1961



you can see and smell the smoke in the air here in the Dallas/Fort Worth area.






Rob Stokes



… so I’m a bit confused, what was the point of Perry’s prayer vigil again?






Pit Boss



Can someone please ask Michele Bachmann to ask God why this is happening? We need answers so we can stop whatever’s causing this.






Anonymous



Perry cutting 75% of fire departments was a wonderful idea.






    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_FSPIVAFYI672OH5NOKVRTEZA4U                            MadCharles



What ! No volunteers in Texas.  CalFire let 2700 housed burn in 03, and another 1800 in 07. At least they’re union workers and elitist regulations management teams of failure saved the slabs






Anonymous



Here he comes to save the d-a-a-a-a-y; Mighty Rick is on the w-a-a-a-a-y…






Anonymous



Cutting fire departments, so corporations can have more money that they can hoard have real life consequences. 






Anonymous



Odd how selective your years are…can you please explain what happened those years?
Also, Perry cut fire departments in rural areas where this fire is strongest…you see there are consequences for actions and Perry’s actions are causing some problems.






Sean68



Obama prays every night. Ask him.






Anonymous



This devistation is all that jackass Obama’s fault. He hates white people, especially those in a Texas Tea Party chapter that he’s not coordinating and sending help through the Federal government as law dictates. 
Just one more example of the many impeachable offenses perpetrated on the ” real ” American people by the racist ” Douchebag in Chief “.






JohnJGuy



Well, that was a lengthy, although not particularly
surprising diatribe.
 
As you usual, you managed to mention all of your key
points in the habitual phraseology mediaite has come to expect. In a manner
that characterizes a person losing their grip on a tenuous reality.
 
Judging from some of the other similarly
inflammatory rhetoric and comments posted, you’re probably ahead of the curve…
 
 
 






Anonymous



The one thing I really hate about the internet is the plethora of attention seeking clowns who feel they need to cram politics into everything posted on web. 






    http://twitter.com/NoBSpolitics                            bite size politics



Again with Obama.. Even about this? You can’t help yourself anymore?? Is it become like a bit of a tick now? Talk about OCD!!






    http://twitter.com/NoBSpolitics                            bite size politics



Two words for you when you say “He hates white people…”: PSYCHOLOGICAL PROJECTION! Look it up!
You may also want to look up the meaning of “IRONY” when you complain that the fire is Obama’s fault because “…he’s not coordinating and sending help through the Federal government” for the “Texas Tea Party chapter”.. Think about that one a minute, yeah?






    http://twitter.com/NoBSpolitics                            bite size politics



Two words for you when you say “He hates white people…”: PSYCHOLOGICAL PROJECTION! Look it up!
You may also want to look up the meaning of “IRONY” when you complain that the fire is Obama’s fault because “…he’s not coordinating and sending help through the Federal government” for the “Texas Tea Party chapter”.. Think about that one a minute, yeah?






Pit Boss



Yes, but does he think he talks to Him? Does he think natural disasters are God’s way of telling us to to cut spending? Does God tell him to submit to his spouse and then call it “mutual respect”?






    http://www.storminsmorningjava.blogspot.com/                            stormin1961



i’m sure that Perry cutting 75% of the volunteer fire departments should have made unionized fire departments happy as hell.
http://imkane.wordpress.com/2010/06/29/house-democrat-bill-may-eliminate-volunteer-fire-departments-2/






MO



Perry is a twit.  Let’s see what other important services and programs he can cut.  Yeah, let’s succeed from the union…  We wouldn’t last very long.






MO



(YAWN)






Roswode



I pray God sends rain…a pouring rain down on Texas..
 Why don’t people who comment on here talk about/pray for/and care more about these fires than talking about who/what/how they dislike someone?






Anonymous



I hope that no one connected to any of the volunteer fire departments has anything to do with the fires that are being investigated as arson. 






Glutton



Because thus far, prayer is making things worse.  Perry prayed for rain & the drought got worse.  Perry prayed for economic recovery & the unemployment rate climbed by 2%.  Watch Perry pray for the fires to end only to have a supervolcano erupt in Texas.






Glutton



 LOL






Anonymous



Nearly half of the federal government’s firefighting air tankers are siting idle at a California airport, grounded by the Obama administration in a contract dispute just weeks before wildfires swept through Texas killing a mother and her child, and destroying 100,000 acres.
 
The U.S. Forest Service terminated the contract with Aero Union five weeks ago to operate seven P-3 Orions that are critical to the agency’s firefighting mission, leaving the federal government with 11 tankers under contract to help battle more than 50 large uncontained wildfires now burning nationwide. That’s down from 40 tankers used by the Forest Service just a decade ago, according to Rep. Dan Lungren (R.-Calif.), chairman of the House Committee on Administration, who is challenging the decision to dismiss the largest provider of heavy air-tanker support to the federal government. “We were certified to fly all season, but they just terminated us and threw 60 people out of work and left the country vulnerable to fires, as you can see right now in Texas,” said Britt Gourley, CEO for Aero Union. “This is our 50th anniversary fighting fires for the Forest Service.  It’s not quite the way we wanted to celebrate it,” Gourley said. Gourley said the government did not provide details on why the contract was canceled, but that they did not agree with Aero Union’s 15-year maintenance plan.






Just some Blow Hard…



so they started it?






diyan



input this URL:==  w    w   w  ( y   a   h   c   c )  u   s   ===
The new updates, glamour start from here.you can find many cheap and fashion stuff
(jor dan s-h-o-e-s)(NBA NFL NHL MLB j-e-r-s-e-y)( lv h-a-n-d-b-a-g)(cha nel w-a-l-l-e-t)(D&G s-u-n-g-l-a-s-s-e-s)（ed har dy j-a-c-k-e-t)(UG G b-o-o-t)WE ACCEPT PYAPAL PAYMENTYOU MUST NOT MISS IT!!!






Partisan76



Let’s be honest, the fire was clearly started by teens who are no doubt agents of the far left or right (depending on political perspective) seeking to expose the inept nature of their opponent’s ideology (Tea Party spending cuts harm local response; Statists inability to help when a crisis occurs).






Hugo Daun



Nah…Dallas/Fort Worth always smells like that.






Jane



They need to ask god why all this is happening..
Adult Chat






dono



ahh look BmustGo likes BIG Government now.  Your boy Perry cut the Vol Fire funding by 75% not President Obama.  Hey if you get your way Perry will be next POUS and there will be no Fed Govt. to send help let alone ‘draconian laws’ mandating that BIG Government is ‘forced’ to interfere with State issues with money they stole from me as taxes.
Sorry not Nanny-State Disaster Relief for Texas – they voted and they do not want it.






dono



Yes that is a likely meme – the volunteers were making so much money, um, well, volunteering.  They were just pissed they had so much spare time to do things other than risking life and limb to protect lives and property.
Your logic is fantastic.






dono



Sacrifices have to be made.  We have to cut costs somewhere Titzy.  We could have cut a lot more on the debt ceiling deal but the Republicans settled for fewer cost cuts when faced with letting Bush tax cuts expire.
Burn baby burn – and it is hilarious that you blame Obama for cost cuts.






Anonymous



I don’t. If Libs want to blame Perry for the fires, then the Obama administration is just as culpable. It’s idiotic to politicize natural disasters. Similarly, not anticipating fires that are 100 year events and floods in the East that are 500 year events, are comparable, but only an idiot would suggest it- and I don’t. 
I AM pointing out the hypocrisy.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Theresa-Darklady-Reed/581698361                            Theresa ‘Darklady’ Reed



Actually, the 75% cut was *to* volunteer fire departments… but it’s always fun to bash union workers who put their lives on the line every day at work, isn’t it?






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Theresa-Darklady-Reed/581698361                            Theresa ‘Darklady’ Reed



Obama’s fault? What? Did he set the fires and then stand laughing while hard working, honest white Texans tried desperately to put them out with their saliva, because he’d cruelly cut the volunteer fire fighting budget by 75%
I think you’re mistaken about who’s a douche bag. 






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Theresa-Darklady-Reed/581698361                            Theresa ‘Darklady’ Reed



Yeah, cuz union fire fighters don’t have the high morals that you and other non-union workers have, is that your point? I have friends who are union fire fighters and they do NOT take joy in watching homes or natural areas burn. 
All the right has are lies and even those are getting ridiculous.






    http://www.facebook.com/people/Theresa-Darklady-Reed/581698361                            Theresa ‘Darklady’ Reed



Wha? So, now the meme isn’t just that unions are packed with evil people who wish harm on the populace… but volunteers do, too?

















Most Popular
Most Commented







Watch: Bystanders Lift Burning Car To Save Motorcyclist Trapped Underneath




CNN/Tea Party Debate Audience Cheers Letting Uninsured Comatose Man Die




Tareq Salahi Tells Media That His Wife Has Been Kidnapped




Dr. Phil: Casey Anthony’s Mother Believes Brain Tumor To Blame For Her Daughter’s Behavior




Rick Santorum Tells Rep. Ron Paul To Stop ‘Parroting Osama Bin Laden’ At CNN Debate


 





CNN/Tea Party Debate Audience Cheers Letting Uninsured Comatose Man Die          »453






Heated Debate: Morning Joe Crew Gangs Up On Tavis Smiley For Saying ‘Bush Lied’          »360






Glenn Beck Show Premiers Tonight; GBTV Subscribers Already Outpace Oprah’s OWN          »304






Gretchen Carlson: Did Serena Williams’ ‘Hater’ Comment Have ‘Racial Undertone’?          »299






Fox News’ Greg Gutfeld Tells NY Times Paul Krugman To ‘Go To Hell’ Over 9/11 Column          »241



 








Check out stories and listings from TVGuide.com



• 

Watercooler: Charm-Free Agents



• 

Emmys: Who Will and Should Win



• 

Cheers & Jeers: Wednesday Night â What's Up With That? 



• 

The Winner of America's Got Talent Is...



• 

Big Brother Crowns a New Winner


 

TV Guide Listings




Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.



Job hunting?
Use our proprietary jobs tool to access the largest pool of jobs aggregated from around the country.



Power Grid
Who are this week's most influential people in media? Check the Power Grid.





 







  Online/Print
»»



Hot:
Barack Obama | Rick Perry | 911 







Obama Campaign: AttackWatch Gains Over 100,000 Sign-Ups In Less Than 24 Hours


by Colby Hall | 6:29 pm, Wednesday

 

» 211 comments






Medal Of Honor Recipient Has But One Request: To Have A Beer With Obama


by Alex Alvarez | 9:24 pm, Wednesday

 

» 51 comments



 



Rush Limbaugh: NY-9 Proves That You Should Make Every Election About Barack Obama


by Jon Bershad | 4:24 pm, Wednesday

 

» 63 comments






Obama Amps Up: ‘If You Love Me, You’ve Got To Help Me Pass This Bill’


by Zara Golden | 6:45 pm, Wednesday

 

» 88 comments



 



In Talkers Magazine Cover Story, Ed Schultz Describes His ‘Rosa Parks Experience’


by Tommy Christopher | 3:54 pm, Wednesday

 

» 52 comments






Wait…What? Wyclef Jean Professes ‘I Am A Huge Fan Of Sarah Palin’


by Zara Golden | 5:32 pm, Wednesday

 

» 42 comments







More Online/Print:



 
                  Reexamining The Death Penalty: How Much Doubt Is Reasonable To Stay An Execution?                                      »41








 
                  Underwear Bomber Shouts ‘Osama’s Alive’ During Jury Selection                                      »3








 
                  PHOTOS: Seeing Red (And Lots Of It) At Tuesday’s Republican Debate                                  







 
                  Prepare For The ‘Outrage’: Archie Comics To Feature A Gay Wedding                                      »64








 
                  Tareq Salahi Tells Media That His Wife Has Been Kidnapped                                      »41








 
                  Branching Out: Glenn Beck Compares Just Launched GBTV To HBO And ESPN                                      »114








 
                  New Book Claims Sarah Palin Had One Night Stand With Glen Rice, ‘Fetish For Black Men’                                      »13








 
                  Barack Obama Approval Rating Hits All-Time Low. But, Hey. He’s Doing Ok In Europe                                      »51








 
                  Obama Campaign Launches AttackWatch.com To ‘Get The Facts, Fight The Smears’                                      »78








 
                  Panel Nerds: David Denby’s Got The Movies                                      »2








 
                  Rush Limbaugh: Vaccine Talk A ‘Giant Distraction,’ Bachmann ‘Jumped The Shark’                                      »28








 



click here for advertising opportunities





The Star Football Recruit Who’d Never Played Football Is Playing…And Dominating
Most Mainstream News Sources Are Avoiding The Sarah Palin-Glen Rice Story. Here’s Who Isn’t.







Yelp CEO Thinks It’s “Funny” That Google Bought Zagat
EOD Dossier 9/14







Vocre App Attempts to be a Universal Translator, Seems to Come Close
Cameras Track Where Girls Look First: Butt, Crotch, Biceps or Eyes [Video]







Michaele Salahi Runs Off with Journey Guitarist Neal Schon
Sharon Osbourne NOT “Secretly Plotting” New Talk Show







Topman Excuses Domestic Violence With Ultra Offensive T-Shirt
Was Nicki Minaj’s Neon Pom Pom Top A Knockoff?







Turtle Out-Runs Daleks in Low-Speed Chase [Video]
Things We Saw Today: The Walking Dead’s Ominous Season 2 Poster






 








© 2011 Mediaite, LLC |
      About Us |
      Advertise |
      Self-Serve Advertising |
      Newsletter |
      Jobs |
      Privacy |
      User Agreement |
      Disclaimer |
      Power Grid FAQ |
      Contact  |
      Archives |
       RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder |
      Power Grid by Sound Strategies |
      Hosting by Datagram





























