Story: A Safe Place for No Cost «  American Red Cross Disaster Newsroom



American Red Cross Disaster Newsroom
News and Updates From the Ground



Home
Contact Us
Help Now
Media Contacts
Past Relief Operations
Disaster Response Guide

 


Story: A Safe Place for No Cost

This story is written by Red Cross worker Tamica Smith-Jeuitt.

In the middle of the night, Doug Ramage and Tricia Price were forced to evacuate their home in Ridgeland, Mississippi because of flash flooding triggered by Tropical Storm Lee.
They walked through nearly two feet of water where rescue teams meet them with good news – the Red Cross had prepared shelter for them and their neighbors at a nearby church.   Knowing they had a safe place to stay was one less worry for the couple.  They recently paid their rent and were extremely low on cash so, a hotel room would have been hard to afford.
 
“Everyone has been good to us here, we are comfortable, this has been good,” said Ramage.
“I am so grateful for the Red Cross, we had nowhere to go,” Price added. 
It’s been reported that water waters rose more than four feet in a portion of Ridgeland, MS where substantial rainfall from Tropical Storm Lee caused the cabin community where Ramage and Price lived to flood.

Advertisement

Share this:StumbleUponDiggRedditLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post.


					This entry was posted  on Wednesday, September 7th, 2011 at 4:47 PM and is filed under Stories, Tropical Storm Lee.					You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. 

											Responses are currently closed, but you can trackback from your own site.
											
					




Comments are closed.





Search



 


 

 Current Relief Operations:

Hurricane Irene



 Subscribe to these posts:
 by RSS       by Email


American Red Cross Links

All Social Media Spaces
American Red Cross
Be Red Cross Ready
Broadcast Quality B-roll
Cruz Roja Americana
Red Cross Blog
Red Cross on Twitter
Red Cross Youth Blog
Safe & Well
Text 2HELP


External Links

CIDI (Center for International Disaster Information)
DisasterAssistance.gov
FEMA
National Hurricane Center
NOAA
Ready.gov
RSOE EDIS Disaster Alert Map


 Red Cross Chat
Worldwide Wednesday Wrap-Up
Twitter: @RedCross

@danillebouchard You can ask ur local chapter how to get involved (redcross.org/where)... donate time, money, or blood :) Thank you! 15 hours ago


 Flickr Photos



More Photos









	Theme: Contempt by Vault9. 
Get a blog at WordPress.com



















