 January 2011 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Facts to Appeal For A Greener Lifestyle
POSTED BY Elaine on Jan 31 under Animals, Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Pollution, Recycling, Water
February is just about to begin. Most people tend to begin a diet, change their routine, or plan a new schedule during the beginning of the month. Right now the planet needs you more than anything else, so why not make a difference and live a greener lifestyle for a change. Start out by learning [...]


Comments Off



100 Great Hacks for the Green-Minded Mom
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 31 under Eco-friendly, Eco-Friendly Careers, Parenting
Becoming a mom means investing in the future. Your children, and your children’s children will live on this Earth long after you’re gone-and knowing that sort of thing makes a lot of moms more eco-conscious than ever before. A woman who may have thought little about recycling before can turn into a green-minded mom with [...]


2 Comments



Tips For Keeping a Green Environment with Pets
POSTED BY Lira on Jan 30 under Eco-friendly
Raising pets is a real challenge, and it’s a lot more challenging if you intend to raise them in a green environment. Here are some tips to raising a dog or a cat in the eco-friendliest way possible: 1. Choose a good pet food. A lot of pet food sold at supermarkets are actually artificially [...]


Comments Off



10 Vegetables That Should Be in Every Garden
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 30 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Organic
Oh the visions this brings of a day long gone for me.  The memory is of approaching spring, and preparing seedlings in a plant bed to grow until warmer weather, where the young tender plants would be transplanted in our garden.   As a rule Daddy had saved seeds from the last year’s crop, and properly [...]


1 Comment



101 Way to Conserve Water in College
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 29 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
A lot of businesses, households and campuses have recently adopted water conservation plans to save money and protect the environment, but we still have a lot of work ahead of us. Those of us in the developed world use inordinate amounts of water for personal use, and most of it isn’t used efficiently. With each [...]


1 Comment



10 Countries Where You’d Be Healthier & Happier
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 29 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
Despite the fervent belief by some Tea Partiers in American exceptionalism, there are several places on Earth where you’d probably be happier living. Healthier, too. Forbes has gathered information about both classes of country (here and here), and it’s from these helpful lists, neither of which features the U.S. in the top 10, that this [...]


1 Comment



25 Environmentalists Who Were Way Ahead of Their Time
POSTED BY Rokai on Jan 29 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
“Going green” is an almost nauseatingly cliche mantra that’s been picked up –sometimes falsely — by corporate America, soccer moms, and the least granola people you can think of. But through the hard work, research studies and dedication of some very persistent individuals, being more conscientious about how humans impact the environment and making more [...]


1 Comment



Nalco Announces Price Increases in Europe, Africa and the Middle East
POSTED BY Press on Jan 28 under Uncategorized
Nalco Announces Price Increases in Europe, Africa and the Middle East PR Newswire — January 28, 2011 NAPERVILLE, Illinois, January 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — Nalco (NYSE: NLC), providing essential expertise for water, energy and air, is implementing a price increase for customers across the Europe, Africa and Middle East (EAME) region, effective Feb. 1 or [...]


Comments Off



Suntech Power Receives the “Murphy&Spitz Global Leader Award 2011″ at the World Economic Forum 2011 in Davos
POSTED BY Press on Jan 28 under Uncategorized
Suntech Power Receives the “Murphy&Spitz Global Leader Award 2011″ at the World Economic Forum 2011 in Davos – The Annual M&S Research Report on Environmental and Sustainability Standards in the Photovoltaic Industry Will be Published Monday PR Newswire — January 28, 2011 BONN, Germany, January 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — Dr. Zhengrong Shi, founder and CEO [...]


Comments Off



Tea Tree Oil May Be Harmful To Pets
POSTED BY Lira on Jan 28 under Animals
Reading this news about tea tree oil and its effect on pets struck me because my dogs’ shampoo is specifically organic. It contains tea tree oil, which is said to provide relief from itchiness and prevents the dogs from scratching too much. Tea tree oil originates from Australian tea tree and is actually a good [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


christmas
organic cotton
prnewswire
recycled materials
mother earth
reuters
national hurricane center
earthquake
epicenter
tropical storm lee
richter scale
lifestyle
environment
green
saving energy
ecofriendly
carbon footprint
global warming
eco
barack obama
climate change
clothes
hurricane irene
money
consumers
Recycling
pr newswire
earth
global warning
Eco-friendly
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterchangewood decksPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




