Perry Deploys Elite Search Team As Texas Wildfires Destroy 1,000 Homes | Fox News





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   Disasters - US
Perry Deploys Elite Search Team as Texas Wildfires Destroy 1,000 Homes




Published September 07, 2011 | Associated Press

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet









One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the Republican presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee's winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles (116 sq. kilometers), forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) from Austin, and later deployed the state's elite search team to the area to look for more possible victims. Texas Task Force 1 is the same outfit sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
"Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," he said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of." But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.
Perry, a favorite of the conservative tea-party movement who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 75 miles (120 kilometers) from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre (1,500-hectare) blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and "we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires."
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from out of state, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
"We're getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.

Related Video





Gov. Rick Perry Talks Wildfires, 2012 Race
Texas governor on 'Fox & Friends'


Related Stories
Parched Conditions Fuel Southern California Wildfires; 650 Homes Threatened


Related Video





Weather Modification to Ease Texas Drought?
What is cloud seeding and will it work?


Related Video





Deadly Wildfires Scorch Texas
Firefighters race to save homes, lives




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article

















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Break in Case of Missing Utah Mom?
		      
		          
		              








Across America: Transformer Explodes Outside Chicago
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Police Find Unidentified Remains in Search for Missing Utah Mom
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

101-Year-Old Woman Evicted From Home Allowed to Return
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Court: California Teacher Loses Fight to Keep 'God' Banners in Classroom
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After Donating Kidney Is Put Back on Salary
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies
		  
		      
		  
		


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey
		  
		      
		  
		


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness
		  
		      
		  
		


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party
		  
		      
		  
		


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















Introducing DailyFinance's New Portfolio Experience


Walmart Woos Women; Ladies, Watch Your Backs


Used Car Buyers Beware: Flood-Damaged Vehicles Will Hit the Market Soon


Homeowners Shelve Remodeling Plans Over Economic Fears


Popcorn Throwdown: 3-D Flicks Getting Massacred


















Peterson and Nadler: A Blue-State Bailout in Disguise


Orin Kerr: Should Faking a Name on Facebook Be a Felony?


Herman Cain: My Plan to Revive Economic Growth


Mediscare Flops


The Solar Orphan


















Colorado kitty in New York after 5-year, cross-country trip


19-year-old arrested after toddler shot in the face in Staten Island


Cabby ‘stole from rider’


Hubby ‘killer’ near faint


‘Bars’ mitzvah


















U.K. Aug. Retail Sales Fall; Riot Impact Unknown


Global regulators deepen anti-market abuse ties


SNB Repeats Commitment To Weaker Swiss Franc


UBS trader in $2 billion loss on unauthorized trade


Groupon IPO back on track: report


















Wal-Mart Pledging $5B to Women's Businesses Annually


Tweet Business of the Day: Pi Pizzeria


King-Size Marketing Lessons for Small Business


Tips for Starting a Business in an Volatile Economy


Small Business Confidence Sinks, Lowest Since March 2010


















Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








