Latest Wildfire, Evacuation Info: Grimes County




Mobile & TXT
E-mail Alerts
Facebook
Twitter
Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    













  



What's Hot
Send FOX 26 Your News Tip - Click Here
Photos of Southeast Texas Wildfires - Sept. 2011
Texas Wildfires: How You Can Help
Texas Fire Danger & Drought Maps






Contests
HTown Markdown
Job Shop
Yellow Pages
Predator Check
MyFox Pets
Give Miracles
Houston Food





News




News
Local
Texas
National
International
Education
Weird
Politics




Politics
Election News
FN Sunday






SciTech
Faith
Predator Check
Investigates
FOX in Focus
Consumer
Rasmussen
Business


Stock Market
Job Shop
Live Video
MyNews Pics
Send Tip





Weather




Weather
Austin County
Brazoria
Chambers
Colorado
Corpus Christi
Fort Bend
Galveston


Grimes County
Harris County
Jackson County
Liberty County
Matagorda
Montgomery
Polk County
San Jacinto


Walker County
Waller County
Washington
Wharton County





Traffic




Traffic
Gas Tracker
Flight Status





Sports




Sports
Local
Calkins Talkin
NFL
MLB
NBA
Honda Player
MyFox Shots





Entertainment




Entertainment
Movies
Music
Television
Games
TMZ
Celebrity News
FOX on Demand


Contests
TV Schedule
Lottery
Houston Food
Books
Family Fun
American Idol
Glee


Wendy Williams
The Office





Living




Living
MyFox Pets
Family Fun
Style
Your Baby
Faith
Houston Food
Live Right


Good Ideas
Driving
Girl World





Health




Health
Ask the Dr
Your Baby
Live Right





Morning News




Morning News
Ask the Doctor
Grocery
My Tech Guy
Wake Up Money
Houston Food
Fox Law
Mary Jo


Jakes Takes





Live Video
About Us




About Us
TV Schedule
Contact Us
Personalities
History
Captioning
Jobs at FOX 26
Advertise


EEO Report
Contest Rules
Privacy Policy
TOS
Childrens TV
TV Ratings
Newscorp







Home : News : Local : 

















Regular Photo Size






Marketplace Advertisements







Latest Wildfire, Evacuation Info: Grimes CountyUpdated: Tuesday, 13 Sep 2011, 10:42 AM CDT


GRIMES COUNTY, Texas - The following is a raw feed of news updates as we get them regarding the wildfire in Grimes County, Texas. The most recent updates are at the top:
(Non-mobile users: 
Click here to learn how to access this info on your smartphone)

Basic Stats -- Entire Riley Road/Tri-County Fire
Acres burned: approx. 18,946 (based on Texas Forest Service update)
Structures lost: 74 (most are in Waller County)
Containment: 85% (according to Texas Forest Service)
------------------

09/13/11 10 a.m.
SHELTER/DONATION INFORMATION.... from Apostolic Tabernacle church: Residents who have been displaced or who lost their homes due to the Montgomery, Grimes, and Waller County fire will be able to receive much needed clothing, furniture, personal hygiene, and non perishable food items at a relief center that has been set up in Magnolia. The relief center is open to those who can verify their local address with their drivers license or utility bill. After verification, affected residents will be given access to over an acre of clothing, diapers, water, shoes, toiletries, furniture, and items desperately needed to get these precious residents lives back to normal. The hours of operation are Tuesday, September 13, through Thursday, September 15, 2011 from 11 am to 6 pm. The address is 18235 FM 1488, Magnolia, Texas, 77354. Magnolia Apostolic Tabernacle has already given away thousands of items since last Friday and will continue to reach out to help residents of this community who have lost much of their belongings due to this incredible fire. Contact Stacey Lynn, Church Administrator, or Steve Wehrle, Pastor of Magnolia Apostolic Tabernacle, at 281-252-8502 with any questions.

09/12/11
UPDATE ... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office .. the fire is contained...fire department is watching for hot spots..only one home was destroyed in the fire on Monday. Around 1600 acres burned...everything is getting back to normal.

09/12/11 9 a.m.
UPDATE ... from Texas Forest Service and reporter Ford Atkinson ... The fires are 85 percent contained with 18,946 acres burned ... The City of Magnolia is having a community fire update meeting at 7 p.m. Monday at Unity Park on 19450 Unity Park Drive. The command center at Magnolia West High School will close sometime Monday.

09/11/11 1 p.m.
UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office Facebook page ... There has been at least one monkey (primate) sighting in the Riley Road area this morning. Waller County confirmed last night that rescued monkeys had to be released during the evacuation. A law enforcement officer was injured this morning during an encounter with one of these animals. If you see a monkey, DO NOT attempt to approach it. Contact law enforcement immediately and report the sighting so Animal Control Officers can be dispatched.

09/11/11 11 a.m.
UPDATE ... from Texas Forest Service ...
Location: Montgomery, Waller and Grimes Counties, Texas
Date of Fire Start: September 5, 2011
Cause: Under Investigation
Size: 18,468 acres - acreage has been dropped due to more accurate G.P.S. measurements of the fire perimeter.
Containment: 65%- this number is based on the percentage of the fire perimeter that has secure lines around it. It is also a measure of confidence that fire supervisors have on the ability of these lines to hold the fire.
Management: Unified Command (Texas Forest Service, Grimes County, Waller County, Montgomery County, and California Incident Management Team 4).
Fire Status: The Riley Road Fire activity was moderate on Saturday thanks to the significant progress made in line improvements during the Friday night shift. Fire activity did pick up in the afternoon, as the temperatures increased and the relative humidity decreased. Several small spotovers ignited across the lines on Saturday, but were quickly contained by the unified front of air and ground resources. Black Hawk Helicopters, air tankers and volunteer engines doused spotovers as soon as they occurred. Activity along the western edge of the fire was light throughout the day. Overall fire crews had a very successful day. Overnight fire intensity was again reduced due to increasing moisture from the southerly sea breeze allowing night operations to continue make significant progress on line improvement and mop up operations.
Firefighters will continue to improve fire lines today and mop up any hot spots along the fire edge, focusing on the 100 feet into the fire interior. Firefighters will also be fireproofing around existing homes inside of the burned area protect them from any unburned fuels. With westerly winds predicted for the afternoon, the eastern edge of the fire will be the most critical area for firefighters to work. Total Aircraft resources on the fire include: 4 Single Engine Air tankers (SEATS), 4 C-130 air tankers, 4 Black Hawk Helicopters, 1 Type One Helitanker, one DC-10 Air Tanker, 1 Type Two Helicopter, and 1 Type Three Helicopter.
Resources: Total Personnel: 698
Structures Damaged or Destroyed: 23 damaged / 60 destroyed

09/11/11 10:30 a.m.
UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office Facebook page ... The Texas Forest Service now shows the Riley Road Fire to be the #3 priority fire in Texas and the Nation. The total acreage burned for the Tri-County area is shown at 21,619. According the TFS report, no additional acreage was lost in the past 24 hours. The overall containment for the Riley Road fire is currently listed at 40 percent.
There have been no changes to the status of the fire related to Grimes County and no additional evacuation orders have been lifted since last night's update.

9/10/11 8:40 p.m.

EVACUATIONS UPDATE ... from Grimes County ...
The following areas/streets continue to be under MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDERS previously issued for Grimes County: Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road) and Country Line Estates (off Riley Road).
The following areas/streets are now 
OPEN: Lake Holly Hills/Mill Creek Subdivision, the area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Brittany Lane, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road, Country Lane, Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle and Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane).

09/10/11 2 p.m.
EVACUATIONS UPDATE ... from Texas Department of Public Safety ... The Mandatory Evacuation Order has been lifted for all of the West Magnolia Forest Subdivision only. Other areas still under evacuation orders will be reviewed at 1700 hrs today (September 10, 2011).

09/10/11 12:40 p.m.
EVACUATIONS/ROAD CLOSURES UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ...
The following areas/streets continue to be under MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDERS previously issued for Grimes County: Lake Holly Hills/Mill Creek Subdivision, area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303/Wade Road), Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road) and Country Line Estates (off Riley Road).
The following areas/streets have been OPENED as of this time: Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road, Country Lane, Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle and Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane).
When there is any change regarding the evacuation orders still in place, it will be posted immediately.

09/10/11 12:16 p.m.
FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ... Firefighters from Grimes County are currently providing mutual aid in Waller County expanding/reinforcing fire lines that will better protect our county from a fire breach in the event of another large flareup. As of this time, Grimes County has no active flare-up and there are no fire lane breaches. We held off updating sooner waiting for an evacuation update, but have chosen to go ahead with this post. We are expecting the evacuation update any time and will post it immediately.

09/10/11 6:45 a.m.
 FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ... The Riley Road/Tri-County Fire has been deemed the #3 priority fire in Texas (#4 in the nation). A National Fire Management Team (California Incident Management Team #4) has arrived and will be working with State and Local Fire Service Officials to manage and extinguish this fire...


09/10/11 4:45 a.m.
 FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ... The situation with the Montgomery County fire has improved greatly since that last update. Command is reporting it has been a quiet night for the Grimes County portion of the Tri-County fire. Officials will be evaluating the area to make a determination regarding lifting evacuations for certain areas in Grimes County later this morning. We will post when there is any update to the evacuation list.

09/09/11 10:20 p.m.
 FIRE STATUS UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ... Firefighters continue to fight a large fire inside Montgomery County. FM 1774 continues to be shutdown from CR 302 going south. As of this time, there are no fires or flare-ups posing an immediate threat to the fire lanes protecting Grimes County. This will be the final update until morning unless there is a significant change in the status of the fire or a flare-up that threatens public safety.

09/09/11 8:30 p.m.
FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office ... Firefighters continue to deal with two large fires in Montgomery County. At the present time, these fires are not posing an immediate threat to any of the fire lanes protecting Grimes County. Since the last update, there has been a flare-up again on Wildwood Lane that has again been extinguished. There was also a flare-up on Riley Road. Fireman from Grimes County teams responded to the Riley Road flare-up as mutual aide for Waller County because their resources were committed to the larger flare-up to the south. It is because of this teamwork that the flare-up was not able to get out of control and was managed. As of dark, no residences have been lost in Grimes County today. One outlying building was lost off of Wildwood Lane.

09/09/11 5 p.m.
FIRE/EVACUATION UPDATE ... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office ... Firefighters are continuing to deal with large flare-ups in Montgomery County in the area near FM 1774 and Raul Road. At this time, the fire is not an immediate threat to any of the fire lanes protecting Grimes County. There are no active flare-ups at this time in the Grimes County residential areas evacuated. The Foxfire Subdivision is the only evacuation area that has been reopened today. All previously evacuated areas remain evacuated.

09/09/11 3:30 p.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE ... from Magnolia West Command Post ... Firefighters expect to ACTIVELY fight the Riley Road/Tri-County fire for the next 2 weeks. After that, they will have to maintain the area until rain comes. Winds are causing concern: the fires keeps spreading because of wind changes.

09/09/11 2:30 p.m.
EVACUATION/FIRE STATUS ... from Grimes Co. ... The evacuation order for Foxfire Subdivision has just been lifted. There is a large flare-up in Montgomery County near Raul road that is creating a large smoke plume. Firefighters are working the fire from the ground and the air. There was a flareup at the end of Wildwood that caused an outbuilding to be destroyed, but it has already been put back out.

09/09/11 1:15 p.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE ... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office ... The Fire Service is working to contain the hot spot in the Riley/Wade/Plantation Lake area utilizing resources on the air and ground. As of this time, the situation is still a cause for concern but has been able to be managed so far. The east side of FM 1774 remains contained. There have been no changes to the evacuation areas today, as of this time.

09/09/11
REN FEST UPDATE.... Representatives for The Texas Ren Fest say they have canceled all weekend activities due to the tri-county wildfire. All on-site activities are canceled Friday through Sunday, according to a statement from Ren Fest. (non-mobile users can read more about this update by 
clicking here)

09/09/11 10:30 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office: Firefighters are closely monitoring a hot spot in the Riley/Wade/Plantation Lake area. The concern is that a wind will cause a large flare-up in the area, which is about a 1/4 mile from Renfaire. There have been no significant flare-ups on the east side of FM 1774 in Grimes County this morning. There have been no changes in the evacuation areas. The following areas/streets continue to be under MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDERS previously issued for Grimes County: Lake Holly Hills/Mill Creek Subdivision, Foxfire Subdivision, area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road), C...lark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road, Country Lane, Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle and Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane).

09/09/11 10:20 a.m.
FIRE FIGHTING EFFORT... from FOX 26 News: We've learned a DC-10 water tanker airplane has been called in from the Bastrop wildfire to help out with the tri-county fire. It should be in the area around 11:15 a.m.

09/09/11 10:00 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE.... from the Texas Forest Service: Updated acreage for entire Tri-County/Riley Road Fire - 21,000 acres with an estimated 58 structures lost, TFS estimates containment at 50%

09/09/11 8:00 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE..... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office: Firefighters dealt with a flare-up at Riley Road in the area of Plantation Lakes and Wade road during the night. The fire crossed Riley Road and firefighters were able to bring the flare-up back under control. Command has advised our office that the fire was stopped very close to the Waller/Grimes County line. No structures were lost during the flare-up according to officials on scene. This morning fire units remain in the area continuing to monitor hot spots and flare-ups. The flare-up that was being dealt with in Montgomery County in the Crowne Ranch area did not cross the fire lane that would have effected the Foxfire/MillCreek/Lake Holly Hills area. There has been no change as of this time to the previously listed evacuation list.

09/08/11 10:30 p.m.
FIRE UPDATE .. from Grimes Co Sheriff's Office ... Firefighters remain on scene tonight continuing to monitor flare-ups and hot sports. There are no fires at this time outside the established fire lanes in Grimes County. No structures or residential areas in Grimes County received any fire damage today. Law Enforcement personnel are on scene paroling the area and will be throughout the night to ensure security for the area. At this time, Command Post Officials are reporting a 75 percent containment for the Grimes County portion of the fire. Evacuation orders will be evaluated after daybreak in the morning. All evacuated areas are listed in the 6:30PM update. This will be the final update until morning unless there is a significant change in the status of the fire.

09/08/11 7:14 p.m.
FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office ... Since the past update, there has been a lot of fire activity to our south and east in Montgomery and Waller County caused by flare-ups and wind directions changes. At the present time, the fire service has continued to hold the fire lanes in Grimes County and no residential areas have been compromised.

09/08/11 4:05 p.m.
FIRE UPDATE ... from Grimes County Sheriff's Office FB Page ... Firefighters are again working on flare-ups both near Foxfire and near Riley Road. At this time, the wind is pushing both fires in a southern direction. Both fires remain within the fire lanes previously established. There has been no structure or neighborhood compromised by the fire throughout today.

09/08/11 1:45 p.m.
The flare-up reported in the last Grimes County update near Foxfire has been resolved. Fire Service Personnel continue to fight a large fire in Waller County. At this time, the fire is south of Riley Road. There are no changes in the evacuation areas since the last complete list was posted at 9:15am this morning. We will post if there is a significant change in the fire status or if any evacuation orders are lifted.

09/08/11 11:45 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office: There has been a new flare-up to the southeast of the Foxfire Subdivision. At this time, firefighters are making a stand at the fire lane to keep the flare-up contained. If the fire breaches the fire lane, we will post an update. The fire in the Riley Road area is still being managed south of Walnut Ridge Road in Waller County. There is no change in evacuation orders at this time.

09/08/11 9:35 a.m.
FIRE STATUS.... From Grimes Co. Sheriffs Office: The status of the fire has remained the same since the 7:35AM update. Firefighters are still working to manage/extinguish the flare-ups. An update will be posted if a fire breaches one of the established fire lines.

09/08/11 9:15 a.m.
UPDATED EVACUATION INFORMATION.... from Grimes Co. Sheriff's Office: The following areas/streets continue to be under MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDERS previously issued for Grimes County: Lake Holly Hills/Mill Creek Subdivision, Foxfire Subdivision, area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road), Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road, Country Lane, Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle and Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane). Whispering Pines, CR 340, CR 302, Grandflower, Loblolly, Goldenrain, Forrest Lane, Pine Lane, Holly Court, Carolyn Court, Cedar Hill Lane, Duke Lane, Hickory Road, Tree Bend Lane, Walnut Hill Lane, Cedar Road, and Clark Road (only east of Forrest Lane) are back open. It will be posted when there are changes to the evacuation orders.

09/08/11 7:35 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes County: The fire being worked off Riley Road is still south of the fire lane cut during the night. The fire has been moving in a northwest direction and firefighters continue to work to stop the movement. At this time, the fire has not reached any of the Grimes County neighborhoods evacuated during the night and no additional structures were lost in Grimes County. The fire near the Foxfire Subdivision continues to be contained within the fire lanes. Fire Service Officials will be evaluating the area this morning to determine if and when any evacuations can safely be lifted. When there is an update in the evacuation list for Grimes County, the information will be posted. The following streets were evacuated just after midnight this morning: Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road and Country Lane Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle, Whispering Pines Subdivision (Dogwood Trail, Deer Run, Hill Top Road and Deer Run), Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane) County Road 340, Forrest Lane, Pine Lane, Holly Court, Carolyn Court, Cedar Hill Lane, Duke Lane, Hickory Road, Tree Bend Lane, Walnut Hill Lane and Cedar Road. The following areas/streets continue to be under MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDERS previously issued for Grimes County: Lake Holly Hills/MillCreek Subdivision, Foxfire Subdivision, area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road).

09/08/11 5:55 a.m.
NEW EVACUATION AREAS... announced from the Grimes County Sheriffs Office. Areas immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival. (Renfair Drive, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road), and Saddlecreek Subdivsion (off Riley Road). Grimes County has expanded its evacuation zone to include: Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road and Country Lane Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle, Dogwood Trail, Deer Run, Hill Top Road, Deer Run, Forrest Hills Subdivision, County Road 340, Forrest Lane, Pine Lane, Holly Court, Carolyn Court, Cedar Hill Lane, Duke Lane and Walnut Hill Lane. Lake Holly Hills, Grimes County, Fox Fire Subdivision, Grimes County, Saddle Creek Subdivision,Waller.

09/08/11 5:30 a.m.
SCHOOL CLOSURE... Email Alert from Magnolia ISD -- All Magnolia ISD schools will be closed Thursday, September 8th due to wildfires.

09/08/11 5 a.m.
SCHOOL CLOSURE... Evelyn Turlington Elementary School and Fields Store Elementary School will be closed on Thursday, September 8th due to wildfires and road closures in the area. All other Waller ISD schools will operate at a normal schedule.

09/08/11
NEW EVACUATION AREAS... from Waller County Sheriff: North of Waller Spring Creek, Hegar, Magnolia all the way Grimes County Line -- All east of FM 1488

09/08/11 3:20 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes County: The fire at Riley Rd. is currently being held by a fire lane. Firefighters are on scene working the fire and attempting to keep it from spreading further north or west.

09/08/11 1:55 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes County: The fire is on both sides of Riley Road at the Grimes/Waller County Line. Fire units are fighting the fire and law enforcement is making door-to-door notifications in the recently updated evacuation area. The fire is moving in a northwest direction. Updates will be posted as they are available

09/07/11
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Lt. Dan Norris: In an early morning assessment with the Fire Department and the Forest Service, emergency personnel believe the fires in Montgomery County are 80 to 85 percent contained with all fire lines holding. A complete assessment of the area is underway to help determine if evacuated areas and roads can be opened.

09/06/11
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from FOX 26 reporter Isiah Carey: Thousands of acres of land destroyed, 75 houses gutted, and now people are waiting to get back into their properties after that huge fire in a three county area just north of Houston. The fire began Monday afternoon scorching at least 7500 acres of land in Montgomery, Grimes, and Waller counties. At least 4,000 homes were under a mandatory evacuation order where there was a threat of grass fires. Wes Suggs walked his horses across 16 miles of Montgomery couny because he had no trailer. Like thousands of others he's trying to stay one step ahead of the fire. But he's already lost one round no trailer and home. Sbuggs says, "my house burned down at about 5....it's black over there." " I walked into my yard...they can't force me to leave," said Montgomery, Texas resident Paula Dowries. She's defiant to the end with motivation some may or may not understand. Her home on North Hall road is only a stones throw away from the fire that could flare back up at any time. She was told at least three times to leave by firefighters. And here she stays. From time to time Paula's husbands makes his way past the road block to check on his wife. But it is Paula who chose to stay despite the warning the wildfire has already sent to the city of Magnolia. The destruction of at least -- homes. Dowies says, "we been through a lot...I'll fight till the end to keep it." With the mandatory evacuation lifted at 8:00 Tuesday Paula never had to leave her house. As for Wes Suggs who's lost everything...well he says at least he still has his horses and family.

09/06/11 7:40 p.m.
EVACUATION AREA LIFTED... The mandatory evacuation for Montgomery County residents who live just east of FM 1486 in Key Map grids 181 M-R-V-Z has been lifted. This area includes Shady Oaks Blvd, Shady Oaks, Shady Lane, Country Oaks, Weeren Road, N. Hall Drive, S. Hall Drive, Doma, and Sandy Hill Roads. Lt. Dan Norris

09/06/11 9:00 a.m.
STATEMENT FROM HARRIS COUNTY... The Harris County Office of Homeland Security & Emergency Managements (HCOHSEM) Emergency Operation Center (EOC) is operating at Level 2 - High Readiness* in response to the Magnolia fire. Currently, the Magnolia fire is not a threat to Harris County. However, HCOHSEM, Harris County Fire Marshal's Office (HCFMO) and the Harris County Sheriff's Office (HCSO) are monitoring this incident and are ready to assist local response agencies should the fire move into Harris County. Overnight, emergency officials monitored the Magnolia Fire (Crown Ranch Fire) which forced the evacuation of Waller County residents east of Field Store Rd., north to the Grimes County line, east to the Montgomery County line and south to Harris County. So far, Harris County has provided 50 fire units to assist. Most of these units have returned to Harris County and are ready to respond. Harris County has also provided 20 radios from the Regional Radio System to aid with communications. FM 1488 at FM 1774 west of the Waller/Montgomery County line as well FM 1774 west of FM 1486 between Rd. 302 and Grimes County are closed. The Magnolia Independent School District canceled classes Tuesday because of the fires.
Temperatures today, will range from the 60s and rise into the mid 90s. National Weather Service reports elevated fire weather conditions will occur as the relative humidity values fall below 25 percent later this morning and then fall to minimums between 15 and 25 percent this afternoon. The humidity levels will be slow to recover after sunset this evening. *Level 2 - High Readiness means hazardous or dangerous conditions exist or are imminent and pose a significant threat to life/property. High readiness requires multiple operational periods and numerous agencies to support a response from the Emergency Operations Center.

09/06/11 5:00 a.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... Four firemen have been taken to the hospital for treatment for heat exhaustion and one with an injured ankle. All are minor injuries. No fatalities or serious injuries have been reported. Containment of fires in Montgomery County is progressing but there remain areas that fires are still being battled. Hot spots throughout the fire areas will be monitored and attacked by fire resources as needed. The fire covers approximately 1600 acres and is being fought to be brought under control by emergency services from Montgomery County, Harris County, and State resources have been requested. There are more than 50 fire apparatuses being used in the Magnolia, Montgomery County fire battle. The fire has been traveling in a southwesterly direction and has threatened areas in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller Counties. Evacuations were ordered for a number of residences both using the Code Red Alert System and door to door notifications. The leading edge of the fire is located in the area of Greenbriar Drive (Key Map 210 Y). Emergency officials caution everyone to stay out of the areas. The latest information from the Fire Departments is that the head of the fire south of FM 1488 in Montgomery and Waller Counties is contained. Other areas of the fire are still being battled to insure containment. The Montgomery County Office of Emergency Management would like to clarify the number of homes evacuated due to the fires in the Magnolia area. News reports are stating 8,000 residences have been evacuated. Actually there were 8,175 phone calls initiated through the Code Red Emergency Notification System. Of those 8, 175 calls some may have been multiple calls to the same residence. Those homes that have registered multiple cells phones for their residence may have received those calls plus calls to any fixed line telephones at their residence. We have no estimate of the actual number of residences these calls may have impacted.

09/06/11 5:00 a.m.
EVACUATION STATUS UPDATE... Subdivisions currently under evacuation are River Park Ranch, Wisteria Farms, Ranch Crest, Magnolia West, Deer Haven, Woodland Lakes, Week End Retreats, Shady Brook Acres, Ranch Crest, River Park Ranch and Clear Creek Forest lots 10-12. Residents of the Crown Ranch subdivision are being allowed to return to their homes. At this time the following roads are closed: FM 1488 at FM 1774 west of the Waller County line, FM 1774 west of FM 1486 in to Grimes County. We have one confirmed home that was destroyed by fire in Montgomery County. News Media should contact the appropriate officials in Grimes and Waller County for their fire information. Two Shelters were opened yesterday. The shelter at the Magnolia Community Center has been closed. There were 50 people staying in the shelter at Magnolia High School last night. The shelter at Magnolia High School is being supported by the Red Cross and school officials.

09/05/11 11:30 p.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... Four firemen have been taken to the hospital for treatment for heat exhaustion and one with an injured ankle. All are minor injuries. No fatalities or serious injuries have been reported. Containment of fires in Montgomery County is progressing but there remain areas that fires are still being battled. Hot spots throughout the fire areas will be monitored and attacked by fire resources as needed. The Code Red that was issued reached over 8000 phones/homes. Sleepy Hollow/Tamina Fire...... Roadways reopened: Main Street at Broadway/Main Street at Rhodes Lane. Road Closure: Sleepy Hollow at Simmons.

09/05/11 9:15 p.m.
 FIRE STATUS UPDATE... official county press release... Around 3 pm today a fire was reported in the Magnolia area. An exact location that the fire started has not been determined. The fire has been traveling in a southwesterly direction and has threatened areas in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller Counties. Evacuations were ordered for a number of residences both using the Code Red Alert System and door to door notifications. The leading edge of the fire is located in the area of Greenbiar Drive (Key Map 210 Y). Emergency officials caution everyone to stay out of the areas. The fire covers approximately 1600 acres and is being fought to be brought under control by emergency services from Montgomery County, Harris County, and State resources have been requested. There have been at least 20 homes that have burned, one fire truck has burned and one fire fighter was injured in the fire in the Magnolia areas. Shelters have been opened at the Magnolia High School on FM 1488 and at the Magnolia Community Center on Industrial Lane. The Red Cross is bringing resources into the county to assist. Grimes County shelter is at the Grimes County Expo Center and the shelter in Waller County is at the First Baptist Church in Hempstead at 5th and Main Streets. The Magnolia School District will be closed on Tuesday, September 6, 2011, as this situation is brought under control. There are more than 50 fire apparatuses being used in the Magnolia, Montgomery County fire battle.

09/05/11 9:00 p.m.
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from FOX 26 reporter Isiah Carey: Roads into some parts of plantersville remain closed tonight as first responders battle a huge grass fire at the Montgomery/ Grimes county line.... This has also left schools in Magnolia closed tomorrow because many families forced out under a mandatory evacuation order are now staying in some of those schools. The US forrestry services says at least 100 to 150 acres of land burning. it began this afternoon and it has already claimed some homes in plantersville located just west of conroe. Estimates are more than 8000 people were under a mandatory evacuation order from Plantersville to the town of Todd mission. In the meantime there were concerns the very popular renaissance festival grounds would be scorched before the big event... but for now its safe but the same can't be said by the dozens of homes in the path of this humongous grass fire.

09/05/11
UPDATE FROM REN FEST... The Renaissance Festival is not endanger of burning down. It is the staging area for emergency crews responding to the fire. Right now Lake Holley Hills in Grimes county has been evacuated as a precaution. This fire may be the same as the one burning in Magnolia.

09/05/11
SHELTER ESTABLISHED... From Denise Bishop with American Red Cross: There is a Shelter in LaGrange near Austin in Fayette County at Second Baptist Church In Montgomery County County, the Red Cross has opened two evac shelters, Magnolia Community center and Magnolia High School. The red cross is canteening fire fighters at Renaissance Festival Site. Houston red cross chapter has sent two person volunteer crew to Austin to assist with Bastrop.

09/05/11
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Grimes County Sheriff Don Sowell. The fire has not crossed into Grimes County yet...at this point..still watching the subdivision Lake Holly Hills..the fire is to the southwest in Montgomery county. Fm 1774 closed a mile and half south of Ren fest. fire has crossed road. Grimes county is watching the subdivison..about 60 homes, 120 people evacuated as a precaution.

09/05/11
FIRE STATUS UPDATE... from Ed Brown with Texas Forestry Service: Massive evacuation underway. Residents west of 1486 to Magnolia are being evacuated. Several structures threatened. Magnolia West High school is the staging area.

















Comment on This Story


Everyone is welcome to share their opinion, but please do so in a civilized manner. If you use offensive language (even censored) or make personal attacks, it is highly likely that your comments will be removed and you will be banned from posting again. So, if you want your opinion heard, keep it clean and civilized.   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus




















 Email
 Print
 Bookmark

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

More Sharing Options











Tri-County/Riley Road Fire Info


> Official state website: Magnolia fire Info> View the fire/closure info on a map> View fire/damage photos> Latest info: Grimes | Waller | Montgomery> Texas Wildfires: How You Can Help














Today's Popular Stories











Advertisement

  




Advertisement

  

  






Marketplace Advertisements












  





News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Entertainment
Living
Health
Morning News
Live Video
About Us


Contact Us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Ad Choices
Closed CaptioningMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.













