The New Rostra (rostra novum) a new blog



























































The New Rostra (rostra novum) a new blog



Forum modeled after ancient Rostra, where Cicero and other Romans spoke on a public platform. Dedicated to exploring ideas, writing, and advocacy in a digital age; this rostrum is not named for emperors like Caesar, as freedom of expression now springs from individuals and a laptop computer.




















Popular Posts









Double feature: episodes 8 & 9 of the storm chaser saga...
Fiction ripped from the headlines... ©Mark H. Pillsbury   "Texas Remains a Tinderbox": http://goo.gl/R0psZ   "Wildfires cause Fatigue": http...










irrelevancy kills
Don't know whether Lady Gaga is more talented than Madonna or whether Lady Gaga has leveraged the modern digital age like Google, YouTube, F...










Ahem... I am up on the rostra novum... Hello!
image credit: Brian Topp (the rostra vetera )   Just opened up a blogspot account for The New Rostra (rostra novum)  This is a forum where I...










Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the headlines)
Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the headlines)   ©Mark H. Pillsbury (2011)  [Some material may be deemed inappropriate for less...










Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough
Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough   Author David McCullough spent a career writing on Presidents and history for 45 years, winnin...





















































































Saturday, September 10, 2011





My 9-11 tribute in fiction





[PG-13 rating due to some explicit language used infrequently throughout this piece of fiction]

A bad day fishing…

©Mark H. Pillsbury

Part 1
“Dad, it’s Patrick, hey good morning; we going fishing today?”

The dutiful middle-son Patrick rose unusually early, but he knew a beautiful day lay ahead of him. His older brother acted as Dad’s fishing partner, but Sean went to work today in the city. The brothers secretly agreed somehow once a week they would force their Dad outside for some sort of physical activity. 

With scruffy gray-hair and a hard-scrabble beard, Patrick’s Dad resembled the “old man and the sea” character played by Spencer Tracy. Despite the retired fireman’s failing health, the Flynns prized the trips they took out on the water in fair weather, so today Patrick had the honor of being his Dad’s “buddy.” 

Although their relationship was strained in a good, subconscious-Irish-Catholic way, as the independent, stubborn, middle-child Patrick carried on his connection with his Dad by staying out of trouble. So different than the patriarch, but also blindly loyal, loving, and traditional, Patrick hardly ever mustered the nerve to confront the old man when they disagreed.

Instead of adopting the family business of firefighting, he would have been better suited lawyering; thus when he rarely argued with his father, he usually twisted his Dad like a pretzel. They just kept their distance as a path of least resistance, however Patrick held this deeply inside, causing him immense regret.

Daniel James “Jim” Flynn lived out his retirement alone in West Nyack, New York, a widower addicted to ESPN, cold beer, and fishing with his boys; two of whom followed his path into public service as fireman in the NYFD. When journalists used the phrase “New York’s Finest” describing Gotham policemen, the erroneousness annoyed him. 

Very few firemen were brought up on charges, yet NYPD internal affairs had as many officers as the local FBI office. Firemen were just not imbalanced like policemen, even though going into a burning building did not qualify as Jim’s idea of risk management. The thin blue line between the criminal mind and the criminal hunter often blurred as policemen fought it daily on the mean streets of New York. Fireman often had long stretches of tedious chores at the station as opposed to constantly patrolling; maybe their domesticity offered fewer temptations. Either way, Jim Flynn never trusted policemen like he did firemen, they were far too complicated and their ethical dilemmas did not suit his black-and-white personality; he liked simple things like sports, fishing, and putting out a blaze. Even when he drank, he did not think too much.

“Goddamn fish better watch out, Patrick, but where are we going?” the old veteran probably wouldn’t remember what they had planned, even though Patrick took them to a new spot in the State Park on the other side of the Hudson River. “Where’s Shawnee this morning, Pat?” he asked, “Working in the city Dad, he switched off with a buddy so he could take off next Monday.” 

Patrick implored Jim Flynn he was just as qualified a guide as Sean because neither of them had taken their Dad to this particular lake in Harriman State Park, which contained plentiful fishing lakes with adjacent public boat ramps.

“The weather’s so good, Dad, it don’t matter whether we catch anything?!” (The essence of Patrick’s sunny outlook on life and especially in his time remaining with his father).

“Bullshit, Paddy, we are gonna kill ‘em today, you gotta have the positive attitude, plus—I got a couple of new lures for this trip,” “Where the hell is this lake you’re taking me to?” Patrick’s Dad always took charge, and seemed to get more demanding with age, especially after their mother Joan passed away. Most of his childhood, their Mom made herself the buffer, now it seemed since she died, Dad’s sharp edges popped back out like thorns. The years of fighting fires in Manhattan caused him to offer a “fearless” persona to the world, part John Wayne and part Vulcan god Hephaestus.

Patrick’s next generation “buffer” appeared to be his son Aiden, who ironically drew none of the typical Jim Flynn ire. Dramatically changing around this young boy, Patrick felt intrinsically, it was subconscious regret of how hard his Dad treated his own sons somehow caused Jim to set up a protective force-field around Aiden. However clumsy, rude, emotional, or dim-witted Aiden acted around his grandfather, Jim treated him like a royal prince. Although Patrick thought it hypocritical and inappropriate, he marveled at the way his father changed around Aiden, lamenting his son’s schooling on this pristine, late-summer morning.

image credit: stockphoto

After taking the Palisades Interstate Parkway north into the park, they dropped the small john-boat into the water from a steep old boat ramp. The teamwork required for this procedure made Patrick cringe. Mr. Flynn blustered from the boat, “Turn the fucking wheel, son!” “Straighten the trailer, straighten the trailer, we’re crooked; Goddamn, son, you could break an anvil!” “What in Mary’s precious name are you trying to do with this fucking boat trailer? Jesus,” “I am glad you don’t drive the flippin fire trucks like this!” The relentless berating continued like ridiculously twisted Irish theater. Patrick offered no rejoinder; however in truth his Dad’s hearing wasn’t good enough to merit a response.

The boat properly situated finally, Patrick got out of his truck and politely told his Dad to switch places with him so Patrick could do the hard duty of starting the small outboard engine. Miraculously, Jim swallowed any comments about the extended cord-pulling required to ignite the trolling motor, and after quickly parking the truck and getting back aboard they were off. Relieved to be underway, and buoyed by the sunshine, Patrick even let his Dad drive the boat!

Decompressing as they slowly puttered across the lake, Patrick recalled the time 20 years ago as he carried one of his father’s tackle boxes down a narrow boat dock with no railings. One side contained the boat slips and the other a 3 foot drop-off into the cold water. The rhythmic swing of walking with the case pressed Patrick along with a momentum beyond his control, and when he ventured too far to the right it carried him over into the water.

With the coordinated grace of a ballet dancer, Patrick moved to the opposite side of the box in midair(falling); gingerly placing it on the dock, releasing it, and dismounting into the lake. His Dad ran to the aid of the tackle box first, making sure it was secure and flat on the dock and then roiled the boy to get out of the water. With Jim you had to be great, because good was never good enough.

Part 2
With Jim as the captain of the boat, Patrick had time to stare off to the shoreline and think. They did not have a flight plan for their trip, and Jim did not follow a set path, in fact it seemed like he going slightly off course.  

The wandering john-boat provided a good comparison to Patrick’s mind, not at all concerned about their direction. Free of plaguing stress, warmed by the late summer heat, and happy like nothing left in the world mattered, he thought he would appreciate the day just for its unique blandness.

“Son, wake up! Don’t you know what part of the lake needs fishing?” Jim Flynn barked at his boy. “Where am I supposed to drive this damn thing?” Patrick lazily replied, “What happens when the real pilot doesn’t drive the boat?”

“Where do you want to enjoy the day, Dad? Over there or over here?!” he said pointing two different directions. They were in the middle of the second largest State Park in New York, but just a few miles north of New York City.

The red ball rose in the east, a slight breeze rustled the trees; there was deafening quiet. Hardly inhabited during a weekday morning, the peace illuminated by the intensely blue, cloudless sky belied the growing tension between the men. Without much space between them, Patrick studied his Dad’s features as sons love to do, trying by divination to perceive what he will resemble when old age calls. 

Patiently, and with resolve to enjoy the day on the lake, Patrick asked his Dad, “Don’t you wish Mom was out here today?” “She would love this crystal lake, and the birds squawking.” It caught Jim off-guard, because they never discussed his ex-wife, Patrick’s mom. Even though a radical departure from their typical repartee, and as calmly as if it were the last day of his life, Patrick pronounced to his Dad, “There’s so much I would like to ask about Mom!” Jim said nothing and he worried he would eventually have to answer questions or engage in conversation about Joan.

As Patrick and Jim sat peacefully on the lake, they turned to observe a large, glistening silver jumbo-jet cruising fast and low about 500 feet, southbound along the Hudson River. Upon initial observation it was strange the big jet did not slow in order to ditch on the river; it made no emergency landing, instead it flew straight and level like it was on a mission. They both glanced at each other, without words acknowledging the strange sight they just witnessed.

Part 3
Boeing’s valuable and versatile “767” ferried passengers on long-haul flights partly because it carried a very high fuel load, but also due to its capacity for paying customers. However, on this sublimely calm and bright Tuesday morning, American Airlines Flight 11 [“AA11”] was not packed and the 87 passengers boarded easily.

Nevertheless, accompanying AA11’s crew of 11, were 5 silent servicemen dressed like typical travelling executives. These dark, wordless plotters designed to seize command of the “glass cockpit” and hijack the flight. On September 11, 2001, AA11 originated out of Boston’s Logan Airport soaring upward on a west-northwest heading at approximately 8:24am, until unexpectedly it pivoted around Lake George, New York, suddenly turning 100 degrees due south. The ersatz aviators found the Hudson River as their guide, and while other jihadists simultaneously carried out one of the most sinister conspiracies in history, Mohamed Atta calmly flew the Boeing superliner on a downhill heading directly toward New York City.

“Ain’t never seen a big one like that close-up flying that fast and low!” Jim exclaimed. “And what the hellzit doin’ on the deck, trailing the river?!” Patrick froze with both premonition and confusion. He briefly thought about his brother Sean, on duty in Manhattan with Ladder Company 6.


Just a few minutes later, at approximately 8:46am, American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the north side of the North Tower (1 World Trade Center) between the 94th and 98th floors, flying at a speed of 490 miles per hour and exploding on impact. The 9/11 terror attacks had begun.

©Mark H. Pillsbury

[This is a work of fiction and any resemblance between the characters and persons living or dead is merely coincidental]




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
7:48 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
1 WTC,
9-11,
Boeing 767,
Father-son,
firemen,
fishing,
Harriman State Park,
Hephaestus,
hijack,
Hudson River,
Irish-Catholic,
Ladder Co. 6,
loyal,
Mohamed Atta,
policemen,
September 11th,
terrorism











Wednesday, September 7, 2011








True, This! —  Beneath the rule of men entirely great,
The pen is mightier than the sword. 
Behold, the arch-enchanters wand! — itself a nothing! 
But taking sorcery from the master-hand
To paralyze the Cæsars, and to strike
The loud earth breathless! — Take away the sword —
States can be saved without it!

--Edward Bulwer-Lytton (1839) for his play about Cardinal Richelieu




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
10:24 AM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
ball-point,
breathless,
Caesar,
earth,
editorial,
Edward Bulwer-Lytton,
enchantment,
master,
pen,
politics,
Richelieu,
strike,
sword,
wand











Thursday, September 1, 2011





The Age of Dissonance





©Mark H. Pillsbury

Theo van Doesburg Dissonances (1925 image on canvas)






Assonance—vowels rhyming to have a semblance of the same sound, often used to represent partial agreement or correspondence.
(“He used the words penitent and reticence in the same sentence”)

Consonance—agreement of certain stressed syllables, often used to represent harmony or agreement among components.
(“It was a stroke of luck”)

Dissonance—musically inharmonious, or incompatible. Also represents disagreement, or a harsh variant.
(You think you are coming across one way but people see you in a totally different way)

Have you heard someone say on the street:  “Doyouknowhadahmsayin?” or “Man, I know where you’re comin from.” Were these responses genuine or jargon? Continually bombarded with the ebb and flow of words, ideas, propositions, even sales pitches; how much sounds inharmonious or incompatible?

Unfortunately, even with various means of communication, so many channels to hear; are we really being heard? Dissonance keeps you from reaching people, and it keeps other people from reaching you. 

I believe we live in the Age of Dissonance.

50% of all adults currently plug into social media, cell phone use increases yearly, and nearly 3 billion text messages are sent every day by US wireless companies. Communication creates the links necessary for relationships to flourish, nevertheless despite numerous channels and devices, dissonance regularly occurs.

"Why is modern communication so difficult?" says the typical adult.

On a closer level, humans strive constantly to know and be known.  Incessantly communicating but failing to listen, communication varies in complexity and importance, the connections radiate out like a pebble striking a pond: close, constant, and outward into regular remote circles. But do we strike meaning with each chord? Is there agreement in the notes? The day flows like a musical score, the harmony naturally sought is played by the orchestra of our relationships; unfortunately we play from our own song sheet, not on the same page of our connections.

The three C’s of Dissonance

Cognitive dissonance—an emotional state wherein two simultaneously held attitudes or “cognitions” are inconsistent, or when there is a conflict between belief and overt behavior. Knowingly holding two competing ideals at the same time is like using a cell phone while driving, knowing that drivers using cell phones are four times as likely to get into crashes serious enough to injure themselves. The tobacco addict thinks, "Well, if smoking doesn’t kill me, something else will,” or, “Not everyone who smokes gets lung cancer."

Drive down any busy highway and look around at drivers; tell me that inattention due to cell phone use is not a major epidemic; or ask yourself if you “text” (or smoke) while driving when you have school-age children in the car?!

Cultural dissonance—sometimes unavoidable, nevertheless usually prevents streamlined communications in global commerce, as different peoples, customs, and languages struggle to work together with mutual understanding.

Corporate dissonance—often through a “roll-out” or a special project, the corporation thinks its employees have the same passion or vision as management; but instead, employees see the presentation as not consistent or unethical and do nothing to assist execution of the plan. Known as “dead-on-arrival.” 

Opinion polls show that American business people are losing their faith in their country even as ordinary Americans are losing their faith in business (Economist 08/13/2011 p. 66).

An example of corporate dissonance is government recognition and celebration of the tenth (10th) anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington DC. Passions caused by the tragedy have faded with ten years; however many patriotic citizens feel great pride in what we defend, the homeland security, and the safety engendered by fighting the war on terror.

The message from leadership is not harmonious with the grass-roots perception of the event, indeed the President is rejecting the resonant, visceral reaction to the tenth anniversary of 9/11 by attempting to craft his own rhetorical response.

The White House said, “A chief goal of our communications is to present a positive, forward-looking narrative,” despite the historical perspective of seeing 9/11 as a uniquely terrible event in time recognized ten years later and symbolized by a numeric calendar day.

Another government communications adviser said, “We need to make sure we’re speaking to a very broad set of audiences who will be affected by the anniversary.” Domestic 9/11 ceremonies will honor Americans killed in the Sept. 11 attacks but also “all victims of terrorism, including those who had been targeted by Al Qaeda and other groups around the globe.”

The government is communicating about 9/11 in a way which accentuates the broad idea of global peace and the wider struggle of all peoples against terrorists. By attempting to put a different spin on the event, the White House hopes to set the tone of the narrative as more global than personal, more positive than macabre.

This is incompatible with a precise focus on 9/11, which was one of the most violent and despicable days in United States history. In my opinion, this message is difficult to harmonize with the acts of the 19 al-Qaeda hijackers, and even a positive, forward-looking narrative set out by the President rings dissonant to the reflective, thoughtful citizens who lived through that terrible day.

©Mark H. Pillsbury




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
4:09 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
9/11,
assonance,
business,
communication,
conflict,
connection,
consonance,
dissonance,
global,
government,
harmony,
hear,
listen,
music,
off-key,
peace,
perspective,
President Obama,
terrorism











Sunday, August 28, 2011





Unbroken





Heard Olympian, WW2 POW, Louis Zamperini tonight at Houston's First Baptist Church. He was the subject of Laura Hillenbrand's bestseller Unbroken which I cannot recommend highly enough, especially after hearing him speak in person.


Zamperini a humble, funny, charming 95 year old man with so many exciting memories to offer the audience. Does not consider "The greatest generation" such a great label; prefers to call his generation "hearty" because they were strong and persevered without complaining, just fixed problems with which they were confronted.

Simply amazing testimony of miracles, forgiveness, leadership, patience, dedication; all part of a great interview onstage by Pastor Gregg Matte. Overflow crowd tonight of 1,000 all blessed by the admonition of a true american hero:

1. be prepared for disaster, and be prepared to share the gospel quickly
2. discipline your kids so they know how to behave, teach them humility
3. forgiveness is only possible through Jesus Christ, who first forgave us
4. memorize scripture, it helps your brain stay sharp, and helps when you have to act fast (see #1 herein above) Zamperini eloquently told how Psalm 18 mirrored his time in the ocean tumbling downward wrapped in the wires and wreckage of the downed plane. He recited the Psalm and narrated how it related to this near-death experience being pulled down 30-ft. into the sea (Ps. 18: 3-6, 11, 15-16, 19) ending with how he miraculously re-surfaced to look out on the expanse of the Pacific ocean (see v.19)
5. author Laura Hillenbrand crafted the stories so realistically and authentically that reading Unbroken almost brought it all back to him (he suffered from PTSD after the war)
6. the world is so complicated now, so much has changed from when he was a boy in the 20s (he cited crime statistics, and mass communications)
7. Zamperini is pretty sure he would have broken the 4:00 mile before Sir Roger Bannister (1940 Olympic games in Tokyo were cancelled)
8. Hitler reminded him of a psychotic comedian, he actually shook his hand!
9. kids need something to keep them busy, like a sport about which they have passion
10. Miracles happen all the time, nothing is too hard for God (his heart changed on the spot, no more nightmares!)

If I make it to 95 years old, I want to be just as sharp as Louis Zamperini
What a privilege to hear him talk tonight!

Houston's FBC walkway welcomes Louis Zamperini (photo credit: Pillsbury)





Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
12:24 AM


1 comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
Bannister,
forgiveness,
gospel,
hange,
hero,
HFBC,
Hillenbrand,
Hitler,
Houston,
Japan,
Matte,
octogenarian,
Olympics,
Pacific,
POW,
Torrance,
Unbroken,
Wattanabee,
WWII,
Zamperini











Tuesday, August 23, 2011





Galatians 5 AMP - IN this freedom Christ has made us free - Bible Gateway





Galatians 5 AMP - IN this freedom Christ has made us free - Bible Gateway 

Using Eugene H. Peterson's The Message (NavPress), I am working through another way to look at Galatians 5: 22-26 in order to answer the question in my own way (see above link, to read what Paul says about this?): 

Q: What happens when we live God's way?  

A: God brings gifts into our lives, much the same way that fruit appears in an orchard—in this case, fruit is shown in things like:  affection for others, exuberance about life, serenity. At the same time He also uses trials to refine us with a refiner’s fire, to bring us up as a father trains up a child so when he is older and tested, he will not depart from it. 

We develop a willingness and an ability to stick with things, a sense of compassion in the heart, and a conviction that a basic holiness permeates things and people. I believe we learn to love justice for all human beings, because every person we deal with was created by our God in his image. We find ourselves involved in loyal commitments, not needing to force our way into life, able to marshal and direct our energies wisely. This is a gift.

Note: Legalism (and living by works) is helpless in bringing this about; it only gets in the way. Among those who belong to Christ, everything connected with getting our own way and mindlessly responding to what everyone else calls necessities, living for ourselves, is killed off for good—crucified with Jesus on the cross. Therefore, because of Christ’s work on the cross, we are no longer struggling to be free, fighting to survive. Indeed, we are free to struggle against sin, sometimes falling victim to the devil but ultimately preserved in victory. 

This life we have chosen, the new life of the Spirit or living God's way, has to be lived out on Monday through Saturday, with a practical effect on our daily lives. Our authentic walk is more than a veneer put on for Sunday at church. More than a dedication to be a “good person,” made once but not lived out. 

We must be sure that we do not just hold it as an idea in our heads, or a sentiment in our hearts; but instead work out its implications in every detail of our lives. We cannot hide anything from a sovereign God. And we must give the same grace and mercy in the context of our mistakes, as we have been given by God in the forgiveness of our sins.

As we mature as Christians, no longer can we compare ourselves with each other as if one of us were better and another worse. We have far more interesting things to do with our lives. Each of us is an original, and significant in a unique way to live the destiny that God ordained for us to live, which should give ultimate glory to the creator.
©Mark H. Pillsbury




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
11:06 PM


1 comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
authentic,
christian,
crucified,
forgive,
free,
fruit,
Galatians,
glory,
gospel,
grace,
Jesus,
legalism,
mature,
mercy,
Paul,
sin,
spirit,
test,
trial











Friday, August 19, 2011





The End





Episode XII of the Storm chaser saga:

©Mark H. Pillsbury

Rick instinctively recalled feeling as he once did at Six Flags® over Texas, where as an eager young kid he rode The Rotor; an amusement park ride where victims stand against the inside of a cylinder, and once the cylinder is spinning fast enough, the floor drops out. The dark, dingy cylinder slowly achieved proper speed and with screaming and crazy looks, one could almost predict the exciting moment.

Instead, this JetRanger® fell at once with no culmination or thrills, just killer rotors snapping through intertwined steel cables of a hoisted elevator, plummeting the yellow cage terminally on its side into the water. The concussive blow was slightly relieved by the shallow tank, almost completely dry due to the longest drought in Texas history.


News photography later showed the wreckage at a deceptive angle; what appeared to be a lone helicopter resting sublimely in a Canadian glacier lake, actually was the yellow bird dumped in a dying pond of an east Texas ranch. Placid, shallow, and mossy, their wet grave was surrounded by burning wilderness and a flat clearing designated LZ (Landing Zone b.) Bravo.

The jarring crash hit Rick so hard it knocked him unconscious momentarily, but he revived quickly to see two of Jessica. The double and blurred vision didn’t keep him from finding her across the passenger compartment, blood oozing from her scalp. Jessica looked still and ashen, he thought, as he sloshed through the warm pond water to pull her up to him.

The quiet was deafening, his shock complete, the devastation total; but Rick quietly cradled Jessica’s limp body in the half-submerged compartment of the downed rescue helicopter.

“I am so sorry Jess.” Rick, almost sobbing, softly, lovingly spoke to her bloody face, gently patting her head. Despite the carnage, this was a tender moment; however she was either unconscious or dead. Rick began to conceptualize the suddenness of their fall was due to hitting the wires overhead. At the same time, it was painfully clear the momentum of his love had also crashed. Far-off dreams of weddings, suburban bliss, even children, just as surely were destroyed.

With so much unfinished business, regret, and terror processing through his shaken psyche, his natural urge was for action; however, he sat there listlessly in the murky green water comforting his lovely partner Jessica, “There, there, babe—it will be OK now; you're here in my arms,” he paused, holding back the flood of emotions, “I gotchu safe babe, you’re gonna be fine—just take it easy now, Jess.”

Time stopped for the storm chasers, and it was still like a sanctuary.

“God, take her from me now, please, I love her so much… Keep her safe for me, I love her so…” Rick could barely whisper, his eyes clenched shut. Grief robbed him of his voice.

He looked at her now in a daze, smiling sorrowfully, “Jessica girl, you get to ride the wind now, sail above the big storms and keep watch over me—will you watch over me, Jess?!” Rivulets of tears watered his pain.

Finally, Rick broke down and heaved with silent sobs, holding her closely to his heart, muttering, “There, there, Jess… it’s OK now...” But for Rick it was over. She was gone.

©Mark H. Pillsbury (Aug. 19, 2011)




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
9:38 PM


1 comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
blood,
blunt trauma,
crash,
crying,
cylinder,
death,
drought,
heart,
helicopter,
lake,
love,
pond,
regret,
rotor,
Six Flags,
sobs,
storm chasers,
Texas,
weddings,
wires











Wednesday, August 17, 2011





Only chance of rain is in Liberty County (headlines today!)





RAIN!
The only place in southeast Texas where forecasters took the chance to predict rain today was in Liberty County, Texas, east of interstate 45. Texas is caught in the longest drought in the history of the state.

As you may recall, Liberty County is home to the #stormchaser saga, where once again you can read fiction ripped from the headlines!

Link to the Houston Chronicle:  http://tiny.cc/l9udd




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
8:45 AM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
drought,
fiction,
forecast,
headlines,
Houston Chronicle,
I-45,
Liberty County,
rain,
showers,
stormchaser,
Texas














Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)










About Me




Mark H. Pillsbury


(Bono, U2) "Now that I'm older ... 
I don't see things any clearer;
nearer now but,  still a long way off."

View my complete profile


















Total Pageviews
















Follow by Email






























Followers






















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(33)



▼ 

September
(3)

My 9-11 tribute in fiction
True, This! —  Beneath the rule of men entirely gr...
The Age of Dissonance








          ► 
        


August
(8)

Unbroken
Galatians 5 AMP - IN this freedom Christ has made ...
The End
Only chance of rain is in Liberty County (headline...
Thoughts on the PGA and golf (Aug. 10, 2011):

I d...
Listen to this sermon at www.christtheking.com (Au...
The Crashing Conclusion (Stormchaser Saga)
‪Hunter Hayes - Storm Warning (Official Video)‬‏ -...








          ► 
        


July
(13)

Rescue over the Rainbow (Part X)
KIAH (CW) Channel 39 NewsFIX
Mirrored Majesty (from Psalm 8)
Double feature: episodes 8 & 9 of the storm chaser...
The New Rostra (rostra novum) A new blog: Part VII...
Part VII: The Journey
Part VI (fiction ripped from the headlines) The st...
The Creator's Tool (Part 5)
How hard is Death... Part 4 of the storm-chaser sa...
Texas wildfires: the escape (fiction ripped from t...
Baseball, hot dogs, and 4th of July
Fire and Rain: fiction ripped from the headlines
Breathe now.








          ► 
        


June
(9)

Hill Country Memories (Summer 2011)
Dirty Dozen (questions) about Matthew 7:12 "golden...
Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough
Stimulus Package a/k/a TARP and "shovel-ready" job...
Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the h...
Author Henning Mankell of Sweden (Stieg Larsson's ...
irrelevancy kills
Fictional account for Father's Day (or what Hamp a...
Ahem... I am up on the rostra novum... Hello!


























































©Mark H. Pillsbury (2011). Picture Window template. Template images by LordRunar. Powered by Blogger.































