
      Firefighters gain some control over deadly Texas blaze
| Reuters







 







Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Technology
Media
Small Business
Green Business
Legal
Deals
Earnings
Summits
Business Video




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
M&A
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
Futures
Funds
peHUB




World



World Home
U.S.
Brazil
China
Euro Zone
Japan
Mexico
Russia
Afghan Journal
Africa Journal
India Insight
Global News Journal
Pakistan: Now or Never?
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Front Row Washington
Politics Video




Technology



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
Felix Salmon
Breakingviews
George Chen
Bernd Debusmann
Gregg Easterbrook
James Pethokoukis
James Saft
John Wasik
Christopher Whalen
Ian Bremmer
Mohamed El-Erian
Lawrence Summers
The Great Debate
Unstructured Finance
Newsmaker
MuniLand




Money



Money Home
Analyst Research
Global Investing
MuniLand
Reuters Money
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life & Culture



Health
Sports
Arts
Faithworld
Business Traveler
Left Field
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video



























































Article
Comments (1)
Slideshow



























































Follow Reuters

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
YouTube








					Read



Scarlett Johansson naked pictures leaked on Web
| 


14 Sep 2011 
UBS says $2 billion rogue trade suspect held in London
| 


7:02am EDT 
Nude Scarlett Johansson Photos Pop Up Online -- FBI's Hot on the Trail

14 Sep 2011 
Nicolas Cage awoken by naked man with Fudgesicle

14 Sep 2011 
EU warned of credit crunch threat, French banks hit
| 


14 Sep 2011 












					Discussed



154
Al Gore in 24-hour broadcast to convert climate skeptics
128
Number of poor hit record 46 million in 2010
55
Obama confronts jobs ”crisis” with $447 billion plan










					Watched









Scarlett's naked pics, Tyler Perry is highest paid
Wed, Sep 14 2011




Crowd lifts burning car, saves motorcycle crash victim
Tue, Sep 13 2011




Buenos Aires Fashion week sizzles
Mon, Aug 22 2011










Firefighters gain some control over deadly Texas blaze







Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










Related News


Wildfires sweep across Texas, four deadTue, Sep 6 2011Two dead in Central Texas firesTue, Sep 6 2011Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 homes in TexasTue, Sep 6 2011Two dead in Texas wildfires, Perry to returnMon, Sep 5 2011WRAPUP 2-Storm Lee threatens US Southeast with heavy rainsMon, Sep 5 2011




Analysis & Opinion


Jupiter and Joseph

Guestview: Republicans, religion and rhetoric in the White House race







Related Topics


U.S. »































1 of 23. Eric Kemper takes a moment to gather his composure as he sorts through the debris that remain of his home after it was destroyed as wildfires burn out of control near Bastrop, Texas September 6, 2011. 
Credit: Reuters/Mike Stone







By Karen Brooks

BASTROP, Texas | 
        Wed Sep 7, 2011 6:42pm EDT


BASTROP, Texas (Reuters) - Firefighters gained ground for the first time on Wednesday against a deadly wildfire raging near Austin that has destroyed more homes than any other blaze in Texas history, officials said.
The 34,356-acre Bastrop County Complex fire, which has forced the evacuation of 5,000 people, was about 30 percent contained. The fire has claimed 785 homes, the Texas Forest Service reported, and killed two people.County officials have given a lower number for homes destroyed. Fire service officials said they were not sure why there was a discrepancy but that assessments were continuing.Firefighters who have fought the blaze, which stretches 24 miles long and 20 miles wide at its thickest point, since Sunday have been helped in the last two days by decreased winds and cooler temperatures, officials said.All of that is cold comfort to William Clements. He learned Tuesday that his home in Bastrop was lost. "It was kind of a shock when we came up and saw that it was gone," he said. "But we are recovering from the shock, and landing on our feet."Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, visiting the command center as Governor Rick Perry was in California preparing for his first Republican presidential debate, said he would ask the federal government to declare the state a disaster area.Wildfires sweeping across drought-stricken Texas have destroyed more than 1,000 homes and forced thousands of evacuations in the last several days.More than 3.6 million acres in Texas have been scorched by wildfires since November, fed by a continuing drought that has caused more than $5 billion in damage to the state's agricultural industry and that shows no sign of easing.A list of 243 homes confirmed destroyed was posted for Bastrop residents to check at the county's shelters and in a command center, but it only accounted for a fraction of the houses officials say have been burned.Resident Geary Garton, his arms covered with bandages and his nose and ears blistered, was cheerily hopeful as he approached the list looking for his house.RESIDENTS CHECK LISTGarton said he'd left his home on foot to find a hose on Sunday night when the fires were coming. When he turned back to douse his home with water, fire was blocking him."It didn't look all that bad at first, but it came up quick," he said, adding that he had sprinted back through blinding smoke to reach his two dogs, the heat blistering his arms as he ran.His dogs, Berkley and Clancy, were hiding under the porch, which was untouched by flames. But Garton was too weak to pick them up and had to leave them behind. He expressed hope that they had escaped and would turn up at a shelter.Then he turned his attention to the list, reading the street names. When he got to K C Drive he stopped talking. He whipped off his glasses, turned on his heel, and wiped his eye as he strode away into the parking lot. He didn't answer questions about whether his home had survived.The U.S. Forest Service has sent a team to the area to help coordinate, and Federal Emergency Management Agency officials were on the ground assessing the damages.Also assisting were about 100 members of Texas Task Force 1, an elite wide-area search team that will be combing "every inch" of the enormous fire zone, said Mike Fisher, the county's emergency management coordinator."Essentially, the mission is to find whatever's out there that we need to deal with," he said. "If we have environmental hazards out there, ecohazards out there, dead animals."The team was used in New York City after the September 11, 2001, attacks and after Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.A DC-10 air tanker capable of carrying 12,000 gallons of retardant to drop onto the flames -- four times the normal capacity for retardant bombers -- landed in Austin on Tuesday and will fly on Friday after a federally mandated break.It had not yet been determined whether the DC-10 would be used in Bastrop or sent to other sites in Texas.So far, four people have died in the Labor Day weekend fires, including a mother and infant daughter who died in northeast Texas on Sunday.Officials identified one of the two dead from the Bastrop fire as Michael Troy Farr, a 48-year-old City of Austin employee found dead in his home in Smithville. Officials released no details on how he died or information on the second victim, found several miles away.(Additional reporting by Jim Forsyth; Editing by Jerry Norton and Cynthia Johnston)

U.S.








Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints









We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


Beery wrote:
        Has God abandoned Rick Perry? I mean surely a loving god would listen to Rick’s prayers so that he could defund wasteful big government programs like firefighters and emergency management.
Sep 07, 2011 8:46am EDT  --  Report as abuse


This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »




Social Stream (What's this?)









































 








 
 

 
 

 






  


Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Contact Us
Advertise With Us


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Newsletters

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use





Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us



 


Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































