Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in

CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN, Associated Press

                                                                                Updated 10:03 a.m., Thursday, September 8, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







			Flames shoot up from a rapidly spreading wildfire south of Linden, Texas on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.  Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
							Photo:  The Texarkana Gazette,Adam Sacasa
										/ AP
								Flames shoot up from a rapidly spreading wildfire south of Linden,...






			Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011.
							Photo: The Courier, Patric Schneider
										/ AP
								Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster...






			Acres of wildfires  smolder in Cass County, Texas on  Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.  Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
							Photo:  The Texarkana Gazette,Evan Lewis
										/ AP
								Acres of wildfires  smolder in Cass County, Texas on  Wednesday,...






			Charles Jones looks off into the distance as a wildfire moves closer to his home on County Road 1662 Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011 near Linden, Texas. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
							Photo: The Texarkana Gazette, Adam Sacasa
										/ AP
								Charles Jones looks off into the distance as a wildfire moves...






			Charles Jones talks with neighbor Arthur Swanson, not pictured, as a wildfire moves closer to Jones' home Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011 near Linden, Texas. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
							Photo: The Texarkana Gazette, Adam Sacasa
										/ AP
								Charles Jones talks with neighbor Arthur Swanson, not pictured, as...






			An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday,...






			A homes destroyed by wildfire is seem among burned trees, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, near Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								A homes destroyed by wildfire is seem among burned trees,...






			A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7,...






			Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in...






			Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in...






			Loretta Pawlus looks at a list of homes  effected by the the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. Pawlus is missing her two dogs and does not yet know the status of her home.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Loretta Pawlus looks at a list of homes  effected by the the...






			Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop...






			Volunteer Emily Drake pull a donkey to load it into a trailer at Ponderosa Paints ranch near Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Some 23 animals had taken refuge at the ranch to ride out the wildfire  and their owners and volunteers spent the afternoon moving them a safer place out of the fire zone.
							Photo: LM Otero
										/ AP
								Volunteer Emily Drake pull a donkey to load it into a trailer at...














































































 







 







News









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


BASTROP, Texas (AP) — Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other."My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now."Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid.Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center.The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week — one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends.Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought.That was the case for Jose "Pepe" Gomez, 57, who had just returned from church to his girlfriend's house Sunday afternoon."We were going to celebrate my girlfriend's grandson's birthday, who is only two ...We were going to have a pool party at her swimming pool, have cake for the kids, then they said 'get out,'" Gomez said. "We got evacuated from three locations on that same day. In less than 12 hours we were evacuated three times.""When you looked up you could see this huge cloud ... we knew it was serious," he said.Gomez said his girlfriend lost everything after having only enough time to grab a little clothing for her kids and a Bible."She was in hysteria when she was told her house was leveled," Gomez said. It was the second home she lost to fire.Brenda Sanders, a 63-year-old hospice nurse whose home had so far survived the blaze, said she had been oblivious to the fire until a sheriff's deputy came to her door. She and her husband had about 20 minutes to gather items. They grabbed the flags that were on their fathers' caskets, some important insurance documents, mementos from her husband's high school and college football career and their cats."It's just been a nightmare," she said. "It's been surreal, the whole experience."Her friend Denise Rodgers, 56, a hospice chaplain, was not so fortunate. Her house in Tahitian Village burned. First, a friend sent her a photo showing her house untouched. "I was thinking I was in the clear." But later she received a shaky video of the flames circling her home and climbing up one side."I could see it coming, you know, over the trees," Rodgers said of her last minutes in the house. "I could see the pink glow so I knew it was close."







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in
Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety.

The White...






































Latest Slideshows








 Dynamo 2, Crew 2


 Four-legged victims of the wildfires


 NASA's New Deep Space Exploration System



 
 











Latest News Headlines














			
				Houston may get break from 100-degree days





			
				Man shot in neck during robbery in N. Houston





			
				1 killed, 2 hurt at SW Houston apartments





			
	Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden





			
	Correction for Sept. 15





 











Latest News










James Nielsen
					

Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden
The pair were forced to leave quickly because the raging fire was at their back door, said Waller County animal control officer Don...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Wendy Taylor aims beyond Houston
Taylor-made for singing: Wendy Brown/Focus on U Photography



Wendy Taylor has a big, booming personality that’s matched only by her...


 

 







Latest Sports










Robert Sutton
					

A&M can expect warm welcome from SEC fans
Taken fan by fan, restaurant table by restaurant table, tailgate party by tailgate party, folks in the heart of Southeastern...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













