




Obama Sends Wildfire Aid To Mexico, Not Texas - Wildfires - Fox Nation
































Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout




















2012 Presidential RaceSolyndraObama Jobs PlanMORE 






 











Home
Politics
Culture
Justice
Media
Campus
The Hot List
On Fire










 


 




Politics May 13, 2011

Obama Sends Wildfire Aid To Mexico, Not Texas



Fire it up
17




Tweet


Share




AP


Government Sends Wildfire Aid To Mexico, Not Texas
Former FEMA director outraged, but local counties say they're getting Federal money.
By JOE GOMEZ
Just last month the U.S. sent two Air force cargo planes to help Mexico battle back wildfires in the northern part of it's country, fires that burned 386 square miles. It's a move that West Texas Congressman Francisco Canseco (R-Fort Stockton) thinks is a hypocritical one by the Obama administration as Texas has requested the same sort of federal aid but has been denied it.
 

Read the full story at ktrh.com







 


Comments



Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript=foxnation">comments powered by Disqus.</a>

You must login to comment.











 





America's Talking ™
All Opinions Welcome


The Fox Nation is for those opposed to intolerance, excessive government control of our lives, and attempts to monopolize opinion or suppress freedom of thought, expression, and worship. Read more...
We invite all Americans who share these values to join us here at Fox Nation.
Subscribe to the Newsletter










Follow

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Email



 





Pic of the Day
Christina Henricks Steals The Show 



FOX411Always one to catch attention on the red carpet, “I Don’t Know How She Does It’ star Christina Hendricks completely stole the show in a curve-hugging satin dress.The star was beaming...

More Pics

 







 





Quote Patrol
 

Senator Jim DeMint On Solyndra Bankruptcy
"Solyndra proves President Obama’s investment strategy doesn’t work. Venture socialism never will."



More Quotes

 





Fox Nation Salutes
Tea Party Youngster Steals Show at GOP Debate


 


Question you'll never hear at a Democrat debate...

More Salutes

 



 





Poll
               




Take Our Poll(survey software)


 



 



 





Twitter Brigade
nytimes: Art Review: ‘De Kooning: A Retrospective’ at MoMA - Review http://t.co/xj4W0kMLpolitico: Leading POLITICO this morning: Obama's blue-state blues: http://t.co/DBcxSsgCpolitico: W.H. emails reveal media-obsessed Solyndra: http://t.co/tBZz6iiDnytimes: Note to readers: Delivery of newspapers in some New York-area locations will be delayed because of a power outage at a Times printing plantnytimespolitics: The Caucus: The Early Word: Homework http://t.co/OBA0ePdH 











Sections

Politics
Culture
Justice
Media
Campus
The Hot List
On Fire



Browse

Fox Nation Salutes
Pic of the Day
Quote Patrol

Slideshows



About

Our Purpose
Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
Ad Choices
Contact Us



Networking

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Newsletters





This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
 





