Community rallies to help pets displaced by Texas wildfires - National Animal Rescue | Examiner.com

Skip to main content







Become an ExaminerMy profileSign out 


Log in
Become an Examiner

 Examiner.com 




National 








 











National


FeaturedAustin, TXNashville, TNNew York, NYSalt Lake City, UTSan Francisco, CASee more 




Entertainment






Arts & Entertainment


Music


Movies


TV


Celebrity


Arts & Exhibits


Books


Performing Arts


Animation




Bars & Clubs


Nightlife


Happy Hour


Club Scene








Food & Drink


Restaurants


Food & Recipes


Drinks








Games


Consoles


Handheld Games


PC Games


Other Games


MMOGs


Card Games










Sports & Recreation






Autos & Motorcycles


Public Transportation


Auto Reviews


Motorcycle Reviews


Car & Truck Enthusiasts


DIY Mechanic




Recreation


Snow Sports


Action Sports


Outdoor Rec & Adventure


Hunting & Fishing


Water Sports


Combat Sports


Equestrian


Endurance Sports


Recreational Sports


General Recreation








Sports


NFL


NBA


NHL


MLB


MiLB


College Sports


Fantasy Sports


Fight Sports


Motorsports


Soccer


High School Sports


General Sports










Family & Home






Education & Schools


Higher Education


General Education


Homeschooling


Education Policies


Special Learning Needs


Public Schools


Private Schools


Charter Schools




Family & Parenting


Single Parenting


Working Parents


Stay-at-Home Parents


Special Needs Kids


Parenting Issues


Toys, Games & Gear


Child Safety


Family


Behavior & Discipline








Home & Living


Gardening


Decorating


Home Improvement


Weddings


Lifestyle


Hobbies








Pets


Dogs


Cats


General Pets


Pet Health


Pet Rescue










Lifestyle






Green


Green Living


Green Transportation


Organic Lifestyle




Relationships


Dating


Friendship


Marriage


Divorce


GLBTQ Relationships


Relationship Advice


Sex & Relationships








Religion & Spirituality


Eastern Religions


Western Religions


Non-traditional Religions


Secular


General Religion


Astrology & Paranormal




Society & Culture


Gender Issues


GLBTQ Culture


Generations


Ethnic Cultures


Social Issues








Travel


City Guides


Airlines


Budget Travel


Local Getaways


International Travel




Neighborhoods


Community Issues


Real Estate & Construction


Land Use


Charity & Volunteerism


Places & Faces










Health & Beauty






Spa & Beauty


Skin Care


Hair and Nails


Makeup


Natural Beauty


Spas




Health & Fitness


Healthcare


Women's Health


Men's Health


Children's Health


Holistic Health


Sexual Health


Nutrition


Mental Health


Fitness & Exercise


Weight Loss & Dieting


Disease & Illness


Yoga & Pilates








Style & Fashion


Fashion Trends


Women's Style


Men's Style


Sales & Deals


Tattoos & Piercings










News & Info






Business & Finance


Personal Finance


Stock Market


Marketing & PR


Small Business


Industry




Careers & Workplace


Jobs


Unemployment


Workplace Culture








Gadgets & Tech


Tech Gear


Internet


Social Media


Tech Research




News


Top News


Weather & Climate


Science & Space


Crime & Courts


Environment








Politics


Policy & Issues


Elections


Government


Democrat


Republican


Nonpartisan


Independent


Political Buzz































You are hereNational / Pets / Dogs









Community rallies to help pets displaced by Texas wildfires

Add a comment


 Vania Maldonado, Animal Rescue Examiner

September 6, 2011
 - Like this? Subscribe to get instant updates.

Tweet PrintEmailTweet PrintEmail



 
Austin, TX -- The Texas wildfires have forced many to evacuate.  The evacuations have not been limited to people, Sunday night the Bastrop Animal Shelter needed to be evacuated.  It may seem impossible that a shelter with 160 animals could be evacuated in a matter of hours, but with the help of Austin Pets Alive (APA) and the Austin Humane Society, this is exactly what happened.  
According to Austin Pets Alive website, they received a call around 9 PM on September 4 saying that the fires were getting too close to the Bastrop Animal shelter and asking for help evacuating it.  APA immediately put notices on their Facebook page and posted on Twitter asking for people to foster their existing animals to make room for the impending new arrivals.  Three hours later the APA shelter was empty, all existing pets, around 50 dogs and numerous cats, had been placed with foster homes for the night.
When APA reached the Bastrop Animal Shelter, all of the cats and a few dogs had already been rescued by the Austin Humane Society.  APA took the remaining 60 dogs.  By 3 AM the dogs were back at APA’s shelter and had been vaccinated and put to bed.  
Advertisement







Yesterday and today APA waived adoption fees for all it animals in order to make room for more shelter animals in the region that have been displaced by the wildfires.  They adopted out around 90 dogs and cats yesterday and several more today.  Of the Bastrop dogs, only ten remain unadopted.  Most of the animals sent to foster homes last Sunday have returned to the shelter, and a handful of foster parents decided to adopt their fosters.  
The whole community in this region has really been helping out with the shelter animals displaced by the wildfire threats.  Williamson County Regional Animal Shelter (WCRAS) took in dogs from Leander, Texas after their shelter needed to be evacuated.  This caused WCRAS to become overcrowded so APA stepped up to the plate again, this time taking 8 cats and 20 dogs from WCRAS.  “There was a line of people waiting to meet WCRAS dogs,” said Melissa Miller, APA’s Public Relations Manager.  APA also plans to take in more dogs and cats from the local animal shelter, Town Lake Animal Shelter, today.
“As you can imagine, the large intake has taken a toll on our resources, with medical work-up costs for each animal (approximately $100 per animal). We are asking for monetary donations to help us, in addition to donations of medical supplies like DHLPP and rabies vaccines, heartworm tests, heartworm preventatives, flea and tick prevention, etc.,” said Miller.
APA isn’t just limiting their aid to shelter animals, they also have a group of volunteers helping people with pets who’ve been displaced by the fires.  People can email pass@austinpetsalive.org to receive free boarding recommendations, food, and other supplies.  
This is a great example of what can happen when communities band together and help each other.  “We’e been really thankful for community support, they came out here in droves,” said Miller.  “We just hope the support continues so we can continue to help these animals.”
If you would like to continue receiving animal rescue articles, please click the Subscribe Icon.  It’s free and anonymous.  Thank you for reading this article, and especially for sharing it with others.
Please share your story ideas at savetheferals@gmail.com
Follow the National Animal Rescue Examiner on Facebook
 




Suggested by the author:

Why we foster
Help North Country SPCA build a new home for its homeless pets 
Rockwall, Texas votes to go No Kill
Help keep kittens alive in Austin
In Williamson County, Texas every pet matters








Wildfires in Texas have forced many people and animal shelters to evacuateCredits: Facebook 


Slideshow: Austin Pets Alive helps shelter pets displaced by Texas wildfires

 Slideshow: Austin Pets Alive helps shelter pets displaced by Texas wildfires



Related Topics


Texas Wildfires

animal shelters

evacuations

community

Dogs

Cats
 


















ReportPrintEmail 


 Read full bio 

Get my newsletter
Follow me on Twitter
Get my RSS feed
Become an Examiner


      By Vania Maldonado 
Animal Rescue Examiner
Vania Maldonado is a happily married cat rescuer.  Over the past ten years, she's lived in several different places and has helped stray and feral...


Comments






 









Your ad hereAdvertisement




















 
























Join Examiner.com on Facebook



Preferred city

Recently in San FranciscoJim Harbaugh's debut to be featured on new show 'NFL Turning Point' on Thursday49ers update depth chart for Cowboys; Ted Ginn wins weekly NFL award49ers QB Colin Kaepernick loses locker room bet with OL Adam Snyder 

Back to San Francisco, CAchange 
































Connect with Examiner.com
Examiner.com blog
Become a fan
Follow us on Twitter
Join us on Foursquare
Connect on LinkedIn
View our RSS Feeds
Follow us on TumblrResourcesMobileSitemapToday in PhotosRSS FeedsCareersCompanyAdvertiseAbout UsContact UsIn the PressWalden MediaAEG WorldwideFoundation for a Better LifeNowPublic.comWorld NewsTechnologyBusinessEntertainment & CultureEnvironmentHealthSportsStyleStrange

Pets
Examiner.com is the inside source for everything local. We are powered by Examiners, the largest pool of knowledgeable and passionate contributors in the world. Examiners provide unique and original content to enhance life in your local city wherever that may be.
Examiners come from all walks of life and contribute original content to entertain, inform, and inspire their readers. They are credible, passionate and influential because of their knowledge of a particular topic. Want to join their ranks? Become an Examiner


Copyright © Clarity Digital Group LLC d/b/a Examiner.com. All Rights reserved.

Thanks for visiting.Terms of UsePrivacy Policy





































