Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - Weather - TODAY.com










Jump to story headline


MSN
Hotmail

More

Autos
My MSN
Video
Careers & Jobs
Personals
Weather
Delish
Quotes
White Pages
Games
Real Estate
Wonderwall
Horoscopes
Shopping
Yellow Pages
Local Edition
Traffic
Feedback
Maps & Directions
Travel
Full MSN Index


Bing



msnbc.com
sites & shows:

TODAY
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
Morning Joe
Hardball
The Last Word
Maddow
Ed
msnbc tv






Home


People


Food


Health


Parenting


Style


Entertainment


Books


Pets


Weddings


Money


Tech


Weather


More







Weather
TODAY



Search
















Advertise | AdChoices




            Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home
        

            Obama offers disaster aid as state battles worst wildfire outbreak 
        

Below:



x

Jump to discussion

                    comments below
                







discussion
            






x






Next story in Weather

    Send us your weather photos!








related
            















Advertise | AdChoices












    updated 
    9/10/2011 3:39:22 PM ET
2011-09-10T19:39:22




Print


        Font:

+
-




BASTROP, Texas — Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting a massive Central Texas wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots kept thousands of residents from returning home. 
    




    More from TODAY.com
       












    Savannah reveals her bucket list
    



        TODAY's Savannah Guthrie answers viewers' Facebook questions and reveals who she is named after, what sparked her interest in journalism and the top three items on her bucket list.
    





    One sentence by Salinger on eBay for $50,000
    





    290-pound man sues White Castle over small booths
    





    Do children ever belong on reality TV?
    





    Sheen says he 'couldn't really put out the fire'
    






Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to know when they could return to their homes in the Bastrop area, located about 30 miles east of Austin. 
Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said officials hope to get other residents back as soon as possible, but he didn't know how long that would take. 
"This is day seven, tensions are high," McDonald said. 
Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. 
Around the city of Bastrop, the fire has destroyed nearly 1,400 homes and swept across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape. 
Officials said residents from one 700-acre area that includes about two dozen homes were allowed to return home Saturday. But Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said authorities need to be certain that other areas were safe before residents could be allowed back. 

Advertise | AdChoices


Advertise | AdChoices




Advertise | AdChoices







"Everybody hang in there and we'll get you back home as soon as possible," he said. 
Carl Kreitz was one of the residents eager to get home. The 57-year-old was able to sneak past barricades earlier this week to confirm his home had been destroyed. 
"I understand the process. It's just the lack of information that's frustrating," said Kreitz, who along with his wife, daughter, two grandchildren and 89-year-old mother, has been staying at a hotel in Austin. 
Gov. Rick Perry's office said families whose homes have been destroyed will receive seven-day hotel vouchers from a nonprofit organization as well as assistance from the state. 
Obama offers aid 
On Friday, White House officials announced that President Barack Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas. 
The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs. 
Perry was pleased that Obama granted the aid to Bastrop County, according to a statement to Reuters on Saturday. 
"We will continue urging the federal government to expand the declaration to ensure all Texans who have been affected by the thousands of fires across the state get the assistance they need," Perry said in a statement provided by Allison Castle, a spokeswoman. 
Perry, who is running for the Republican presidential nomination to challenge Obama, has been criticizing the federal government for months, saying it was ignoring the plight of Texas while offering disaster assistance to other parts of the country hit by hurricanes, tornadoes and other calamities. 
Perry has also repeatedly criticized the federal government for intervention in his state's affairs. 
Officials said the fire was about 40 percent contained Saturday after almost a week of burning. Jack Horner, a spokesman for a team of federal agencies responding to the fire, said officials were closely monitoring the blaze as infrared cameras detected more hotspots Friday night. 
He said winds are expected to pick up from 3 to 6 mph Saturday morning to 14 to 19 mph by the afternoon and fire crews are worried that could fuel more hotspots. 
The Texas Forest Service has said the Bastrop fire had racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. But the agency cautioned the figure was expected to climb. The early price tag includes firefighting costs but not damage caused by the blaze. 
Reuters and The Associated Press contributed to this story.

© 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.










Sponsored links













Discuss: 


Discussion comments














“

”




Expand
Collapse




,
                
                


Reply






Advertise | AdChoices


Advertise | AdChoices




Advertise | AdChoices











View all comments




Leave your comment








You



Most active discussions



 votes
             comments




 votes
             comments




 votes
             comments




 votes
             comments






Show discussion








        Related: Weather


Advertise | AdChoices







More in Weather






    Texas cities set records for days above 100F
    





    Pakistan flooding: Misery, disease, little aid
    





    Light snow helps battle Minn. wildfire
    





    Southern California storms cause flooding, fires
    





    300,000 homeless in new Pakistan flooding
    








More on TODAY






    Colorado cat, missing 5 years, is found on NYC street
    





    Get your kids to listen without nagging, reminding
    





    Google Flights lumbers down the runway
    





    News anchor mocks Kardashian sisters
    





    Nic Cage: Naked man with Fudgesicle woke me
    








    Related videos
       













Video



    Northeast flooding woes persist
    














Video



    Northeast flooding claims at least 7 lives
    














Video



    Funnel cloud spins over Hawaii
    














Video



    Progress made in fight against Texas blaze
    














More TODAY with
TODAY Anchors
Natalie Morales, 
Matt Lauer, 
Ann Curry, 
Al Roker



Search





































more TODAY sites:
allDAY blog
Kathie Lee & Hoda
TODAY Moms
Concert Series
Bites



msnbc.com
sites & shows:

TODAY
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
Morning Joe
Hardball
The Last Word
Maddow
Ed
msnbc tv


© 2011 msnbc.com

About us


Help


Advertise


Careers


Contact


Alerts


Feeds


Podcasts


Apps


Widgets


Stock data


MSN Privacy


Terms & conditions


About our ads


Site map









Jump to text
Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting a mas...






Jump to discussion
Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home






Jump to related
Weather























