  Welcome! » Siriusly K-9's



Subscribe to RSS feed
Follow Siriusly K-9's on Twitter
Visit Siriusly K-9's's Facebook page





Search

 


 
Siriusly K-9's
Hints & Tips to get the best from Your Best Friend






Home









« Press Release – Texas Wildfire Animal Relief Fund: Local Business Gathering Donations
How Dogs Think »



Sep04



 Welcome!


Categories: 

News

Print this page
September 4, 2011


Tweet
Welcome to Siriusly K-9′s new and improved site and blog
We know that sometimes training your dog can seem like a daunting task. We’re here to help and have created this blog especially to keep you apprised of what’s going on with us, our newest class schedule and services, and to offer some free advise so you can get the best from Your Best Friend.
The dog training field is constantly changing as new innovations emerge and our knowledge of our canine companions increases to replace old, sometimes harmful, ways of thinking and methodologies. The Canine Specialists at Siriusly K-9′s stays up-to-date on these changes, and we will periodically post these updates along with tips to better understand your dog, and ways to help you shape a dog that is nearly problem-free (we can’t promise 100% problem-free since dogs are living creatures, and all living creatures will occasionally make mistakes).
While free advise can be helpful, we strongly recommend owner get at least some hands-on assistance from professional trainers for several reasons:

Professional dog trainers have been training for a long time so they (the good ones anyway) have the good timing necessary to effectively teach your dog how to behave with minimal mistakes
Good trainers know and understand the canine mentality, behaviors, and body language
Accountability and support. Even trainers join group classes of other trainers they know and trust to learn new techniques and get help on some issues. Sometimes, we even need the structure of an organized class we’re not teaching to motivate us to get up and train our own dogs!
Your dog is perfect in every way, but there may be things that could be improved on that you don’t see. A second pair of eyes and a few suggestions never hurts.

We hope you enjoy our blog and main website. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us and let us know how we can better assist you and your dog.
Thank you,
Siriusly K-9′s


Tweet



Permanent link to this article: http://www.kalamazoosk9.com/blog1/?p=12

Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment. 


Home Site

Return to Siriusly K-9's Website


Blog Post Calendar
September 2011


S
M
T
W
T
F
S




 
 
 




 123


45678910


11121314151617


18192021222324


252627282930
 


SK9 Log in/Register 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

  Recent Posts 
Ways to Exercise Your Dog’s Mind
No Class Tonight (9/8/11)
Questions About Adversives
Rewards
How Dogs Learn

Categories 
Getting Started

Hints & Tips

Knowing Your Dog

Mental Stimulation

News

Training Tools


Archives 
September 2011






Copyright
(c) 2011 Siriusly K-9's
All content and media



Return to top




        Powered by WordPress and the Graphene Theme.        





