News from The Associated Press


 




Other AP Sites
AP Broadcast
ENPS
APTN
AP Digital
AP Information Services
AP AdVantage
AP AdSEND
AP Wide World Photos
AP PhotoArchive
AP Germany
AP France
AP Italy












 
  


 
 


  LATEST NEWS 

 Top Stories



 U.S.






 World

 Business


  Markets 


  Technology 

 Sports









 Entertainment


  Health 
  Science    Politics 

 Offbeat


 Weather



 Raw News




  ESPAÑOL




 Generales



 Financieras



 Deportivas



 Espectáculos





 NEWS SEARCH










 






 Archive Search
     WEB SPECIALS 

  Multimedia Gallery 

 AP Video Network 

   Today in History 

  PhotoWeek    SportsWeek    U.S. Census Database 
  Corrections 
 






 





































Sep 8, 10:19 AM EDT
Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in    


By CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN         
Associated Press









 AP Photo/Eric Gay











US Video















































































AP AUDIOArea resident Bill Kruger says he and his wife Deb didn't see their house listed as being destroyed by fire, but they've been told it was. 












AP AUDIOArea resident John Anderson says his family's home survived the fire, but they still had to temporarily move out. 












AP AUDIOLocal resident William Clements says his family's home was destroyed by the fire. 












AP AUDIOArea resident Bill Kruger says many families like his are hurting after the loss of their homes. 












AP AUDIOBastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering says authoritiese are having problems with people running through barricades, trying to get to their homes. 












AP AUDIOTexas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor says lighter winds and higher humidity have helped the crews fighting the fire in Bastrop that has destroyed hundreds of homes. 












Buy AP Photo Reprints






































PHOTO GALLERY




Wildfires




Multimedia








 Wildfires threaten Calif. homes 













Real-time wildfire tracker.





 Wildfires Consume L.A. Homes





 Pasadena Wildfire Forces More Evacuations 





 Wildfire Mentors Aid Victims











Headlines




Cruise ship with 262 aboard evacuated off Norway    
Mora lifts Guadalajara to 1-0 win over Fire    
Calmer winds slow growth of Minnesota wildfire    
Wildfire protection plan half-funded in Texas    
Rabbit that woke owner of burning house dies    















Multimedia








BCS title: Alabama vs. Texas





Coaching legend Bobby Bowden retires






Female college referee loves her job


















     BASTROP, Texas     (AP) -- Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home. In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other. "My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now." Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid. Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center. The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week - one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths. The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires. Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders. Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends. Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought. That was the case for Jose "Pepe" Gomez, 57, who had just returned from church to his girlfriend's house Sunday afternoon. "We were going to celebrate my girlfriend's grandson's birthday, who is only two ...We were going to have a pool party at her swimming pool, have cake for the kids, then they said `get out,'" Gomez said. "We got evacuated from three locations on that same day. In less than 12 hours we were evacuated three times." "When you looked up you could see this huge cloud ... we knew it was serious," he said. Gomez said his girlfriend lost everything after having only enough time to grab a little clothing for her kids and a Bible. "She was in hysteria when she was told her house was leveled," Gomez said. It was the second home she lost to fire. Brenda Sanders, a 63-year-old hospice nurse whose home had so far survived the blaze, said she had been oblivious to the fire until a sheriff's deputy came to her door. She and her husband had about 20 minutes to gather items. They grabbed the flags that were on their fathers' caskets, some important insurance documents, mementos from her husband's high school and college football career and their cats. "It's just been a nightmare," she said. "It's been surreal, the whole experience." Her friend Denise Rodgers, 56, a hospice chaplain, was not so fortunate. Her house in Tahitian Village burned. First, a friend sent her a photo showing her house untouched. "I was thinking I was in the clear." But later she received a shaky video of the flames circling her home and climbing up one side. "I could see it coming, you know, over the trees," Rodgers said of her last minutes in the house. "I could see the pink glow so I knew it was close." © 2011 The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Learn more about our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.





























 







  




©2011 The Associated Press.
						All rights reserved. Terms under which this site is provided.
						Learn more about our Privacy Policy.



 
