
      Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 homes in Texas
| Reuters







 







Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Technology
Media
Small Business
Green Business
Legal
Deals
Earnings
Summits
Business Video




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
M&A
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
Futures
Funds
peHUB




World



World Home
U.S.
Brazil
China
Euro Zone
Japan
Mexico
Russia
Afghan Journal
Africa Journal
India Insight
Global News Journal
Pakistan: Now or Never?
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Front Row Washington
Politics Video




Technology



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
Felix Salmon
Breakingviews
George Chen
Bernd Debusmann
Gregg Easterbrook
James Pethokoukis
James Saft
John Wasik
Christopher Whalen
Ian Bremmer
Mohamed El-Erian
Lawrence Summers
The Great Debate
Unstructured Finance
Newsmaker
MuniLand




Money



Money Home
Analyst Research
Global Investing
MuniLand
Reuters Money
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life & Culture



Health
Sports
Arts
Faithworld
Business Traveler
Left Field
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video



























































Article
Comments (3)



















































Editor's ChoiceMoody's cuts French banksRetail sales flat as confidence crumblesProbe lays Gulf spill blame on BP, contractorsRepublican wins in NY Democratic strongholdChances of another recession increasing: pollTwenty-hour Kabul siege shows Taliban strengthExclusive: U.S. in probe of eBay employeesMuniLand: Protecting innocent from the darknessVideo: No appetite loss for Rolls-Royce in ChinaSlideshow: Poverty in America









Follow Reuters

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
YouTube








					Read



Scarlett Johansson naked pictures leaked on Web
| 


14 Sep 2011 
Nude Scarlett Johansson Photos Pop Up Online -- FBI's Hot on the Trail

14 Sep 2011 
Nicolas Cage awoken by naked man with Fudgesicle

14 Sep 2011 
UBS says $2 billion rogue trader arrested in London

5:51am EDT 
Obama hardens tone in push for his jobs bill

14 Sep 2011 












					Discussed



154
Al Gore in 24-hour broadcast to convert climate skeptics
128
Number of poor hit record 46 million in 2010
55
Obama confronts jobs ”crisis” with $447 billion plan










					Watched









Scarlett's naked pics, Tyler Perry is highest paid
Wed, Sep 14 2011




Crowd lifts burning car, saves motorcycle crash victim
Tue, Sep 13 2011




Buenos Aires Fashion week sizzles
Mon, Aug 22 2011










Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 homes in Texas







Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










Related News


Two dead in Texas wildfires, Perry to returnMon, Sep 5 2011Gulf coast braces for more rain, one deadMon, Sep 5 2011New Orleans holding up under Tropical Storm LeeSun, Sep 4 2011New Orleans mayor says storm danger not overSun, Sep 4 2011New Orleans braces for Tropical Storm LeeSat, Sep 3 2011




Analysis & Opinion


Where were you on 9/11?

No excuse for inaction – BoE’s Adam Posen







Related Topics


U.S. »



















Ashes float through the air as a wildfire burns out of control near Bastrop, Texas September 5, 2011. 
Credit: Reuters/Mike Stone






By Karen Brooks

AUSTIN, Texas | 
        Mon Sep 5, 2011 7:50pm EDT


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - A massive wildfire east of the Texas state capital of Austin has destroyed 476 homes since Sunday and is still burning out of control, state officials said on Monday.
"I'm still seeing no containment," said April Saginor, public information officer for the Texas Forest Service, who confirmed that the Bastrop County Complex Fire has scorched more than 25,000 acres and burned 476 residences so far."That's a record in Texas for a single fire," she said of the homes destroyed.The Bastrop fire is one of more than sixty fires which have kindled across Texas since Sunday afternoon, fueled by the gusty winds generated as Tropical Storm Lee pushed by in the Gulf of Mexico as it made landfall in Louisiana."The winds and the number of fires that are happening around Central Texas has caused a real strain on firefighters around this area," Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald told reporters.The Bastrop County area about 30 miles east of Austin is no stranger to wildfires, with rural brush common, residents said. But the speed the fire showed in spreading took everyone by surprise, and 19 subdivisions in the county of about 70,000 people saw evacuations in the last 24 hours.Many people who were evacuated said they left with only the clothes on their backs, while others managed to escape with a handful of family photos."There was a policeman that started hollering through a big megaphone, telling us to get out of our houses immediately, now!" said a woman who lives in one of the Bastrop County subdivisions."This fire is nowhere near being under control," Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said.Fisher said a second fire has broken out southwest of the main fire, in southwestern Bastrop County. But he said crews were finally been able to contain the main fire north of the Colorado River, and he was confident it is not likely to move into more populated areas west of the main fire zone.Saginor said more than 250 firefighters were working on the Bastrop fire, which stretches for 16 miles with a breadth of six miles in some spots.The Texas Forest Service said heavy air tankers have been brought in from as far away as South Dakota, and all day they have been dumping tons of water on fires all day long."We are also using bulldozers to create firebreaks, we are using many fire engines, we are attacking the fire directly, and we hope to have aircraft working all day," Fisher said.Additional mandatory evacuation orders have been issued for various parts of Bastrop and also Travis County, where the city of Austin is located and is the scene of the 150 acre Steiner Ranch Fire, which had destroyed 25 homes by Monday and prompted the evacuation of more than 1000 homes."We know that this is tough on people who have been evacuated," said Austin Mayor Lee Leffingwell. "Especially since there is no set time for people to return."Schools have been canceled tomorrow in the fire zone, and the Red Cross has opened several shelters to house evacuees."This is far from over," Leffingwell said.(Additional reporting by Jim Forsyth. Editing by Peter Bohan)

U.S.








Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints









We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (3)


mb56 wrote:
        Boy that “hoax drummed up by scientists” that Perry keeps ranting about sure is doing a number on his state…
Sep 05, 2011 8:31pm EDT  --  Report as abuse




madampolo wrote:
        Thank God we have Rick Perry in Texas!  Those hateful people here on this board have no idea what they are talking about.  It is just hate.  Pure hate from down in their evil souls.  I will vote for Rick Perry if he runs from President.  He is the opposite of the horrible people, no animals, on this board.  God bless Rick Perry, and God speed to those Texans fleeing these fires!!  
Sep 05, 2011 9:57pm EDT  --  Report as abuse




Tahuaya wrote:
        I have been to the Austin area many times and am familiar with the terrain.  There are many cedar trees and brush in the area and a lot of open space between areas with many homes.  
Since fires are common in this area, I have wondered why the state government does not have a program to maintain firebreaks in the brush areas.  Ridges defoliated of brush and trees would help control fires when they break out.
Perhaps Rick Perry should consider instituting such a program to prevent future wild fires such as these. 
Sep 05, 2011 10:10pm EDT  --  Report as abuse


This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »




Social Stream (What's this?)









































 








 
 

 
 

 






  


Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Contact Us
Advertise With Us


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Newsletters

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use





Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us



 


Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































