The American Independent

The American Independent




















The florida Independent
 South Florida Muslim discusses push to become member of Broward GOP Executive Committee 


The washington Independent
 Who Are the Winners and Losers in the Foreclosure Fraud Crisis?  


The washington Independent
 Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa 


The washington Independent
 The future of driver's licenses for illegal immigrants  


The washington Independent
 Rove Speaks: It's Everybody Else's Fault 




 Sign up for our email newsletter

rss
facebook
twitter

Switch to our mobile site






 


HOME
STATES

Colorado
Florida
Iowa
Michigan
Minnesota
New Mexico
Texas
Washington, DC


ISSUES

Civil Rights
Economy/Finance
Education
Elections/Campaigns
Environment/Energy
Government Accountability/Reform
Immigration
Health Care
Justice/Civil Liberties
Labor
LGBT
Media
National Security
Politics
Religion
Reproductive Rights


CONGRESS
2012
VIDEO
ABOUT





 Top Stories  
Barney Frank: Some Federal Reserve leaders ‘selected with no public scrutiny or confirmation’

By Nicolas Mendoza | 
		09.14.11

The Federal Open Market Committee, the guiding policy committee of the Federal Reserve, is gaining increasing attention from lawmakers and politicians on both sides of the aisle. Conservatives like Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) have dominated discussion over the Fed, with their accusations of currency devaluation and the “inflation tax.” More…


‘Response’ endorser says event healed Native American cannibal curse

By Mary Tuma | 
		09.14.11

“The Response,” Gov. Rick Perry’s August prayer rally, not only brought thousands of Christians to pray for a “nation in crisis,” but also broke the curse of Native American cannibalism, said Cindy Jacobs, a self-proclaimed prophet and an endorser of the event. More…


Charges of ethnic profiling emerge following 9/11 terror scare in Detroit

By Ed Brayton | 
		09.14.11 | The Michigan Messenger

One of the three people pulled off a Frontier Airlines flight after landing at Detroit Metro Airport on the 10th anniversary of 9/11 is speaking out, blaming the entire situation on jittery passengers who feared them because of their ethnicity. More…

 




 

 2012 presidential election
abortion
Barack Obama
BP
budget
Campaign Finance
Colorado
Colorado CD7
Colorado Governor
Colorado Senate
Congress
deepwater horizon
Economy/Finance
Environment/Energy
Florida
Florida Governor
Florida Senate
Harry Reid
illegal immigration
Immigration
Iowa
LGBT
Michele Bachmann
Michigan
Minnesota
Minnesota Governor
New Mexico
news clips
Obama
oil spill
Politics
President Obama
Rick Perry
Rick Scott
Rick Snyder
Same-sex Marriage
Susana Martinez
Tallahassee
Tea Party
Terry Branstad
Texas Headlines
Tim Pawlenty
U.S. House
U.S. Senate
unemployment 



 
Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa

 
By Lynda Waddington | 
					09.14.11 | 7:30 pm					 | The Iowa Independent

Criticism hasn’t eased for Texas Gov. Rick Perry in the wake of his statement during a recent debate that the border can’t be secured and defense of his state’s tuition policy for some undocumented immigrants — and a two-day tour in Iowa this week doesn’t look like it will hold solace. 
 More …


Comments 

Share





 
Despite some bad news in national SAT results, analysts say worrying is premature

 SAT results offer mixed bag; more taking test but results drop to near historic lows
By Mikhail Zinshteyn | 
					09.14.11 | 7:03 pm					

The College Board, which oversees undergraduate and graduate school entrance exams, released results for the 2011 SATs, revealing mixed news: More students took the test than ever before, posting scores that are some of the lowest in history.


Comments 

Share





 
Legislators of Albuquerque’s West Side rally for more House seats

 
By Luke Johnson | 
					09.14.11 | 6:27 pm					 | The New Mexico Independent

Lawmakers and community advocates from Albuquerque’s fast-growing West Side rallied Tuesday outside the Capitol for more representation, as the Legislature is drawing plans to redistrict House and Senate seats during the special session. 


Comments 

Share





 
One in eight Coloradans living in poverty, according to census

 
By Scot Kersgaard | 
					09.14.11 | 6:13 pm					 | The Colorado Independent

Poverty has increased substantially in Colorado and across the country, according to preliminary state Census Bureau figures released today. Roughly one in every eight Coloradans was living in poverty in 2009 and 2010, including 192,000 Coloradans who fell into poverty since 2000.


Comments 

Share





 
Florida congressman attacks EPA for ‘going wild,’ using ‘junk science’

 
By Virginia Chamlee | 
					09.14.11 | 6:00 pm					 | The Florida Independent

Congressman Dennis Ross, R-Lakeland, again slammed the federal Environmental Protection Agency in an appearance today on Fox Business.


Comments 

Share





 
Tar balls, dead marine life raise more questions about oil in the gulf

 
By Virginia Chamlee | 
					09.14.11 | 5:07 pm					 | The Florida Independent

Though BP has continued to deny that any of its gulf wells are leaking oil, a large-scale oil slick reported in the area is worrying Gulf Coast watchdogs. Concerns abound that the oil could spell trouble for area fisheries, especially since reports of dead dolphins have persisted in recent days.
 More…


Comments 

Share





 
Detroit City Council backs repeal of Emergency Manager law

 
By Eartha Jane Melzer | 
					09.14.11 | 5:02 pm					 | The Michigan Messenger

The Detroit City Council has approved a resolution calling for a repeal of the law that allows the governor to appoint people to take over local governments.


Comments 

Share





 
Kaiser Health News: States moving toward more Medicaid managed care

 
By Ashley Lopez | 
					09.14.11 | 4:57 pm					 | The Florida Independent

Kaiser Health News reports that states all over the country, including Florida, are moving toward Medicaid managed care and are looking “to private health plans for help closing budget gaps.”


Comments 

Share





Older Entries »



rss
facebook
twitter





Yellow Pages by MojoPages
Browse Categories




 
			  	Washington DC Yellow Pages






Business





Location














Washington DC Car Rental
Washington DC Cleaning Services
Washington DC Deli
Washington DC Home Decor
Washington DC Insurance




Washington DC Nursery
Washington DC Pet Stores
Washington DC Shoes
Washington DC Storage
Washington DC Theater




