Central Texas fire takes out 800 homes - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Central Texas fire takes out 800 homes

By JIM VERTUNO, Associated Press

                                                                                Published 01:12 p.m., Wednesday, September 7, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







			Smoke from a wildfire hangs over a field of cattle, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Wildfires have destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
							Photo: STF, Eric Gay
										/ AP
								Smoke from a wildfire hangs over a field of cattle, Wednesday,...






			A house burns off of Texas State Highway 21, Tuesday afternoon Sept. 6, 2011.  One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.  (AP Photo/Ryan Edwards/The Daily Texan)
							Photo: MBR, Ryan Edwards
										/ Ryan Edwards
								A house burns off of Texas State Highway 21, Tuesday afternoon...






			Paul Sandberg stands on the remains of the more than 30-year-old house that he built outside the city of Bastrop, Texas, Tuesday morning Sept. 6, 2011. Although the Bastrop county fires remained classified as "uncontained" during the morning, many residents were anxious to return to their neighborhoods and evaluate the damage.   (AP Photo/Tamir Kalifa/The Daily Texan)
							Photo: MBR, Ryan Edwards
										/ Ryan Edwards
								Paul Sandberg stands on the remains of the more than 30-year-old...






			Bob Hill takes care of his contracting business while Pat Sawyer puts out a small flame on the side of his office building in Texas Tuesday Sept. 6, 2011. Hill owns three properties side-by-side and was able to save his home and rental property by clearing brush away with his backhoe.   (AP Photo/Tamir Kalifa/The Daily Texan)
							Photo: MBR, Ryan Edwards
										/ Ryan Edwards
								Bob Hill takes care of his contracting business while Pat Sawyer...






			A melted lamp post stands next to the remains of a house off of Texas State Highway 21, Tuesday afternoon, Sept. 6, 2011.  One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.  (AP Photo/Ryan Edwards/The Daily Texan)
							Photo: MBR, Ryan Edwards
										/ Ryan Edwards
								A melted lamp post stands next to the remains of a house off of...






			Smoke hangs as the sun rises over Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Low winds and better weather are giving firefighters opportunity to get a handle of the wildfires that have devastated central Texas.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)
							Photo: STF, LM Otero
										/ AP
								Smoke hangs as the sun rises over Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept....


















































 







News









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


BASTROP, Texas - Firefighters began Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that had raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.
As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry's campaign said he was poised to head to a GOP presidential debate in California as authorities commanded operations fighting the disaster.
The more than 33,000-acre blaze has blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 800 homes, the Texas Forest Service said Wednesday.
But crews managed to bring the fire to about 30 percent containment Wednesday and officials anticipated more progress throughout the day, said Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander.
"We're making pretty good progress getting around the perimeter," Fisher said. "We're hoping to say by the end of the shift today, that we can say we're hopeful the fire's not going to get any larger."
The staggering destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week - one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which been blamed for a total of four deaths.
The forest service said it responded to 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres across the state, bringing the total acreage consumed over the past week to more than 130,000 acres.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, was mobilized in Bastrop.
Fisher said the task force will do a "grid search" to "cover every square inch looking for whatever there is to find."
"There are environmental problems, dead animals ... We need experts out there who are equipped to handle whatever is there," he said.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend.
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said.
Bastrop residents weren't all appeased by reports that the fire had been somewhat contained. Paul St. Louis, who left behind goats, pigs and roosters when he evacuated his home on Sunday, lashed out at state and local officials and said federal emergency management officials should have been brought in sooner.
St. Louis said he was frustrated by a lack of information and that he hadn't seen an updated fire map that would tell him if his home was still standing. A map posted outside the fire response headquarters Wednesday morning was last updated at 2 p.m. Tuesday.
"It seems there was no plan to deal with a catastrophe," he said. "I have animals to feed. You can't get back there. You're stranded. No one will tell us anything. All they say is 'I don't know.'"
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop. The governor has yet to say himself whether he will attend the Republican presidential debate in California Wednesday night, but his campaign indicated that plans for him to attend would stand.
The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
 







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Central Texas fire takes out 800 homes
 [...] crews managed to bring the fire to about 30 percent containment Wednesday and officials anticipated more progress throughout the day, said Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander.  The staggering destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic...






































Latest Slideshows








 Dynamo 2, Crew 2


 Four-legged victims of the wildfires


 NASA's New Deep Space Exploration System



 
 











Latest News Headlines














			
				Houston may get break from 100-degree days





			
				Man shot in neck during robbery in N. Houston





			
				1 killed, 2 hurt at SW Houston apartments





			
	Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden





			
	Correction for Sept. 15





 











Latest News










James Nielsen
					

Monkey on the loose killed after biting game warden
The pair were forced to leave quickly because the raging fire was at their back door, said Waller County animal control officer Don...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Wendy Taylor aims beyond Houston
Taylor-made for singing: Wendy Brown/Focus on U Photography



Wendy Taylor has a big, booming personality that’s matched only by her...


 

 







Latest Sports










Robert Sutton
					

A&M can expect warm welcome from SEC fans
Taken fan by fan, restaurant table by restaurant table, tailgate party by tailgate party, folks in the heart of Southeastern...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













