BBC News - In pictures: Texas wildfire









          BBC Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Help Accessibility Help   




World



Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia-Pac
Europe
Mid-East
South Asia
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video
















6 September 2011
Last updated at 17:40 ET

In pictures: Texas wildfire









Wildfires that have swept across Texas have destroyed hundreds of homes. Bastrop County, south-east of the state capital, Austin, has been worst affected. One of the houses damaged belonged to Willie Clements who surveyed the damage after the flames died down.



Water has been lifted from ponds and pools to douse the flames. Here, a firefighting helicopter loads up with water from a pond at Lost Pines Golf Club in Bastrop State Park.



Forestry workers have started controlled burns to seal off the path of approaching wildfires. Despite their efforts, more than 3.6m acres (1.5m hectares) have been scorched by such fires since November last year.



The fires began on Monday though by Tuesday the number of houses destroyed had already doubled to 1,000 homes. 



Firefighters admit they are struggling to contain the 16-mile-wide (26-km) blaze in Bastrop County.



At least 5,000 people have been forced to leave their homes in the county, but some stayed on to battle the roaring fire.



The blaze - described by Texas Governor Rick Perry as "a monster" - has also forced to close schools in the area. So far there have been no reports of injuries.





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print










Related Stories


Texas battles 'monster' wildfire







More galleries



            					
								Gold rush
								


Big company and informal mining in Senegal



            					
								Day in pictures
								


Photos from around the world on 14 Sept



            					
								UK premiere
								


Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy gets its UK premiere



            					
								Snap! My World
								


Mencap's photography award winners 



            					
								Kabul attacks
								


Taliban attacks in the centre of Kabul.



            					
								Pakistan floods
								


Latest floods in southern Pakistan



            					
								Day in pictures
								


Photos from around the world on 13 September



            					
								Pipeline blast
								


Explosion and fire at an oil pipeline in Kenya



            					
								Tajik village life 
								


Life 20 years after independence



            					
								Day in pictures
								


Photos from around the world on 12 September














Services

 News feeds
 Mobile
 Podcasts
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
World Service Trust




  Mobile      Search term:     bbc.co.uk navigation  News Sport Weather  Travel  TV Radio More       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food Health   History Learning Music Science Nature   Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links   About the BBC   BBC Help   Contact Us   Accessibility Help   Terms of Use   Careers   Privacy & Cookies   Advertise With Us   Ad Choices     BBC © 2011 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  




































  







