Fire official: Bastrop wildfire could grow - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







China's arms buildup
•
Expanded sanctions on Syria
•
Milky Way created by cosmic crashes
•
Palin and Glen Rice?








			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Fire official: Bastrop wildfire could grow 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

U.S. News



Fire official: Bastrop wildfire could grow

        		Published: Sept. 8, 2011 at 11:48 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet











				NASA's MISR instrument on its Terra spacecraft captured this image of wildfires burning throughout eastern Texas on Sept. 5, 2011. Credit: NASA/GSFC/LaRC/JPL, MISR Team  




Related Stories

Texas wildfires destroy 1,000-plus homes
Crews battle Utah wildfires
British Columbia fire evacuation lifted



Advertisement

AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 8 (UPI) -- The Bastrop wildfire burning near Austin, Texas, killed two people and destroyed nearly 1,400 homes before officials declared it 30 percent contained.
A fire official said Thursday the blaze -- which had desroyed 1,368 homes -- had "potential for growth," but authorities said they were allowing some of the 5,000 evacuated residents to return to their homes, CNN reported.
Emergency officials said the Bastrop fire had burned 34,000 acres as of Wednesday, the Austin American-Statesman reported Thursday, while the nearby Union Chapel fire was 90 percent contained after burning 900 acres.
Firefighters had hoped to use a converted DC-10 that can carry 12,000 gallons of fire retardant to blanket the flames but officials said they were unable to find a qualified pilot, the American-Statesman said.
Bastrop County Sheriff Perry Pickering said two bodies were found several miles apart, the San Antonio (Texas) Express-News reported.
The Texas Forest Service said the victims were discovered by search crews going through evacuated subdivisions. One of the two victims was identified as city electrician Michael Troy Farr, 48. He was found in the driveway of his home, the American-Statesman said.
Twenty subdivisions remain evacuated and Texas 71 around Bastrop remained closed although a stretch between Smithville and U.S. 77 had been reopened.
CNN reported more emergency crews were being called in to fight the wildfire and elite search crews were deployed to scour the area for victims.
Firefighters have had more success managing other central Texas fires, including those in Steiner Ranch, Spicewood and Leander, the state fire service reported.
Assessment of damages for those fires has already begun aided by officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Texas Forest Service said it has responded to 176 reported fires during the past week -- with 20 new calls coming in Wednesday.
On Wednesday, President Barack Obama called Texas Gov. Rick Perry and pledged the federal government's support. The state has yet to seek a disaster declaration. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


Boy investigated for grenade launcher
NOVATO, Calif., Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Police said they were investigating a 15-year-old California boy after a car he was driving was found to contain a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.
		
China cracks down on 'gutter oil'
Man to be sentenced in sons' disappearance
Search for Utah mom leads to remains
Gunman dies in Ark. courthouse shooting


Entertainment News


Salahi leaves hubby for Journey guitarist
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			"Real Housewives of D.C." cast member Michaele Salahi is in Memphis with Neal Schon, the lead guitarist for Journey, the band's publicist said.
		
Rachel Reilly wins 'Big Brother 13'
Murphy crowned 'Talent' winner
'Big Brother' renewed for 14th season
People in the news




Business News


ATI helping with interagency op centers
CHARLESTON, S.C., Sept. 15 (UPI) -- 
			Advanced Technology International has won a "Watchkeeper" contract extension to help the U.S. government establish Interagency Operations Centers.
		
BAE enters Aussie supply chain agreement
Auto talks inconclusive at deadline
UPI NewsTrack Business
Crude oil backpedals to under $89


Local News

Top Chef: Just Dessert Recap- Pure Imagination
Campaign to Cut Waste in Action: $2 Billion Saved
Guest Editorial: C-2-B Zone District is Appropriate for the Colonel Brooks' Site
1972 Renovated Techbuilt in Garrett Park $884K
Rex Grossman still thinks the Redskins will win the NFC East






 


UPI News Photos

U.S. Embassy attacked in Kabul



Social Media Scandals



Tea Party Republican Debate



9/11 Memorial opens in New York



Egyptians raid Israeli Embassy in Cairo





Most Popular



1.
Conjoined twins successfully separated


2.
Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs.


3.
Larger women more apt to have sex on date


4.
Woman refuses abortion for conjoined twins


5.
Man sues White Castle for bigger chairs





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 29
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Scientists tread carefully through a seemingly endless landscape of ice, sea, and meltwater in the Canada Basin of the Arctic on July 22, 2005. The blanket of ice coating Earth's northernmost seas was thin and ragged in July, setting a record low for sea ice extent for the month. Sea ice stretched across only 3.06 million square miles whereas the long-term July average is 3.9 million. Scientist note that this breakup of ice is a result of global warming.  Photo made from the  U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Healy.   UPI/Jeremy Potter/NOAA		













 





Bodies hanging from bridge in Mexico are warning to social media users, "This is going to happen...

Group says mainstream Muslims are violent and Mohammed was a "cult leader". Is the group: a) a Tea...

Hey, let's all play a game of cowboys and decomposing corpses

Drivin' around town blaring music at 9:40 in the morning when your fifteen-year-old self should...

Photoshop Theme: Reinventing the wheel

The pinnacle of things on a stick technology has been reached with the introduction of liquor on...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















