Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire (AP) | Yahoo! Green










Check out Yahoo! Green on Facebook





				 
				




GREEN HOME LIVING GREEN

 Saving energy at home   Recycling   Recycling electronics   Stopping junk mail   Finding a green job   Researching global warming basics   Saving money   Saving water at home   Commuting    ALL LIVING GREEN TOPICS   


 GLOBAL WARMING TOOLS

 Measure Your Carbon Footprint   Make a Plan to Reduce Your Footprint   Change a Lightbulb   Find a Reuse Group   Save Cash   Green Innovations   Gift Guide   


 BLOGS

 The Conscious Consumer   Green Picks   The Daily Green News   ecomii Healthy Living   EcoGeek   The Green Cheapskate   Driving Directions   Care2 Green Living   Grist Ask Umbra   EcoHuddle   Environmental Lovins   Climate411   Guest Bloggers   All Blogs   











SEARCH YAHOO! GREEN FOR: 

Search Green













Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire

						By 		APRIL CASTRO, Associated Press
		Posted Wed Sep 7, 2011 4:22pm PDT

 








Buzz up!







Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)



BASTROP, Texas - Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals Wednesday night in his first nationally televised debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead — their bodies were found on Tuesday — blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the east, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, where the countryside is perilously dry because of one of the most severe droughts on record in Texas. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop fire, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area, using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, fire officials said they will spend whatever is necessary to deal with the disaster and worry about how to pay for it later.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.
"It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.
Perry returned to the campaign trail after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.
"I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."

Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.

"The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."

___

Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; and Paul Weber in San Antonio contributed to this report.
Copyright © 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. The information contained in the AP News report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press.


Email
IM
Bookmark
del.icio.us
Digg









Yahoo! Buzz




You do not appear to have Yahoo! Messenger installed. Click here to download and install it.


Email this article

To:

There is a problem with one or more email addresses entered
Enter email addresses, separated by commas.


From:

There is a problem with the email address entered



Send me a copy of this message



Email addresses will only be used to email this information on your behalf and will not be used for any marketing purposes.









Living Green - all about saving money, energy, and the planet


Where to start:

Buying a fuel-efficient car Commuting Finding a green job Gardening Recycling Recycling electronics Researching global warming basics Researching your vote Reusing stuff



All Living Green Topics






More Green Stories
 

How much protein do you really need?
Most Americans eat double the protein required, plus it’s not sustainable.

 

Quick fashion fixes at your desk
Stuck zippers, ripped seams, and scuffed shoes can be mended with office supplies.

 

Remote travel destinations
Want to really get away from it all? These places offer untouched wilderness.



Environment News

Rising seas expected to wash out key California beaches House probing $528M loan to failed solar company Wildfire protection plan half-funded in Texas Entergy nuke plant trial in Vermont wraps up U.S. blames BP for Gulf spill

» More Environmental News




				Subscribe to Y! Green Featured Articles
				
Add to My Yahoo!
RSS Feed

 
				Subscribe to Y! Green News
				
Add to My Yahoo!
RSS Feed





Add Email Alerts



» About My Yahoo! and RSS
» What is Yahoo! Alert?



Yahoo! Green on Facebook







 
 



Yahoo! GreenHomepageLiving GreenGlobal WarmingTechnologyHome + GardenTransportationFood + HealthEnergyBuyingRecyclingNature» All Yahoo! GreenAlso on Yahoo!Y! Autos Green CenterY! Local - RecyclingUpcoming Green EventsY! Green TaiwanMore Yahoo! ServicesThings to DoChange a light bulbFind a local reuse groupCalculate your carbon footprintMake a plan to reduce your footprint














