Texas Wildfire Update - September 10, 2011


 








Thursday, 
                  September 15 
                  2011







 




             We Deliver News to the Sierra




































































US










 



Texas Wildfire Update - September 10, 2011

Published on Sep 10, 2011 - 7:54:05 AM

Printer friendly page 
 Tweet       
By: Texas Forest Service
Editor's Note: For updates on all major fires in the US: http://yubanet.com/fire.php

September 10, 2011 - Current situation:

· Yesterday Texas Forest Service responded to 24 new fires for 1,154 acres.

· In the past seven days Texas Forest Service has responded to 179 fires for 170,686 acres.

· 250 of the 254 Texas counties are reporting burn bans.

New large fires from yesterday (more than 100 acres in timber, 300 acres in lighter fuels; or where homes were lost):

None.


Uncontained fires from previous days (more than 100 acres in timber, 300 acres in lighter fuels):

BASTROP COUNTY COMPLEX, Bastrop County. 34,068 acres, 30 percent contained. Forward progression of the fire has stopped. Crews and equipment continue to protect homes within the perimeter. There is no fire burning outside the main containment lines. The 719-acre Union Chapel Fire is now included in this complex and is being managed by the Southern Area Type I Incident Management Team. An assessment team has confirmed 1,386 homes have been destroyed on the main fire, with 28 lost on the Union Chapel Fire. Two civilians were found dead Tuesday as search crews went through the charred subdivisions.

BEAR CREEK (#536), Cass County. 49,997 acres, 30 percent contained. The fire is burning very actively in heavy timber and is threatening numerous houses. Scoopers, heavy airtankers, and Texas Intrastate Mutual Aid Fire System engines are assisting. Twenty-four homes have been destroyed just southeast of Linden. A Type 1 Incident Management Team is assisting with management of the fire.

RILEY ROAD, Grimes/Montgomery/Waller counties. 21,269 acres, 30 percent contained. Active fire behavior was observed yesterday as the fire continued to move south. The DC-10 airtanker dropped five loads of retardant yesterday for a total of more than 67,000 gallons. Approximately 58 homes have been destroyed on this fire burning just west of Magnolia.

PEDERNALES BEND (Spicewood), Travis County. 6,500 acres, 95 percent contained. The fire is burning 4 miles southeast of Spicewood. Sixty-seven homes were destroyed.

DAM, Hill County. 523 acres, 85 percent contained. Seven homes were lost on this fire yesterday.

DELHI, Caldwell County. 6,000 acres, 90 percent contained. Twenty homes were saved and six were lost on this fire east of Lockhart.

DIANA (#545), Upshur County. 650 acres, 75 percent contained. The fire is burning in grass and timber. Twenty homes are threatened. No new information was received.

BONBIEW RANCH, Van Zandt County. 350 acres, 80 percent contained. Twenty homes were saved southeast of Canton. No new information was received.

BOOT WALKER (#553), Marion County. 1,047 acres, unknown containment. A wind shift to the south could threaten 30 homes. Access to the fire is limited.

#502, Nacogdoches and Cherokee counties. 4,000 acres, 90 percent contained. MODIS satellite shows the fire may be approximately 9,000 acres. More than a dozen homes have been evacuated, but none lost.

ARBOR, Houston County. 3,000 acres, 90 percent contained. The fire is burning in timber. Up to 15 homes are reported lost.

OLD MAGNOLIA, Gregg County. 3,341 acres, 80 percent contained. Several structures and a gas plant are threatened. No new information was received.

101 RANCH, Palo Pinto County. 6,555 acres, 85 percent contained. The fire is burning on the south side of Possum Kingdom Lake near the town of Brad. Thirty-nine homes and nine RVs have been reported destroyed. Crews continue to mop up and aircraft are monitoring.

Weather Outlook:

A surface ridge of dry high pressure will maintain a dry airmass and northerly component to the flow over much of the Lone Star state into Sunday. Among the driest locations in the state today will be near the Interstate 35 corridor, where winds should again be around 10 mph sustained for a few hours from late morning into the afternoon, with gusts up to the 15 to 20 mph range possible during that time. Relative humidities will be similar to yesterday afternoon, with minimum relative humidity below 20 percent across much of the state.

High temperatures will range in the 80s and 90s in most places, but will exceed 100 over some parts of Deep South Texas. Poor overnight recoveries will continue for areas away from the coast, especially locations west of Interstate 35. Very dry conditions will continue with north to northwesterly winds. North to northwest winds increasing to 10-15 mph with gusts of 18-25 mph will be possible across most of the East Branch except the far southeast. Afternoon humidity falls to 10-15 percent. Mostly sunny skies will prevail with afternoon highs 90-96. A late afternoon sea breeze will creep inland but likely will be limited to areas south of the Interstate 10 corridor during daylight hours. Expect poor to moderate overnight recoveries 45-55 percent in the northwest to 60-85 percent in the east and south.

Incident commanders clarify containment figures

Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald reminded local citizens today that all federal, state and local government agencies, as well as other service providers, are working very hard, often at great personal sacrifice, to help displaced families and allow residents to return to their home sites as quickly and safely as possible. However, he expressed concern over public perception that little progress has been made. In fact, the forward progress of the fire has been stopped.

Few wildfires are ever actually “put out.” In most cases, firefighters work to build containment lines around the fire and strengthen those lines to make them secure. The focus is to keep the fire from escaping containment. Sometimes the lines are made by one or more bulldozers. Sometimes a road, river or other secure, defensible barrier is used, but, the goal is always to keep the fire from escaping and growing larger. In most cases, wildfire burning within containment lines has little to no impact on local communities, so the fire is considered to be “contained” based on the percentage of the perimeter that has secure lines.

In the case of the Bastrop Fire, there are hundreds, even thousands, of homes within the perimeter lines of the fire. Firefighters are not simply attempting to keep the fire within the containment lines. An equally important goal is to protect those homes that have survived the fire and are located within the fire perimeter. Because they are located in close proximity to active fire and because of the historic dry conditions and abundance of unburned fuel, these homes are still seriously at risk.

Tony Wilder, Incident Commander for the Southern Area Red Team, explained, “Fighting the Bastrop Fire is extremely complicated. Because there are many homes at risk within the perimeter of the fire, we have to divide our attention between securing the perimeter and protecting homes that are still at risk. This takes a lot of time and work. There has been much progress made, as evidenced by the areas that have been opened for reentry. On this fire, progress must be recognized as more than ‘percent contained’. We have to look at all the areas that have been made safe by firefighters, as well as containment. We simply haven’t had a measure for expressing how much progress we’ve made.”

Citizens are reminded there will be hazards in local communities as a result of the Bastrop Fire for weeks, even months. In many cases, the root systems of trees are compromised, and the trees could blow over in even a light wind. As the trees die, needles leaves and branches will fall to the ground, creating a new fuel base. Fire that has smoldered unseen can ignite bringing fire back into the area and threatening homes again.

“Everyone is working together to ensure the safety of the citizens of Bastrop County. Help us by being patient and trusting that we will provide you information as soon as we have it,” added Judge McDonald. “We will get through this.”

Current information will be available by the front entrance of the Bastrop Convention Center, on bulletin boards at the Bastrop Walmart, Home Depot ,Lowe’s- and the official evacuation shelters. 

Editor's Note: For updates on all major fires in the US: http://yubanet.com/fire.php













 By submitting a comment you consent to our rules. Please use your real first and last name, not a nickname or alias. Thank you.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Comments powered by Disqus



 







             
               Subscribe to YubaNetNews, our weekly newsletter featuring the latest regional stories and more.









Latest Headlines

US


Polar Bear Study Probe Falls Flat
Groups Condemn E-Verify Program as Direct Attack on Immigrants, Workers, Economy
Texas Wildfire Update - Sept. 14, 2011
Number of uninsured climbs to highest figure since passage of Medicare, Medicaid
The Bomb Plant
Utah's "Show me your papers" Law Hearing Postponed; U.S. Department of Justice Involved
FFRF sues Virginia school over Ten Commandments
New Mexico Congressman Steve Pearce Incites Vigilantes to Destroy Public Lands

 More



 




























 











NEWS . Fire News . Latest . Regional . California . USA . World . Op-Ed . Enviro . Sci/Tech . Life . Odd News . Cartoons
FEATURES . The Calendar .Weather . Sierra NightSky .  Horoscope . Road Conditions
YubaNet.com . Advertising . About Us . Contact Us . Terms of Use . Privacy

YubaNet.com © 2011 
          Nevada City, California   (530) 478-9600        










 





