Natural Disasters: Protecting Your Finances

The Financial Sort

Services
About
Blog
Contact

WE’RE IN THE NEWS! Read the feature →


Blog




Natural Disasters: Protecting Your Finances 
By Shabana Shiliwala
With the effects of Hurricane Irene and the Texas wildfires being top of mind currently, you may be wondering if you and your family are prepared for a natural disaster. Now is the best time to:
-Check your insurance coverage. What damages and disasters do your homeowners or renters insurance cover? Can you buy riders to add coverage for dangers that are more likely in your area, such as flooding? Will your car be covered if it’s damaged or destroyed in a natural disaster?
-Make sure you would be able to easily transport and access all your financial accounts and documents. The Financial Sort Summarize service compiles all your key financial account information in one document. Or use FEMA’s Emergency Financial First Aid Kit to create your own summary. Make several copies—in your portable locked fire-safe box at home with your important documents, scan onto your backup hard drive (also in your fire-safe box) in case the paper copies are damaged, give to your power of attorney or trusted family member or store in your safe deposit box. If you have to leave your home suddenly, you can simply grab your fire-safe box.
For more tips, read my article at Examiner.com.


					Sep 8, 2011
					
						
 Natural disaster 
 Insurance 
 Summarize 






The Financial Sort | Blog : Natural Disasters: Protecting Your Finances 
← Previous 
 Next →





AboutYour personal finances are just a tool to help you achieve what’s important in life, but staying on top of them can be tedious and confusing. The Financial Sort blog explores how to make your personal finances simpler and easier to manage. Austinites: You can also find localized personal finance articles at Examiner.com.

Subscribe to RSS
Subscribe via FeedBurner
Follow us on Twitter


“Like” us on Facebook
Network on Linkedin
Share
Archives













The Financial Sort does not provide advice about investments, i.e., stocks, bonds, mutual funds, etc.
Copyright © 2011 The Financial Sort.




