Texas Fires Slow, but Devastation Remains - National - The Atlantic Wire
























Entertainment




Give Cameron Crowe's Zoo Movie a Chance



Politics




Rick Perry Is 'The Conservative Id'



National




American Apparel Can't Take a Fat Joke



Technology




Hold Your Excitement for Microsoft's New Blue Screen of Death 



Politics




Cocaine, Affairs and Other Crazy Stuff in the New Palin Book



Politics




The Left's Solyndra Damage Control





















Latest Stories

















Presented By


















Politics


Business


Entertainment


Technology


National


Global




Open Wire


All topics







Search














Tweet









Share



Print article



Email article



Have a hot tip? A story we missed?Tell us on theOpen Wire 








Getty Images
Texas Fires Slow, but Devastation Remains



Ted Mann 
Sep 10, 2011
940 Views
Comments




	The advance of one of Texas' massive wildfire appears to be stopped, state officials said Friday, as firefighters continued to put down flareups of one blaze that destroyed almost 1,400 homes. Other fires have also slowed, though their threat remains.

	But the reckoning of damage from the Bastrop fire and others across the center of the state is just beginning.

	"We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that," Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said to residents who had been evacuated from their homes, according to the Associated Press. But fires and power outages in the drought-ridden areas east of Austin continue, and damage assessments are beginning to roll in. The state's fire service estimates that the cost of fighting the Bastrop fire will be at least $1.25 million, but that figure doesn't include estimates of property damage in the 35,000 acres the fire has burned.

	The emotional costs are growing too. In the Austin American-Statesman, residents fret about the fate of pets and work animals, but are not allowed to return to their homes. Many of those that have returned have found devastation.

	 

Some Spicewood residents found ashen rubble where their homes once stood. The fire claimed a duplex that Randy Simoneaus was building, and it also scorched several surrounding acres, including a spring-fed ravine.

"That's why I bought this (property)," Simoneaus said. "Now it looks like the moon."

	Raw emotions after the blaze are "as ubiquitous as charred pine trees," the paper reports.

	President Barack Obama proclaimed a major disaster area in parts of Texas, clearing the way for federal aid. Gov. Rick Perry, who is seeking the Republican nomination to run against Obama in 2012, accused the government of ignoring his state's drought.


	Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments.
	
	You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire.

	
		
		

Ted Mann





Sources

Frustration Grows for Texas Wildfire Evacuees, Associated Press
Emotions Spill Over as Impact of Fires Sinks In, Ralph K.M. Haurwitz, Tim Eaton and Mike Ward, Austin American-Statesman
Crews Focus on East Side of Waller County Wildfire, Carol Christian, Houston Chronicle
Obama Approves Disaster Aid After Recent Texas Wildfires, Reuters




Topics: 
Rick Perry, 
			
			Texas Wildfires, 
			
			Barack Obama



Tweet









				Related Articles
			
 

				More by Ted Mann








The Real Costs of Debt Brinkmanship







Obama Administration Looks to Delay Texas Execution







Obama Lets Perry's Remarks Slide, Isn't as Forgiving to Romney


 





Mid-Air Hijinks in Wartime







Yesterday's Levees as Cause of Today's Floods






















User Comments
Please type your comment and click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be prompted to log in or register



View the discussion thread.



Atlantic

'Culture': Leading Scientists Explore the Social Purpose of Art
The Link Between Vaccine-Maker Merck and Rick Perry's Campaign
An Airline Captain, Plus the Germans, on Flying While Brown
A Massive Jewish Vote Overreaction

More from the Atlantic


BuzzFeed






More from Buzzfeed



AdWeek

MOG Challenges Spotify With Free Music
Ad Buyers on AOL-Microsoft-Yahoo Deal: What’s In It for Us?
No Buffy Bump for CW's 'Ringer'
Saatchi, Toyota Sued for $10 Million Over Stalking Prank

More from the AdWeek















The Wire to Go
















Five Best Columns


Sam Youngman on Obama, Scot Lehigh on infrastructure banks, The New York Times on Nadal, and more 

Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning:
	Subscribe to our email newsletter (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Have a story we missed? A link we have to click?  A sharp opinion about the news?  Instead of waiting for us to post it, tell us on the Open Wire.
Submit your news and ideas | See all reader posts


Most Clicked

Cocaine, Affairs, and the Other Crazy Stuff in the New Palin Book
13-Year-Old Looks at Trees, Makes Solar Power Breakthrough
Here's Why You'll Ditch Your iPad for Windows 8 
American Apparel Can't Take a Fat Joke
Jon Stewart Has Had It with How Fox Talks About Class Warfare
Gawker: Bill O'Reilly Had His Wife's Cop Boyfriend Investigated by Cops
There's a Potential Cure for Cancer in Indian Food
Vaccine Maker Gave Rick Perry $30,000 Plus a Whole Lot More
Saudi Prince Faces Rape Charge in Spain, Again
Michele Bachmann: Hurricane Is God's Way of Saying 'Cut Spending'



A Year Ago on the Wire
Fashion Snark Battle: NYC vs San Francisco




Facebook









Reddit













About the Wire
The Atlantic Wire is your authoritative guide to the news and ideas that matter most right now. Our team tracks newsmakers and opinions across the entire media spectrum: newspapers, web sites, television, radio and magazines.
But we do more than just collect information. By synthesizing, analyzing and summarizing what’s out there, and adding new information when we can, we are a news engine that gives you a quick and valuable account of the issues of the day.


The Wire to Go

iPhone app
RSS
Facebook
Twitter



Subscribe to our Newsletter
Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Open Wire
Have a hot tip? A story we missed? Tell us on the Open Wire
Contact Us
How to send us editorial or technical feedback


The Atlantic

FAQ
Subscribe
Merchandise
Jobs
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise with The Atlantic
Follow The Atlantic

The Atlantic Media Company

The Atlantic
National Journal
Government Executive



Copyright © 2011 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved.
















