September 10, 2011 — RT News line





VERSIONS:
روسيا اليوم
NOTICIAS
FREEVIDEO
ИНОТВ
RTД
FIND US ON:
FaceBook
YouTube
Twitter


LOG IN
SIGN UP









RT

On Air
Where to Watch
Schedule












News

Today
Sci-Tech
Features


Top Videos
Programs


Schedule
Keiser Report
Adam vs. The Man
Crosstalk
Guests
Spotlight
Interview with Sophie
Technology Update
Russia Close-Up
Documentary
The Alyona Show
Moscow out
On the Money


Prime Time Russia
News

The Big Picture
In Context (archive)
IMHO (archive)
Wayfarer (archive)
On Air promos



Politics



Russian press

Columns
Official word


USA

News
Podcasts
Blogs
Columns


Business

News
Indexes and rates
Top Russian Companies


Sport

Football
Hockey
Tennis
Basketball
Boxing
Motorsports

RT's Aikido manual
RT's Fantasy Football
Blogs


Art&Culture

News
Blogs
Columns


All about Russia



Russiapedia

Basic facts about Russia

Prominent Russians
Of Russian origin
Russian literature
History
Russian cuisine
Main dishes
Salads and snacks
Soups
Sweets
Vodka
Caviar
Russian films
Drama
Comedy
Action
Science fiction


Panoramas
Landscapes
Monasteries
Buildings
Events
Sites
GoRussia
Russian Visa
Emergency Help
Currency and paying
Russia in pictures
Airports and Railstations
Russian Women Guide
Volunteering
Blogs about Russia
Ministry of Foreign Affairs



Learn Russian

Online course for beginners
Russian with Hot For Words


Community

Follow RT
YouTube
Facebook
Twitter
Blogs
Columns
Forums
Free wallpapers and ringtones
RT quiz


Meet Friends
Online Exclusive

RT Cartoon
Picture galleries
Upload your video
Mariinsky Theater
War Witness – WWII victory tribute
RT partner hotels
Online game “The Debates”
50 years of man in space
RT's online golf contest





breakingnews



Go to main page
 
News
 
September 10, RT News line
 


RSSRT News Line


13:55
Death toll rises to 230 as Pakistan floods keep raging


13:38
Abbas vows ‘no retreat’ from UN bid


13:05
Cameron, Sarkozy arrive in Libya


12:49
Clashes in Yemen kill 14, including 12 militants


12:25
Prokhorov leaves Right Cause










mostread
mostpopular
blogs_rc

BLOGS





Ron Paul and Iran?
 Ron Paul has a perfectly logical explanation for why we might have to get used...





Stone-cold mothers
 Embraced by trees and barely noticed, a sculpture stands on top of a hill and...



columns_rc
bestvideos_rc

TOP RATED VIDEOS



←

→





Unseen 2009 Iranian jet crash video appears
A previously unseen video of a plane crash appeared on YouTube. It apparently shows an Iranian military jet that crashed just outside Tehran in 2009. 




Siberian “Dead alien” fake
A video of what was claimed to be a mutilated alien corpse, which scored hundreds of thousands of views on YouTube, has turned out to be fake.




Mutant rabbit born near Fukushima plant
The birth of a white rabbit with no ears not far from the damaged Fukushima power plant in Japan has sparked fear in locals.




RT presenter choked by police
An RT America television host Adam Kokesh was violently slammed and choked by police who arrested the host after he took part in a flash-mob at the publicly-funded Jefferson Memorial. 




Putin deems new Lada fit for dacha and potatoes
Prime Minister Putin, who is well known for his passion for trying out all means of transport, from bikes to fighter jets, has test-driven a new affordable car by Russia's AvtoVAZ.




Uncorking and shaving with a chopper
An ace helicopter pilot has shown off his pin-point control of the hovering vehicle in a series of stunts. One involved shaving a man with a razor mounted on the landing skid.




Cadet flips table over head with his teeth
Any toothpaste producer would gladly have recruited this cadet for promotion. He can flip a table over his head with nothing more than his own choppers!




photo_of_the_day_rc
panoramas_rc
PANORAMAS




All panorams

cartoons_rc

CARTOONS



←

→




Cartoons
Belarus KGB declares war on social networking opposition



Cartoons
No German nuclear power means higher bills for all EU countries 



Cartoons
France: land of love, wine and warmongering



Cartoons
Global drug body says “Legalize it, man” – no way, say Russia and US



Cartoons
Sweden resists EU’s watchful eye



Cartoons
US cloaks lies with bigger lies - campaigner



Cartoons
Washington sends forth stooges to replace Gaddafi




rt_ask_rc
rt_quiz_rc




mainpromo_news

 
Sarkozy and Cameron on low-key visit to Libya French president Nicolas Sakozy and British premiere David Cameron have arrived in Libya for an impromptu visit. The trip is viewed as a gesture of support for the National Transitional Council which has recently taken power in the country.  
1


Silence and fear return to the streets of TripoliA month on from Tripoli’s fall to rebel forces, the leaders of France and Britain are traveling to the city  in a show of support for the regime their warplanes helped put in power, while those who backed Colonel Gaddafi remain defiant but fearful.
2


Fears rise of Pristina subduing North Kosovo by forceTensions are growing in North Kosovo, as the UN plans emergency debates over a possible repeat of recent clashes on the Serbian border. Russia's ambassador to the UN is worried the international peacekeeping forces are taking sides in the conflict.
3


Three years into global collapse, Wall Street still gamblingThe debt crisis that brought the euro to its knees began three years ago when America’s fourth- biggest bank, Lehman Brothers, went bankrupt, sparking global economic turmoil still raging today. But have any lessons been learnt from the crisis? 
4


Seaworthy: Ka-52 helicopter OK'd for Mistral carrierRussia’s state-of-the-art Kamov Ka-52 combat helicopter has passed all tests to be approved for deployment on Navy vessels. The aircraft will be used with Mistral-class carriers, which Russia buys from France.
5








September 2011
						


Su
Mo
Tu
We
Th
Fr
Sa

 
 1 
 2 
 3 

 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 

 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
											16								
											17								

											18								
											19								
											20								
											21								
											22								
											23								
											24								

											25								
											26								
											27								
											28								
											29								
											30								  




RT News line, September 10


22:33
permalink

Israeli PM pledges to stick to peace treaty with Egypt
­Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel will adhere to its peace treaty with Egypt despite the attack on the country’s embassy in Cairo. The statement followed the storming of the Israeli Embassy by protesters on Friday. The protests have already caused at least three deaths and left more than 1000 people injured. Egypt is on alert with Cairo promising to try those involved in the attack in an emergency court.



22:14
permalink

Russian “Faust” wins Golden Lion at Venice
­The film “Faust” by Russian director Aleksander Sokurov has claimed first prize at the Venice Film Festival on Saturday. “Faust” is a visceral take on Goethe's play about a man who sells his soul to the devil. “I am of course excited. The prize is so small and so long-awaited. I must say I am happy I live in cinematography,” said Sokurov. He also thanked all the actors who featured in the film.



21:44
permalink

No oil agreement between Libya and West till elections - NTC
­Libya will not reach any agreement on oil supplies with Western companies, a representative of the National Transitional Council announced on Saturday. He went on to say that no such contracts with the West would be signed until public elections are held in the country.



20:48
permalink

Greek police use tear-gas on protesters
­Clashes have broken out during taxi drivers’ rallies in Thessaloniki as police fired tear-gas to disperse the protesters. No injuries or arrests have been reported so far. Some protesters are armed with guns, sticks and stones. The taxi drivers have called a 24-hour strike, with their protests scheduled to coincide with a key speech on economic policy by Prime Minister George Papandreou at the Thessaloniki Trade Fair. His government has cut pensions and salaries, while at the same time raising taxes and retirement ages. The measures were taken to secure vital international rescue loans worth $302.6 billion.



20:16
permalink

Egypt PM’s resignation rejected
­Egypt’s Prime Minister Essam Sharaf and a number of ministers were expected to resign during a meeting with the country’s Supreme Council of Armed Forces (SCAF) chief, Hussein Tantawi, for failing to handle Friday’s riots in the country’s capital Cairo. The SCAF rejected the resignation, however, Al Arabiya reported. Israel summoned its ambassador home from Cairo after Egyptian protesters stormed the Israeli Embassy building on Friday night resulting in three deaths and more than a thousand injured.



20:07
permalink

Arab League head says steps to cut bloodshed agreed with Syrian president
­The Arab League and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad have agreed on measures to end months of violence in Syria, says head of the League Nabil Elaraby. The plans will be presented to the Arab foreign ministers during a meeting in Cairo, Reuters reports. Elaraby has urged the Syrian leader to speed up reform plans, he said in Cairo on Saturday after visiting Damascus.



19:57
permalink

NASA launches twin satellites to look inside the Moon
­Two identical space satellites are en route to a lunar orbit destination after being launched from US Cape Canaveral. The Grail-A and Grail-B craft are on NASA’s newest lunar mission to explore the inner core of the moon from its orbit. The mission is also expected to shed light on the unexplored far side of the moon. The satellites will take three-and-a-half months to reach their orbit of the moon.



19:44
permalink

Tanzania ferry accident leaves 192 dead
­So far 192 bodies have been recovered from a capsized ferry from Zanzibar to Pemba off the East African coast, while 606 people survived, Reuters quotes Zanzibar police. According to the police, more bodies may be found in the sea in the near future. A strong current in the area between the two main islands of Ugunja and Pemba in the Zanzibar archipelago has been hampering the rescue operation which is still underway. The cause of the accident has not yet been determined.



19:06
permalink

IMF recognizes NTC as government of Libya
­The International Monetary Fund has recognized Libya’s National Transitional Council (NTC), the interim governing body, as the country’s official government, said its chief, Christine Lagarde, on Saturday. According to Lagarde, the IMF will send a team to Libya as soon as security permits. The fund is now ready to help the authorities through all the service the fund provides. He IMF head explained that there are a certain number of countries required to recognize a government before it could become a member. More than 60 countries around the globe now recognize the Western-backed NTC as the legitimate governing body in Libya.



18:47
permalink

Thousands of police on alert as Greek PM due to make austerity speech
Six thousand police are guarding the Greek city of Thessaloniki on Saturday, where the country’s Prime Minister George Papandreou is due to give his annual speech on the economy, RIA Novosti news agency reports. Policemen have encircled the exhibition center where Papandreou will make the appearance later in the day. It is expected that in his speech the premier will try to prepare the Greeks for new austerity cuts his government promised in order to secure a new tranche of the EU bailout. On Saturday, many restaurant owners in Thessaloniki closed their businesses in protest over a recent VAT increase, ranging from 13 to 23 per cent, on restaurants and coffee shop products. It has been the fourth VAT rise in a matter of the last 18 months. The Greek government has imposed painful austerity measures to secure international rescue loans worth US$302.6 billion.



18:33
permalink

Japan trade minister quits over dubious nuclear comment
­Japanese Trade Minister Yoshio Hachiro has quit after labeling the tsunami-hit Fukushima nuclear plant area “a town of death”. He had already apologized for the gaffe that took place on Friday. The minister was discussing his visit to inspect the damage at the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant. His comment was regarded as insensitive towards those who had to evacuate their homes due to the radiation leak. Hachiro’s impolitic words provoked the opposition to call for his resignation, having taken office just a week ago. About 80,000 people fled an evacuation zone around the plant. The earthquake of March 11 and subsequent tsunami also left about 21,000 people dead and missing.



17:23
permalink

Two powerful explosive devices defused in Russia’s Dagestan 
­Two powerful explosive devices were deactivated on Saturday during a special counter-terrorist operation in the Russian republic of Dagestan. According to the country’s National Anti-terrorist Committee, 10 kg of explosives were found in a zinc bucket. The other device was in a plastic bag nearby. Both bombs were found on a local road. This comes a few hours after the counter terrorist operation was launched in the area, following a fight between security forces and insurgents that killed three officers. The search continues for a group of militants who opened fire on local police overnight.



15:28
permalink

107 reported dead in ship crash near Tanzania
At least ­107 people have been killed after a ship sunk in the Indian Ocean near Tanzania, Reuters news agency reports. 259 survivors have reportedly been rescued. Forty of those rescued are in a critical condition. Officials reported that around 600 people were believed to have been on the stricken ferry. A strong current in the area between the two main islands of Ugunja and Pemba in the Zanzibar archipelago has hampered the rescue operation.  The cause of the accident has not yet been determined.



14:57
permalink

Pakistani businessman pleads guilty to smuggling nuclear material from the US to Islamabad
­A Pakistani man has pleaded guilty at a court hearing in Baltimore, Maryland, of smuggling nuclear materials. The 46-year-old businessman, Nadeem Akhtar, admitted that for five years he has been using the firm called the Computer Communication USA firm to transfer illegally various nuclear-related devices and equipment. The items had a total value of more than $400,000. According to the Justice Department, the owner of a trading company located in Karachi and related to Pakistani government entities gave orders to Akhtar. He may face a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The hearing is scheduled on January 6, 2012.



12:29
permalink

Obama declares emergency in wildfire-ravaged Texas
US President Barack Obama has declared a state of emergency in Texas as the wildfires continue to ravage the Lone Star state. The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County in the central part of Texas. "Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster," the White House said in a statement late on Friday. Nearly 1,400 homes have been destroyed since the fires broke out about a week ago. Earlier on Friday, Texas Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst expressed frustration with the lack of response from the federal government.



12:02
permalink

Ship with 600 people onboard sinks off Tanzania
­A ship with about 600 people on board has reportedly sunk off mainland Tanzania on Saturday. This comes from Abdullah Saied, who apparently survived the tragedy. According to Saied, the ferry, MV Spice Islanders was heavily overloaded. Saied reports that 220 people had been rescued and 380 people are believed missing. Tanzanian authorities have not yet made an official statement. Residents are gathering at the docks of Stone Town on Zanzibar, an island near Pemba, waiting for news.



11:15
permalink

Greece rejects rumors of weekend default 
­Greek authorities have rejected all rumors about country’s possible default over the weekend.  A Greek Finance Ministry official dismissed market talk of such plans as "rubbish." "It is not the first time that we see an organized wave of 'rumors' about an upcoming Greek default," noted the Greek official. The country’s Prime Minister George Papandreou stated on Friday evening after the meeting in Thessaloniki, Greece's second-largest city, that the government was going to take “huge changes” to pull the country out of the crisis. He is scheduled to give a speech on the economic situation in the country at an international trade fair on Saturday.



07:20
permalink

Train derailment injures at least 25 in Pakistan
­At least 25 people have been injured after a passenger train from Lahore to Rawalpindi derailed at Sara-e-Alamgir village in the east of Pakistan on Saturday morning, local Dunya TV channel reported. According to local media reports about five to eight compartments of the train derailed. Some of the injured have been admitted to hospitals in Rawalpindi. Rescue work and an investigation is under way.



05:48
permalink

Obama accepts Libyan ambassador’s credentials
­President Obama has received Ali Aujali, Libya's ambassador to the US, in the Oval Office and accepted his credentials to represent the country and its new government. The traditional ceremony formally marks the beginning of the ambassador's service. Aujali was the envoy under Muammar Gaddafi before changing sides. National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said the US congratulates the Libyan people and the rebel government will find an ally in the US as it undertakes a transition to democracy, the Associated Press reported.



05:17
permalink

Immigrants appeal US visa lottery results
­A group of participants in America’s Diversity Visa lottery, whose winning results had been declared invalid and canceled due to a computer glitch, have renewed their appeal in a federal court. Electronic court records show the appeal was filed on Friday. In June, a group of people who thought they had won a chance to apply for a visa filed a suit in a federal court in Washington to stop the State Department from nullifying the results. A judge in Washington dismissed the case in July and a new lottery was held.



03:14
permalink

Libyan general now in Niger 
­Niger's minister of justice Amadou Morou has confirmed several more Libyan officers have crossed the desert border into Niger and have reached the central town of Agadez, the Associated Press reports. Morou named the chief of staff of the air force and his pilot, commanders of two Libyan military regions, and six civilians as being among those who arrived in Niger. Local media reported one of the commanders was General Ali Kana, an ethnic Tuareg who was known to be close to Muammar Gaddafi.



02:48
permalink

Peruvian TV reporter killed over corruption expose
­Pedro Flores, a provincial Peruvian television reporter, who was shot by masked gunmen on Wednesday in the northern coastal province of Casma, has died of his wounds on Thursday. Peru's national journalists’ association believes the murder may have been revenge for his reports on the corruption of local authorities. The association quoted Flores' wife as saying he had received numerous death threats demanding he stopped criticizing a local mayor. Flores is the second Peruvian journalist to be killed this year following the death of Julio Cesar Castillo, who had also accused authorities of corruption, on May 3.



01:21
permalink

Magnitude 6.7 quake shakes Vancouver
­A magnitude-6.7 earthquake has struck off the coast of British Columbia in Canada at 19:41 GMT on Friday. The quake's epicenter was some 279 kilometers to the west of Vancouver Island at a depth of 25.9 kilometers, the US Geographical Survey said. No tsunami was expected, according to the West Coast and Alaska Tsunami Warning Center. There also were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.










On Air Talent
RT mobile
Corporate profile
Job opportunities
Partners
Закупки
Press releases
Advertise with RT
All RT sites


Legal disclaimer
Feedback
Contact us
© Autonomous Nonprofit Organization “TV-Novosti”, 2005–2011. All rights reserved.



























