Colorado Health Dept releases consumer report on hospital-acquired infections | The American Independent

The American Independent




















The washington Independent
 Blackwater Took Hundreds of Guns From U.S. Military, Afghan Police 


The washington Independent
 Media Pushes 'Rift' Between McChrystal and Obama   


The washington Independent
 Panetta Breaks From Bush in Senate Hearing 


The washington Independent
 Federal bill that would tackle poverty to improve student results introduced 


The washington Independent
 'N-Word' Sign Dogs Would-Be Tea Party Leader 




 Sign up for our email newsletter

rss
facebook
twitter

Switch to our mobile site






 


HOME
STATES

Colorado
Florida
Iowa
Michigan
Minnesota
New Mexico
Texas
Washington, DC


ISSUES

Civil Rights
Economy/Finance
Education
Elections/Campaigns
Environment/Energy
Government Accountability/Reform
Immigration
Health Care
Justice/Civil Liberties
Labor
LGBT
Media
National Security
Politics
Religion
Reproductive Rights


CONGRESS
2012
VIDEO
ABOUT





 Top Stories  
Barney Frank: Some Federal Reserve leaders ‘selected with no public scrutiny or confirmation’

By Nicolas Mendoza | 
		09.14.11

The Federal Open Market Committee, the guiding policy committee of the Federal Reserve, is gaining increasing attention from lawmakers and politicians on both sides of the aisle. Conservatives like Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) have dominated discussion over the Fed, with their accusations of currency devaluation and the “inflation tax.” More…


‘Response’ endorser says event healed Native American cannibal curse

By Mary Tuma | 
		09.14.11

“The Response,” Gov. Rick Perry’s August prayer rally, not only brought thousands of Christians to pray for a “nation in crisis,” but also broke the curse of Native American cannibalism, said Cindy Jacobs, a self-proclaimed prophet and an endorser of the event. More…


Charges of ethnic profiling emerge following 9/11 terror scare in Detroit

By Ed Brayton | 
		09.14.11 | The Michigan Messenger

One of the three people pulled off a Frontier Airlines flight after landing at Detroit Metro Airport on the 10th anniversary of 9/11 is speaking out, blaming the entire situation on jittery passengers who feared them because of their ethnicity. More…

 Advertisement



 




 

 2012 presidential election
abortion
Barack Obama
BP
budget
Campaign Finance
Colorado
Colorado CD7
Colorado Governor
Colorado Senate
Congress
deepwater horizon
Economy/Finance
Environment/Energy
Florida
Florida Governor
Florida Senate
Harry Reid
illegal immigration
Immigration
Iowa
LGBT
Michele Bachmann
Michigan
Minnesota
Minnesota Governor
New Mexico
news clips
Obama
oil spill
Politics
President Obama
Rick Perry
Rick Scott
Rick Snyder
Same-sex Marriage
Susana Martinez
Tallahassee
Tea Party
Terry Branstad
Texas Headlines
Tim Pawlenty
U.S. House
U.S. Senate
unemployment 



Colorado Health Dept releases consumer report on hospital-acquired infections
 

By Scot Kersgaard | 
		09.15.11 | 7:17 am
		 |  More from The Colorado Independent


Comments 

Tweet

Share


The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment released its annual report on health-facility-acquired infections Friday. A law requiring the reports was passed by the legislature in 2006. The report should be essential reading for anyone considering elective surgery and looking to determine  which hospitals have the best records against patient infection.
“This is important because it gives people a decision-making aid if they are considering elective surgery. They can check the facility they are thinking of using, or check all the facilities in their area and see how they compare nationally, Dede de Percin, executive director of the Colorado Consumer Health Initiative said.
“It also puts pressure on health care facilities to constantly improve. The national averages keep getting better, so hospitals have to improve just to stay average,” she said.
She said she is excited that this year Colorado became the first state to publish information on the infection rates at dialysis centers. “That is important because so many use those facilities,” she said.
From the State’s web site:
Health facility-acquired infections or healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) are among the top ten leading causes of death in the United States. Colorado recognizes the seriousness of this public health problem and passed the Hospital Acquired Infections Disclosure Act in 2006. House Bill 1045 requires hospitals, hospital units, ambulatory surgery centers and dialysis centers to report healthcare-associated infections using the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). This act created the Patient Safety Program at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) to implement this legislation by ensuring that health facilities disclose their HAIs and by producing public standard reports of HAIs in Colorado healthcare facilities.
If you go to the web site, look to the left side for a list of surgeries to find the ratings of various hospitals who do those surgeries.
Got a tip? Story pitch? Send us an e-mail. Follow The Colorado Independent on Twitter. 



Comments 

Tweet

Share










Comments




Name:



Email:

Never published

Comment:










Categories & Tags:
Health Care  | colorado consumer health initiative | dede de percin | health facility acquired infections | hospital-acquired infections | national health care safety network |  
		



 Top Video 


Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa
Steve King wants congressional hearings on Obama’s ‘drunken Uncle Omar’
‘Response’ endorser says event healed Native American cannibal curse
  





AINN Affiliates 
The American Independent News Network:
Coloradocoloradoindependent.com
Floridafloridaindependent.com
Iowaiowaindependent.com
Michiganmichiganmessenger.com
Minnesotaminnesotaindependent.com
New Mexiconewmexicoindependent.com
Texastxindependent.com





Home
About The Texas Independent
About Us
Contact the Texas Editor
Email Newsletter Signup
Contact
Terms of Use
Advertising
Yellow Pages

© 2011 The American Independent News Network














Switch to our mobile site

























