Anatomy of a Wildfire                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Anatomy of a Wildfire    San Diego :  CA :  USA
| Sep 06, 2011
 
By Dava Castillo            5 0      
Views: 642
         September 6, 2011-- Wildfire season has announced itself in Texas with devastating results, and Western states likewise are at risk for fires as they brace for the season just now beginning. Wildfires are influenced, not ignited by as we will examine in this article, by three main elements. These are weather, topography and fuels. Each of these elements has several sub-elements. It is the combination of these elements that form the fire behavior triangle. Understanding how these interact and affect the formation of fire direction indicators is crucial to properly interpreting a wildfire’s burn pattern. Weather: Wind, temperature and relative humidity are the three components that comprise weather. Wind normally has the greatest effect of all the elements on fire spread and intensity.A fire moving with the wind burns faster than a fire backing into the wind. You will be able to observe the difference in the burn patterns and the amount of fuel consumed. One of the worst aspects of large wildfires is after the fire reaches a certain size, it will begin to create its own wind and burn even faster than before. Thus, it creates its own “weather” conditions to fuel itself. Fires will generally spot in advance of the main fire in the direction the wind is blowing. Relative humidity directly affects ignition probability and fire intensity. After the fire reaches a certain size, it will begin to create its own wind and burn even faster than before. Fires will generally spot in advance of the main fire in the direction the wind is blowing. Relative humidity directly affects ignition probability and fire intensity. The relative humidity also controls fine dead fuel moisture, particularly in the one and ten-hour time lag fuel categories. Temperature influences fire behavior by the drying and preheating effect it has on fuels. Weather patterns can change quickly. A switch in wind direction can substantially affect burn patterns. Topography: Topography consists of slope, aspect and terrain. Following wind, slope is the next greatest potential influence on the rate and direction of fire spread. Fires will burn faster uphill than downhill because of the preheating of the uphill fuels and the influence of daytime upslope and up-canyon winds. A fire backing down slope will normally move slower than a fire advancing upslope. Fuels: Fuels are characterized by a variety of factors. These include vertical and horizontal arrangement, type, species, size and fuel moisture, both live and dead. Fires will tend to ignite more easily and spread more rapidly in fine dead fuels with low moisture contents. Are Wildfires A Positive Force of Nature? Native Americans in previous centuries recognized and respected prudent, sacred land use and “learned the Language of fire.” They believed attachment was inviting personal devastation and destruction. Personal ownership was foreign to them, for everything was cared for, enjoyed and shared by all with respect as a gift from the Creator. Periodically they would gather all their possessions into together inside their lodge and burned everything. In the modern world, even for Native Americans this practice is not necessary; however, the practice of removing the source fuel in anticipation of Nature’s Force to revive is possible. Natural News writes about the benefits of forest fires in rejuvenating the nitrogen cycle in soil. Most people probably assume that forest fires are entirely destructive events that must be prevented at all costs. However, researchers from the University of Montana recently discovered that whenever there is a forest fire, the charcoal deposited into the ground helps to stimulate the conversion of ammonia to nitrates. This conversion perpetuates the nitrogen cycle and it enriches the soil with nitrogen, a necessary component of ecological health.Environmental pollutants like chemical pesticides and artificial fertilizers are known to damage the earth's nitrogen cycle, but this new research provides insight into one of nature's natural remedies to the problem."Many of the defensive compounds plants rely on are alkaloids that contain nitrogen. Nitrogen is at a premium for a number of plants because they need large quantities of it for growth. Plants that live in nitrogen-deficient soils...often lack secondary defensive compounds," explain Adrian Forsyth and Kenneth Miyata in their book Tropical Nature: Life and Death in the Rain Forests of Central and South America.Seeds Born Out of the Destruction Australia  Australia is frequently ravaged by bushfires, more so than any other country in the world. During the severe 2002-2003 season, which lasted from 1 July 2002 to 28 February 2003, there were 5999 bushfires recorded. There has been a long, dramatic history of bushfires on the continent, with fires first sparking around five million years ago when dry grassland began to dominate the landscape. Prior to this period, Australia was predominately composed of lakes, wetlands, rivers and rainforests, conditions far too wet to foster bushfires. Around 40 000 years ago bushfires began to occur more regularly. The early Aboriginal peoples had an intricate understanding of fire and valued its relationship to the land. Today, bushfires wreak havoc across the land, causing significant amounts of damage, destroying buildings and houses, harming livestock, and on occasion, killing humans. Still, Nature’s Force is required for seed germination of some plants on this continent. "Banksias are evergreen bushes and trees related to the proteas of South Africa but, with the exception of one whose range extends into the Pacific, they are totally restricted to Australia. These plants unique to Australia have florets that produce a hard seed case taking a year to develop. Like the Bottlebush Callistemon so prevalent in Mediterranean landscapes like California, some Banksias will not shed their seeds unless there is a fire as the cases are hard woody two valve capsules. Intense flames heat the capsules, and they burst open. Seeds are then released in the wake of the fire ensuring they will fall on the fertilized ash of the burned landscape. (Attenborough1995:188-190) United States The Cedar Fire in San Diego county in October of 2003 was the second largest wildfire in the history of the state of California. San Diego County's Cedar Fire burned over 280,000 acres destroying 2,232 homes and killing 14 (including one firefighter). Most of the victims were killed on the first day of the fire as they tried to escape their homes by foot and in vehicles. One hundred and four firefighters were injured. Every year the Western U.S. waits for the wildfires to begin. The devastation is treacherous and is not mitigated here, but there is another side to wildfires as well.  The seeds of Rocky Mountain Lodgepole pine are small and disperse easily with wind. It has 2 modes of seed dispersal, based on the cone. Serotinous cones protect the seed from the fire and open to release their seeds when heated. Seeds from serotinous cones are released on the bare soil created by the fire. Because all these seeds are released at once, stands are typically even-aged. In Rocky Mountain Lodgepole pine stands with these cones release and scatter seeds on the forest floor after a fire. Fires opening the cones is the most important method of dispersal. Serotinous cones require temperatures of 113 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit (45-50 oC) to melt the resin that binds the scales of the cone temperatures that generally accompany moderate to severe fire. Summer’s Flowers and Smoke  For decades, fire ecologists have tried to solve the mystery of how to germinate California chaparral wildflowers in the laboratory. The secret is burying the seeds in soil for a year and then exposing them to smoke. In the October 1998 issue of Ecology, J. Keeley and C.J. Fotheringham described 25 species of chaparral wildflowers that respond not to a fire's heat but to its smoke. The actual biochemical mechanism may vary with different species, and some seeds apparently require burial in the ashy soil before sprouting. The duration of smoke exposure may also vary, and may be lethal to some seeds. Seeds of fire-followers such as golden eardrops (Dicentra chrysantha) require a 10 minute exposure to smoke, while those of whispering bells (Emmenanthe penduliflora) need just a minute of smoke. Delicate Balance between Nature and Civilization’s Encroachment  It is estimated that 90% of all wildfires are ignited by people, not by lightning or other natural phenomenon. Western states like California, Colorado, Arizona, Montana and New Mexico hold their breath when September and October bring high winds, dry grass, and the other ingredients for wildfires causing fires with extreme levels of property damage and loss of life. One of the reasons for the increased levels of destruction is the increased residential and commercial development in rural, heavily wooded areas giving rise to opportunities for fires - considering that it only takes a spark from a grill or poorly discarded cigarette to start a blaze. More homes in volatile areas puts more stress on firefighting resources. States and local governments must improve zoning laws that will create a buffer zone between development and wilderness. Legislation has been introduced in California to assess a fee to people living in rural fire zones to offset the costs of fire fighting. The Sacramento Bee reported on September 4, 2011 that Gov. Jerry BrownJerry Brown and legislative Democrats are pursuing a firefighting fee on rural homeowners significantly higher than the $90 charge passed last week by California's fire board. The new proposal would impose a minimum of $175 on the first building and $25 on each additional structure. It would also assess a land fee starting at $1 per acre for the first 100 acres. Homeowners who live in fire districts, which includes 94 percent of the roughly 730,000 rural structures being charged, qualify for a $25 discount. Controlled Fires Boost Diversity In November 2010 Science Daily reported in certain ecosystems, such as the mixed-conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada region of the western United States, fires are a natural and essential occurrence for maintaining forest health. However, for many decades, resource managers in California and other western states prevented or suppressed natural fires to limit the potential for catastrophic spread. Controlled burning is the method used to thin and reduce tree densities and remove ground debris that fuels wildfires. Further, suppressing fires in some regions actually led to the increase of small trees and excess accumulations of logs, branches and needles on the forest floor creating a bed for conflagration. Karen Webster in Ecosphere which is a journal of the Ecological Society of America says there are ways to manage the fuel that feeds wildfires. To answer this question, Karen Webster and Charles Halpern from the University of Washington, Seattle, used more than two decades of data on changes in the abundance and diversity of plants following prescribed burning in these mixed-conifer forests. They analyzed data collected periodically from 51 forest plots that were burned once, twice or not at all during the 20-year study period. “The researchers found that after ten years, burned plots supported more than twice as many native plant species as nonburned plots, and the once-burned plots showed a nearly threefold increase by year twenty. In addition, species diversity increased with severity of burning and nonnative species did not benefit from fire. In general, plots that were burned twice showed patterns similar to those burned only once, suggesting that the use of repeated burning to reduce fuel accumulations does not have a damaging effect on the native vegetation. "Information on the ecological consequences of reintroducing fire to these forests is critical for park managers," said Webster, "especially with current operational constraints. For example, air quality regulations and budget limitations require managers to be as effective as possible with controlled burns. Our findings offer important insights that can aid park managers in developing approaches to reduce risk of fire, and at the same time, enhance biological diversity. Long-term studies of the effects of reintroducing fire to these forests are extremely valuable, both for current management and for the future, given threats such as climate change and the spread of nonnative species." Wildfires around the globe have become more prevalent with the growth of civilization. The encroachment of humans on the natural landscape has mitigated nature’s barriers and replaced them with our manmade gardens, courtyards, homes, farms and ranches. Clearing the natural landscape in an effort to feed the planet as its requirements for food and water increase contributes to the possible increase of lands susceptible wildfires.    Resources Natural News National Wildfire Coordinating Group Science Daily Ashes to Wildflowers Sacramento Bee Skirk.com National Interagency Coordination Center Youtube video of San Diego fire storm of 2007. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feGToAbq3J0        1 of 5        
Fires in rural areas.
         
Dava Castillo is based in Clearlake, California, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (47.4%) Canada (38.2%) Portugal (2.1%) Australia (1.5%) 18 other countries (9.5%)           READ MORE: wildfires, Relative humidity, United States, Australia, serotinous cones, Positive Force of Nature, Nitrogen cycle, forest fire, burns pattern, California   More News From: San Diego :  CA :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By       George McGinn
| 8 days ago
  
Dava, this is one of the best researched story on the benefits of wildfires that I've seen in a while. The last time was when I spent time with my parents in Bakersfield, and you know what's north of them. Sequoia National Park and Kings Canyon National Parks. Due to too much grazing and fire suppression, there are areas in these parks that will never regenerate. Either there will be no fire, or if white pine grows underneath the canopy, the fire will burn to hot. The same problems exists in the groves in Yosemite. Once the trees die, the grove is done.You did a great job on this report. I've already sent it all over, and I am rating it up.
             Reply  Posted By       Dava Castillo
| 8 days ago
  
Thank you for reading and the generous comments George.I know it was long, but I wanted to give a fair account of wildfires both their devastation and why we need them.
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Wildfires rage across Texas for the 296th day! By: AmberCornelio      
Wildfires have been burning across the US state of Texas for
the 296th day, claiming over 1,000 homes in the process.  Recent fires have been fueled by the howling
winds brought on by nearby Tropical Storm Lee. 
The largest fire is reportedly near Austin and has spread
over some 33,000 acres and claimed two lives, forcing the ...  8 days ago     Bastrop Texas wildfire update By: mahlina       
Bastrop, Texas wildfire has destroyed almost 600 homes, setting a record for the highest number of homes lost in a single fire in Texas history. Firefighters are trying to bring the wind-fueled wildfire under control that has consumed more than 25, 000 acres of land and forced approximately 5,000 people to evacuate.
According to recent ...  8 days ago     (Photos) Texas Wildfire Devastation - Thousands of homes destroyed  By: kalex      Texas Wildfire Devastation seems not stopping and already Thousands of homes been destroyed and people been evacuated from the places.According to the Texas Forest Service about  600 houses been burned and destroyed in Bastrop County which is near Austin.
Helicopters and small planes been employed apart from firefighters to provide ...  8 days ago     Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes By: jaded87      
A violent wildfire triggered in a barren farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday and went unchecked. The wildfire ended up destroying almost 500 homes as it spread rapidly across the area.
The wildfire was further instigated by the howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee that fanned the fire even more.
According to ...  9 days ago     Hundreds Of Family and Their Houses Affected Of Wildfire In Texas By: jamespabalan      A fast moving wildfire is disturbing hundreds of family and their houses in Texas. Authorities has forced thousands of people to evacuate from their homes. 
Strong winds was the reason for fast wide spread of fire, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out properties. Huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over that ...  9 days ago     Fierce Texas wildfire destroys almost 350 homes! By: darjee      An horrible wildfire southeast of Texas, destroyed alomost 350 homes, scorched severals of acres and stretched across a 18 mile area Monday morning.
Another blaze in eastern Texas killed a mother and her 18-month old child when flames burnt their mobile small home Sunday near Gladewater, the Gregg County Sheriff's Dept said.
Officials said low ...  9 days ago     Texas wildfire torches 300 homes By: Samantha86      
A major wildfire in Texas is causing property and
human life damage and there seems to be no end to the devastation at the moment
Texas waits for rain impatiently, as the
drought-stricken state is now faced with an even bigger danger of fire. A
fast-growing wildfire is spreading across Texas, fanned by winds from the
Tropical Storm Lee. ...  10 days ago     Wildfire erupts in Central and East Texas By: kalex      Wildfire erupts in central and East Texas because of heavy wind created by the Tropical Storm Lee.The National weather service gave red alert to these areas as Winds were coming  from the north to northeast part at about  30 miles per hour which may erupts more fire as the Humidity also increasing and is near about 20%.
People were ...  10 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       Images    >         house on fire    house on fire Image Source: allvoices Fires in rural areas.         wildfires    wildfires Image Source: allvoices Wildfires in California        Wildfires in Western U.S.     Wildfires in Western U.S.  Image Source: allvoices The early Aboriginal peoples had an intricate understanding of fire and ...        A participant takes part in ...    A participant takes part in ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A participant takes part in San Diego's Gay Pride Parade in San Diego      More Related Images    More From San Diego         ‘Big Brother’ jury selects 13th season champion       Some Glowy Watches by Tokyo Flash         2011 Honda Accord sedan and coupe Car Specs Rebates Suspension Top Speed Price and Review         Diet soda : May be making you fat         Cowon D3 Fimware 3.5 Gingerbread Unveiled | Currentblips Technomatic        NetLogic Microsystems sold to Broadcom for $3.7 Billion Dollar's Unveiled | Currentblips Technomatic        Transvestite Brawl – Caught on Video        MTV The Real World 26 San Diego Update-Part Three          ‘Austin Powers’ actor gets life sentence for gang rape        Blackout in U.S., reminder of the vulnerability of power grid         Big blackout hits US, Mexico        A blackout left without power two million people in California, Arizona and Mexico           2011 Land Rover DC100 Concept | Specs Suspension Features Colours Rebates Price Top Speed and Review                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10261095      Related People              Jerry Brown          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 12 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 4       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10261095), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10261095 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10261095 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Anatomy of a Wildfire” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10261095-anatomy-of-a-wildfire.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        