Special Wildfire Reports



























































Special Wildfire Reports













































































































Thursday, September 8, 2011





Fires smoke across northwest Wyoming








    Written by      Gib Mathers
            There are more fires than you can shake a cinder at in  Yellowstone National Park and the surrounding area, but only two are  relatively big in this neck of the woods.
Yellowstone’s Heart Complex

Under the umbrella of the Heart Complex fires burning in Yellowstone  is the Point Fire burning at an estimated 1,100 acres on the eastern  side of Yellowstone Lake.

Lightning lit it Aug. 25.

As a precautionary measure, the Thorofare trail has been closed from  the Nine Mile trailhead to one mile south of the fire area. The  trailhead is about one mile west of Lake Butte Drive on the East  Entrance Road.
The National Park Service is working with outfitters to help them re-route their pack trains, said park spokesman Al Nash.

People can still enter the Thorofare from the Eagle Creek trailhead  to the east, the Heart Lake Trail from the west or the South Boundary  trail from the south, Nash said.

The forecast is for no significant wind or rain in the next few days,  so neither increased nor decreased fire activity is expected, Nash  said.

He said he would not be surprised if there was some continued fire activity until a significant snow storm smothers the fire.

The Point Fire is the biggest fire in Yellowstone this year, with the roughly 18-acre Gibbon Fire the second-largest, Nash said.


Yellowstone’s three other current wildfires are the Ouzel, Huckleberry and Pitchstone fires, all one acre or less in size.

Thus far, Yellowstone has had 18 fires this year — a typical fire season, Nash said.

Hole in the Wall Fire

The threat to Clark from the Hole in the Wall Fire — seven miles to  the west — is minimal, although firefighters will not consider locals  completely safe until the fire is fully enclosed.

The 6,098-acre fire was 95 percent contained Wednesday.


“There is still a potential threat to residents in both Clark and Red  Lodge (Mont.),” said Barb Pitman, Hole in the Wall fire information  officer.

Pitman said the risk is very, very small, but managers won’t consider  those folks totally safe until the fire is 100 percent contained.

The fire is burning timber and brush at higher elevations. Pine  beetle-killed Douglas fire and lodgepole pine, juniper and sagebrush are  burning in lower elevations, said a Wednesday update from fire managers  on Inciweb.

The fire increased by 92 acres between Monday and Tuesday evening. It  is burning primarily in Custer National Forest, but there are a few  isolated hotspots in the Shoshone Forest, Pitman said.

The Type III Team is concentrating on monitoring the fire, including  the northeast edge in the rugged terrain below the Beartooth Plateau,  said Inciweb.
Burning continues in the northwest arm below Line Lake.

More than 1,500 feet of hose has been laid with gravity-fed  sprinklers along the northeast portion of the fire. Pitman said the  system was installed because it’s not safe to deploy firefighters in the  extremely rugged and hazardous terrain.

One helicopter remains available to make water bucket drops as needed  and to ferry firefighters to and from the fire, Pitman said.

Two engines, one Type I  21-person Hotshot crew, and 10 overhead  support staff totaling 60 personnel are also on the fire, said the  Inciweb update.

Line Creek Plateau, Corral Creek Trail 9, Maurice Creek Trail 6,  North Grove Trail, Face of the Mountain 7, Robertson Draw 5, Forest Road  123, Line Creek Road and South Grove Road are closed. All other trails  remain open at this time, said Inciweb.

A Burned Area Emergency Response team began assessing the fire area  Wednesday. They will survey the area for potential threats to the land  and wildlife after the fire is out. For example, the team will assess  the potential danger of erosion or downstream sediment buildup, threats  to fish, other aquatic species and endangered species, archeological  impacts and the threat of invasive weeds, Pitman said.

Other fires

Other fires based on data gleaned from Inciweb are:

• Norton Point Wildfire in the Shoshone National Forest was at 19,300  acres as of Wednesday. Lightning ignited the fire July 22, 24 miles  north of Dubois.

• Red Rock Fire Wildfire in the Bridger-Teton National Forest was at  8,555 acres Wednesday. Lightning ignited the fire 20 miles northeast of  Jackson.

• Nowlin Fire Wildfire in the Teton National Forest was at 1,970  acres as of Sunday. It is burning in the Teton Wilderness on the Buffalo  Ranger District. Lightning was the cause but the date of the fire’s  ignition is unknown.

• Reservoir Fire in the Bighorn National Forest was at 1 acre Sept.  2. Lightning ignited the fire about one-half mile northwest of Shell  Reservoir Aug. 28.

The fire danger in Custer National Forest, which includes the Pryor  Mountains, is rated high while the danger in Yellowstone and the  Shoshone and Bighorn National Forests is rated at very high.



POWELL TRIBUNE




Posted by
USWFA


at
3:42 PM


0
comments














Links to this post














Wildfire risk heightens as CalFire expects lightning, wind











By Dispatch Staff












In  anticipation of dry lightning and strong winds moving into Northern  California, CalFire warns of fire danger and has increased their  staffing as a result. 


According to a recent CalFire new release, an  upper level low is approaching the California coast drawing monsoonal  moisture, which is predicted to trigger dry lightning across California  counties: Lassen, Modoc, Siskiyou and Shasta.

In response, CalFire moved engines and resources into areas expected to see an increased fire danger.

CalFire  is also staffing all reserve fire engines, additional inmate fire crews  24-hours a day and plans to hold all personnel on duty. They're in  close communication with local, state and federal partners including the  U.S. Forest Service, the California National Guard and the California  Emergency Management Agency.

"The forecasts indicate weather  conditions could be similar to the lightning siege we experienced in  2008 when the state saw nearly 2,000 lightning sparked fires," said  Chief Ken Pimlott, director of CalFire.

"CalFire's firefighters are  ready to respond if more fires do break out, but we especially need the  public to be extremely cautious, because we don't need any additional  fires."

CalFire urges Californians to be safe and help prevent new fires.

DISPATCH




Posted by
USWFA


at
3:31 PM


0
comments














Links to this post














East Texas now center of raging wildfires





By CINDY HORSWELL, HOUSTON CHRONICLE       Montgomery Fire Firefighter, Reed Griffith crosses the fire south of  Todd Mission, Texas in Waller County on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.  Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive  wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached  almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the  smoking ruins.  (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran) MANDATORY  CREDIT        Photo: MBO, Mayra Beltran           / © 2011 Houston Chronicle   Despite four days of exhaustive work to stamp out the wildfire  burning across three counties north of Houston, it continues to rage and  gain ground today.

Texas Forest Service reported the blaze had  consumed at least 12,000 acres in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller  counties, incinerated 75 structures and remained 60 percent contained.

In fact, most of the state's wildfires are now concentrated in East Texas.

"There were 176 fires burning in Texas on Wednesday and 120 of them were in East Texas," said Warren Bielenberg, Texas Forest Service spokesman. "Of 20 new fires in Texas on Wednesday, we found 19 of them in East Texas."

     Firefighters departments in Fort Bend County attempt to extinguish  a  large grass fire at Foster School Road and Brinkmeyer Rd. in Needville,  Texas. (For The Chronicle/Bob Levey)        Photo: Photographer, Bob Levey           / ©2011 Bob Levey   The leading edge of the fire near Houston began moving into the  parched, dry forests of Waller County late Wednesday. Fire authorities  have pulled out all the stops, using helicopters, bulldozers and all  kinds of fire vehicles to fight the stubborn blaze.

But as the  scope of the fires expanded, resources were being stretched too thin and  reinforcements were being called in to help, authorities said.

That's  why a "type one" incident management team was flown in from the West  Coast today to manage the fire here, said Bielenberg.

"These teams are specially trained in handling complex situations," he said.

In addition, the U.S. Forest Service  announced it is working with Texas officials to see if its aircraft,  which includes a giant air tanker with a capacity for 12,000 gallons,  can be of assistance along with various federal firefighters.

                               A barn next to a home is on fire and Magnolia Firefighters control  extinguish fire south of Todd Mission in Waller County on Wednesday,  Sept. 7, 2011, in Todd Mission. ( Mayra Beltran / Houston Chronicle )        Photo: Staff, Mayra Beltran           / © 2011 Houston

A flare up in Montgomery County was announced late this afternoon,  and a voluntary evacuation was given for those living in the area of  Shady Oaks Blvd south to Sandy Hill off of FM 1486 north of FM 1774.  Fire crews are working to extingthish this fire and bring it  under control.

Meanwhile, Houston school officials temporarily turned off the air-conditioning at Halpin Early Childhood Center,  10901 Sandpiper, because of outdoor smoke contamination. Crews have  been sent to test the air quality there and other school facilities to  see if similar action is needed.

Smoky conditions also caused the Lamar High School sub-varsity games set to take place in Brenham to be rescheduled, and the Jones High School versus Montgomery High School game for tonight to be canceled.

     Fire consumed a home in the Ranch Crest subdivision near Magnolia,  Texas on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.  Firefighters gained ground Wednesday  against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as  the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team  set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.  (AP Photo/Houston  Chronicle, Mayra Beltran) MANDATORY CREDIT        Photo: MBO, Mayra Beltran           / © 2011 Houston Chronicle  As of Wednesday afternoon, about 8,000 homes and businesses just east  of the Texas Renaissance Festival grounds near Magnolia were under  evacuation orders. The Riley Road fire, which started in Grimes County  on Monday, has destroyed at least 80 homes and was about 80 percent  contained, officials said.

Some residents in Montgomery County who fled their homes were allowed to return to their neighborhoods today.

Residents  in the Ranch Crest subdivision could return to the area beginning at  noon today, according to Montgomery County Emergency Management. They  will need to provide identification.

      Firefighters departments in Fort Bend County attempt to extinguish  a  large grass fire at Foster School Road and Brinkmeyer Rd. in Needville,  Texas. (For The Chronicle/Bob Levey)        Photo: Photographer, Bob Levey           / ©2011 Bob Levey  People should be aware that no running water and electricity may be  available and hazards - such as downed power lines, damaged utility  poles, downed or charred trees as well as smoky air - are possible.

Officials  said portions of the blaze in Montgomery County are about 85 percent  contained while areas burning in Grimes County are about 60  percent contained.

Smoke from the wildfires north of Houston drifted above portions of the city this morning.

Northerly wind at about 10 mph pushed the smoke toward Houston, according to the National Weather Service. The smoky haze was draped above several areas, including southwest and west Houston as well as near the Galleria.

Ericka Mellon and Dale Lezon contributed to this report.
dale.lezon@chron.com


      Dan Botelho, views the smoke coming form behind his subdivsion Ranch  Crest where two homes were destroyed on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in  Todd Mission.  There is still an active fire line near the subdivision,  and its the reason why residents are not allowed back home at this  moment.  ( Mayra Beltran / Houston Chronicle )        Photo: Staff, Mayra Beltran           / © 2011 Houston Chronicle         





Posted by
USWFA


at
3:22 PM


0
comments














Links to this post














Officials triple number of homes charred in Texas fire






Bastrop county hardest hit by recent fires
  * More than three dozen fires burning across Texas


 By Karen Brooks

 AUSTIN, Texas, Sept 8 (Reuters) - Some 1,386 homes have been destroyed in a monstrous fire burning for the past five days southeast of Austin, Texas, that has been only 30 percent contained, county officials said on Thursday.

 The devastating new number -- nearly triple what officials had said earlier in the week and more than any blaze in Texas history-- is the county's "best estimate" of the 35,000-acre fire that's been ripping through this rural, historic community since Sunday, said Bastrop County Emergency Coordinator Mike Fisher.

 "This is based on everything we had in (the count) before, plus a house-by-house and driveway by driveway count we did last night," Fisher said.

 Officials said that number is likely to increase as the count continues.

 The blaze has killed two people, forced the evacuation of 5,000, officials said.

 The Bastrop County fire is the biggest, but it is far from the only wildfire burning in Texas right now. Forest service officials say more than three dozen fires are burning across the state, consuming 120,000 acres and driving thousands of people from their homes.

 More than 3.6 million acres in Texas have been scorched by wildfires since November, fed by a continuing drought that has caused more than $5 billion in damage to the state's agricultural industry and that shows no sign of easing.

 Bastrop County, with a population around 75,000 and an average income of $27,499 a year per resident, has been particularly hard hit. The region has been declared a federal disaster area and officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency have been on the ground since Tuesday doing damage assessments.

 County Judge Ronnie McDonald warned residents not to return to their neighborhoods until re-entry plans were announced later Thursday.

 The footprint of the fire, according to the Texas Forest Service, is a massive 20 miles by 24 miles, and the flames have turned entire neighborhoods into blackened moonscapes of burned out vehicles and crusts that used to be homes.

 "We had a lovely home, and we had a nice neighborhood, and it's gone. We just have to accept that," said Betty Porterfield, who was anxiously scouring lists of destroyed homes posted at a Bastrop area shelter.

  Another fast moving fire started Wednesday night on Camp Stanley, a military training ground northwest of San Antonio, quickly jumped the fence and forced evacuations in the upscale suburb of Fair Oaks Ranch.

 Residents were allowed to return to their homes when helicopters dumped fire retardant on the fires, containing them. But Bexar County Fire Marshal Ross Coleman says one of the things stretching fire departments thin is the need to keep crews on the scene of extinguished fires, to make sure they do not flare up again.

 Coleman said the fire Wednesday night was a rekindle of a previous fire which had been extinguished the night before.

 An impressive array of aircraft has been called in to fight the fires, including six heavy air tankers, three 1500 gallon scoopers, 15 single engine air tankers, 12 helicopters, and 12 aerial supervision aircraft.

 Eight Blackhawk and three Chinook helicopters from the Texas National Guard have been providing aerial support. Ten Tanker, a retrofitted DC-10 aircraft which can dump 12,000 gallons of flame retardant or water at a pass will be activated for use in Texas blazes on Friday.

 So far, four people have died in fires the broke out across the state over the Labor Day weekend , including a mother and infant daughter who died in northeast Texas on Sunday.  (Additional reporting by Jim Forsyth;

Editing by Greg McCune and Jackie Frank)


RUETERS




Posted by
USWFA


at
3:12 PM


0
comments














Links to this post














Firefighters contain Camp Bullis-area fire





Fair Oaks Ranch residents allowed to return after 150-acre grass fire prompts evacuations.By Eva Ruth Moravec and Jazmine Ulloa
emoravec@express-news.net
       Brush trucks look for hot spots as several fire departments battle  a wildfire in Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7,  2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch  but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

       A helicopter flies over Ralph Fair Road and Pimlico Lane as  several area fire department battle a wildfire in Camp Stanley,  Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a small area  of Fair Oaks Ranch but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

             Photo: Express-News Graphic
       Melissa Land evacuates a friend's horse named Diamonds Desoto, as  several area fire department battle a wildfire in Camp Stanley off   Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. The fire forced the  evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch but was under control by  early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         
       Brush trucks look for hot spots as several fire departments battle  a wildfire in Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7,  2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch  but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

       Fair Oaks Ranch residents drive in smokey conditions as several  area fire department battle a wildfire in Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair  Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a  small area of Fair Oaks Ranch but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

       Hanging out at the Messiah Lutheran Church, Mel Goldstein holds  his dog, Misty, after being evacuated from an area in Fair Oaks Ranch as  several area fire department battle a wildfire in Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

       Flames are seen in Camp Stanley as several area fire department  battle a wildfire off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. The  fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch but was  under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

       Smoke obscures the late afternoon sun on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011  as grass fires burned at Camp Bullis and Camp Stanley. About 150 acres  were scorched on the military installation. About 55 percent of the fire  was contained by 8 p.m.
Photo: Kin Man Hui/kmhui@express-news.net, KIN MAN HUI           / kmhui@express-news.net         

       Brush trucks look for hot spots as several fire departments battle  a wildfire in Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7,  2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch  but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

     A plane drops fire retardant as several area fire department  battle a wildfire at Camp Stanley off  Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept.  7, 2011. The fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks  Ranch but was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         
       A helicopter drops water as several area fire department battle a  wildfire at Camp Stanley off Ralph Fair Road, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.  The fire forced the evacuation of a small area of Fair Oaks Ranch but  was under control by early evening.
Photo: Jerry Lara/glara@express-news.net, JERRY LARA           / SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS         

     Smoke filled the air on Ralph Fair Road near Dietz Elkhorn Road as a grass fire that rekindled on Camp Bullis property burned.
Photo: Jazmine Ulloa,  Julloa@express-news.net.            
          About a dozen area fire departments fought a rekindled grass fire  that prompted evacuations Wednesday afternoon in Fair Oaks Ranch. By  nightfall, officials said residents were to be allowed back.

It was the third day in a row of all-out efforts by area firefighters to prevent damage to homes.

Flames erupted on Camp Bullis about 4:15 p.m. in an area where a grass fire had previously ignited Tuesday afternoon, said Phil Reidinger, public affairs spokesman for the base.

San Antonio Fire Chief Charles Hood said the fire had burned about 150 acres, but no structures were damaged.

County spokeswoman Laura Jesse said late Wednesday that the fire was 70 percent contained.

Aircraft were dropping retardant on the eastern portion, Hood said,  and fire crews were preparing to fight the rest of the blaze overnight.'

He predicted it would take four days to fully contain.

“It's been real crazy,” Hood said. “It's been a real challenge for us this week.”

Jesse said residents were evacuated from about 100 homes in Fair Oaks Ranch within a quarter-mile of Wednesday's fire, along Ralph Fair Road, Pimlico Lane and Ruffian Drive.

They were asked to go to Messiah Lutheran Church, at 9401 Dietz Elkhorn Road, where Pastor Rick Pfaff learned about an hour later that his church had been designated a shelter.

It was shortly before power was restored to the building, and he and  other staff members and volunteers scrambled to get it ready.

“This is what community is all about,” Pfaff said.

Charlotte Nolan, 55, one of a handful of evacuees arriving, said  authorities drove through her neighborhood urging residents to get out.  She grabbed her purse, two cats and clothes and rushed out.

“It was nerve-wracking. I was very scared,” she said. “I left the sprinkler system on.”

CPS Energy spokesman Victor Robledo  said the utility had to reduce power at the Fair Oaks Ranch substation  to allow firefighters to continue working, affecting about  4,500 customers.

Although Camp Bullis has its own fire department, firefighters from  San Antonio, Bexar County and numerous other agencies were quickly asked  to assist. The Texas Department of Transportation closed Ralph Fair Road from the Bexar County line to Dietz Elkhorn Road while emergency vehicles sped to the scene.

Residents who had lost power at the Stonehaven subdivision were out  along Ralph Fair Road watching smoke billow in the distance and fire  trucks go screaming by.

Betty Heffernan said her family called her at work and urged her to  get to her home on five acres near Pimlico and Ralph Fair but she was  stopped by the roadblock.

“I've lived out here for 28 years and I've never seen anything like this,” she said.

Tim Corley, a Marine based in San Antonio, left his car in front of  the subdivision, put on running shoes and said he was going to try to  reach his house on foot. His residence was near the area that  was burning.

“I'm trying to get out there. I have some pumps that they can use for water,” he said. “I don't care. It's not scary.”

Reidinger said the fire was in a pasture near the north gate of the Camp Stanley section of Camp Bullis.
“They do use it for a firing range, but there wasn't anybody out there and there are no ammunition storage facilities,” he said.

Hood said Wednesday's task was made easier by the “great working  relationship” SAFD has with smaller fire departments in Bexar County.

A spectacular warehouse fire Tuesday afternoon on Perrin-Beitel Road  actually was easier to fight than the numerous grass fires that have  erupted this week, including three major ones Monday, Hood said.

“Wildfires are a lot more challenging. The extreme drought, low  humidity, rugged terrain, the wind, all of those are factors that we  just can't control,” he said.

Read more: http://www.mysanantonio.com/news/local_news/article/Firefighters-contain-Camp-Bullis-area-fire-2159647.php#ixzz1XM8MjquY





Posted by
USWFA


at
3:36 AM


0
comments














Links to this post















Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
















Follow by Email






























USWFA
















Smokey Bear






























To Purchase Our Decals Click The Decal





























Twitter














AzEIN Emergency Bulletin System (EBS)

Get the AzEIN Emergency Bulletin System (EBS) widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)











Fire Safety

  We still have immediate openings in upcoming courses. Take advantage of these training opportunities!   Fatality Notices Search Results » 











Contact US

The United States Wildland Firefighters Association:Email: uswfa@live.com











Join Us On Facebook
















Join Us On Twitter













Wildland Fire Links


Aerial Firefighting.com
Alaska Interagency Coordination Center
Arizona Interagency Wildfire
Associated Aerial Firefighters
Bureau Of Indian Affairs Fire
Bureau Of Land Management Fire
Eastern Area Coordination Center
Eastern Great Basin Coordination Center
Inciweb Fire Incidents
National Interagency Fire Center
Northern California Geographic Coordination Center
Northern Rockies Coordination Center
Northwest Interagency Coordination Center
Rocky Mountain Coordination Center
Southern Area Coordination Center
Southern California Geographic Coordination Center
Southwest Coordination Center
U.S. Forest Service
United States Wildland Firefighters Association
Western Great Basin Coordination Center
























































USWFA And United States Wildland Firefighters AssociationAll Rights Reserved Copyrights  2011. Simple template. Powered by Blogger.































