BBC News - Texas fires: Bastrop blaze prompts Rick Perry warning









          BBC Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Help Accessibility Help   




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia-Pac
Europe
Mid-East
South Asia
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















5 September 2011
Last updated at 19:00 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Texas fires: Bastrop blaze prompts Rick Perry warning







Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Texas Governor Rick Perry said it was not a time for politics as ''people's lives and their possessions are in danger''



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories

In pictures: Texas wildfire
Texas wildfires: Your stories


Firefighters in drought-stricken Texas are struggling to contain a 16-mile-wide (26-km) wildfire that has destroyed almost 500 homes.
Officials said the fire had "grown considerably" on Monday and was now burning on 25,000 acres (10,000 ha).
Texas Governor Rick Perry cut short presidential campaigning, and said the next 48-72 hours would be "crucial".
Scores of fires are burning across Texas, which has been hit by high winds generated by Tropical Storm Lee.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
I understand that losing your home or lifetime possessions is incredibly difficult, but do not put your life in jeopardy”
End Quote
Rick Perry
Texas governor

 Texas wildfires: Your pictures

 Since December, fires across the state have burned 3.5m acres, Mr Perry said, adding: "That's roughly the size of Connecticut."
He urged people to heed evacuation orders and not to stay in their homes if they had lost power.
"I understand that losing your home or lifetime possessions is incredibly difficult, but do not put your life in jeopardy," Mr Perry said.
Powerful winds from Tropical Storm Lee, hundreds of miles to the east, have been fanning the flames.
A blaze in east Texas killed a 20-year-old woman and her baby daughter on Sunday before it was extinguished.
An estimated 5,000 people have been forced to leave their homes because of the Bastrop fire, which is about 30 miles (50km) south-east of Austin and moving away from the state capital.
Earlier, Jan Amen of the Texas Forest Service described the central Texas blaze as "a monster" that had been "zero percent contained". 
That wildfire was the largest of dozens burning throughout the state, including more than 60 that started on Sunday. 
"We have about 16 miles long at this time and about six miles wide," Bastrop County Fire Chief Ronnie McDonald said, referring to the size of the biggest blaze.
It has devoured almost half of the Bastrop State Park.
Gov Perry cancelled an appearance on Monday at the presidential forum in South Carolina and a trip to California.
Texas has been suffering its worst drought since the 1950s. 




More on This Story

Related Stories


In pictures: Texas wildfire
06 SEPTEMBER 2011, 
                        WORLD


Texas wildfires: Your stories
06 SEPTEMBER 2011, 
                        US & CANADA











Related Internet links


Office of the Governor - Rick Perry



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More US & Canada stories
RSS




White House 'rushed' solar firm's loan

House Republicans say the Obama administration could have rushed approval for political reasons on a federal loan to a failed solar panel firm, which is being investigated by the FBI.



Republicans win key New York seat




Blame shared over Gulf oil spill












Top stories



Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya


UBS man held over 'rogue trades' 


Eurozone 'coming to a standstill'


Bomb attack hits Pakistan funeral


New species of dolphin discovered









Features & Analysis




Heading for showdown

Palestinian UN bid puts Israel and US in quandary 	
				  




Lucky socks

Why we think rituals can influence results 	
				  




Attack of the trolls

Why do people abuse others on the internet? 	
				  




Inside Camelot

Sharp, tender and gossipy, the Jackie Kennedy treasure trove 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: America's 'man cave' boom



2: Moves to stop Palestinian UN bid



3: 'Fonz' is honoured by the Queen



4: Nasa backs new astronaut vehicle



5: Van overloaded with 66 children



Read




1: Scarlett Johansson nude photo leak investigated by FBI



2: Nasa backs new astronaut vehicle



3: UBS finds $2bn unauthorised trade



4: Apple withdraws French Jewish app



5: New species of dolphin discovered



6: India actress film ban overturned



7: Nato chiefs visit Libya for talks



8: Attack of the trolls



9: Eurozone 'coming to a standstill'



10: 'Fonz' is honoured by the Queen



Video/Audio




1: America's 'man cave' boom Watch



2: Van overloaded with 66 children Watch



3: 'Beast from the East' seeks Yeti Watch



4: Next-generation pylons unveiled Watch



5: Nato leaders in Tripoli for talks Watch



6: Rocket design unveiled by Nasa Watch



7: Gaddafi 'planning attacks in Libya' Watch



8: One-minute World News Watch



9: How Polynesians survive in Utah Watch



10: Seaplanes retrace classic race Watch












Elsewhere on BBC News



Man v machine

It's only 2% about technology and 98% about people, says Colt Group tech boss















Programmes



HARDtalk Watch

The chairman of the BBC Trust, Lord Patten, pledges to 'bear down' on BBC executive pay
















Services

 News feeds
 Mobile
 Podcasts
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
World Service Trust




  Mobile      Search term:     bbc.co.uk navigation  News Sport Weather  Travel  TV Radio More       CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food Health   History Learning Music Science Nature   Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        BBC links   About the BBC   BBC Help   Contact Us   Accessibility Help   Terms of Use   Careers   Privacy & Cookies   Advertise With Us   Ad Choices     BBC © 2011 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  




































  







