Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire - Nation - TheState.com');
    }
-->



	
 









































    SUBSCRIBE:
    Print
Electronic (PDF)
Manage |
    NEWSLETTERS |
    SPECIAL OFFERS |
    RSS |
    MOBILE |
    TEXT ALERTS |
    PLACE ADS |
    ADVERTISE |
    N.I.E. |
    CONTACT US




TheState.com

Web Search powered by 
YAHOO!
SEARCH




  thestate.com    
        archives    
        web




















Traffic

Traffic
Conditions
DOT cameras


Incidents
Construction
 







current
5-day
full forecast
traffic













news

local
politics
crime
nation
world
education
weird
neighbors
special sections
data
blogs
news archive


sports

GoGamecocks.com
tigers
midlands preps
that's racin'
golf
blogs
ron morris


business

events calendar
people & achievements
20 under 40
book of lists
technology
homes
jobs
legals


life & style

comics/games
horoscopes
movie listings
tv listings
food & dining out
weekend
celebrations
place announcement
calendars & events
midlands moments
family ties
magazines
faith & values
living here


opinions

letters to the editor
blogs
editorial cartoons


media

buy photos
browse photos
sports photos
USC photos
Midlands Moments
videos


obits
Find N Save
classifieds
homes

apartments
real estate videos
real estate weekly


jobs

jobs at the state


cars
place ad























Wires - Wire - Nation

Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011
Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011

Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire


By APRIL CASTRO - Associated Press

 APRIL CASTRO       Associated Press      













 E-Mail
	

 Print
	

           Reprint
       
0 comments


Text Size:












tool name
close


		tool goes here
	






BASTROP, Texas — 			Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.		

























	Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, speaks during a news conference Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Austin, Texas. Perry marveled at the destruction and pointed out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres _ an area roughly the size of Connecticut _ had burned since December. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Ricardo B. Brazziell)  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT;  AP MEMBERS ONLY         

	- Ricardo B. Brazziell	/AP 






	Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- San Antonio Express-News, William Luther	/AP Photo 






	Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Clements lost his home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows a fire burning in Bastrop State Park in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation, Chase A. Fountain	/AP Photo 






	Laura Clements, left, and brother Ben, survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows the remains of a home burned in the Colovista area of Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation, Chase A. Fountain	/AP Photo 






	Dave Bailey looks through the ashes of his home that was destroyed by wildfires, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Smoke hangs as the sun rises over Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Low winds and better weather are giving firefighters opportunity to get a handle of the wildfires that have devastated central Texas.         

	- LM Otero	/AP Photo 






	Smoke from a wildfire hangs over a field of cattle, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Wildfires have destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Hayden Wilhelm sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.  More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	A homes destroyed by wildfire is seem among burned trees, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, near Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Smoke from wildfires outside of Austin, Texas, covers the view of the Texas Capitol Dome from South Congress Avenue, Wednesday,  Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighting crews started to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.         

	- Harry Cabluck	/AP Photo 






	An area destroyed by wildfire is seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Montgomery Fire Firefighter, Reed Griffith crosses the fire south of Todd Mission, Texas in Waller County on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.  (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran) MANDATORY CREDIT         

	- Mayra Beltran	/AP 







 CLICK FOR MORE PHOTOS 






































































































































AP Video:
					Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week				









AP Video:
					Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze				













AP Video:
					Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm				



AP Video:
					Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm				





AP Video:
					Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin				





AP Video:
					Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes				






























Today's news video




			Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place."It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday."I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough."The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring."Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry."It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."		



    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.

Get The State newspaper delivered to your home. Click here to subscribe.







Reader discussion

We encourage an open exchange of affirming and dissenting opinions on our stories. We invite you to comment on our content as part of our interactive community.



Click here to read our comment guidelines and learn about our commenting system. Report abuse by clicking the "Flag" button.




Hide this FAQ and policy statement



About our commenting system



Having trouble commenting?

You must be signed in to comment. You can sign in using your account at thestate.com or your Facebook, Twitter or Disqus accounts.

If you are logged in and still unable to comment, you might need to log out and log back in, delete your browser's stored cookies or change your browser's cookie settings to allow "third-party" cookies.


For more on managing browser cookies, view our help document here.



Fullscreen view recommended

Hide this document

        


How do I report abuse on comments I deem inappropriate?

Yes. Report abuse by clicking the "Flag" button.

What are some of the features of Disqus commenting?

You can select how comment threads are organized.  Some people prefer to read the newest comments first, while others prefer to read the oldest comments first.  Others prefer to sort on comments that have the best rating (highest number of "likes") or are the most popular now (highest number of "likes" and replies).  The choice will be yours. You can lock in your personal preference by selecting from among the options presented in the "Sort by" drop down menu that appears above the comments you are reading.  This setting follows you across the site as your read articles and can be changed at your convenience.

You will have the option of subscribing via email to a comment thread by clicking the "Subscribe by email" button at the bottom of the comment box. New comments will be sent directly to your email inbox, where you may read and respond by email.

You will be able to subscribe via RSS to a comment thread by clicking the "Subscribe by RSS" button at the bottom of the comment box.  This link will include step-by-step instructions on how to set up the RSS subscription.

If you are logged in using your Facebook account, you will be able to share your comments on specific articles to your Facebook profile page, just by clicking the "Share on Facebook" link directly beneath the comment box.  This is a per-post selection, so each time you comment on an article or reply to another comment, you will need to indicate your interest in sharing the post to Facebook. 

Will I need to register?

You can register with thestate.com to comment, or log in with an existing Disqus, Facebook or Twitter account. If you have forgotten your thestate.com username and password, you can have the information resent to you by clicking here.

What about my avatar?

We have created a default avatar for readers that log in using their thestate.com username and password. If you want to display a unique avatar, you can upload one to Disqus, Facebook or Twitter, and then comment on thestate.com stories using that account instead. 

Will I be able to indicate my approval of a comment?

Yes, by clicking the button labeled "Like."

Will I be able to "reply" to comments?

Yes. The ability to reply to specific comment posts will remain a core of thestate.com commenting.



 
We ask that you remain civil, and that you follow these guidelines:
 
 Do not resort to personal abuse. You may disagree with the content of an article, with the reporter or with other readers comments, but do not attack anyone personally. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy.
 
 Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story will be deleted.
 
 Do not use foul language. Don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks or other symbols or foreign phrases.
 
 Avoid hate speech. Abusive comments, racist rants or defamatory statements about any group will be deleted.
 
 Do not use threatening language. Repeated bullying or taunting will be cause for banning your account.
 
 Use standard English grammar and observe accepted rules for capitalization, punctuation and spelling. Do not post a comment using all capital letters.
 
 Do not post spam or advertising of any kind.
 
 Do not add images to your comments.
 
 Do not link to Web sites outside of thestate.com.
 
 Do not use an avatar that is offensive or portrays someone in a negative light. Do not misspell or emphasize letters in a person's name to ridicule them or portray them in a negative manner. 
 
 Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines.
  
We reserve the right to delete posts that do not follow these guidelines. Posts that violate these guidelines or are otherwise offensive should be reported immediately. Click the "flag" link under the offending comment.
  
If a post is determined to have violated the guidelines listed above, it may be (1) blocked or (2) deleted from our system. 
  
Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well.
  
Read the terms of service for our Web site here.

If I run into problems or want to share feedback, who should I contact?

For problems with article commenting, or feedback on the changes, please email online@thestate.com.














The news you want delivered to your e-mail!








Sign Out




SIGN IN BECOME A MEMBER


















Quick Job Search







Enter Keyword(s):



Enter a City:





Select a State:

All United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



Select a Category:

All Job Categories
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive1
Banking1
Biotech1
Broadcast - Journalism1
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse






Advanced Job Search |
			Search by Category











The State Top Jobs »





» See More Top Jobs


















Fans
Recommendations
Your friends
Post


















Most Popular


Lexington woman accused of showing porn, giving liquor to teens
20 charged in Midlands drug conspiracy
$17 billion deficit concerns experts
The birth of an offense
USC says it is ready finally to distribute Prudential money
25 must-have items for the Gamecock fan
SC tax preparer sentenced for filing false returns
Man in fatal Lexington wreck identified
DOT panel beating bushes for funds
If Bowyer can’t find a new team, others should worry
 







SITE MAP

news

nation
world
politics
local
media
data



sports

gogamecocks.com
tigers
midlands preps
that's racin
golf



business

cbj
people & promotions
technology
homes
jobs
legals
consumer blog



life & style

announcements
place announcement
calendars & events
comics/games
horoscopes
movie listings
tv listings
faith & values
family ties
food & dining out
living here
magazines
weekend



opinions

letters to the editor
submit a letter
blogs
cartoons



media

browse photos
buy photos
midlands moments
sports photos
USC photos
videos








Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About our ads
Copyright
About TheState.com
About the McClatchy Company

































