 Donate and volunteer: How you can help the wildfire victims - 2011-Sep-06 - CultureMap Austin













                Log In
                




                Get Our Alerts
                




                CultureMap Houston
                











































Home


Music + Film


Food + Drink


Arts


Design + Style


Life


Innovation


Scene


Outdoors + Fitness


Sports










































 CENTRAL TEXAS BURNS 
Donate and volunteer: How you can help the wildfire victims 




Tweet



		
		By
		  
		Shelley Seale


09.06.11 | 11:01 am



	The main fire started in the Lost Pines area, and moved unchecked for at least 16 miles south. Because there are a number of separate fires in the Bastrop area, the Texas Forest Service (TFS) is referring to them as the "Bastrop County Complex" fires. The Bastrop fire is still considered to have no containment, according to TFS. More than 500 homes have been destroyed along with 30,000 acres — including approximately one-third of Bastrop State Park and its old-growth pine trees.  Approximately 5,000 people have been evacuated from the area, and the fires continue to spread. According to KXAN News, nearly every public safety agency in the region is stretched to the breaking point, and FEMA has promised to help.

	There is much more that Central Texas can do to help. "There are a lot of nonprofits in the area who have sprung to action," says Monica Maldonado Williams of the Austin Community Foundation. "We've set up an emergency fund where people can donate, and 100% of their tax-deductible donation will go to area non-profits who are helping with this disaster - many of them small organizations like the Bastrop Food Bank."

	If you'd like to assist those who have been evacuated or lost their homes in these devastating fires, here are some ways to help. Keep in mind, most organizations need money, so consider making a cash donation in order to help:


		Check the home page of Austin Community Foundation to donate to the Central Texas Fire Relief Emergency Fund.

		Drop off donations at KNBT/KGNB radio station: clothing, shoes, new pillows, toiletry items, diapers, blankets, etc. No food items please. For questions or to volunteer, please contact Megan Hancock at 512-304-8171.

		Sweet Dreams Bakery is collecting clothes, toiletries, and pet food to deliver to those in need in Bastrop. Tip jar donations will also be collected. Call 830-626-2253 with any questions.

		The American Red Cross of Central Texas has set up a page to collect money, food and clothing donations.

		Texas Forest Service has established the VFD Emergency Assistance Fund to help volunteer fire departments. All proceeds (100 percent) will be distributed to volunteer fire departments via grants for firefighting expenses.

Catholic Charities of Central Texas will accept donations for wildfire victims on Tuesday, Sept. 6. Donations can be brought to the Diocese of Austin Pastoral Center at 6225 Highway 290 East from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Donations will also be accepted from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Catholic Charities of Central Texas in Austin at 1817 East Sixth Street. Click the link for a list of needed items.

Austin Pets Alive is helping with dozens of Bastrop area animals, and needs donations.

		The Thrift Shop at the Episcopal Church of the Resurrection in Austin is accepting donations for victims. The shop at 2008 Justin Lane will take donations of clothing, housewares and toiletries.

Austin Christian Fellowship is taking donations of bottled water, sports drinks, non-perishable snacks, toiletries, work gloves, heavy duty trash bags, flashlights, batteries and pet food. Donations can be taken to 6401 River Place Boulevard.

		The Oasis Lake Travis restaurant will be serving as a drop-off point for water, work gloves, toiletries, non-perishable food items, clothing, trash bags, and flash lights with batteries. Location: 6550 Comanche Trail.


	For those who are affected by the Bastrop fires, here are several resources:


		Five shelters are open for Bastrop County residents: Bastrop Middle School, Vandergrift High School, Rouse High School and Smithville Recreation Center. Also Grace Lutheran Church and First Baptist Church in Smithville, and Ascension Catholic Church.

		A Facebook page has been created, called We Are Okay in Bastrop. This is where people are posting information and looking for answers about houses, pets and family members.

YMCA Bastrop offering free child watch for ages 'potty trained' and older. Tuesday to Friday from 10 am to 5 pm at Bastrop Christian Church, 1104 Church St.

		The Austin Humane Society has taken in many animals from the Bastrop shelter and rescued from homes. If you are looking for your pet, please email sstreif@austinhumanesociety.org with a detailed description.

		The American Legion in Bastrop is accepting pets and livestock.

		The U.S. Small Business Administration is offering low interest disaster loans to help people get back on their feet. $200,000 loans are available for homeowners needing to make repairs. Another $40,000 in loans is available to help renters or homeowners replace personal belongings.

		For more information, call the citizen's information hotline at 512-332-8856 or 512-332-8814.





bastrop, 
    
    disaster, 
    
    donate, 
    
    fire, 
    
    help, 
    
    volunteer, 
    
    wildfire




Follow @ShelleySeale









Tweet







Print





Email





Republish





Share a comment below









Related News

09.12.11
Austin nonprofit WOWi aims to give Cambodian kids a future


09.10.11
The Prairie: Texas Time Traveling


09.08.11
Fuel for the fire: Drought is a tree-killer, thousands to die in Austin


09.06.11
Running for their lives: One family's story


08.31.11
Austin's New Year 2012 wants you 


Comments








Photo 1
Photo 2
Photo 3
Photo 4






 























09.14.11
10:00 pm


Wearing Vera Wang: Beyoncé and Kim Kardashian trip out with Wang





09.14.11
04:21 pm


ABC, CW, FOX & Showtime stream series online ahead of scheduled premieres in an effort to capture “buzz generation” 





09.14.11
04:08 pm


Ramin Nazer: "I might be growing as a comic, but I think that Austin is growing faster than I am."





09.14.11
04:07 pm


What are you drinking at ACL?





09.14.11
04:05 pm


Whiskey and rock n' roll: The Jack and Jim Gallery at ACL Live celebrates Jim Marshall's photography












15 | sep at 8:00 am


Fantastic Arcade's Ultimate Warrior Nerd Search


The Highball



15 | sep at 11:00 am


ACL Live and Jack Daniel's present: The "Jack & Jim" Gallery


ACL Live



15 | sep at 6:00 pm


Women and Their Work's Red Dot Art Spree & VIP Pre Spree


Women and Their Work



15 | sep at 6:00 pm


Diez y Seis


The Emma S. Barrientos Mexican-American Cultural Center







Seemoreevents


















Independent Music Meccas




Get Lost in Literature









Emo's
Red 7
The Mohawk
The Scoot Inn Bier Garten
The Parish


BookPeople
Austin Books and Comics
Book Woman
Resistencia Bookstore
MonkeyWrench Books
Domy Books Austin
Dragon's Lair Comics & Fantasy




Read full list >


Read full list >









Big TVs and Good Eats




Best-in-Town Breakfast Tacos









The Black Sheep Lodge
Cover 3
Cuatro's
Third Base
The Tavern
Pluckers Wing Bar - The Original
Bar 96


Juan in a Million
Tamale House
Mi Madre's
TacoDeli Central
Los Altos
El Arroyo - Downtown
El Chilito Tacos y Cafe




Read full list >


Read full list >









Big Deal Burgers




24/7 Hotspots









The Jackalope
Roaring Fork - Congress
Hut's Hamburgers
Dirty Martin's Kum-Bak Place
Casino El Camino Bar & Grill
Mother's Cafe and Garden


24 Diner
Kerbey Lane Cafe - UT
Magnolia Cafe South Congress
Epoch Coffeehouse
Bennu Coffee




Read full list >


Read full list >









Downright Dives




Cozy Comforts









Poodle Dog Lounge
Horseshoe Lounge
Barfly's
Carousel Lounge
G&S Lounge
Lala's Little Nugget


Ginger Man Austin
Red House Pizzeria
Halcyon Coffee Bar and Lounge
Haddingtons
Blue Dahlia Bistro
Rio Rita Lounge
Clive Bar




Read full list >


Read full list >









Country Circuit Standards 




Dancing (Dirty and Otherwise)









Ginny's Little Longhorn Saloon
The Hole in the Wall
Saxon Pub
The Continental Club Austin
Threadgill's Restaurant
Cactus Cafe


Barbarella 
Plush
The Broken Spoke
Rain
The Eastern
Elysium
Cheer Up Charlie's




Read full list >


Read full list >




















Your Friends Who Like CultureMap











Arthouse at the Jones Center
A modern architectural wonder launches Austin art into the future




East Side Show Room
A romantically inspired jaunt into the 20s




Barley Swine
Pork and beer receive the attention they deserve




Spa at the Four Seasons
A great place to relax and rejuvenate downtown




ACL Live
The world famous stage got a beautiful new home




The Domain
Austin's premier shopping mall




Barton Springs
The cool, beating heart of Austin




Moonlight Towers
Austin historical landmarks with a haunting past



































Street Seen pick for 09.09
Jessica Flores
Read about why we made this choice >

Nominate someone for Street Seen >

















9.11
How I met America's First Formula 1 Champion: Phil Hill at Monza



8.31
The date is set, Austin's Formula One race moved to November



8.26
This Weekend: The Belgian Grand Prix

























Home
|
About Us
|
News Tips & Suggestions
|
Submit Your Event
|
Advertise
|
Terms and Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Turn Mobile View On


                Copyright 2009-2011 CultureMap, LLC|Powered by Mouth Watering Media, LLC










Related

                Articles





Austin nonprofit WOWi aims to give Cambodian kids a future






The Prairie: Texas Time Traveling






Fuel for the fire: Drought is a tree-killer, thousands to die in Austin






Running for their lives: One family's story






Austin's New Year 2012 wants you 








Alerts 
0


















Subscribe

Login




Tweet

































