 November 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






The Best Ways To Keep Warm
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 30 under Eco-friendly, Solar Power
December has almost arrived, ending one of the coldest Novembers in many years. It is very important for all the family go get warm inside the home. This is especially recommended for young children or elderly people who are more prone to catching a virus. The more heat generated in your house the better for [...]


1 Comment



Flexitricity Part of Winning Low Carbon London Initiative
POSTED BY Press on Nov 30 under Uncategorized
Flexitricity Part of Winning Low Carbon London Initiative – Company’s Smart Grid Technology to Demonstrate how new Technologies and Active Network Management Will Help Meet London’s low Carbon Goals PR Newswire — November 30, 2010 LONDON and EDINBURGH, Scotland, November 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — A UK company, Flexitricity (http://www.flexitricity.com), today announced its participation in UK [...]


Comments Off



Electrocomponents Turns Trash Into Cash
POSTED BY Press on Nov 30 under Uncategorized
Electrocomponents Turns Trash Into Cash PR Newswire — November 30, 2010 OXFORD, England, November 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Electrocomponents plc (LSE:ECM), the world’s largest high service distributor of electronics and maintenance products, has announced that Project Enterprise, a green scheme to clear excess stock, has reduced scrap value in its UK business from GBP 1.4m [...]


Comments Off



Biomass Energy Market in China Now Available – Sandler Research
POSTED BY Press on Nov 30 under Uncategorized
Biomass Energy Market in China Now Available – Sandler Research – Sandler Research Announces it Will Carry Biomass Energy Market in China Research Report in its Store PR Newswire — November 30, 2010 DALLAS, November 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Browse the complete Report on: http://www.sandlerresearch.org/reports/23907-biomass-energy-market-in-china.h tml Search More Then 30000 Market Research Reports at http://www.sandlerresearch.org/ [...]


Comments Off



SwissINSO Announces the Signing of a Sales Contract for its Krystall(TM) Water Purification Unit – the First in North Africa
POSTED BY Press on Nov 30 under Uncategorized
SwissINSO Announces the Signing of a Sales Contract for its Krystall(TM) Water Purification Unit – the First in North Africa PR Newswire — November 30, 2010 LAUSANNE, Switzerland, November 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — SwissINSO Holding Inc. (OTCBB:SWHN) a leader in the development and application of solar-powered energy solutions, today announced the signing of a sales [...]


Comments Off



Raising Awareness of the Power of the Sun
POSTED BY Press on Nov 29 under Eco-friendly
Your Sun Your Energy: Raising Awareness of the Power of the Sun PR Newswire — November 29, 2010 BRUSSELS, November 29, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — A unique and exciting campaign on the benefits of solar photovoltaic electricity Your Sun Your Energy has just been launched. Promoting the advantages of photovoltaics and demonstrating what the virtually infinite [...]


1 Comment



SwissINSO Announces the Signing of a Sales Contract for its Krystall(TM) Water Purification Unit – the First in North Africa
POSTED BY Press on Nov 29 under Uncategorized
SwissINSO Announces the Signing of a Sales Contract for its Krystall(TM) Water Purification Unit – the First in North Africa PR Newswire — November 29, 2010 LAUSANNE, Switzerland, November 29, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — SwissINSO Holding Inc. (OTCBB:SWHN) a leader in the development and application of solar-powered energy solutions, today announced the signing of a sales [...]


Comments Off



100% Electric Nissan LEAF is 2011 European Car of the Year
POSTED BY Press on Nov 29 under Uncategorized
100% Electric Nissan LEAF is 2011 European Car of the Year – First Electric Vehicle to Win the Prestigious Award PR Newswire — November 29, 2010 YOKOHAMA, Japan, November 29, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — In a historic moment for Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. and zero emission vehicles, the 100% electric Nissan LEAF was awarded 2011 European [...]


Comments Off



Remove Snow The Eco Way
POSTED BY Elaine on Nov 29 under Animals, Eco-friendly
The coldest November in decades is finally coming to an end. Many countries across the world have welcomed a heavy snow fall which can bring with it a lot of fun for the kids, but unfortunately if proper precautions are not taken accidents on the roads will be more frequent. Do your part for the [...]


Comments Off



Consumer Goods Industry Announces Initiatives on Climate Protection
POSTED BY Press on Nov 29 under Uncategorized
Consumer Goods Industry Announces Initiatives on Climate Protection – Retailers and Manufacturers to Halt Deforestation Practices and Phase Out Climate-Damaging Refrigerants PR Newswire — November 29, 2010 PARIS, November 29, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — On the first day of the Cancun Climate Summit, the Consumer Goods Forum announced two major initiatives on climate change: to work [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


mother earth
national hurricane center
organic cotton
recycled materials
climate change
earthquake
ecofriendly
lifestyle
global warming
eco
green
barack obama
consumers
carbon footprint
money
Eco-friendly
environment
christmas
tropical storm lee
earth
epicenter
hurricane irene
prnewswire
richter scale
global warning
reuters
saving energy
Recycling
pr newswire
clothes
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




