Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in | US News.Net

US News.Net 










 
 
 












Home

Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in
US News.NetThursday 8th September, 2011 (Source: San Diego Union-Tribune)
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   
BASTROP, Texas -;  Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.      In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make...  ... Read the full story at San Diego Union-Tribune 
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   




Have your say on this story



Your nickname
 (required)


Message



















Top Stories  













White House plays down Democrats' New York special election lossThe White House has been attempting to play down the Democrat party's New York special election loss.

A seasoned Democrat, David Weprin lost his seat ... [read story]
Pak lobbying to block US military presence in Afghanistan beyond 2014Pakistan has begun secret diplomatic manoeuvres to forge a consensus among regional countries to thwart the United States' plan to maintain a military ... [read story]
Snails rode over birds to cross continents?Like humans use aeroplanes for flying, snails may have ridden over shorebirds or stuck to their legs to cross Central America twice in the past millio ... [read story]
Snails may have flown over Mexico in bellies of birdsOnce in a great while, snails successfully crossed Central America by flying over Mexico stuck to the legs or riding on the bellies of shorebirds, a n ... [read story]
Ice-T's wife Coco reveals breast while modelling Richie Rich outfitRapper Ice-T's buxom wife Coco Austin faced a wardrobe malfunction as she modelled a Richie Rich outfit for New York Fashion Week and her right breast ... [read story]





















Daily Newsletter
US News RSS Feed
World News RSS Feed
Business and Finance RSS Feed


Home
Newsletter
Map
About Us
News Releases
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map

© 1999 - 2011 Mainstream Media EC - All rights reserved

