Puddle for Hope | Puddle for Hope




Puddle for Hope


Puddle for Hope





 





 Recent Posts 
A&M-Commerce celebrates Constitution Day – North Texas e-News
West County Calendar: Week of Sept. 14
Johnny Depp Pictures in Scary Makeup For Dark Shadows
Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation
TV tonight: ‘Survivor: South Pacific’ premiere and ‘AGT’ finale
Constitution Day events on tap at SIU
The American Spectator : AmSpecBlog : Solyndra is Solely Obama’s Fault
Lucas tells town hall meeting deep cuts are coming »
  Local news »
  The Enid News and Eagle, Enid, OK
Lifeline Live: Your ticket to all that’s entertainment
‘America’s Got Talent’ Star Jackie Evancho to Release Christmas Album (Exclusive)
Microbiology under the microscope
9/11 remembered by celebrities in 'I Will (Pay Tribute)'
Tom Borelli Talks Energy Policy — Tuesday Afternoon on Fox Business Network – Amy Ridenour’s National Center Blog – A Conservative Blog
MORENO VALLEY: Mall's walkers also keep watch
EPA must clarify ag regulations

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsactress
american idol
amp
appearance
associated press
barack obama
cnn
copy and paste
crowd
dow jones
espn
experiences
facebook
five months
fox news
game
getty images
google
hollywood
images
img src
iphone
lady gaga
late show with david letterman
launch
lockout
love
lt
mdash
monday night
money
nbsp
no doubt
obama
photos
quot
release source
rsquo
salary cap
speculation
tea party
twitter
victory
weather
wide receiver
 



 

A&M-Commerce celebrates Constitution Day – North Texas e-News



 
Commerce, Texas (Sept. 12, 2011)--Texas A&M University-Commerce will celebrate Constitution Day with a commemorative program and refreshments starting at 11 a.m. Friday, Sept. 16 in Conference Room A of the Sam Rayburn Student Center.            The history and political science departments will sponsor the program with assistance from the University College. According to Dr. Ricky Dobbs, dean of the University College, this year

 




West County Calendar: Week of Sept. 14

Wednesday, Sept. 14 FREE CONCERT: Clayton's Parties in the Park series features afree performance by FatPocket from 5 to 8:30 p.m. Sept. 14 onMeramec Avenue between Forsyth Boulevard and Maryland Avenue.Half-price beer is available from 5 to 5:30 p.m. Call 314-726-3033or visit partiesinthepark.org. LIVING WITH ASPERGER'S: Aaron Likens, author of "Finding Kansas:Decoding the Enigma of … Continue reading





Johnny Depp Pictures in Scary Makeup For Dark Shadows

Johnny Depp was on the set of Dark Shadows yesterday with costar Chloe Moretz, shooting the new Tim Burton movie in Devon. The piece sees Johnny playing vampire Barnabas Collins, who meets other fantastical creatures like monsters, witches, and werewolves. His significant other, Vanessa Paradis, has also been focusing on her movie career. She popped … Continue reading





Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation

SALT LAKE CITY— Conjoined twins, Kendra and Maliyah Herrin, were surgically separated at Primary Children's Medical Center in 2006. Last month they celebrated the five-year anniversary of their surgery."As far as the decisions we made for the girls, I believe every one of them has turned out well,” said the twins’ father Jake Herrin. Kendra … Continue reading





TV tonight: ‘Survivor: South Pacific’ premiere and ‘AGT’ finale

It’s a really big night for reality TV fans with the premiere of Survivor: South Pacific going up against the finale of America’s Got Talent. In situations like these, TiVo can work its magic. Here’s the latest scoop about both.Survivor: South Pacific PremiereEmmy Award-winning host Jeff Probst is back for his 23rd season as Survivor: … Continue reading





Constitution Day events on tap at SIU

CARBONDALE - Southern Illinois University Carbondale will holdseveral events over the next week to mark Constitution Day. Constitution Day is Saturday. The day marks the 224th anniversaryof delegates to the Philadelphia Convention completing and signingthe U.S. Constitution on Sept. 17, 1787. Because Constitution Dayfalls on a weekend, the observation is Friday, Sept. 16. All events … Continue reading





The American Spectator : AmSpecBlog : Solyndra is Solely Obama’s Fault

AmSpecBlog So today's Dem line in defending against "Obama's Enron," namelySolyndra, is that "the Bush admin did 'due diligence' on solarcompany's loan, Obama officials tell lawmakers," per Greenwire(subscription required). I've been watching the hearing and this isindeed an accurate representation of the wagon-circling,of their defense of the indefensible.At the hearing's close, there was a noteworthy addition to … Continue reading





Lucas tells town hall meeting deep cuts are coming »
  Local news »
  The Enid News and Eagle, Enid, OK

ENID — The day was bright and sunny outside Briggs Auditorium on the Northern Oklahoma College Enid campus Wednesday, but inside the message was dark and gloomy. America is broke. U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas, R-Okla., told the crowd at his town hall meeting the government is out of money and deep cuts are coming. Normally … Continue reading





Lifeline Live: Your ticket to all that’s entertainment

(SPOILER ALERT: if you haven't seen the finale yet, go no further)So Who's Got Talent this summer?Among the four finalists -- Sinatra crooner Landau Eugene Murphy Jr., body-lighted Team iLuminate, band PopLyfe, which stumbled Tuesday on its Queen cover medley; and shadow dancers Silhouettes -- the winner of this season's $1 million and Vegas contract … Continue reading





‘America’s Got Talent’ Star Jackie Evancho to Release Christmas Album (Exclusive)

Justin Bieber isn’t the only teen sensation set to release a holiday album this year.The Hollywood Reporter has learned that former America’s Got Talent contestant Jackie Evancho will release a Christmas album, due to hit stores this holiday season. The 11-year-old previously debuted her first major EP, titled O Holy Night, in Nov. of 2010. … Continue reading






Older posts >>










            © 2011 
                Puddle for Hope            







