Bastrop wildfire battle continues with aid from Washington and fellow states | US News.Net

US News.Net 










 
 
 












Home

Bastrop wildfire battle continues with aid from Washington and fellow states
US News.NetWednesday 7th September, 2011
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   
A wildfire in Bastrop State Park in Texas is quickly turning into one of the worst in the state’s history, killing several people and destroying 1,000 homes.
 State fire-fighting services in Texas are stretched to their limit battling the blaze, which has grown in size, killing 4 people and burning hundreds of homes in a single day.
 The Bastrop fire has been fuelled by strong winds from Tropical Storm Lee in the Gulf of Mexico over the weekend, whipping the runaway blaze into a frenzy.
 Texas, suffering through a severe drought, has been hit by more than 180 separate wildfires in the past week alone, prompting the White House to release federal funds for emergency disaster management and recovery.
 “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning,” said Texas Governor Rick Perry, who has suspended presidential campaigning to deal with the crisis. It is unclear whether the Republican hopeful will be able to attend an upcoming Republican presidential debate in California.
 Perry said Tuesday that he expects further federal support for Texans whose homes have been destroyed.
 White House spokesperson Jay Carney said the White House would “continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials in their efforts to contain these fires”, adding that US President Obama had approved seven federal grants to Texas in the wake of the latest wildfire outbreaks.
 Perry has criticised federal red tape that prevents the military being able to use its own heavy equipment to help state officials fight the fires. Perry was referring to bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood base, 75 miles from Bastrop.
 “When you’ve got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don’t care who the asset belongs to,” said Governor Perry. “If it’s sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that’s a problem.”
 Fort Hood has been fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze, although that wildfire is much smaller than the Bastrop inferno.
 Texas put out a call for help in fighting its wildfires and the federal government has sent heavy tanker planes and aircraft capable of scooping water from lakes. Other states have also responded to the call, sending aircraft and fire crews.
 The Bastrop fire is now being fought by around 1,200 fire-fighters, their ranks swelled by the addition of fire crews from Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon.
 “We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service. 
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   




Have your say on this story



Your nickname
 (required)


Message



















Top Stories  













White House plays down Democrats' New York special election lossThe White House has been attempting to play down the Democrat party's New York special election loss.

A seasoned Democrat, David Weprin lost his seat ... [read story]
Pak lobbying to block US military presence in Afghanistan beyond 2014Pakistan has begun secret diplomatic manoeuvres to forge a consensus among regional countries to thwart the United States' plan to maintain a military ... [read story]
Snails rode over birds to cross continents?Like humans use aeroplanes for flying, snails may have ridden over shorebirds or stuck to their legs to cross Central America twice in the past millio ... [read story]
Snails may have flown over Mexico in bellies of birdsOnce in a great while, snails successfully crossed Central America by flying over Mexico stuck to the legs or riding on the bellies of shorebirds, a n ... [read story]
Ice-T's wife Coco reveals breast while modelling Richie Rich outfitRapper Ice-T's buxom wife Coco Austin faced a wardrobe malfunction as she modelled a Richie Rich outfit for New York Fashion Week and her right breast ... [read story]





















Daily Newsletter
US News RSS Feed
World News RSS Feed
Business and Finance RSS Feed


Home
Newsletter
Map
About Us
News Releases
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map

© 1999 - 2011 Mainstream Media EC - All rights reserved

