 September 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Cruise Shipping Virtual Launches Sustainability Event
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
Cruise Shipping Virtual Launches Sustainability Event – Attendees Call It a Success PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 PRINCETON, New Jersey, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Cruise Shipping Virtual, an interactive live online event, closed on Tuesday with attendees calling the eco-centric event a success. This is the second virtual event organized by Cruise Shipping [...]


Comments Off



Wind Power Now Lucrative Energy Option for UK Consumers
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
Wind Power Now Lucrative Energy Option for UK Consumers – Southwest Windpower’s turbine is now MCS Certified PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 LONDON, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Southwest Windpower, the world’s leading supplier of small wind generators, has received product certification for its Skystream 3.7(R) wind turbines under the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS), [...]


Comments Off



Essential Bedding Choices
POSTED BY Elaine on Sep 30 under Eco-friendly, Organic
After a hard day at work there is no other thought quite as comforting as your bed at home. The ideal place to de-stress and get a good nights sleep. To truly enhance your sleeping experience in style and quality then make the change today with some Eco- bedding. The first topic to decide is [...]


Comments Off



Valeo-Ichikoh Alliance Equips the Nissan Leaf Electric Vehicle With LED Low Beam Headlamps
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
Valeo-Ichikoh Alliance Equips the Nissan Leaf Electric Vehicle With LED Low Beam Headlamps PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 PARIS, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Valeo and its partner in Japan, Ichikoh, have developed a new generation of LED front lighting systems, unveiled as a world premiere on the Nissan Leaf Electric Vehicle. The Alliance’s [...]


Comments Off



TAG Heuer Celebrates the 150th Anniversary in Paris, the High Point of a Historical World Tour
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
TAG Heuer Celebrates the 150th Anniversary in Paris, the High Point of a Historical World Tour PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 PARIS, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — The Odyssey of Pioneers, the first world tour of an electric roadster, ended in Paris, at the LVMH Headquarters, with a cortege of artists and celebrities who [...]


Comments Off



Valeo Unveils its Specific Technologies for Electric Vehicles Featured on its Show Car at the Paris Motor Show
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
Valeo Unveils its Specific Technologies for Electric Vehicles Featured on its Show Car at the Paris Motor Show PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 PARIS, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Valeo is presenting an electric show car at the Paris Motor Show. This demonstration vehicle showcases a wide range of innovative technologies that increase the [...]


Comments Off



Honeywell Turbo Innovations Launched on High Performing Mercedes, Range Rover Engines
POSTED BY Press on Sep 30 under Uncategorized
Honeywell Turbo Innovations Launched on High Performing Mercedes, Range Rover Engines – Latest Turbo Technologies Help Automakers Boost Fuel Economy Between 10% to 20%+ on Top Engines at Paris Motor Show PR Newswire — September 30, 2010 PARIS, September 30, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Honeywell Turbo Technologies (NYSE: HON), the leading global developer of automotive turbochargers, [...]


Comments Off



Eco-Fashion Week Impresses
POSTED BY Elaine on Sep 29 under Animals, Eco Business, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly
Fashion is always guaranteed to draw in a big crowd. Everybody wants to know all about the latest trends, and new seasons. For the activists amongst us who love a good environmentally friendly outfit, then Eco-Fashion week is sure to leave a lasting impression. Arriving in Vancouver Canada, which already has a good reputation as [...]


Comments Off



Royal Recognition for London’s Elephant Parade 2010 Official Logistics Partner Eco Movers
POSTED BY Press on Sep 29 under Eco-friendly
Royal Recognition for London’s Elephant Parade 2010 Official Logistics Partner Eco Movers PR Newswire — September 29, 2010 LONDON, September 29, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Following their participation in Elephant Parade 2010, Eco Movers (http://www.ecomovers.co.uk) were given the opportunity to meet Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall at the Royal Hospital Chelsea. Zach Wright, Assistant [...]


Comments Off



Brighten up your Home and Office With Eco-Art
POSTED BY Elaine on Sep 28 under Animals, Eco-friendly
Eco-Art is an increasing trend. Many artists, and and freelance creative people are looking for new ways to spread the dangers of global warming. What better way to express what you feel and promote an important message than through your art? There is a fine selection of art, posters, and cards available which are sure [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


clothes
recycled materials
global warming
christmas
Recycling
reuters
environment
eco
mother earth
green
climate change
carbon footprint
earthquake
pr newswire
Eco-friendly
hurricane irene
global warning
consumers
tropical storm lee
prnewswire
organic cotton
richter scale
saving energy
national hurricane center
lifestyle
money
barack obama
epicenter
ecofriendly
earth
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterwood deckseco calendarPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




