Yahoo! NewsYahoo!NEWSTop StoriesAll NewsCameron and Sarkozy visit LibyaBy Joseph Logan and Alexander Dziadosz | Reuters - 26 mins ago   TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Nicolas Sarkozy and David Cameron flew in to Tripoli under heavy guard on Thursday, to be welcomed by the new leaders the French and British air forces helped install in Libya, three weeks after rebel forces overthrew Muammar Gaddafi. French President Sarkozy and the British prime minister, who jointly have taken credit for leading a six-month NATO campaign in which the United States took an unusual back seat, were met at their aircraft by smiles and handshakes from the two leading figures of the disparate anti-Gaddafi coalition. The two men, accompanied by their foreign ministers, were later welcomed with cheers from onlookers during a visit to a Tripoli hospital -- a mark of the popularity their intervention has enjoyed on the streets of Libya after 42 years of rule by Gaddafi, who remains a fugitive and has vowed to fight back. Cameron, keen to steer clear of public triumphalism for a policy of support that seemed to many highly risky, insisted that Libyans were in charge of their own country and that there was still much to do bring peace and democracy. During talks in the capital and later in Benghazi, the seat of the February revolt that was to add Gaddafi to the list of Arab autocrats felled by uprisings this year, Cameron and Sarkozy were to confirm offers of help for the National Transitional Council. It is still battling Gaddafi loyalists in a handful of areas and trying to assert its authority over its host of ragtag militia allies. "There's still more work to be done, there's still a long way to go. But I think to show international support for the NTC ... it's important to be here," Cameron said. "Britain played a role which I'm very proud of, but in the end this is what the Libyans did themselves and I wanted to come and congratulate them and work out how we can help next, as they rebuild their country," he added, speaking at the airport. After the airport welcome from NTC chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil and Mahmoud Jibril, the head of the NTC executive -- effectively interim prime minister -- the two European leaders were driven into the city in a convoy of dozens of vehicles, including some of the pick-up trucks mounted with anti-aircraft guns that have been the symbol of the Libyan revolt. "MERCI SARKOZY" Both men are popular on the streets of Libya, where "Merci Sarkozy" and "Thank you Britain" are common graffiti slogans. Both may hope to earn political dividends back home from what now appears to have been a successful bet. But on the eve of their visit, Abdel Jalil said heavy battles lie ahead against Gaddafi loyalists. Western countries and neighbors are anxious to welcome Libya into the international community, not least so it can restart lucrative oil production frozen by six months of war. Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan is expected in Libya on Friday. Egypt's foreign minister, Mohammed Kamel Amr, is also due to visit. A U.S. assistant secretary of state visited on Wednesday. Libya's new leaders say the international community has been slow to release frozen assets; diplomats said on Wednesday Britain had circulated a draft resolution to the United Nations Security Council to ease sanctions against Libya's National Oil Corp (NOC) and central bank, and hoped for a vote this week. NOC chairman Nouri Berouin told Reuters that Libya would start exporting crude oil from the eastern port of Tobruk within 10 days and could produce 1 million barrels a day within six months. But the failure to capture Gaddafi, and ongoing fighting in and around besieged towns still firmly held by the ousted leader's supporters, are proof that a peaceful and prosperous future for Libya is far from assured. The European Union on Wednesday demanded an end to arbitrary killings and detentions by both sides, and especially to vigilante attacks on sub-Saharan Africans and black Libyans, who are widely accused of having fought for Gaddafi. FIGHT "FAR FROM THE END" Gaddafi has not been seen in public since June. In a letter read out on Syria-based Arrai TV he called on the U.N. Security Council to protect his hometown of Sirte -- still held by forces loyal to him -- from what he called NATO "atrocities." "If Sirte is isolated from the rest of the world in order for atrocities to be committed against it, then the world has a duty not to be absent," Gaddafi was quoted as saying. His spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim, speaking by satellite from an undisclosed location, told Reuters the 69-year-old leader was still in Libya, in good spirits and ready to fight. "The leader is in good health, in high morale ... of course he is in Libya," said Ibrahim, who declined to give his own location. "The fight is as far away from the end as the world can imagine. We are still very powerful, our army is still powerful, we have thousands upon thousands of volunteers." The need for Sarkozy and Cameron to visit Benghazi as well as Tripoli is a sign of the obstacles Libya still faces in transforming itself into a peaceful, unified democracy. The NTC has not yet been able to safely establish a government in a capital still bristling with militiamen from disparate groups. The country is deeply divided. Many of its new rulers hail from Benghazi in the east, while the fighters who won the battle for Tripoli mostly come from towns in the west. The NTC has promised to name a more inclusive government lineup within days. Ghoga, the NTC deputy chairman, told Reuters in Benghazi that the NTC would remain based there at least until the "liberation" of cities in Gaddafi's supporters' hands. Abdel Jalil called for equipment to fight what he predicted would be hard battles against Gaddafi loyalists near the city of Sabha deep in the Sahara desert. "There will be a lot of fierce fighting in this area," he told BBC television. "We ask for support to get the right equipment in order to conquer these troops and to proceed further south to try and capture Colonel Gaddafi and his family." He said Gaddafi would be planning attacks on oilfields, cities or power plants. Towns held by Gaddafi loyalists have proven tenacious despite weeks of siege. After a week of fighting, NTC forces at Bani Walid, 150 km (95 miles) southeast of Tripoli, have been urging people to leave before they try to storm the town. (Editing by Jon Boyle) Related ArticlesLibyan veteran prepares assault on pro-Gaddafi bastionReuters - 2 hrs 12 mins agoAnalysis: Egyptian firms eye Libya but politics may be hurdleReuters - 2 hrs 12 mins agoEU worried by abuses by both sides in LibyaReuters - 2 hrs 12 mins agoSectionsU.S.WorldBusinessEntertainmentSportsTechPoliticsScienceHealthSet My LocationSign in | SettingsPrivacy | Legal | Help© 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved