 August 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






H.C. Starck – Improving Sputtering Performance in State-of-the-Art Thin Film Materials Lab
POSTED BY Press on Aug 31 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
H.C. Starck – Improving Sputtering Performance in State-of-the-Art Thin Film Materials Lab PR Newswire — August 31, 2010 EUCLID, Ohio, August 31, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — Material utilization, cost reduction and improved sputtering performance are leading factors for sputtering target research and development efforts at H.C. Starck Inc., Fabricated Products Group. As one of the world’s [...]


Comments Off



High Grade Si3N4 Powders from H.C. Starck are Preferred Materials for Solar Energy Applications
POSTED BY Press on Aug 31 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
High Grade Si3N4 Powders from H.C. Starck are Preferred Materials for Solar Energy Applications PR Newswire — August 31, 2010 GOSLAR, Germany, August 31, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — H.C. Starck GmbH, Advanced Metal and Ceramic Powders (AMCP) high grade Si3N4 powders continue to meet the purity requirements established by ingot/wafer producers. As one of the top [...]


Comments Off



Simplify Your Life
POSTED BY Elaine on Aug 31 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Recycling
When it comes to living an Eco-Friendly life less really is more. Buying bulk items will only cause trouble in the long term. All the excess waste, especially the items that can not be recycled will be left to disappear into the environment. This is a very negative thing and one example of how less [...]


Comments Off



Clearing up the Green Myths
POSTED BY Elaine on Aug 30 under Appliances, Conservation, Eco-friendly, Green Gadgets, Organic, Recycling, Solar Power, Water
It is a common misconception that when making the change to green everything will either be more complicated or expensive. This could very well be the reason that to many people maintain a busy lifestyle with no thoughts left for the environment. It is important to be aware of the ” Green Myths” and then [...]


1 Comment



Plastic Bags Use Significantly Reduces in the UK
POSTED BY Lira on Aug 30 under Eco-friendly News, Garbage and Waste, Recycling
Using plastic bags in supermarket and other stores have actually greatly reduced according to the Waste & Resources Action Programme (Wrap). This is for establishments all across the United Kingdom. According to Marks & Spencer: “We started charging for food carrier bags in all stores in May 2008. Last year we used 89m single-use carrier [...]


Comments Off



The Green Trash Bag
POSTED BY Lira on Aug 30 under Garbage and Waste, Recycling
I quite nitpick when it comes to trash and as much as I want to practice less wastes, I do end up with more wastes than intended. Running a household with so many dogs, this is sometimes inevitable. Our garbage pile sometimes make me cringe and I always give double effort to at least keep [...]


Comments Off



Tree Planting in Barangay Greenhills
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 30 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly News
As part of its annual celebration, Barangay Greenhills lined up an array of activities ranging from medical missions and eco-friendly initiatives which took place from August 16 to 22, 2010. One of the key programs for the week-long celebration included tree planting at parks of nearby Greenhills villages. The tree planting activity was led by [...]


Comments Off



Non-Toxic Natural Bedding
POSTED BY Elaine on Aug 27 under Eco-friendly, Organic
A good nights sleep is essential for having a productive day. It keeps you feeling focused, refreshed, and generally with enough energy to accomplish a lot in a quick moving lifestyle. Choosing the correct bed sheets and blankets helps to create the right atmosphere, which helps you to sleep soundly. The main part of your [...]


Comments Off



Cooking Healthy with Earth Friendly Cookware
POSTED BY Lira on Aug 27 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
If you are fond of cooking, then you know that the type of cooking utensils used also matter to the kind of food you cook. Some cookware aren’t actually safe to use as they may infuse toxic particles on to the food, once it comes in contact with heat. You don’t have to worry about [...]


Comments Off



Safety and Style for your Baby
POSTED BY Elaine on Aug 26 under Eco Toys, Eco-friendly, Organic, Parenting
For new mothers, and moms to be it can be a difficult experience when the time for shopping takes place. There is so much to buy, most of which is necessary for the protection, comfort, and development of your child. An excellent way to start your journey is by deciding you want to buy only [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


pr newswire
tropical storm lee
reuters
ecofriendly
Eco-friendly
earthquake
christmas
eco
lifestyle
prnewswire
epicenter
national hurricane center
saving energy
carbon footprint
recycled materials
earth
green
barack obama
mother earth
global warning
money
global warming
Recycling
climate change
hurricane irene
environment
clothes
consumers
organic cotton
richter scale
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterchangewood decksPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




