Canadian Government will ignore results of farmer plebiscite on Canadian Wheat Board                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Canadian Government will ignore results of farmer plebiscite on Canadian Wheat Board    Ottawa :  Canada
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By northsunm32            4 0      
Views: 238
       Results of a non-binding vote on the future of the Canadian Wheat Board will be announced Monday, officials counting ballots say.The plebiscite was organized by the CWB which says farmers should have a say on whether the board's export monopoly for wheat produced in Western Canada should continue. The count was supposed to be released on Friday. Federal agriculture minister Gerry Ritz says the monopoly power of the Canadian Wheat Board will end, no matter what results come from a plebiscite. The federal government has announced that it plans to have the board's monopoly end in 2012. It is quite possible that a majority of farmers will support the monopoly. The U.S. and big grain companies have been trying to sabotage the board for years but without success. Now skilful propaganda and a Conservative government have enabled opponents to destroy the board.  The Conservative Party campaigned on a promise to take away the monopoly power or single desk selling. The Conservative Party has strong farmer support in Western Canada even though many of them probably do not support doing away with the monopoly. Just in case the Board wins the vote the Conservatvie government has made it clear it will go ahead and eliminate the monopoly anyway. The vote is irrelevant. The board has said western farmers benefit from a single desk system for marketing.The CWB plebiscite was held via a mail-in ballot provided to about 68,000 western farmers.The Canadian government created the board in 1935 when plummeting grain prices threatened to destroy wheat farmers during the Great Depression. It gained monopoly powers in the early 1940s.         1 of 1        
Federal agriculture minister Gerry Ritz says the monopoly power of the Canadian Wheat Board will end, no matter what results come from a plebiscite. CBC
        
northsunm32 is based in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (50.0%) China (10.6%) Denmark (9.3%) Canada (7.4%) 13 other countries (17.6%)           READ MORE: Canadian Wheat Board, conservative government, Gerry Ritz, Wheat Board monopoly, Single desk selling, monopoly powers   More News From: Ottawa :  Canada      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 3            Reply  Posted By     BMcPherson
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
What's that old saying? Divide and conquer.
            Reply  Reply By     northsunm32
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Yes. The irony is that many farmers who vote Conservative are nevertheless in favor of the Wheat Board monopoly. I confronted one of my friends about this and he just sort of shrugged and said maybe he shouldn't have voted for them. They made no secret of their policy!
            Reply  Posted By     vutrongphu20
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
nice work...........! keep it up !!thank you
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                Images    >         Gerry Ritz    Gerry Ritz Image Source: allvoices Federal agriculture minister Gerry Ritz says the monopoly power of the ...      More Related Images    More From Ottawa          Canadian Government will ignore results of farmer plebiscite on Canadian Wheat Board        Flaherty is considering reducing tariffs in response to the price difference from the United States         Topless Protest Against Newspaper (Video)        Canada: Post 9/11 security spending has increased by 92 billion dollars          Plane slips from runway in Ottawa        Viral therapy demonstrate that attacks tumors without harming healthy tissue         The Beautiful Game: If you didn’t notice the referee, then she’s doing her job        5.9-magnitude earthquake jolts Mid-Atlantic region in U.S.          Opposition Leader Jack Layton Loses Battle With Cancer At Age 61       Boeing-737 crash in the Arctic takes 12 lives        HP(Hewlett Packard) changes course and gives up some markets        Canada: Ottawa workers win lottery on day of layoff notices          Canadian Medical Assoc. (CMA) claims Canadians are ready for health care reform                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308511          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 6       Comments: 3    3       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308511), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308511 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308511 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Canadian Government will ignore results of farmer plebiscite on Canadian Wheat Board” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308511-canadian-government-will-ignore-results-of-farmer-plebiscite-on-canadian-wheat-board.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         