 » Gov Officials Turning Away Trained Firefighters in Texas - Big Government





















Home
Exclusives
Categories
Contributors












Gov Officials Turning Away Trained Firefighters in Texas
by 
                
			  	Publius 			  	




From The Gonzales Cannon:

Firefighting-trained volunteers from around the state converged on Bastrop and Smithville Tuesday to lend a hand to the beleaguered local firefighters battling the Bastrop County Complex Fire — only to be sent away as federal officials arrived at the scene and took command, apparently because local officials never made a formal request for volunteers.
“We were at the station getting set up into strike teams, and this guy came up and said that the U.S. Forest Service had ‘assumed control of the situation, and that ‘If you don’t have a vehicle that squirts water, go home,’” said Gordon Greer of Kirbyville, who drove all night Monday to arrive in the town beset by the worst wildfire in Texas history. “You’ve got guys who had driven all night long from Corpus Christi and Brownsville on their own dime, and they turned them away. He was really a (bleep) about it.
“There was a whole line of beige cars that came in this morning, tinted windows and such,” Greer said.
Read the whole thing here. Texas has a very large base of highly-trained volunteer firefighters. Just the sort of thing that would be really helpful if, say, there were over 100,000 acres ablaze. Also, though, just the sort of thing that makes lots of state and federal employees redundant.

 

Email this to a friend | Print |
		Share on Facebook
		| Tweet this
		|  

    	Tags: bastrop county, Forest Service, Texas, volunteer firefighters, wildfires		Posted Sep 7th 2011 at 12:20 pm in News,  State Government | 
				

327020393 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fpublius%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fgov-officials-turning-away-trained-firefighters-in-texas%2FGov+Officials+Turning+Away+Trained+Firefighters+in+Texas2011-09-07+19%3A20%3A24Publiushttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D327020 









327020393 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fpublius%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fgov-officials-turning-away-trained-firefighters-in-texas%2FGov+Officials+Turning+Away+Trained+Firefighters+in+Texas2011-09-07+19%3A20%3A24Publiushttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D327020


angelabeegle - September 7th, 2011 at 12:26 pm
The only thing I can think is, the Feds must be punishing Texas for Perry (or Bush, or not voting for Obama, or something). Nothing else makes sense.




FlexoRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:29 pm
Hi I'm from the U.S. Forest Service and I'm here to help.
Those words should help stir levels of confidence in Government intervention….Yea just send help away…if they aint union we don't feed um.




attila_the_pun - September 7th, 2011 at 12:31 pm
Insanity, pure and simple.  We are being ruled by certifiable lunatics. 
If Perry wants my vote he better speak out against this.




MSMediacritic - September 7th, 2011 at 12:34 pm
Just remember, these are the guys who will be running medical care soon. 
Are you scared now?




Trickle_Up_Poverty - September 7th, 2011 at 12:34 pm
This is what we can expect from Obama's government.  It is a conservative state…therefore, let 'em burn.




rockstone - September 7th, 2011 at 12:35 pm
I'm here from the federal government and I'm here to help. 
I pretty sure I heard someone say that once……….




Grace656 - September 7th, 2011 at 12:36 pm
Yikes, the feds are involved!  While they look up chapter 20, section 4, paragraph 2.1, addendum 30.4 of some asinine code book, Texas burns.




SunshineConnie - September 7th, 2011 at 12:37 pm
YEAH TEAM OBAMA!!!  What a bunch of DANGEROUS IDIOTS!




Thomas_Talionis - September 7th, 2011 at 12:38 pm
A friend of mine went to ground zero the very next day and volunteered with some of his friends to help dig, remove rubble, anything.  They were turned away and told by the fireman in charge, "you'd be taking away from our overtime." 
Ah, unions.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 12:39 pm
Good think Gov. Goodhair just cut the firefighting and park services budget by 75%!  Responsible fiscal conservatism is more important than preventing and fighting fires in Teabagistan




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:42 pm
Government efficiency 101. If it can be done for free it must be stopped.




actsnow - September 7th, 2011 at 12:42 pm
Obama ordered us to let Texas burn,is that what I'm hearing?




voiceofone - September 7th, 2011 at 12:43 pm
There is a plan to bring down America. It is right in front of everyone to see, and that's why this is always how it goes. Plus Obama is jerking Perry's chain and letting him know who's in charge.




actsnow - September 7th, 2011 at 12:47 pm
I heard Obama wanted to set a stake in Texas,never let a good disaster go to waste,just let the state burn down then let the illegal immigrants migrate from Mexico into Texas,give them all backdoor amnesty as long as they vote Democrat,bam,Obama just won Texas,see how easy that is.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:48 pm
And people were wondering what took so long to get things done down there.  Ten years for a Memorial to be built.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:48 pm
Yup.  They don't vote Marxocratic.




A_pen - September 7th, 2011 at 12:49 pm
I guess they should have come prepared to fight more than fire…where's that smaller gubmint Perry guy at?




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:50 pm
Really?  Where is the common sense?  Really?
What kind of a person in charge of an operation like this doesn't take real and free help when life and limb are in danger?  Really????




A_pen - September 7th, 2011 at 12:51 pm
It just proves that priorities in big gov politics are the same in the state as the feds. Power first, economy of government second.




From_Georgia - September 7th, 2011 at 12:51 pm
Sadly, you completely misread the whole article.  As it was the US Forestry Service that stopped the trained firefighting volentees, and not the conservatives.   
It was not the Tea Party that stopped the firefighters you fool, but the government itself.  Could you be any more misinformed.




Dukehoopsfan - September 7th, 2011 at 12:53 pm
The feds prove yet again that they could screw up a one car funeral.




GaltFan - September 7th, 2011 at 12:53 pm
Ahh… The Chicago Way:  
We don't wanna see nobody dat nobody sent…




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 12:53 pm
I can attest to what those folks in Texas are going through. 
Five years ago, a range fire blew through here.
I saved most of my cattle and horses, all but a handful.
While I was busy doing that, I lost my house. 
It burned to the foundation, while the BLM firefighting crews sat at the county road, and watched, because it was "too dangerous". 
I walked away from it, with the burned shirt on my back, and a pair of jeans with holes in both the knees.




13Sisters76 - September 7th, 2011 at 12:55 pm
Time for the states to use the eminent domain ruling for a GOOD purpose- kick out the feds, reclaim all the land currently controlled by the fed and have the people take it all back. Shut down the Dept of the Interior and FEMA.
A nice start…




Goo - September 7th, 2011 at 12:55 pm
This is America under the thumb of Marxist dictator.  Don't forget this.  Don't let the memory fade…as we take him down in the election.  He must pay for this madness.




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 12:57 pm
DanceFloorqueen is a WonkTard–it's never seen a Republican or Conservative who can do anything right. Their worship of government and hate for Conservatives trumps all else.




William_Z - September 7th, 2011 at 12:58 pm
Moron, 70% of firefighters is volunteer.  The federal government and the state don’t hire, fire or  pay for their equipment or training, the local governments do… Putz…




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 12:58 pm
Don't just hate it when your god can't do anything right, regardless of which party is screwing up?




VeritasV - September 7th, 2011 at 12:58 pm
Seriously? You present a false dichotomy. Cutting the "parks" budget has nothing to do with any of this, obviously cutting the Fire Fighting budget was okay, cause they are turning away local Fire Fighters anyway!  Forget throwing more money at people, and bloated "parks" budgets,  how about taking Rick Perry to task for not calling in The Texas National Guard and telling the Feds to suck it when they turned volunteer fire fighters away?  The County Sheriff has the power to do this ALONE. That sheriff needs to go, b/c he either doesn't know that he can TRUMP the Feds, or he refuses to trump the Feds.  If Perry doesn't know this himself, esp. after Waco, then we have a problem.  
I'll wager that he'll complain about FEMA, but won't take charge or empower that sheriff to take charge of the situation.  Meanwhile, Texas will keep burning just like she always has, nut now it will be monumentally WORSE b/c we are now dealing w/ FEMA 'crats.  It will become a nightmare.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:00 pm
Sadly you only get your news from this cesspool,  Rick "Hillarycare" Perry decided a good time to cut 30 million from the park services dept budget was during a firestorm that is destroying hundreds of thousands of acres of the state he supposedly 'governs.'  Try clicking on a link that isnt Breitbart or Drudgereport and enlighten yourself




CultureWarriors - September 7th, 2011 at 1:01 pm
The actions of the Federal government under the Obama regime are criminal.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:02 pm
Cretin, the Park Service is in charge of coordinating the containment of wildfires and buying the equipment, which is the purview of the state and federal government.  It's almost like you have no idea what your talking about?




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:02 pm
“You’ve got guys who had driven all night long from Corpus Christi and Brownsville on their own dime, and they turned them away. He was really a (bleep) about it." 
Speaking from first hand experience of this type situation, I rode up to their command center ahorseback, dismounted and walked up to the head Moe-ron in charge, who proceeded to tell me I could not go to my headquarters. I pulled a .45 from under my arm, and dispersed the crowd. After going without sleep for going into the fourth solid day, I was in no mood for bullshlt. 
Mark my words, someone is going to get hurt in Texas.
Tempers are short.
People are fighting for their very survival, and watching their life's belongings go up in smoke. 
Those Government "officials" had best retreat back to Washington, or at least Austin.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:04 pm
His anemic budget can already not muster the proper response to a fire that, because of the historic drought (caused by his and other red Midwestern states deregulation of water consumption) was inevitable, so his solution is to ensure the fires are worse next year.  Are you teatards really so dumb that this sounds logical to you?




CultureWarriors - September 7th, 2011 at 1:04 pm
It wasn't that long ago he feds would be met at the border of a state with armed force. I say, arrest federal workers who disobey state laws or federal official who interferes with a state while trying to deal with a disaster. Then ask Obama, "how do you like them apples?".




ActinUpinTexas - September 7th, 2011 at 1:05 pm
More good news…….water tankers sit idle in California…. Fed gov in contract disputes. 
NEVER rely on Goverment to Bail you out of any disaster!




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 1:08 pm
Good points, Veritas.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:08 pm
or how about: massive deadly wildfires capable of producing their own microweather systems and 100 mph winds.  If a bunch of volunteer yokels show up in pick up trucks instead of proper firefighting equipment they are just going to get trapped and die and drain resources rescuing them that could be properly employed fighting the fire, you know what this guys full time job is instead of a weekend warrior




Syrin23 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:09 pm
O_O 
That sort of response would want me to show them how dangerous a man who lost his house could be.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:09 pm
Pretty sure this is Slick Rickys show and his grand idea of strategy was a rain dance




CultureWarriors - September 7th, 2011 at 1:09 pm
I'm sure that's because you're a man of integrity and gumption while these Bureau of Land Management clowns (asshats) have been sissified to the point of uselessness. Why do we have a BLM anyway? Seems like a complete and total waste. 
Texas, the only STATE to kick another COUNTRY'S Ass!




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:10 pm
Do Muslims believe in Hell?




Syrin23 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:10 pm
NOT TO WORRY!  
These sorts of beauracratic errors will NOT occur with socialized Obamacare. Isolated event. No one will suffer. Move along. Nothing to see.




atemylunch - September 7th, 2011 at 1:10 pm
The US forestry service was pulling the same crap in Arizona.
Some people only wanted to defend their homes, so when the forestry service told them leave. They said, "screw you, we are defending our homes". 
The one that got me was a guy with some heavy equipment offered to help. The forestry service pulled the same crap, your not qualified, bla, bla. The thing was he was offering to help with the fire breaks. I guess nobody in the forestry service knew those guys are used to being told where to clear.  
This is truly a sad situation, and it's been a problem long before speachy boy has been in office.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 1:10 pm
Because of the nature of this federal govt and their antagonism toward TX in ignoring the fires for all these months, I am wondering if the Feds might deliberately prolong this.  Surely the people who are taking the orders would not comply.




Patriot2Opine - September 7th, 2011 at 1:11 pm
Would one of those links be a Media Mendicant or Huff n Puff site? Perhaps the Wankette or Grazette?  
I know, we could just listen to a progressive communist instead. Naw, don't much care what you have to say. Ta, ta, snookie.




spaceracer423 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:12 pm
Does this remind any one else of the Gulf Oil Spill?????? 
"Yes hi, we have these boats that can suck up that oil."   
Fed Response: " Did you fill out all these forms in triplicate and do a 10, 25 and 100 yr impact study?"   
"Just a 10 and 25."   
Fed Response: "THEN YOU CANT HELP, GO HOME JERK FACE!!!''




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 1:13 pm
I realize that thinking poorly of and demonizing those not like you, particularly based on geography, is an elitist construct and overwhelming compulsion the average Wonktard can't resist but Texas is not a Midwestern state.  You'll have to find some other elitist, smarmy, unfounded reason to express your hate for Texas if you want to be taken as functional.




Patriot2Opine - September 7th, 2011 at 1:14 pm
Well then I guess he should confiscate the entire wealth residing in Texas so that in case there is a wildfire he can throw cash at it. Maybe he could pay half-wits from the left to carry water since you do it so well for the communists.




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:15 pm
And the left aborts 500,000 black babies a year through Planned ParentHOOD.  Who's the racist  terrorist now?!




MonoPed - September 7th, 2011 at 1:15 pm
The feds have no business doing anything in Texas. Or any other state, for that matter. Rick Perry had better put some ass kicking boots on and put them to use defending the sovereignty of Texas, and let the locals do their jobs.




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:15 pm
Texas, the only STATE to kick another COUNTRY'S Ass!  
You are right about that one. 
And on another point, when the United States Government invaded Waco, and ultimately barbecued those poor stupid Pilgrims following David Koresh, Koresh was the ONLY person ever to hold the entire Federal US Government at bay, for almost sixty days. (No, I am not a fan of Koresh, he was a nut-job. It just goes to prove, that even against a nut job, the US Government was out of its league. They should all go home and stick to writing rules and regulations),




Jarhead John - September 7th, 2011 at 1:16 pm
Turning away trained volunteers and grounding planes that could be very useful, of course, the fires are burning farm land and reducing the food supply. How many times have socialists (and islam, ie. Africa) used starvation as a means of genocide  throughout history? How many times must socialists show that ARBEIT does not MACHT you FREI, arbeit is something you do to help finance the genocide agenda of socialists while you are in the process of becoming a victim of their genocide. Some day the people will learn, hopefully very soon.
Plus, it's not like Texas is going to vote for him anyway.




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:17 pm
Bush 5% unemployment
Obama 9.1 % unemployment  
Both unemployment AND the national debt have almost doubled under Obama.    
Don't forget this.  Obama is a warmonger too because he expanded the wars in the Middle East.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:17 pm
He could invest in infrastructure and have real firefighters driving real fire trucks instead of a bunch of good ol boys admittedly wanting to do the right thing but just endangering themselves and those who would be tasked with rescuing them, instead of giving tax breaks to the Koch brothers and Saudi oil




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:17 pm
This, is Governor Rick Perry's moment.
He can seize control of it, and kick the Feds out, or capitulate like Ma Richards did when the Feds invaded Waco and barbecued those poor stupid Pilgrims at Mt. Carmel in Waco. 
Come on Perry, grow a set………….




regularguy47 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:18 pm
I'm hoping this is just a matter of working out kinks in the incident command system, where all agencies should be striving to be on the same page.  This is to minimize clusterf&*kitis, which is in inherent in anything like this sort of issue.    
My problem is it really seems that, unless you're a blue state such as all in the northeast with Hurricane Irene making a mess of things (and not nearly like in other states such as Texas), you're just not a high priority to the Obama regime.  North Dakota can flood, Nashville can flood, Texas can burn, Joplin can be shredded, and the Obama regime couldn't give a real rats ass because they're not liberal states and cities.




LeftyDog - September 7th, 2011 at 1:19 pm
Perry is the one who asked for Federal help.




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:20 pm
People in WI have decided to watch the Packers over hearing Obama blame Bush and drone on and on and on.  Of course, WI also had Conservative sweeps last November so they had already decided that wanted nothing to do with him and his job killing administration by voting in a Republican Gov. and Congress.
http://campaign2012.washingtonexaminer.com/blogs/...  
Go Packers!




billyforan - September 7th, 2011 at 1:20 pm
Just like Johnson in Vietnam.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:20 pm
Big surprise buddy, im a southern boy born and raised and still leaving in East Tennessee.  The comment was not a geographic slight but rather a jab at the deregulatory obsession of the right wing that leads to over farming of soil, denuding the topsoil and drying up small creeks and rivers that would otherwise provide some moisture to the area.  Dustbowl much, we seriously had this same lesson 80 years ago in the exact same spot but apparently wingers don't learn from their mistakes?




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 1:20 pm
"caused by his and other red Midwestern states deregulation of water consumption" 
BWAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!! 
Wait, wait… 
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!! 
Has to be winner of the most idiotic post of the day, congrats! Your parents must be so proud, that is, if they haven't died from embarrassment yet….




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:21 pm
Red Herring, non-sequitor, and entirely inaccurate.  I think you need to check how tight you got the tinfoil wrapped around your head and go back to planning your next terrorist bombing of a medical clinic providing safe, legal, and often necessary procedures




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 1:22 pm
Your fair-haired boy and this administration are unmitigated failures.  Regressivism is an unmitigated failure.  Government-worship is a failure.  Your unwarranted faith in these things indicates you are a failure.  Get over it.




JimMcVeigh - September 7th, 2011 at 1:22 pm
I respectfully disagree.  What has stunned the rebuilding of the site (preferably by simply rebuilding replacement towers, a few floors taller) has been overwrought emotionalism (What do the families want?!) and political correctness (we don't want to offend muslims by killing them overseas and by rebuilding the towers here to show that they can FRO).




Patriot2Opine - September 7th, 2011 at 1:23 pm
I love that you guys turn to "infrastructure" as a place to squander money. The word sounds so worthy of cash flow doesn't it? Government directed infrastructure projects are so efficient and never waste money do they?   
Hitch up your buckets there snookie, they need you at the fire.




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:23 pm
BS.  You're a Yankee.




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 1:24 pm
Give them your money, Big Spender.  Put your money where your mouth is.  Be generous with your money.  Otherwise, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axWsbQhNCs0 
Obama is punishing his political enemies.  He's a petulant, morally and intellectually vacuous pissant of a somewhat human being–just like those who can't quit defending him regardless of how conspicuously worthless he is.




AngrylilDwarf - September 7th, 2011 at 1:24 pm
Back in the day, I fought fire in Ca. alongside the FFS crews. Once the "Forest Circus" takes over, putting out anything other than a cigarette becomes a long and protracted experience. The get hazard pay while on the active fire lines. Longer it burns, mo' money. These fires will burn until the wind dies out, or they get enough rain/snow. Perry needs to step in.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:24 pm
haha yes the national debt doubled because of  less than one trillion dollar stimulus package, and a  discretionary budget that has been frozen or cut since W left office.  You really shouldnt believe everything the mouthbreathers post on this sight and actually look at history;  the vast majority of the deficit is leftover from the Reagan, Bush, and Bush Jr. presidencies.  We only deficit spend as a habit when 'conservatives' are in the white house, Obama is only doing it out of necessity since Dubya left him a turd sandwich of an economy




billyforan - September 7th, 2011 at 1:25 pm
Click on his name and it takes you right to wonkette.com




Steve - September 7th, 2011 at 1:25 pm
Sounds similar to when Obama REFUSED help on the BP Oil Disaster from other international volunteers.   Does ANYONE see a pattern yet??? 
They will NEVER learn!!!




Hank_Scorpio - September 7th, 2011 at 1:25 pm
Take a good look at that picture above, it's exactly what this administration is doing to the economy….




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:25 pm
Didn't FEMA deny TX funds a while back to fight some fires earlier this year?




spaceracer423 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:26 pm
Fire trucks, for brush fires???  
If there are too few fire fighters,
then why are the feds turning REAL FIRE FIGHTERS away?  
If Obama is concerned, then why are his people keeping fire fighting aircraft grounded?    http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2774897/... 
Once again, just like in the Gulf Oil Spill, we have learned that the Feds do one thing very well,
and that is take a big problem, and turn it into a complete cluster f*ck.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:27 pm
I forgot the you paranoid loners would rather just spend all day watching Glenn Beck reruns stroking your rifle and your bible then to risk being enlightened by someone that wasnt a hidebound old hatemonger.  Sorry that I thought you may actually want to better yourself instead of continuing to slum it intellectually




billyforan - September 7th, 2011 at 1:28 pm
The damn fools are in hell and too dumb to realize it.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:28 pm
Thats a lie, Eisenhower was an upstanding and respectable general, man and President.  Too bad he was the last right winger who hadn't sold his soul to the god of corporate profits, kickbacks, and white power!




BMorgan53 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:29 pm
Yep, usually it's FEMA, Dept or Education, FDA, EPA, OSHA, or the IRS; but today it's the U.S. Forest Service




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:30 pm
And you Bloody Wankers are so afraid of free speech that you ban every single conservative who posts over there.   
Big Babies.




Patriot2Opine - September 7th, 2011 at 1:30 pm
Just roll across his avi and it says Wonkette under blog sites.  
Heh, heh, they are the most obvious communists posting anywhere. They cannot even type three words without giving it away.




Cowboy Logic - September 7th, 2011 at 1:31 pm
Yep.
When the fire burned me out, it was in July.
It was 100 degrees, with no humidity, and a 50 mph wind out of the west. I was east of where the fire started. There is nothing to do under those conditions, but get out of the way. The fire burned so hot in the canyons, that the rocks exploded. I had two rented road-graders cutting firelines, and the fire overtook them. I can count the times in my life that I was afraid on one hand, that was one of them.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 1:32 pm
Again I will ask, has anyone ever seen a federal agency or federal program that worked effeciently and effectively? …………I rest my case.




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:33 pm
I noticed you didn't address the UE numbers.   
Remember, Obama PROMISED UE would never go over 8%. 
FACE IT.  YOU ARE GOING TO LOSE BIG NEXT YEAR.  
I'll bet that pic in your avi is your bathroom at your Section 8 ghetto apt.  Maybe you should log off and go buy some bleach and learn to clean your own house.  
I'll say it again.   
Bush 5%
Obama 9.1% 
We win and you lose just one those numbers alone.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:33 pm
Yes, that's why I'm sitting here in Knoxville, gettin' ready for my Vols to play this weekend and staring at the smoky mountains in the distance.  I've never even been above the mason dixon line.




myhemen - September 7th, 2011 at 1:34 pm
Let Texas take care of themselves. We are drowning in debt because of redundancy and bureaucracy.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:34 pm
Yes, those firefighters, police, roads and bridges are SUCH a waste!




oakhillhorn - September 7th, 2011 at 1:34 pm
Great – the county next to mine is burning up (as well as various places in Travis County) and we've got these buffoons from the Fed and State holding things up.  While I understand the need for protocol and making sure it's done in the best interest of safety, why not utilize the resources you have since they are there.  I know in the old west they used to deputize people, well why not just give them blanket TFS job status.  It's so sad over there and here in Austin today it's just a pall of smoke from the fires and we've got bickering amongst agencies.  This is the best example for smaller government and allowing people to help people..




Kevin Stowell - September 7th, 2011 at 1:36 pm
Erroneously stereotype must?  Your unbridled bigotry is showing.  Not all Blacks like fried chicken, watermelon, or collard greens as big a surprise as that might be to you.  I've also heard some of them can't play basketball.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:37 pm
I do, I pay my taxes without getting my panties all bunched up about it, because I appreciate that the government keeps me safe, keeps criminals out of my homes and business, maintains the roads that brings in my customers product and livelihood, regulates both my business and others to ensure that shady operators cannot take advantage of me or me of my customers, helps us to recover from events like the tornadoes here and in Tuscaloosa or the hurricane that just affected many of my suppliers, powers my store and apt and makes sure the Tennessee River doesnt rise up through my front door every spring.  Now its your turn to man up and pay your fair share instead of whining about it and trying to get it all for free




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:37 pm
Just think, if you hadn't killed 24,000,000 black babies, you'd have more voters!  Nice job cutting off your nose to spite your face. 
Racist baby killers.




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:39 pm
yes, firetrucks bulldozers helicopters and tankers and most importantly a crew that understands the risks associated with a fire covering 100,000 acres that can create hurricane force winds and move or even jump great distances with little or no warning.  There is a reason people do this professionally, and that volunteer crews are intended to save a house or a barn and don't understand the dangers of a force of nature of this magnitude.




RightWrezko - September 7th, 2011 at 1:39 pm
"enlightened by someone that wasnt a hidebound old hatemonger. " 
That kinda rules you out.




RightWrezko - September 7th, 2011 at 1:40 pm
Dems cut $500 BILLION from Medicare to fund Obamacare.   
Why do Dems want old people to die before their time?




TanzbodenKoenig - September 7th, 2011 at 1:40 pm
Yea obviously you slept through 3rd grade social studies.  Look up the Dustbowl buddy, learn something about how lessons from history should inform you dereguretards that maybe regulations are there for a reason?




ForConstitution - September 7th, 2011 at 1:41 pm
I don't even want to think about what you  bloody wonkettes  "stroke" over on your site.  I've visited there and you people are disgusting filthy mouthed perverts.  
So I have to ask the obvious questions to all of  you sex obsessed Wankers…….are you all registered sex offenders?!  
I think so!  Just look at the way you talk about Bristol Palin.




RightWrezko - September 7th, 2011 at 1:42 pm
"We are being ruled by certifiable lunatics." 
Liberal lunatics = Libunatics 
Liberal lunacy = Libunacy




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 1:42 pm
Remember the Ruby ridge fiasco? That was another real screw up by our govt "friends".




RightWrezko - September 7th, 2011 at 1:43 pm
"Your Federal Family!"   




JimMcVeigh - September 7th, 2011 at 1:43 pm
Didn't the feds do the same thing after Katrina when Wal Mart had semis full of water and other supplies ready to distribute?


Leave a Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.









 Click Here For Complete PIGFORD Coverage
Featured Story


Will Third Government School Bailout Improve Student Achievement?
by 
	    	
				  	Kyle Olson



First there was the stimulus.  The $787 billion monstrosity was critical to Big Labor because it would save public school teaching jobs, among other unionized positions. In fact, upon its passage, the News Journal reported on Joe Biden’s appearance before the Delaware teachers’ union:  Citing about $105 billion that...
Read more... 
More Featured Stories...

 
 

Follow Us on Twitter


Subscribe via RSS


Got a Tip?Contact us









Live Talk on Twitter 




Categories 
2012 Budget

2012 Election

2nd amendment

AARP

ACORN

Big Labor

Census

Cheat Sheet

Coffee and Markets

Congress

Culture

Defense

Earmarks

Economics

Education

energy

Environment

Exclusives

Fair Tax

Featured Story

Federal Spending

Financial Services

Flat Tax

Healthcare

History

Immigration

Journolist

Justice/Legal

Local Government

Media Criticism

Media Matters

Midterm Elections

News

Obama

Open Threads

pigford

Political Humor

Politics

Pork Report

race

Regulation

Special

State Government

State Politics

Supreme Court

Tax Reform

taxes

Tea Party

Technology

Uncategorized

unemployment


Blogroll

ABCNews
Ace Of Spades HQ
Agence France Press
Althouse
Amato for Liberty
American Thinker
Andrew Sullivan
Ann Coulter
Associated Press
Atlas Shrugs
Ben Shapiro
Big Hollywood
Bill O’Reilly
Black & Right
Blackfive
BlogsLucianneLoves.com
Bloomberg
Bob McCarty
Boston Globe
Breitbart.com
Breitbart.tv
C-SPAN
Camille Paglia
Charles Krauthammer
Chicago Tribune
Christian Science Monitor
Christopher Hitchens
Claremont Institute
Commentary
Daily Gut
Dana Loesch
DC Patriot
Dennis Miller Radio
Dennis Prager
Der Spiegel
Drudge Report
Economist
Ed Driscoll
Financial Times
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Founding Bloggers
Fox Nation
Fox News
Freakonomics Blog
Free Republic
Gateway Pundit
GayPatriot
George Will
Glenn Beck
Grand Old Partisan
Hot Air
Huffington Post
Hugh Hewitt
Human Events
Instapundit
Investors Business Daily
Iowahawk
James Hudnall
Jawa Report
Jerusalem Post
John Gibson
John Nolte
John Tierney
Judicial Watch Blog “Corruption Chronicles”
Kyle Olson
Larry Elder
Larry Kudlow
Lars Larson
Laura Ingraham
Law Hawk
Los Angeles Times
Lucianne.com
Mancow
Manhattan Institute
Marginal Revolution
Mark Levin
Mark Steyn
Matt Patterson
Media Research Center
Mediaite
Melanie Morgan
Michael Barone
Michael Savage
Michael Yon
Mickey Kaus
Mike Flynn
Move America Forward
MSNBC
National Review
National Review’s The Corner
Neal Boortz
New Republic
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Times
Newport Beach Now
NewsBusters
Newsweek
Pajamas Media
Parcbench
Pat Dollard
Patterico’s Pontifications
PoliGazette
Politico
Power Line
PR Newswire
Pravda
Protein Wisdom
Quincy News
Real Clear Markets
Real Clear Politics
Reason
Reason Hit and Run
RedState
Rep. McCotter YouTube Channel
Reuters
Ricochet
Roger L. Simon
Roger Stone
Roll Call
Rolling Stone
Rush Limbaugh
Rusty Humphries
Ryan P. Dixon
Salon
Sean Hannity
Silicon Alley Insider
Slate
Smoking Gun
South Park Episodes
Tammy Bruce
The Brody File
The Daily Beast
The Daily Caller
The Enterprise Report
The Enterprise Report
The Hill
The New Ledger
Thomas Sowell
Time
Times U.K.
Townhall.com
U.K. Daily Mail
U.K. Guardian
U.K. Telegraph
U.S. National Debt
U.S. News
USA Today
Vanity Fair
VodkaPundit
Volokh Conspiracy
Wall Street Journal
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
Weekly Standard
Yid With Lid


 








Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy







