 
Tactical-Life.com » 2010 » July







Subscribe »    Advertise »    Contact »   Links »



Enter your search terms
















HOME
NEWS
EVENTS
PRODUCTS
EXCLUSIVES
TACTICAL WEAPONS
COMBAT HANDGUNS
GUNS & WEAPONS
SPECIAL WEAPONS
TACTICAL KNIVES
STORE

 




FIND PRODUCTS:
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
s
t
u
v
w
x
y
z
#










Magazine Covers »

Combat Handguns
Guns & Weapons
Special Weapons
Tactical Knives
Tactical Weapons


Authors »
Topics »

Browse Magazines

Combat Handguns (871)

Guns and Weapons (771)

Special Weapons For Military & Police (479)

Tactical Knives (713)

Tactical Weapons (587)



Browse Other Sections

Events (221)

Exclusives (424)

News (6867)

Products (1838)


 


Training • Shows • Competitions
Upcoming Events


September 11
Blade Show West


September 11
Chicago Knife Expo


September 13
2009 NTOA Tactical Operations Conference & Vendor Show


Sep 16
LFI-III Class


Sep 19
NTOA 2010


September 14
5th Annual New York Law Enforcement Expo


See More »












Subscribe now for the weekly E-newsletter!
Email address:

Your name (optional):








 






 

ARCHIVE FOR

									July, 2010						

Pages: 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
...24
25
26
Next


Saturday, July 31st, 2010
Training » 
MTG Advanced Handgun Skills
This two-day course is fast paced and demanding, focusing on high speed drills designed to build the optimum blend of speed and accuracy. Ideal for the shooter who wishes to hone and fine-tune his techniques. Emphasis on individual diagnostics and subtle nuances.  Recoil management, rapid first shots from the holster, swift engagement of multiple [...]



Friday, July 30th, 2010

Paul Markel, gun writer and trainer introduces Firearm Training Associates.
Firearms Training Associates, Inc. a Biloxi, Mississippi based corporation announces the availability of Paul G. Markel for training, tutorials, and professional consultations.  Mr. Markel is a former United States Marine, Police Officer, and has worked as a professional bodyguard both in the U.S. and overseas.
A Subject Matter Expert on Small Arms and Tactics, Markel [...]



 Friday, July 30th, 2010

Cannon safe stands up to attempted break-in with 12-gauge shotgun blasts at point blank.
Unfortunately, earlier this month a Cannon safe owner’s residence was burglarized, but their Cannon safe stood up to the ordeal. The thief attempted to break into the Cannon safe with a 12-gauge shotgun at point blank range using nearly a box of 12-gauge shotgun shells and various other implements, including a paring knife that stuck [...]



Friday, July 30th, 2010

Man reunited with stolen revolver 20 years later.
A rural east Texas man has been reunited with his long-lost gun more than two decades after it was stolen. Kauffman County Sheriff’s Office spokeswoman Pat Laney says Bruce Garner received his H&R nine-shot revolver at an upbeat property hearing Thursday morning.
According to the Sheriff’s Office, burglars took the gun from Garner’s home in Terrell [...]
Related Topics: Texas


Friday, July 30th, 2010

Lawsuit challenges Maryland’s handgun restrictions.
The gun rights advocates who successfully challenged the District of Columbia’s gun laws are now trying to do the same thing in Maryland.
The plaintiffs filed a lawsuit Thursday in U.S. District Court in Baltimore. It claims Maryland’s restrictions on handgun carry permits violate the Second Amendment.
Plaintiff Raymond Woollard was denied a permit to carry a [...]
Related Topics: Maryland


Friday, July 30th, 2010
Law Enforcement » 
Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell orders study of controversial shooting range and training facility.
Gov. Bob McDonnell has directed his secretary of public safety and the superintendent of Virginia State Police to look at all options regarding a controversial shooting range and training facility proposed for Powhatan County.
The planned state police range has drawn intense opposition from residents and county leaders, and yesterday, the FBI confirmed that it is [...]
Related Topics: Virginia


Friday, July 30th, 2010

Video: Arizona pistol owners celebrate new gun law.
Related Topics: Arizona, Gun Laws, Video


Friday, July 30th, 2010
Military » 
Army suicides: Poor leadership, not repeat deployments blamed.
A new Army report has founded that inattention to rising rates of drug abuse and criminal activity among soldiers and not repeat deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan is responsible for the record-high levels of suicide among troops.
The 300-page report, which was released Thursday, said that military commanders are so focused on preparing their troops for [...]



Friday, July 30th, 2010

Ex-body armor chief’s fraud case now in N.Y. jury’s hands.
A $100,000 gem-encrusted belt buckle, luxury cars and private jet trips to glitzy resorts were among the bounty funded with millions taken from a body armor company by its former CEO, U.S. prosecutors charged at the end of a six-month trial on Thursday.
David Brooks — the former chief executive of the former DHB Industries Inc [...]



Friday, July 30th, 2010

Arizona appeals illegal immigrant law ruling amid protests.
Arizona on Thursday appealed a judge’s decision to block key parts of the state’s crackdown on illegal immigrants and police in Phoenix arrested scores of activists protesting the remaining measures in the law.
Lawyers for Governor Jan Brewer and Arizona asked the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco to lift an injunction blocking [...]
Related Topics: Arizona, immigration


Pages: 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
...24
25
26
Next
 
 




 









 Army chief of staff, Gen. Ray Odierno: Leaving too many troops in Iraq a risk. Military »  » Friday, September 9 2011


 With no ammunition, pilot ordered to take down 9/11’s United 93 (video). Military »  » Friday, September 9 2011


 Ohio and Louisiana sign concealed carry reciprocity agreement.  » Friday, September 9 2011


 ‘Open carry’ ban wins approval in California Senate.  » Friday, September 9 2011


SEE MORE NEWS »
 





 
     



 
 



Sections
NEWS
EVENTS
PRODUCTS
EXCLUSIVES
TACTICAL WEAPONS
COMBAT HANDGUNS
GUNS & WEAPONS
SPECIAL WEAPONS
TACTICAL KNIVES


Resources
ADVERTISE
CONTACT
SUBSCRIBE
PRIVACY POLICY
TERMS OF USE

© 2010 HARRIS PUBLICATIONS, INC. All rights reserved. Site design by Johnathan Andersen Design.
Produced by Net Theory, a website design company in New York.
 
 



