Anti-demolition network tags "Kyusi" as worst place for urban poor                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Anti-demolition network tags "Kyusi" as worst place for urban poor     Manila :  Philippines
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By GerryAlbert            1 0      
Views: 193
       QUEZON CITY, Philippines—Urban poor residents to be evicted for the Quezon City Central Business District hold a protest action against what they call is a 'demolition rampage' of the QC LGU in connivance with the national government in favor of big foreign and local businesses. They burn an effigy of city mayor Herbert Bautista and PNoy to show their anger, as another community in Brgy. Batasan faced demolition teams as the government implements its ‘road reblocking’ scheme.. According to an anti-demolition group, Alyansa Kontra Demolisyon, Quezon City is the worst place to be for a family of urban poor. “QC LGU is a die-hard protector of big businesses in exchange for the taxes they give,” says Estrelieta Bagasbas, the alliance spokesperson. “Since August, we recorded on a weekly basis attempts by private groups and the LGU to demolish urban poor communities in QC. Some attempts did not succeed while hundreds were left homeless.” After failing to evict residents of Sitio San Roque in the city's North Triangle area, the city government continues its demolition threats to other urban poor settlers in the East Triangle area to expand the eviction process of residents that remain hindrance to the implementation of the Quezon City Central Business District. Some 50 families along the BIR Road in Brgy. Central fear impending eviction after the office of Taddy Palma, the city's secretary announced its plan to evict the residents. The said community had suffered from two incidents of fire this year, and while there were no formal notices for the residents to leave their places, relocation programs were offered to the fire victims. Hundreds had left the community since the first fire incident in February.  "Mayor Bautista is geared up to maintain QC's title as the investment hub and business capital of the Philippines, at the expense of its urban poor constituents," Carlito Badion, the lead convener of Alyansa Kontra Demolisyon says. According to the city's Urban Poor Affairs Office, the ISFs in QC account for 42 per cent of the population, or some 234,104 families as of August 2010 data.  24,000 urban poor families homeless due to QCCBDOne of the biggest communities in QC with impending demolition is Sitio San Roque in North Triangle. As early as February last year, NHA has started relocating residents to Montalban resettlement sites to jump start the implementation of the 22B dollar-Quezon City Central Business District (QCCBD), which will be the country's biggest and most expensive business district to rival Singapore.  The UP-AyalaLand Technohub is part of the project that by its completion will evict some 24,000 urban poor families from five communities, according to report of CONTRA-CBD, an alliance of affected residents and government employees. The resistance of the settlers to QCCBD and the relocation program offered by the National Housing Authority has led to a 7-hour stand-off in EDSA in September last year, and a score of casualties on the side of the police and the residents.  Last October 31, two big QC communities faced back-to-back demolition. While residents of North Triangle triumphantly repulsed the demolition threat, some 300 urban poor families in Brgt. Old Balara lost their homes and sources of livelihood. No relocation programs were offered to the victims. Also, a big creekside community in Brgy. Damayang Lagi is scheduled to be demolished in the coming weeks with verbal notice of eviction coming from the LGU. Slum-free QC With the biggest poor sector in Metro Manila, the LGU considers "the magnitude of informal settler families (ISF) challenge in QC is huge, and requires the effective collaboration of not only local, but all national agencies with housing and resettlement as mandates, particularly the Housing and Urban Development Coordinating Council," according to an LGU housing report gathered by AKD.  QC Mayor Herbert Bautista has reportedly initiated a series of workshop with these agencies to formulate local government-national government collaborative mechanisms and work more determinedly toward the vision of a 'Slum-free QC.' The increasing informal settler population in QC has been encouraged inadvertently by easy access routes to the City, from provinces and the availability if large tracts of unsecured land, as well as small, scattered pockets of undeveloped lands, especially in the city's northern areas. QC has created Special Task Force on Socialized Housing and Development, under the secretary to the Mayor to maintain an inventory of blighted areas within the city, conduct census survey of informal settlers, prepare development plans for the areas, identify, plan and develop relocation sites, conduct social preparations and undertake the demolition of structures. LGU-LGU Partnerships In its report, QC aims to reduce the number of informal settlers through twinning arrangements with provinces and municipalities which can host new resettlement sites for QC's ISFs. In exchange for hosting these sites, the QC-LGU can assign a proportionate percentage of its internal revenue allotments to the receiving LGU.  "In the case of the North Triangle residents, this effort seems to be only in paper as to this date, almost half of the 5,000 families that NHA has relocated came back to San Roque," Badion says. "Scarcity of livelihood sources in the resettlement sites is the basic complaint. The municipal government of Rodriguez has reportedly complained about the influx of relocatees, mostly from QC." Public-Private Partnerships "Removing urban blight is a win-win arrangement for private companies as well, who will see their development and property values rise with the removal of slums near project areas," according to the LGU report. "An ISF-occupied area will allow purchase at depressed values. Once an area is cleared, through the help of the QC government, the property values can rise in multiples, since many occupied areas are in strategic locations of the city," the report says.  "The coming months and years will be very blight for the urban poor of QC, as the LGU eyes for more profit and tax-earnings from big businesses," Badion says. This will be an early reality to some 70,000 families living in the priority areas for clearing as designated by the local government including danger areas, and areas for investment and priority development.         
GerryAlbert is based in Manila, National Capital Region, Philippines,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  Philippines (39.5%) Canada (28.1%) United States of America (21.9%) Portugal (4.7%) 5 other countries (2.7%)           READ MORE: Quezon City, demolitions, PPP, President Noynoy Aquino, urban poor, QC Mayor Herbert Bautista, QCCBD, North Triangle, informal settlers, businesses district, QC LGU   More News From: Manila :  Philippines      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     VP Binay assures QC homeowners: ‘The law is on your side’  
Positive News Media
 Binay has assured homeowners and residents of several subdivisions in northern Quezon City not to worry about being evicted from their properties, stressing the law is on their side. Wala po kayong dahilan na matakot at puwede po kayong matulog nang...      More From Manila          Manny Pacquiao Disclaims Running For Vice President On 2016        Paloma and Jamilla are Two Hot Ladies at the Premiere of X Deal (Premiere Photos)        Empress Schuck is Hot and Stunning in the Cover of Meg (Photo)         Super Hot Stars Paloma Esmeria and Jamilla Obispo In "X Deal" (Trailer & Photos)          3rd Star Awards for Music 2011 - Nominees' List        Local Philippine (Pinay) Artist Hits YOUTUBE        Mariah Carey's Butterfly, a love song.        (Update) 2011 Miss Universe: Miss Philippines Shamsey Supsup - Grand Finale 'Front Runner'         Jihad Watch reported recently that "Philippines: MILF gets a divorce"        Philippines defeat Abu Sayyaf leader         "No Other Woman" movie trailer        More of Bea Alonzo’s Stunning and Revealing Outfit at the 2011 Star Magic Ball (Photos)          NGOs asked to release the giant crocodile in the Philippines                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10304984          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 1       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10304984), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10304984 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10304984 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Anti-demolition network tags "Kyusi" as worst place for urban poor ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10304984-antidemolition-network-tags-kyusi-as-worst-place-for-urban-poor.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         