Smartphone 1080p video first three-dimensional form                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Smartphone 1080p video first three-dimensional form     Tōkyō :  Japan
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By lethibichlan             1 0      
Views: 176
        Sharp Corporation (Japan) launched the Aquos SH8298U phoneintegrates two high resolution cameras, 3D screens without glasses and running Android latest version 2.3.4.The market has many products that support play photos, videothree-dimensional 3D Optimus LG, HTC EVO 3D ... We alsoused two video cameras back to 3D but the resolution is limited to 720p.SH8298U Aquos 13 mm thick, weighing 139 g, 4.2 inch screenwith 960 x 540 pixel, single-chip 1.4 GHz speed, Adreno 205graphics card, 512 MB ​​RAM and 2 GB of internal memory.Products using the average battery capacity 1240 mAh, which runs a GSM network and is delivered by carrier SoftBank(Japan).         1 of 1        
Sharp Aquos SH8298U.
    
lethibichlan is based in Vũng Tàu, Đông Nam Bộ, Vietnam,
and is Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (76.9%) Portugal (5.6%) France (4.6%) Germany (2.8%) 6 other countries (7.4%)           READ MORE: Sharp, camera, smartphone, phone, Aquos SH8298Uc   More News From: Tōkyō :  Japan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Insane 3D rhombus is six optical illusions in one [Video]  
io9
 There's a half-dozen different tricks packed into this one spinning rhombus...Originally, the basic illusion was designed to be seen using a pseudoscope, which uses mirrors to reverse visual information so that the left eye sees what the right eye...    Business Sense: Add 'WOW' to your marketing efforts with QR codes  
Times Standard
 Recently, I attended a credit union marketing conference where I was introduced to them for the first time...I scanned the code with my smartphone and watched a 30-second TV commercial for the store. I was wow'd and couldn't wait to get back to...    LG aims at becoming top company in 3D segment  
Khaleej Times
 LG Electronics, in an exclusive partnership with Sharaf DG, has formally launched the LG Optimus 3D smartphone in the UAE, a product which the technology giant considers as a major step in the utilisation of full-3D functionality in everyday life.       Images    >         Smartphone 1080p video first ...    Smartphone 1080p video first ... Image Source: allvoices Sharp Aquos SH8298U.      More Related Images    More From Tōkyō          Apple files another lawsuit against Samsung in Japan        USD/JPY: Yen trading higher in the Asian session        PLAY, PRAY AND LOVE        Japan's urged Russia to cease all military activity that is "provocative"          Apple Attempts to Block the Sales of Samsung Galaxy Products in Japan        A Murder Case of Univ. Student -15 Years Ago on Sept. 9 in Tokyo        Japan's economy is weaker than thought         In pictures Japan fast Recovery after tsunami          Rugby: Team Can France win the World Cup with 30 players?         USD/JPY: Pair trading above its MA’s        OECD lowers growth outlook of industrialized countries        Japan denounces Russian military operations "unusually" close           Director of the International Energy Agency ruled out using oil reserves to reduce price                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10308886          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 3       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 3       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10308886), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10308886 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10308886 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Smartphone 1080p video first three-dimensional form ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10308886-smartphone-1080p-video-first-threedimensional-form.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         