Texas Fires Kill 4, Destroy 1,000 Homes - Worldnews.com


Explore WN

Photos
Travel
Movies
Photographers
Health
Science
Technology
Cities
Live TV



Login
Edit

























About WN
Contact
Advertising
Feedback
Privacy Policy
© 2011 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved








Texas Fires Kill 4, Destroy 1,000 Homes










News












Time Magazine
2011-09-07: 
					 BASTROP, Texas (AP) — One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting...
					 more »






Read full article
Post a Comment
Sms this Page



Email this Page



RSS





Previous
Next



Read full article
Back to 'Texas Fires Kill 4, Destroy 1,000 Homes'





























































Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay



Sign up
I have an account, login



clear
restore


list
images




                             








                        

                           

...

                   


                        











photo: photo: AP / Erich Schlegel





photo: photo: AP / Erich Schlegel





photo: photo: AP / FESA, Evan Collis





photo: photo: US Coastguard / PA2 Tom Sperduto





photo: photo: AP / FESA, Evan Collis





photo: photo: AP





photo: photo: Creative Commons / joxeankoret





photo: photo: AP





photo: photo: Creative Commons / Washington_National_Cathedral_in_Washington,_D.C..jpg: AgnosticPreachersKid





photo: photo: WN / Dominic Canoy
















«
»

more photos...






Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin
The Dallas Morning News


Texas fires destroy more than 1,000 homes
The Guardian


Texas wildfire death toll reaches 4
The Boston Globe


Wildfires scorch parched Texas
The Columbus Dispatch


Texas wildfires claim four lives, destroy 1,000 homes
Mumbai Mirror


Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes
Jakarta Post


Bushfires leave trail of ruin in Texas
NZ Herald


US wildfires claim four lives, destroys 1,000 homes
Indian Express











Advertisement











Most Popular




Truck bomb wounds 77 foreign troops in Afghanistan
The Star





Colin Powell regrets Iraq war intelligence
Al Jazeera





At least 163 dead in Zanzibar ferry capsize, 100 missing
The Times of India





Will Syrian Leaders Ever Learn?
WorldNews.com





U.S. marks 10 years since 9/11 with solemnity, prayer
The State





9-11 and 1911 and the Politics of Death Traps
WorldNews.com





Related News
























RSS















	The World News (WN) Network, has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to user privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for wn.com, as well as e-mail newsletters.
1. Personal Information Collection and Use
We do not collect personally identifiable information about you, except when you provide it to us. For example, if you submit an inquiry to us or sign up for our newsletter, you may be asked to provide certain information such as your contact details (name, e-mail address, mailing address, etc.).
When you submit your personally identifiable information through wn.com, you are giving your consent to the collection, use and disclosure of your personal information as set forth in this Privacy Policy. If you would prefer that we not collect any personally identifiable information from you, please do not provide us with any such information. We will not sell or rent your personally identifiable information to third parties without your consent, except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy.

Except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy, we will use the information you provide us only for the purpose of responding to your inquiry or in connection with the service for which you provided such information. We may forward your contact information and inquiry to our affiliates and other divisions of our company that we feel can best address your inquiry or provide you with the requested service. We may also use the information you provide in aggregate form for internal business purposes, such as generating statistics and developing marketing plans. We may share or transfer such non-personally identifiable information with or to our affiliates, licensees, agents and partners.
We may retain other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Such third parties may be provided with access to personally identifiable information needed to perform their functions, but may not use such information for any other purpose.
In addition, we may disclose any information, including personally identifiable information, we deem necessary, in our sole discretion, to comply with any applicable law, regulation, legal proceeding or governmental request.
2. E-mail addresses
We do not want you to receive unwanted e-mail from us. We try to make it easy to opt-out of any service you have asked to receive. If you sign-up to our e-mail newsletters we do not sell, exchange or give your e-mail address to a third party.
E-mail addresses are collected via the wn.com web site. Users have to physically opt-in to receive the wn.com newsletter and a verification e-mail is sent. wn.com is clearly and conspicuously named at the point of collection.

If you no longer wish to receive our newsletter and promotional communications, you may opt-out of receiving them by following the instructions included in each newsletter or communication or by e-mailing us at michaelw(at)wn.com
The security of your personal information is important to us. We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information submitted to us, both during registration and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100 percent secure, however. Therefore, though we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

If we decide to change our e-mail practices, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, the homepage, and other places we think appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it.
If we make material changes to our e-mail practices, we will notify you here, by e-mail, and by means of a notice on our home page.
3. Third Party Advertisers
The advertising banners and other forms of advertising appearing on this Web site are sometimes delivered to you, on our behalf, by a third party. In the course of serving advertisements to this site, the third party may place or recognize a unique cookie on your browser. For more information on cookies, you can visit www.cookiecentral.com.
4. Business Transfers
As we continue to develop our business, we might sell certain aspects of our entities or assets. In such transactions, user information, including personally identifiable information, generally is one of the transferred business assets, and by submitting your personal information on Wn.com you agree that your data may be transferred to such parties in these circumstances.







London UK +44-207-193-3591 / +44-207-096-1638
Helsinki, Finland  +358-9-2316-4630
New York +1-212-845-9579 / 646-502-8772
San Francisco +1-415-413-0888 / 415-655-1833
Los Angeles  +1-213-985-2670
Montpellier, France  +33-4-6701-4760
Hong Kong, China +852-8191-2790
Sydney, Australia +61-2-8005-8160
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil +55-21-3717-1890














