Central Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State





 




MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance










Featured Stories
White House: Irene's CostN.Y. Chiropractors Push to Reverse GuidelinesSome Opt Out in Fla. Drywall ClaimsCalif. Law to Reduce Homeowner Notices 









Front Page

National
International
Most Popular
Magazine
Forums
Blogs
Videos/Podcasts
Newsletters


News

Most Popular
National
International
East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West


Topics

P&C Companies
Agents & Brokers
Government
Markets/Coverages
Operations
Claims
More Topics


Magazines

East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West
Subscribe


Directories

Jobs

Sales
Marketing
Management
Finance
Claims
Underwriting
Other


Features

Events
Forums
Yellow Pages
Insurance Twitter
Market Directories
Ad Showcase
Quotes


Subscribe








Central Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State

September 7, 2011 



Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:








Article
1 Comments


Three out of four of the main fires burning on the outskirts of Texas’ capitol city, Austin, have been mostly contained, officials say, but the largest and most destructive blazes in Bastrop County are only about 30 percent under control.
Two deaths have been reported as a result of the fires in Bastrop County to the east of Austin. More than 33,000 acres and nearly 600 homes have been destroyed by the blazes.
At least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park have burned, the Associated Press reported. The park is home to endangered Houston toads and historic rock and stone buildings built by the Civilian Conservation Corps under President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s  New Deal program.
Fire officials also say they are investigating the possibility that a fire in the Austin suburb of Leander that burned 11 homes may be the result of arson.
The Steiner Ranch and Pedernales Bend and Leander fires west and northwest of Austin have been mostly contained.
The high winds that over the weekend that rapidly spread both existing and new blazes had calmed by the morning of Sept. 6 helped firefighters in their battle to contain the fires.
Approximately 3.6 million acres — an area the size of Connecticut — have been burned in Texas in 2011, according to catastrophe modeling firm AIR Worldwide. That accounts for nearly half of all the acreage burned by wildfires in the entire United States this year.
‘The fires have been especially severe because of the 2011 southern United States drought that has persisted throughout the year,’ said Dr. Tomas Girnius, senior research scientist at AIR Worldwide. ‘The levels of exceptional drought in Texas are the highest since the United States Drought Monitor began tracking the data in 2000. Drought conditions in the state have been exacerbated by an unusual convergence of strong winds, unseasonably warm temperatures, and low humidity.’
AIR estimates that the average replacement value (building only) of a single family home in Texas statewide is roughly $187,000.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has authorized the use of federal funds to help fight fires in multiple counties in Texas. This follows requests over the holiday weekend for fire management assistance declarations from state officials.
The fires have been burning in Bastrop County; Montgomery County; Travis County; Williamson County; and along the county lines of Grimes, Waller and Montgomery Counties.
The addition of these seven latest Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs) brings the total of approved FMAGs for Texas to 52 so far in 2011.
Texas Gov. Rick Perry’s office announced that Texas Task Force 1, the state’s elite search team, was deployed to assist local officials and first responders in Bastrop County.
Based on the needs of local officials, a wide area search team consisting of approximately 100 members and nearly one dozen search canines will be in Bastrop to work with the local incident management team and assist with search operations, the governor’s office reported.
 





Email This
Print
Newsletters


Tweet








Your Name:

Your Email:

To:

Separate emails using a comma.
Message:











Categories: Texas / South Central NewsTopics: Texas, wildfires 
Have a hot lead?  Email us at newsdesk@insurancejournal.com




« Previous articleXL Insurance Names Soldano Western Region Executive
Next article »Texas Man Pleads Guilty to Multiple Arsons, Attempted Murder


 




                Like this article?
            Subscribe to our free email newsletter.


 

Advertisers








Latest Comments




								    September 7, 2011 at 2:39 pm											

 non-tree hugging Texas says: 

				Really now, who, other than an Austinite cares about the Houston toad?			




See all comments


See Comments (1)Add a Comment Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Comment 




Notify me of comments via e-mail 



More NewsEast Coast Quake Shook US Nuclear Plant Twice as Hard as Design AllowedTexas Fires Kill 4, Destroy More Than 1,600 HomesSenate Committee Passes Federal Flood Insurance Reform LegislationBest Report Concludes Canada’s Insurers Improve, But Risk Profile RisesTennessee Supreme Court Hears General Contractor Liability CaseDamages Ruling May Be Pivotal in BP Gulf Oil CaseAfter Drenching New Orleans, Tropical Storm Lee Threatens SoutheastTornado Has Cost Insurance $2.2B So Far in Joplin, MissouriMore News Features




 












Email
Twitter
iPhone
Facebook
iPad
LinkedIn
Android
RSS


 
Have a news tip? Tell us.


 

Most Popular

Now
This Week
Commented
Hurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and Nate
Willis’ Exec Sees Possible 'Historic Change' in Reinsurance Market
Global Property Insurance Market Remains Volatile: Aon Benfield
9/11 and Terrorism Risk 10 Years Later
Michigan Begins Debate Over Personal Injury Auto Insurance BenefitsHurricane Center Tracking 3 Atlantic Storms: Katia, Maria and Nate
Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast States
Central Texas Fires Slowly Being Contained but Blazes Continue Across State
Connecticut Asks Insurers to Waive Storm Deductibles for Irene Damages
Hurricane Katia Now Expected to Miss East CoastWhite House Requests $5.2B in New Disaster FundsSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (22)Irene Raises Hurricane Deductible Questions in Hard-Hit Northeast StatesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (14)Mortgage Lawsuits Target Individuals As Well As BanksSeptember 8, 2011 | Comments (12)Regulator Defends Suit Against Lenders Over Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (11)Nebraska County Must Pay $407K in Car Crash LawsuitSeptember 7, 2011 | Comments (7)More Top Stories 
Current Issue 



Read Online
Download PDF
Subscribe
Available on the iPad


Partner Center 






Featured VideosBrokering the Hot Cyber Liability MarketWatch Video
Quote of Note

We want to look to the future and we do not intend to revive some of the things of the old Kemper. We love the Kemper name, the Kemper heritage and the equity of the Kemper brand but we will try to modernize and build for the future.

 

 

 

 
Don Southwell, chairman, president and CEO, Unitrin

More Quotes
Reader Poll 
Does your company or agency plan on hiring new employees between now and the end of 2011?
 








Insurance Jobs
Claims Examiner - Santa Cruz, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - South Coast Metro, CAConstruction Defect Claims Specialist - San Ramon, CAOffice Claims Adjuster - Olathe, KSPredictive Modeling Analyst - Richmond, VA

 




LexArchaeology Provides Construction Owners Peace of Mind in Troubling TimesExpanded Food Recall Authority Creates Liabilities, OpportunitiesSafe Driving Habits Pay Off for Consumers with Usage-Based InsuranceUnderstanding Legal Liability for Condominium Association and Unit Owners 





Pottery Barn Kids Recalling About 82,300 DollsHonda Recalls 310,773 Pilots in the USAmerican Family Pays $1 Billion in Storm PaymentsUSFA Releases Civilian Fire Fatalities in Residential Buildings Report

 




POPULAR: Top 7 CGL Coverage Questions
FREE: Beyond Basic Training Information Session
SEPT 14: Succession Planning for Managers and Owners
EXCLUSIVE: Secrets of the Top Performing Agencies












Insurance News

News by Region
News by Topic

Yesterday

Site Search

 



Features

Insurance Markets Directory
Forums
A.M. Best Company Ratings
Industry Events
Agencies Wanted / For Sale
Yellowpages
Newswire
Ad Showcase
Insurance Jobs



Connect with us

Email Newsletters
Magazine Subscriptions
For Your Website
RSS Feeds
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn



Insurance Journal

Submit News
Advertise
Subscribe
Contact Us
Link to Us

Wells Publishing Network

Insurance Journal Online
MyNewMarkets.com
Claims Journal
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance



© 2011 by Wells Publishing, Inc. Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Site Map













What others are reading (7 of 21 articles)Senate Committee Passes Federal Flood Insurance Reform LegislationClose




