Italian Serie A- AC Milan Knocked Out Juventus 3-0










 

Home
About
Contact
Archives
Privacy
RSS














Featured
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Politics
Sport
Health
 


Italian Serie A- AC Milan Knocked Out Juventus 3-0


September 7, 2011
Featured



Tweet



Juventus Chievo
Italian Serie A- AC Milan Knocked Out Juventus 3-0
Article  by Ally White
In the nineteenth round of the Italian Serie A, the AC Milan secured a valuable 3-0 victory as visitors against Juventus, thanks to a goal of Alessandro Nesta and two goals from Ronaldinho this past Sunday at the Olimpico de Turin. This triumph allows AC Milan to settle in second place of the standings with 37 points, eight points away from top leader Inter Milan, who has 45 points. In third place is Juventus with 33 points, followed by Napoles also with 33 points but with a goal difference. 
Coach Ciro Ferrar is feeling the pressure as his team; the Bianconeri loses four out of five. On the other hand, this is the second consecutive win for the Rossoneri, after beating Genoa 5-2 on January 6th. 
The visitor’s level of play was not spectacular, but it was enough to beat third place Juve due to their lack of confidence in their game. 
Juventus midfielder Felipe Melo, widely criticized for his poor performances since his transfer in July from Fiorentina, failed to block a corner kick at minute 30 and Nesta took advantage of his mistake to score for the Devil and put the score 1-0. After this goal, Juventus was unable to provide any serious goal attempts. At the end of the first half, the game was 1-0 in favor of the Rossoneri.
The game tempo was even higher during the second half for Milan’s side, who improved its attack and tried to create attacks to increase their chance of scoring. After some good opportunities, Milan finally doubled their advantage at minute 72 when Ronaldinho’s header was deflected into the net by Paolo De Ceglie, setting the scoring at 2-0. 
Only 16 minutes later, the Brazilian again appeared for Milan, in an action that was also initiated from a corner kick, where Flamini touched the ball, and then fell into the Brazilian’s feet. He mercilessly scored the third goal of AC Milan and his second goal of the game. 
After the Brazilian’s goal, Juventus was out of time and options and lost the game with a final score of 3-0. With this knock out, Juventus was jeered off the field in its own stadium. Needless to say, their supporters were really disappointed in the way the Zebras played. 
At the end of the match, Juve Coach Ciro Ferrara said he knows his team is not playing at its best as in the beginning of the season and despite the injuries of important players; he hopes to encourage his players to turn the season around and make everyone happy. 
” I understand everyone’s disappointment, from the fans on down to the club. The goal now is to recreate the enthusiasm we had at the beginning of the season. I don’t think my job is at risk. I’m very focused on what we need to do to turn things around and I’m not the type of person that runs away,” stated Ferrara.
However, it must be mentioned that the Juve has several serious players with injuries such as midfielder Christian Poulsen(broken bone), David Trezeguet (ankle injury), goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon and forward Vincenzo Iaquinta, who both are recovering from knee surgery and Mauro Camoranesi, who is out for a month with a thigh injury. In addition, Mohamed Sissoko is away playing for Mali at the African Cup of Nations, which is another loss for the team. With these setbacks, Juventus may have a harder time recovering than they think. 
On the other hand, AC Milan is experiencing one of the best moments of the season and hopes to get closer to top leader Inter Milan.


The next Italian Serie A meeting of the Rossoneri will be against Siena in San Siro on Sunday January 17th, whereas Juventus will face Chievo Verona on the same day.
				
Serie A 2011-2012 Season Preview: Juventus – Another Makeover for the Old Lady
juventus chievo
Someone had to take the blame for the team's seeming inability to hold leads against provincial sides (ie Chievo, Catania), and the Ranieriesque substitutions and a mind-boggling infatuation with Marco Motta (think Shallow Hal), spoke for themselves. …
 


Tags: Italian Juventus Knocked Milan Serie



Related press

Italian Serie A- AC Milan Knocked Out Juventus three-0 - September 4, 2011Watch Chievo Verona vs Catania Live Streaming Italian Serie A Online On PC - September 1, 2011Berkshire’s Richline to buy Italian jeweler - September 11, 2011Italian President warns on “alarming” debt signals - September 5, 2011View Sampdoria v AC Milan totally free - August 18, 2011



Share this press

Share on Facebook
Tweet This!
Save to delicious
Digg it!
Stumble this!



 



0 Comments
You can be the first one to leave a comment.


Leave a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.


Name  (required):

Email  (required):

Website:



Comment:







 
 
 

 
  Recent Press 
Suárez will be a legend, says Gerrard
HP offers partial refund to full-price TouchPad buyers
Swatch Group ends partnership with Tiffany
Presented By:
Star Fox 64 3D review

 

Random Pressnatalie nunn amber rosetd only rankingsdemi moore recent topless postgerard butlerarizona state university foot ball standings 2011Q1Subject area: Materials ScienceSakhalin 2prayer in 7 days in utopia moviegoogleearththirty seconds to mars 

Recommended Sites
Menu Masakan
Business Analyst Course
Link Building Service


 

  

 

  
 

 

 


Pages: 
Home
About
Contact
Archives
Privacy
RSS


Our Categories: 
Featured
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Politics
Sport
Health






				Design by USDP - Sitemap
				Copyright © 2011 US Digital Press. All Rights Reserved.			

Grab our RSS Feed













