 » Obamanomics: The Markets Are Losing Hope - Big Government





















Home
Exclusives
Categories
Contributors












Obamanomics: The Markets Are Losing Hope
by 
                
			  	Charles Gasparino			  	




In today’s New York Post:
There was once a time when trouble in foreign markets, whether in Asia or as now in Europe, would be good for US stocks.

Sure, our markets can get hammered when news like the 1997 Asian currency crisis hits. But we often make a comeback as investors digest the news and come to the conclusion that the best place to bet for future growth is on the companies at the heart of the US economy.
No longer.
And it’s not just the zero-percent job growth and 9.1 percent unemployment we’ve got now.
The mainstream business media will tell you that the problem lies in the “dysfunction of Washington.” In other words, the economic slump and all the market turbulence, including yesterday’s 100-point drop in the Dow, stem from a bipartisan cause — lawmakers and President Obama can’t manage to craft a sensible plan to grow the economy.
But talk to enough investors, and they’ll tell you this isn’t really a bipartisan problem. Rather, it largely remains at the top, meaning with Obama and his economic advisers — who, when they aren’t threatening to raise the taxes of “millionaires and billionaires” who make just $200,000 a year, are offering up the leftovers of previously failed economic policies, such as this “infrastructure bank” gimmick that the president plans to unveil in what’s being billed as a major economic speech later in the week.

The stock market bounced back after the 1997 Asian crisis because investors had much to look forward to as the Clinton administration, prodded by a Republican-led Congress, embraced a pro-growth agenda of tax cuts and welfare reform.
Contrast that to what we have now: an administration looking to purge high unemployment and slow growth with an “infrastructure bank” — which might put a few construction workers back to work, but can’t come close to reversing the Great Recession.
Put aside the fact that such government-mandated “infrastructure spending” often leads to fraud and waste; the history of such plans actually creating enough new jobs to spur significant economic growth is pretty dismal.
Whether it was FDR’s Works Projects Administration in the 1930s, the stimulus offered by President George W. Bush just before the financial crisis went into high gear, or Obama’s nearly $1 trillion spending spree in his first year, government mandated growth plans fail to deliver and often make a bad situation even worse. The spending has to be paid for — and whether that means higher taxes or new debt, it’s not worth the price.
The markets — that is, investors who are paid to bet on the future of US prosperity — know this history all too well. They also know we now have $14 trillion in debt that Obama’s “infrastructure” gimmick will only add to. And they know that this president is either too economically naá¯ve or too ideologically rigid to reverse course from his failed policies.
Then there’s the other “big idea” expected in his upcoming speech — extending the “payroll tax cut.” First off, the cut that’s already in place hasn’t worked any miracles so far. Plus, everyone knows it’s only temporary — and he’s looking to raise income taxes on a permanent basis.
And that’s why investors are increasingly tuning him out.
“Markets tend to be smart,” says David Ader, a strategist at CRT Capital Group, “or [at least] capable of learning. Thus if we constantly hear the same optimistic plans from politicians and they keep failing, eventually we’ll learn not to pay too much attention.”
We can only hope investors tune out the president’s speech on Thursday. The last time they listened to what he was saying about the economy, when he addressed the country after the S&P downgrade, the Dow dropped more than 600 points.
Original article here. 

 

Email this to a friend | Print |
		Share on Facebook
		| Tweet this
		|  

    	Tags: asian markets, Barack Obama, debt, european markets, job growth, job losses, Markets, recession, Regulation, spending, stocks, tax hikes, traders, Washington		Posted Sep 7th 2011 at 10:13 am in 2012 Election,  Economics,  Obama,  Politics,  Regulation,  Uncategorized,  taxes | 
				

32686477 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fcgasparino%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fobamanomics-the-markets-are-losing-hope%2FObamanomics%3A+The+Markets+Are+Losing+Hope2011-09-07+17%3A13%3A21Charles+Gasparinohttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326864 









32686477 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fcgasparino%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fobamanomics-the-markets-are-losing-hope%2FObamanomics%3A+The+Markets+Are+Losing+Hope2011-09-07+17%3A13%3A21Charles+Gasparinohttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326864


On_Antibiotics - September 7th, 2011 at 10:21 am
And what exactly is the Republican job plan that they promised 9 months ago and still haven't delivered? Oh let me guess, a tax cut for the rich? Wow, that's thinking! That's going to save the whole economy and create jobs! Thank God for baggers!




John G - September 7th, 2011 at 10:24 am
Ho-hum, another waste of time speech on "jobs". If he really had something to say, he wouldn't have to call a joint session of Congress to do so. What a clown.  
$100 says the GB vs NO game outdraws the speech at least 2:1




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 10:32 am
Hey, double bagger why are you on antibiotics? I am sure I already know!




okrahead - September 7th, 2011 at 10:41 am
My new job….  Hunting and gathering while avoiding Fish and Wildlife agents.  Maybe I can get a good pile of old feed corn to make some mash and cook up a little white lightning too!  It'll be just like the good ole days of 1936.  Wonder how much Obama will want to tax my daily take of squirrel and rabbit?




mijowi - September 7th, 2011 at 11:02 am
Where does the capital come from for new business venture's?




Stan522 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:08 am
I know it goes against your SOP, you'd much prefer sniping at people instead of reading, but here is a better written article on why obama is failing to deliver on jobs…. http://links.heritage.org/hostedemail/email.htm?h...




HonestAmerican - September 7th, 2011 at 11:09 am
He doesn't want your squirrel….he's got a big, fat, black one in the White House now.
He might want the rabbit though……




mijowi - September 7th, 2011 at 11:10 am
I love to hear the following in a speech from any of our elected officials: 
Ladies and Gentlemen; 
We have tried many different plans to revive our sluggish economy to no avail. At this time we are going to try one last plan in the hopes of reviving the economy. The plan is very basic and simple to implement with little or no added cost to the tax payers of this great copuntry. Our first step is to stop trying to do everything for the people of this country, this means that people will have to accept responsibility for their own action and decisions. The government will not be the safety net as we know it today. As a government we are going to return to our specifically assigned responsibilities and allow the people of this great country to deal with all other responsibilities as the deem necessary.
This conclude are speech for today.




The_Great_Satan - September 7th, 2011 at 11:12 am
When all hope is lost there's still gold and silver. Long live gold.




Stan522 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:14 am
Na, he won't be looking for tax revenue from those ventures, but you will have the Environmental Protection Agency on your a$$ looking to fine you for leaving lead shot around the woods, burning an open flame and chopping down forest land for fuel. Plus you'll be disturbing the wild life, so the Fish and Game department may be paying you a visit.  
They have so many ways to screw with you…….




SigFan - September 7th, 2011 at 11:14 am
Sorry to say it, but unless there is some miracle that occurs between now and November 2012, Obama and his wrecking crew still have plenty of time to accomplish what they set out to do.  Total collapse of the US economy is their goal and they are well on their way to achieving it.  It's going to get worse than many of us ever envisioned – stock up and be prepared.




Moonsterx1 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:15 am
Do you favor laws that treat people differently based on how much money they make?




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 11:16 am
Cut spending, void the mountain of regs coming from the EPA, shut down the NLRB, cut foreign aid and all subsidies, drill baby drill, mine coal for internal use and export, and leave the economy alone. It can take care of itself and will do so if micro-manager BO and his useless trolls get the heck out of the way.




Rt_Thinker - September 7th, 2011 at 11:16 am
Unfortunately, the President is BOTH too economically naive and ideologically rigid to reverse course. Having never worked in private enterprise, he has no concept of what business is about. And he has no idea of the inter-related nature of tax and regulatory policy. From the failure to exploit our energy resources, to the union kowtowing at the NLRB, to the anti-success rhetoric against "millionaires and billionaires" business gets hit on all sides. And it hurts small and mid-sized business the most. Large multinationals can handle it. It's the small business, the one who is trying to grow, who gets hit.  
It's as much an attitude and confidence thing now, as it is purely and economic thing. Until someone in the White House "gets it", things won't change.




Publius_Fed_2 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:16 am
The basic question that faces mankind is this, "Is there a model of government control for a population that ensures liberty and freedom over time?" 
Or to make it brief, "Can groups of people be controlled to do what is best for each other?" 
Another approach is this, "Can we trust those in Government to always make the right choices so that all peoples can live a full and happy life?" 
In the end these are questions for our time, for our generation. These are the matters that will consume this country, the United States of America. The overall thoughtfulness that many people possess is the notion that government, in whatever form, can compensate for the flaws of the market place and the flaws of the human character; either by regulating the marketplace into a conformity that is defined by the benevolent government servants or taking the market over and attempting to supply necessary goods and services under the umbrella of a government entity. 
In the end, the words that we speak and write on this topic can fill volumes of books, audio clips and video clips. At the end of the day they are just words. We can fill pages and pages of pamphlets full of nonsense as to necessity of the human soul to have a more powerful source help us manage the daily risks of our lives. At the end of the day, we still rise, eat, go into the world, use our skills to do what we do and then come home, eat and visit with family and friends;  at the end of the day we go to bed. 
Our lives are filled with the hope that we grow up happy, with a consistent family unit that cares for us as children, that we find a spouse or significant other,  that supports us in our dreams and hopes. We hope to find that we can love another and have that person find the stability and consistency to love us in return. We hope to have a family or be part of one to watch the children or someone's children grow up and experience the world for the first time. 
These things and much more we hope for ourselves and we hope for others. Additionally, one will need to admit, there is no one individual, that has a solid sense of reason on their side and does not have the intension to harm another,  that these ideas are indeed steadfastly fact. 
Is there someone out there that does not want these things for themselves? I am sure there are. But we would have to say that these people that want to be alone and do not want others to grow as humans and as families would be part of the abnormal sect of society that we should work to reach out to assist. Not to impose on, but to help them experience the joy and love that personal growth and family expression brings. 
Additionally, what can a family bring but hope and love which can bring one to a greater growth as a human on this planet, and has the brazing effect that can mold a pristine character. An individual that can be trusted and is trusting, a person that is open and honest with their promises, that is consistent in their labors that speaks the truth and walks a line that allows that person to reap the rewards of their efforts. And in doing so, has the courage and fortitude to share what they earn with others. Whether it be friends or family or an act of kindness to a stranger, what we might call, charity.




Publius_Fed_2 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:16 am
This  my friends, is what we might paint as the utopia that we would like to achieve. And no matter what group we are from, from the mind set of big government or big business or a more libertarian perspective. These goals are shared by all. 
Why is that? Mostly to preserve our society and continue our families into the future. As time passes, so will our lives pass, and at the end of the day we must realize that we have some responsibility in shaping the world to come. That the people that we choose whom then help choose the type of government that will enforce laws and rules that will bring peace and tranquility, must be chosen with sense of direction toward these goals. 
These goals of a society, ensure fairness and ensure the mechanisms for people, of good character, are fostered that play nicely with each other and create an atmosphere of fairness. 
Fairness, what is that word? How can fairness be such an important subject at such a time in which the wealth of the world is so unevenly distributed. Fairness is a term that can be relative, they have more than I, so that is not fair. They took what I have earned, that is not fair. So what is fair? Taking from someone that has worked hard to earn something because they have obtained it and the other person did not? Or is it fair to say that someone has too much of something and has to share it, forcibly, such that others can participate in having that which they do not have? 
And yes, it is true; this concept of forcibly sharing what other's have as fairness, when contrasted against the fairness of something that was earned, is no longer a concept of fairness. Would it not be true, at some point a thief, justifying their actions in the moment, may consider taking what someone else has as their own and call it fair? Someone down on their luck, sees a rich man lost in some dark ally and determines that what they have should be shared with him in the moment. Regardless, the act of stealing from the gentleman is no less of a barbarian act as entering an empty home and taking the owner's valuables. 
More importantly, what does our goal have to do with the overall concept of fairness? The answer is that we must establish what it is that we want before we can set in motion the mechanism to determine what it is we can put in place so that we can achieve it. 
So in the end, we want an atmosphere where there is an element of Fairness such that all can create a life they can enjoy and create a sense of fulfillment. Some people refer to this as the Pursuit of Happiness. Ultimately, the actual pursuit of happiness cannot be experienced by all unless there is an element of fairness. 
So, back to our original question, "How does the control of government help formulate this atmosphere of fairness for all?" 
As such, the challenge then becomes this, "What act by the government can best assist in fairness?" The reality is that government can only control a limited number of things:
1) Regulate what we do
2) Protect us from harm/criminals
3) Tax what we create
4) Supply assistance to identified groups (Social Security, etc.)




Publius_Fed_2 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:17 am
Some folks would argue that they also can make the marketplace work by organizing the business sectors and in some cases running some of the businesses. As this is form of government results in fascism. Others would say that this is good, that there is a need for government to run all parts of the marketplace in order to ensure full fairness and eliminate the evils of profit. 
In the end, the idea that the government can create an atmosphere of "fairness" is one where we have to fully comprehend the mechanisms that government has to enforce and fulfill this promise. As stated, these mechanisms are limited. More importantly they do not include the responsibility of ensuring the population earns a life guided towards a character that requires respect and admiration. A character of purity in thought and deed such that the human will make choices to care for their family and their fellow humans. 
No there is no mechanism that can do this within the realm of government. As such, we must then ask, can government deliver fairness without the mechanisms to enforce and promote a purity of character? 
The answer is, of course not!
No matter what rules are put into place or incentives one can surmise. There is no mechanism that government can use to purify the human soul such that the human will act in such a way that they will make decisions based on honesty, trust and fortitude. 
But what can? What can assist in doing this cleansing of the soul? There are many books that talk about this action of cleansing of the human soul, and one cannot do it justice in a few short words here. Nor can one attempt to replicate the religious teachings of all religions of peace here in a few short lines. But at the end of the day, the moral pinning of a society has a close tie to the necessity of the understanding that there is a higher guidance, a higher power, some call it God. Others call it Mother Nature and still others call it the eternal force. Regardless, this little understood relationship between the notion that there is a God and the moral responsibilities of all humans requires the process in which one can purify the human soul, without force, is the true essence of "fairness". 
As such, this critical distinction, between the "Purity of Fairness" and the "Enforcement of Fairness" lays the ultimate truth; that the moral compass of a nation will determine which avenue in which they choose. The notion that "Enforcement of Fairness" is the righteous path to choose or the "Purity of Fairness" is the atmosphere to choose. 
Down one path, there is the use of government and all the tenant tools it can posses, minus the brazen tools for purifying the soul, to achieve this concept of "Fairness". And down the other path is the notion that government's intervention in the lives of humans, prevents the forces of the population from "Purifying" the human souls so that right minded thinking can prevail and "fairness" can emerge.




Publius_Fed_2 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:17 am
Does the common human mind wish that we could elect or allow another groups of humans to assume this laborious task of ensuring that the world be "fair"? Of course! It is natural to assume, if you’re a fair minded individual, that you have the fortitude to elect an official that will bring fairness to your life and others. It is also fair to say that we can see others that may have more and thus have more freedom in their lives to enjoy the lives they live, and say that this is not fair. As such, we can believe in the notion that it is the RESPONSIBILTY of the government to ensure this fairness, by force, by enforcement. 
As such, would it not be true then, if one group has more and then elects those whom might bring that more to us, that one day we may find ourselves on the side of more? Would it not be fair to say that when we are on the side of more, that when our more is taken we might gnash our teeth in rage and disgust and in anger that our more has been taken? Would we not scream "This is not fair, why cannot someone do something?" 
So it is true then, in the world of "Enforcement of Fairness" the only group that is dealt the fairness, is the group that is in political power. The group that controls all of the mechanisms of governmental power, except that of the ability to purify the human soul such that the human condition would make the righteous choices that could bring about true "Fairness". 
Is this not the arrangement that the founding fathers warned us about? Is this not the notion of government that has plagued mankind throughout the ages? Do I wish that this was not the case? Yes, I do. It is easy to fall into the concept that we can save ourselves by instituting the notion that fairness can be enforced. But in the end it ruins itself. It ends in tragedy. 
This is the notion that the founding fathers built, the "Purity of Fairness" through the notion that there is a God, hire power or Mother Nature. Not of Religion in of itself; but the notion that there exists a much more powerful force that we cannot understand and never will be able to understand that it is the ultimate arbitrary of fairness. 
And that force provided to us, all of us, not just a select few, the ability to get up in the morning, eat, go out through the day, return home and enjoy our loved ones and go to bed; and while doing all of these activities we use our faculties of reason to make it from one minute to the next; the ability of the mind to perform inductive and deductive reasoning… flawlessly. But the results may vary, and they do; some people's reasoning are more advantageous than others, but in the end of the day, we have our faculties to rely on to make our day a success. 
As such, the "purity of fairness" then is a notion that relies on the human individual ability to monitor, maintain and adjust to meet our daily needs, wishes and desires; as such, the need and more so the necessity of government becomes less and less critical to the success or our lives.




BrokedownPalace - September 7th, 2011 at 11:17 am
Why should the investors have any confidence in the administration. The admin does not even have confidence in themselves, the majority of the economic advisors leaving after little more than a year or two. 
Think about it… You are asked by the PRESIDENT to be part of has economic advisor team. How bad is it in the White House, how stubborn or deluded must the President be that he can't keep economic advisors on staff? 
It's clear the guy has no clue about whats going on and definitely no clue on what to do from here.  
Can't wait for that big speech.  




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 11:19 am
John, only an elitist, progressive lib would take that sucker bet.




Publius_Fed_2 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:19 am
One might say, "How can this be? How can we live our lives without the oversight of government? Just think of all that would not work, all of the crime that would be committed? The need for government to save us from all of the problems of the world is no more present than today." In so believing this notion we must note that we do not pursue the negative consequences and risks that come with an environment that is free of oppressive rules and regulations. We embrace those whom succeed and lead the way to success that others can follow.  
The natural response is this, "In so doing, you will harm many people. They will have to suffer to achieve the goals you seek with this notion of the purity of fairness." And one would have to agree that this is the case,  that some people might suffer due to following those whom are not of the purest of character. But in the end, would this time of uncertainty leading to the individual of character and steadfastness be worth the effort? What do we have now, more shared pain, more stagnation that surrounds us with no end in sight? With the eventual mutual destruction that we face with the notion of the "Enforcement of Fairness”, I think not! 
It is better to strive to achieve and know the pains of failure than glide ever so slowly into a numb dull uncomfortable state of depression and lifeless expression. In the end, the pursuit of the "Enforcement of Fairness" leads to the wallowing in vice that the founding fathers warned against; since once you have no competition in the marketplace, once one has taken the reins of "Enforcement" the evils of vice creep inside the human psyche. These things we call vice are those items that lock the natural evidence for the human to justify their actions to push further into their notion that a more powerful government is the only thing that can save mankind. 
These things we call vice, grip mankind, and does not let one go such that the notion of purity of character can take a back seat without consequence. The notion of the "Enforcement of Fairness" drives a stake into the heart of those whom would dream of the "Purity of Fairness". Whether the vice is gluttony, anger, hubris, etc., the result is the same, the human psyche can be consumed with the vice to the detriment of their family and friends around them. The vice can be so strong that one can make decisions to enact government policies and controls that support or protect the engaged vice. Or, more importantly, it allows the human psyche to ACT OUT their vice on others within their society or against other societies. 
In the end it comes full circle, is the goal of a society to utilize the power of government to enforce fairness? Or is it the responsibility of the people to ensure that government never attempts to utilize itself to enforce fairness, as such the population will enjoy the ever bountiful result of TRUE FAIRNESS and therefore experience the pursuit of happiness unhindered. 
So, from this prose to understand the logic of control, we understand that the notion that government can be "Helpful" in the pursuit of happiness is FALSE. In the end, it hinders happiness; no matter how well the intentioned notion is or the volume of papers describe the potion that will finally deliver the goods. It is false because it cannot solve the human sociological requirement to have an environment that purifies the human character to a moral standard that supports the ongoing success of that society. 
Where the ingredients to that achievement include:
1) Limited Government, only to what is necessary
2) A belief in God, not a religion but that there is a higher power
3) Functional economics and marketplaces without the oversight of government
4) Individual responsibility to purse a life with a pure character 
With these ingredients, the social pressures will allow vice to be purged from the base of society to ensure and guarantee that "Fairness" will reign and peace on earth can be achieved. 
This is what the founding fathers attempted to build, and succeeded, this is what we have destroyed and are now paying for our actions. 
Do I suggest that we drop all of the "Unnecessary" Programs we have to date? No, since that would do great harm. But what we are saying is that this is where we have come from. There has to be a way back. And if there is not, then the Founding Founders where right in penning that this constitution that they developed was a test that if mankind is able to manage themselves the constitution they put together will last forever. If it does not, then it will indicate that mankind's fate is defined by happenstance and force.




MSMediacritic - September 7th, 2011 at 11:21 am
Duhhhhh…..




pilgrim_shadow - September 7th, 2011 at 11:22 am
The 2009 stimulus amounted to over $40,000 for every person who is CURRENTLY on unemployment (less were on unemployment then.) 
Clearly, they didn't get any money from the stimulus. 
Who did? 
Whose pockets are being lined? 
Have you ever asked yourself these questions?




pilgrim_shadow - September 7th, 2011 at 11:22 am
The 2009 stimulus amounted to over $40,000 for every person who is CURRENTLY on unemployment (less were on unemployment then.) 
Clearly, they didn't get any money from the stimulus. 
Who did? 
Whose pockets are being lined? 
Have you ever asked yourself these questions?




William_Z - September 7th, 2011 at 11:23 am
Democrats had everything for TWO years!  Stop whining and trying to deflect blame–they did nothing but spend–and unemployment is–still–over 9%.    The Dems have the Senate and WH and the only plan is to spend, spend, spend another 300 BILLION.  It did not work before–it failed, but that Democrat policy.  Failure on a massive scale. No surprise there.




BrokedownPalace - September 7th, 2011 at 11:26 am
It seems like the plan is pretty simple.  
Stop spending money that does not exist.
Stop Micro-regulating the economy.
Stop making small business worry about their very survival.
Allow the county to utilize its vast oil and gas reserves to both provide jobs and keep the money here.  
There, not one word about a tax cut.  
Now go back to your MSNBC and your afternoon bowl of Count Chocula and leave the adults in peace.




shaggatha - September 7th, 2011 at 11:26 am
How about iron and steel? The wife can iron and the husband can steel (steal?) 
I know. I know.
But it was right there.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 11:27 am
Value.  
You can't grow the economy without creating value.  
Obama's administration just spent almost $1T, and created no value.  
Sustained value creation is not initiated by government spending. The types of programs you seem to want are purely redistributive in nature, and will not create lasting value…..and therefore will not create growth.  
No growth, no jobs.  
As long as this administration remains hell bent on throwing money away through redistribution, without creating value, any plan the GOP presents can not work.  
So, frankly, I don't care about a GOP jobs plan. Because I fully understand that in order to create jobs, businesses need the opportunity to identify what will create value.  
They can't do that in an uncertain regulatory environment. And they can't do that with an administration that is more Union Organizer than Executive.




shaggatha - September 7th, 2011 at 11:28 am
Conservative Spring.  Caucus, primary and calls for the dictator to step aside.




no_more_deceit - September 7th, 2011 at 11:30 am
The markets are not losing hope, they are moving East.  
"Ford breaks ground on $1 billion India plant
Slated to open in 2014, facility will create around 5,000 jobs
Jason OverdorfSeptember 6, 2011 01:39"   from: http://www.globalpost.com/dispatches/globalpost-b...




knuckles - September 7th, 2011 at 11:30 am
Obama and the Democrats have put a moratorium on America. An intelligent President would make it easier, not harder, for the economy to produce the goods and services (and jobs) that people want and need.




Syrin23 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:30 am
Stupid is as you post.  
Let's start with your tax cuts mantra.  
Under Kenendy, tax cuts created 10 MILLION jobs and $200 BILLION more in tax revenue.
Under Reagan, tax cuts created 12 MILLION jobs and $300 BILLION more in tax revenue.
Under Bush, tax cuts created 10 MILLION jobs and $200 BILLION more in tax revenue.  
So yeah, dumb ass, tax cuts actually DO work. History doesn't lie, just you regressives. Not to mention that the SAME action had the same result in three different decades under both political parties. Funny how those things called "facts" never are on your side.  
Furthermore, the GOP controls half of Congress, and has done so for 6-7 months. You control the other half, the presiedncy, the media and academia, but the problem is that small area we've controlled for less than a year. What are you free balling that would allow your mind to use that as logic? We haven't had a SINGLE budget passed since Obamugabe took office. AGain, those pesky facts.
http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2010/12/graph...




Syrin23 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:32 am
Meanwhile, here's your brilliant solution. 
We took over a trillion dollars  worth of capital out of the free market, kept 35% of it then returned the remainder back into the economy in the least efficient means possible.   It failed speactacularly, and actually made things worse.   What to do?   Yeah, let's do that again. 
BRILLIANT!   What Soros funded web site do you work for?




MonsieurBobo - September 7th, 2011 at 11:33 am
I like the idea of an infrastructure bank.  I just don't like the idea of a government-run infrastructure bank.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:34 am
Their plan is to send all of their solutions to the Senate or Bammies desk where he stamps his veto on it then if he has time, reads it.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 11:35 am
Don't forget the overlap in fed agencies. Honest Abe will also have a visit from the USDA for the fire and tree chopping, FDA for unauthorized selling of a raw product, OSHA for lack of safety equipment and fire extinguisher, DOEnergy for not securing a permit., and the list goes on. The men in black will even be after him to verify that he is not sending some signals to any ET in the galactic neighborhood. And I haven't even considered the bunny and tree huggers, PETA, and the save the world fanatics. Good grief, there's even a chance Gore would show up due to pollution from the smoke adding to the CO2 problem influencing  climate chance.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 11:35 am
VALUE!!!!!  
People, the problem here is not so much 'Obamanomics'; as it is how Obama sees the job of President.  
The President is the head of the executive branch of government. The role of any head executive in any modern organization is what?  
I would suggest that it is to create VALUE.  
Obama is a union/community organizer. He is currently running the executive branch of government as if it were a union organizing campaign. Everything is a 'struggle'. Everything is 'us' against 'them'. Everything is classwarfare. His entire administration has been labor v. management.  
I'm sorry folks, but you can't run government business that way.   Taxes are a perfect example.  Government redundency, waste and bureaucratic expense completely dilute the value of the money the government takes from my paycheck.  For every $100 they take, I wonder what the actual return in value is? 
Mr. Obama needs to be reminded exactly what office he ran for……because he is thoroughly confused.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 11:35 am
Obamanomics: The Markets Lose Hope
EPAnomics: The Country Loses Jobs




Syrin23 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:35 am
I read an article somewhere yesterday, but the gist of it was this.   There was a meeting with a bunch of CEO's, and after a speech at an informal gathering, there was a common theme being delivered by the CEO's.   They admitted that they would not hire a single new employee until after the 2012 elections.   Why?  because they didn't want the unemployment numbers to improve at all if it was going to give Obamugabe a chance at re-election.   They view him as that hostile to business.   They're willing to sacrifice their own profitability for 18 months to get the Teleprompter Tyrant out of office.




joqiii - September 7th, 2011 at 11:40 am
I think it is more like you are on psychotropics.




MonsieurBobo - September 7th, 2011 at 11:40 am
Don't really have to ask: http://www.recovery.gov/Pages/default.aspx




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 11:41 am
"I like the idea of an infrastructure bank. I just don't like the idea of a government -run infrastructure bank." 
That's how I feel at this point. The government is a big, steaming pile of failure, and dropping another load on top won't make it smell any better.




joqiii - September 7th, 2011 at 11:42 am
What could be more fair than our gubment to get out of our way. Well said.




joqiii - September 7th, 2011 at 11:43 am
Right. The Bank will feed only those on the Owebama bandwagon.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 11:45 am
How could the markets lose faith in an administration that has spent almost $1T on stimulus….and not created any jobs.  
How could the markets lose faith in an administration that gives 500M loans to companies that don't even have a business plan?  
It's just shocking that markets would not be bullish for an administration that can't get any return on the money it gives away.




mrm_in_wnc - September 7th, 2011 at 11:57 am
i didn't think you could catch anything from your own hand…




MonsieurBobo - September 7th, 2011 at 12:00 pm
A private bank focused on making infrastructure loans/investments (as opposed to personal, residential, corporate, financial, etc) is exactly what the country needs.  Do you dispute this?




MonoPed - September 7th, 2011 at 12:04 pm
He's a leftist, of course he does.




FlexoRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:04 pm
Whats the GOP plan?
Not that you would understand it. You don't really want to understand it do you…You just want to bitch.
But here it is in a nutshell.
Drill Baby Drill, Drill here Drill Now. Start building refineries and coal powered electrical plants. Thats all it would take. But like I said I don't expect you would understand the impact such direction would have on the Nation.
We all know why but you don't.




nceeno - September 7th, 2011 at 12:09 pm
Your brain infection is not being stopped by antibiotics.
Try 150 grains of lead instead.




TeaPartyNation - September 7th, 2011 at 12:14 pm
The market tug of war is between investors so stupid that they actually swallow the BS and recklessly irresponsible actions of bailout bernanke, and those investors with brains who realize that bailout bernanke and the grossly incompetent NO-PLAN OBOZO have largely destroyed the US economy – per their socialist agenda. 
The GROSS INCOMPETENCE of NO-PLAN OBOZO and bailout bernanke have created the "perfect storm" for America – they've brought back jimmy "the peanut" carter's STAGFLATION.




JoeInMichigan - September 7th, 2011 at 12:23 pm
Very well said, Mr. Steel.
I heard this morning that the US Government, which is broke, yet has grown itself by over 100,000 employees these past two years, has a job opening for an Administrator of Administrators.
No lie.




joqiii - September 7th, 2011 at 12:25 pm
I agree with you. If it is run by politicians it will simply become a way to pay back politcal debts. I do not dispute the idea of an infrastructure bank. It seems the stimulus did not work but there was no real bank then either. I guess this is worth a shot.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:30 pm
They are losing hope and heading for that change.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:31 pm
I might add…Labor vs. everyone else and freedom.




Ultra_C - September 7th, 2011 at 12:34 pm
It depends on what you mean by "infrastructure."  If you mean state or federal owned "infrastructure," then we already have tons of infrastructure banks; heck, the entire country of China could be considered an infrastructure bank.  The entire federal government is financed by borrowing money, and thus all lenders to the federal government are banks of some sort.  Infrastructure banks, military banks, entitlement banks, and so on.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 12:38 pm
Well, sure……labor v. any person or idea which isn't them/theirs……..it goes without saying.  Everything is either 100% with them or 100% against them.  No middle ground. 
Sounds oddly like a cult, if you ask me.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 12:39 pm
Sounds perfectly believeable.




TaterSalad - September 7th, 2011 at 12:49 pm
Barack is in over his head: Americans are finally waking up about how little this President knows about an economy. After 3 years Barack????
http://newsflavor.com/politics/us-politics/white-...




TaterSalad - September 7th, 2011 at 12:50 pm
Barack is in over his head: Americans are finally waking up about how little this President knows about an economy. After 3 years Barack???? You are in over your head pal !
http://newsflavor.com/politics/us-politics/white-...




TaterSalad - September 7th, 2011 at 12:50 pm
Barack is in over his head: Americans are finally waking up about how little this President knows about an economy. After 3 years Barack???? You are in over your head pal !
http://newsflavor.com/politics/us-politics/white-...




Ultra_C - September 7th, 2011 at 12:58 pm
Here's my jobs plan:    
1.  DRILL BABY, DRILL!  Enact a public policy for all federal agencies to follow:  "It is the policy of the United States of America that the nation shall achieve complete energy independence and become one of the world's top ten exporters of oil."  Set a barely realistic timeline to achieve that goal.  Eliminate administrative obstacles to achieving that goal.
2.  Immediately strike all EPA regulations that were proposed after January 1, 2006; indefinitely suspend all rulemaking authority by EPA; permanently remove all EPA authority over any gas that is a component of "air."  Permanently remove all EPA authority over "fracking" operations; reduce the EPA budget in real terms to the level it had in 2000.
3.  Reduce DOE budget by 50%.
4.  Fast track construction of 20 nuclear plants in "red" states; require one in four such plants to be breeder reactors.
5.  Strike all regulations concerning coal production or use that were proposed after January 1, 2006.
6.  Permanently cut corporate income tax to just below that of Ireland; impose three year moratorium on collection of any corporate income taxes for businesses earning less than $1billion per year.
7.  Construct 5 new petroleum refineries in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida (1 each), and statutorily require that for every refinery that is retired from service a new refinery with 110% capacity of the retiring one be built with no gap in service.
8.  Eliminate the diesel tax.
9.  Strike all CAFE regulations.
10.  Strike the income tax code for all individuals and small businesses, replace with the Fair Tax.  Mandate that no tax return under the Fair Tax may be longer than one side of one 8.5×11 inch page, with font at least 10pt.  
I could go on, but you get the idea.




pilgrim_shadow - September 7th, 2011 at 1:04 pm
Excellent answer, dim one….
In Missouri (my state) Total Funds Awarded = $4,849,220,000.00
Recipient reported jobs = 12,028
Do the math. 
Oh, I'll help you.  It comes out to $403,160 per new job.
Those are expensive jobs.  But where did the money go? 
It didn't get to the construction companies that build anything locally in my part of Missouri…they are all struggling to make ends meet.  Where the hell did that money go.  I'm going to have to repay that. 
Does the fact that unemployment increased as the government dug deeper into the pockets of future generations to pay for a stimulus not bother you in the least?




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 1:14 pm
A violent cult, judging by their distant past.  Willing to be as violent on a large scale, judging by what we have seen in the last couple of years.




MonsieurBobo - September 7th, 2011 at 1:18 pm
Of course it bothers me that unemployment increased.  Of course it bothers me that the government has shoveled trillions of dollars out the door. 
I was just pointing out that it's actually very, very easy to track the stimulus funds. 
As for the jobs being "expensive," you don't actually believe that every dollar was intended to go directly to job creation, do you?  Money is also required for supplies, fuel, insurance, etc.  The point of the stimulus wasn't just to create jobs – it was to inject capital into the economy.  I'm no Keynesian, but at least I get the point.




pilgrim_shadow - September 7th, 2011 at 1:32 pm
I was just pointing out that it's actually very, very easy to track the stimulus funds.  
Really?  Because you clicked on a website and it listed stimulus programs close to you.  I actually had the fortune to stumble across the fact that one of my major local competitors is receiving a $600,000 grant from stimulus.  How lovely.




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 2:25 pm
Pimco's Gross: ‘Helicopter Ben’ May Deter Lending With Lower Rates Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011 08:35 AM
http://www.moneynews.com/StreetTalk/fed-bernanke-... 
"It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one." George Washington




TipsterBL - September 7th, 2011 at 2:47 pm
Just another phrase that really means save another Union job.  Each and every dime O spends is to the befefit of his only constiuents.  The Unions or the Protected Class.  This country prospers when the private sector prospers.  You can't continue to enact programs that only benefit organized labor at the expense of the pricate sector.




Ithumpthugs - September 7th, 2011 at 3:00 pm
Invest in ammo. Protect all other investments.




HoR_Emperor - September 7th, 2011 at 3:11 pm
"Injecting capital into the economy" is not something the government can do, and it is most certainly not something that the "stimulus" did.




HoR_Emperor - September 7th, 2011 at 3:14 pm
Infrastructure is a piss-poor investment. It is NECESSARY but spending more than the minimum required to make it functional is just pouring money down a rathole.  (Which is why Progs love to propose massive infrastructure spending, BTW.)  There is no possibility of useful investment return.  So the idea of an "infrastructure bank" is flatly ludicrous.




airforcemom2003 - September 7th, 2011 at 3:16 pm
If Obama resigned tomorrow, the markets would go through the roof!




The_Great_Satan - September 7th, 2011 at 3:19 pm
I'm good on ammo, a bullwhip and an assortment of tools to torture hippies with. To clarify I don't buy physical gold; I invest in gold miners and trade different commodities.




The_Great_Satan - September 7th, 2011 at 3:23 pm
Just make sure to steal from a liberal. You can tell them you're redistributing their possessions to your residence. If the hippie doesn't like it the wife can hit him with the iron.




MonsieurBobo - September 7th, 2011 at 4:29 pm
I suppose if you only classify non-income-generating assets as infrastructure (e.g. sewers) while ignoring bridges, roads, rails, airports, power lines, etc., this might be an accurate statement.  As it turns out, it isn't and infrastructure investments, when properly capitalized and managed, can be lucrative.  Which is, of course, why most of the major private equity firms have raised infrastructure-specific funds.




Kanisha - September 10th, 2011 at 8:04 am
We have tried many different plans to revive our sluggish economy to no avail. At this time we are going to try one last plan in the hopes of reviving the economy. The plan is very basic and simple to implement with little or no added cost to the tax payers of this great copuntry. homeprojects




Kanisha - September 10th, 2011 at 8:05 am
Obama is a union/community organizer. He is currently running the executive branch of government as if it were a union organizing campaign. Everything is a 'struggle'. Everything is 'us' against 'them'. Everything is classwarfare. His entire administration has been labor v. management. homeprojects


Leave a Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.









 Click Here For Complete PIGFORD Coverage
Featured Story


Will Third Government School Bailout Improve Student Achievement?
by 
	    	
				  	Kyle Olson



First there was the stimulus.  The $787 billion monstrosity was critical to Big Labor because it would save public school teaching jobs, among other unionized positions. In fact, upon its passage, the News Journal reported on Joe Biden’s appearance before the Delaware teachers’ union:  Citing about $105 billion that...
Read more... 
More Featured Stories...

 
 

Follow Us on Twitter


Subscribe via RSS


Got a Tip?Contact us









Live Talk on Twitter 




Categories 
2012 Budget

2012 Election

2nd amendment

AARP

ACORN

Big Labor

Census

Cheat Sheet

Coffee and Markets

Congress

Culture

Defense

Earmarks

Economics

Education

energy

Environment

Exclusives

Fair Tax

Featured Story

Federal Spending

Financial Services

Flat Tax

Healthcare

History

Immigration

Journolist

Justice/Legal

Local Government

Media Criticism

Media Matters

Midterm Elections

News

Obama

Open Threads

pigford

Political Humor

Politics

Pork Report

race

Regulation

Special

State Government

State Politics

Supreme Court

Tax Reform

taxes

Tea Party

Technology

Uncategorized

unemployment


Blogroll

ABCNews
Ace Of Spades HQ
Agence France Press
Althouse
Amato for Liberty
American Thinker
Andrew Sullivan
Ann Coulter
Associated Press
Atlas Shrugs
Ben Shapiro
Big Hollywood
Bill O’Reilly
Black & Right
Blackfive
BlogsLucianneLoves.com
Bloomberg
Bob McCarty
Boston Globe
Breitbart.com
Breitbart.tv
C-SPAN
Camille Paglia
Charles Krauthammer
Chicago Tribune
Christian Science Monitor
Christopher Hitchens
Claremont Institute
Commentary
Daily Gut
Dana Loesch
DC Patriot
Dennis Miller Radio
Dennis Prager
Der Spiegel
Drudge Report
Economist
Ed Driscoll
Financial Times
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Founding Bloggers
Fox Nation
Fox News
Freakonomics Blog
Free Republic
Gateway Pundit
GayPatriot
George Will
Glenn Beck
Grand Old Partisan
Hot Air
Huffington Post
Hugh Hewitt
Human Events
Instapundit
Investors Business Daily
Iowahawk
James Hudnall
Jawa Report
Jerusalem Post
John Gibson
John Nolte
John Tierney
Judicial Watch Blog “Corruption Chronicles”
Kyle Olson
Larry Elder
Larry Kudlow
Lars Larson
Laura Ingraham
Law Hawk
Los Angeles Times
Lucianne.com
Mancow
Manhattan Institute
Marginal Revolution
Mark Levin
Mark Steyn
Matt Patterson
Media Research Center
Mediaite
Melanie Morgan
Michael Barone
Michael Savage
Michael Yon
Mickey Kaus
Mike Flynn
Move America Forward
MSNBC
National Review
National Review’s The Corner
Neal Boortz
New Republic
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Times
Newport Beach Now
NewsBusters
Newsweek
Pajamas Media
Parcbench
Pat Dollard
Patterico’s Pontifications
PoliGazette
Politico
Power Line
PR Newswire
Pravda
Protein Wisdom
Quincy News
Real Clear Markets
Real Clear Politics
Reason
Reason Hit and Run
RedState
Rep. McCotter YouTube Channel
Reuters
Ricochet
Roger L. Simon
Roger Stone
Roll Call
Rolling Stone
Rush Limbaugh
Rusty Humphries
Ryan P. Dixon
Salon
Sean Hannity
Silicon Alley Insider
Slate
Smoking Gun
South Park Episodes
Tammy Bruce
The Brody File
The Daily Beast
The Daily Caller
The Enterprise Report
The Enterprise Report
The Hill
The New Ledger
Thomas Sowell
Time
Times U.K.
Townhall.com
U.K. Daily Mail
U.K. Guardian
U.K. Telegraph
U.S. National Debt
U.S. News
USA Today
Vanity Fair
VodkaPundit
Volokh Conspiracy
Wall Street Journal
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
Weekly Standard
Yid With Lid


 








Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy







