Guatemala Votes for New President                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               Guatemala Votes for New President    Guatemala City :  Guatemala
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            11 0      
Views: 91
       The voilence plagued nation of Guatemala goes to the poll to elect a new President for themselves. They have 10 candidates to chose from. A candidate needs to win 50 per cent of the vote to avoid a November run-off, an unlikely total given the crowded field. The new president will take office in January.  Guatemala is seeing the worst kind of voilence of its history after the 36 long years of civil war in which more than 200,000 people lost their lives. The recent wave of the voilence is attributed to the Mexican drug gangs who use Guatemala as their route for the smuggling of drugs and weapons. Most of the killings which takes place is the result of the drug gang wars. During the election campaign all the candidates focussed on three main issues Voilence, economy and crime.  The leading candidate is an ex Army general, Perez Molina, 60, who has promised to deal with the criminals with an iron fist.        1 of 7        
10 Candidates are in the run for the Presidents slot
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (50.0%) Pakistan (15.4%) Portugal (11.5%) Norway (5.8%) 4 other countries (9.6%)           READ MORE: Guatemala, presidential election, Drugs, Guatemala Votes, drug   More News From: Guatemala City :  Guatemala      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 10            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 20 hours
ago
  
Wonderful report, thanks for sharing it. Rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     GoharAli
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
nicer reporting.. tnx for sharing,..rated up
            Reply  Posted By     sweetsana
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharingrated up
            Reply  Posted By     mus1423
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
nice to sharing it....!!!!!!!rated up
            Reply  Posted By     SyedBakhtawar
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
very nice sharing.. rated up
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing the report.. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Very nicely compiled report. Thanks for sharing. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well done job,keep it next dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Sophia000
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Intelligent writing, rated up for your hard work..
            Reply  Posted By     TajdarHaider
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
extra ordinary reporting keep it on.. rated up...
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          A retired general becoming the president of the Guatemalan By: lalag      Guatemalans voted Sunday without major incident for a presidential election whose favorite conservative is Otto Perez Molina, who promised to work against crime and poverty, endemic problems of this small Central American country. The voting, which began around 7:00 (1300 GMT) ended Sunday to 6:00 p.m. (0:00 GMT). Julio Solorzano, the Chief ...  about 5 hours ago     Prevent run-off presidential elections in Guatemala By: rawaha       Manuel Otto Perez Molina Baldizon can go to run-off to
define the president of Guatemala, according to preliminary election
results offered by the Supreme Electoral Tribunal (TSE).
With
only 2.20 percent of polling stations counted by midnight on Sunday
local time, the TSE said that the data do not reflect a specific trend,
which ...  about 6 hours ago     Guatemala Elections Today: Unprecedented Number of Women Running For ... By: DavaCastillo      September 11, 2011--
Guatemalans are voting today for a new President, and among the candidates running for office are an unprecedented number of women.
Laura Reyes, one of the three women running for vice president says in ipsnewsnet.com, “Women have more opportunities nowadays to participate in the economic, social and political ...  about 19 hours ago     Krigsbefläckad General valfavorit By: alibux4      15 years after the civil war that claimed a quarter of a million lives Guatemala looks out to a An important reason for Otto Pérez Molina leads big in the polls, is that he is for Sunday's election promises clampdown on the country's gruesome drug violence.Right man Pérez, representing the Patriot Party, wants to deploy ...  2 days ago     Over 80 killed by U.S. human trials in Guatemala By: ZohaibAnwer       
By macabre human trials of U.S. physicians to sexually transmitted diseases in Guatemala have been killed in the 40's at least 83 people. Were of almost 5500 people relied on medical testing more than 1300 have been deliberately infected with sexually transmitted diseases, said one appointed by U.S. President Barack Obama commission ...  13 days ago     Court approves extradition of U.S. Guatemala former President ... By: saadkhan      Guatemala's Constitutional Court on Friday approved the extradition of former President Alfonso Portillo (2000-2004) United States, where he is accused of laundering money from public coffers. The United States requested in January of last year's extradition in March this year a Guatemalan criminal court approved it. After confirmation of the ...  16 days ago     Guatemala's former first lady said she lost a battle but "no war" By: karasiwo      The former first lady of Guatemala, Sandra Torres, said he lost a battle but "war" at a press conference hours after Tuesday the Constitutional Court of that country's ratification of the rejection of his candidacy. Torres said there is no legal basis for the decision by the highest court of law in Guatemala. Also stressed that it is a political ...  about 1 month ago     Guatemala's President calls accept the verdict against the candidacy ... By: Ranasafdaralikhan      
Guatemala's President Alvaro Colom, on Tuesday called on ruling party supporters to respect the decision of the day before the Constitutional Court against the candidacy of his former wife, Sandra Torres, president.
With this ruling, Torres has exhausted all legal remedies in the country to be allowed his attendance at the September 11 ...  about 1 month ago     Torres, controversial former first lady who introduced herself as ... By: kingston23      Guatemala - Sandra Torres, the former first lady of Guatemala who
was now out of the race for the presidency, was in his campaign as the
champion of the "poor", she said the greatest victims of powerful economic groups who attributed their exclusion from the elections in September.
The
Constitutional Court, the country's highest court ...  about 1 month ago     Last resort for the candidacy of the former first lady of Guatemala By: Ranasafdaralikhan      
The former first lady Sandra Torres filed Guatemala on Monday
morning, local
time,  last
appeal, the Constitutional candidate for the presidential elections of September 11. The highest judicial and electoral Torres rejected the claim, who divorced in April of President Alvaro Colom at the constitutional ban that prevented him from ...  about 1 month ago     Rigoberta Menchu ​​is the president of Guatemala By: abdelfattah      The Nobel Peace Prize filed its registration as a presidential candidate for the Frente Amplio coalition in SeptemberThe
Register Citizen on Thursday signed the Nobel Peace Prize, Rigoberta
Menchu ​​Tum, presidential candidate for the Frente Amplio coalition for
the elections on September 11.Angel
Kennel, husband of the Quiche-origin ...  about 1 month ago     Identified the mastermind of the attack that killed Cabral By: Shaziakhan      The mastermind of the attack that killed the troubadour Argentine Facundo Cabral, identified by authorities as Alexander Guatemala, Costa Rica is a drug dealer, as they say sources close to the investigation who requested anonymity.Guatemalan Interior Minister Carlos Menocal, assured reporters hours before the Central security forces and Interpol ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Guatemalans Vote in Presidential Election  
Voice of America
 Guatemalans head to the polls Sunday to select a new president. Candidates have been running on promises to cut the country's rampant crime rate. Recent public opinion polls in Guatemala indicate retired general Otto Perez has a sizable lead, but may...    Guatemala votes for new president  
Al Jazeera
 13 Otto Perez Molina, a former army general who has promised an "iron fist" against criminals, is leading the field of 10 candidates as Guatemalans cast ballots for a new president. Crime, violence and the economy have been the biggest campaign...    Guatemala election: Rising crime positions Otto Pérez Molina for victory  
The Christian Science Monitor
 Rising crime positions Otto Perez Molina for victory Mr. Perez Molina, the former head of military intelligence in the 1980s, touts himself as the only candidate who can improve Guatemala's deteriorating security situation...It's the campaign slogan...    Guatemalans head to polls  
Washington Post
 Guatemalans frustrated by soaring crime go the polls Sunday as the front-running candidates promise to aggressively confront the mafias that have turned the poor Central American state into a killing field...Armed gangs, bolstered by the incursion of...    Guatemalans go to polls to elect president  
San Diego Union-Tribune
 The latest polls show the Patriotic Party candidate, Otto Perez Molina, a former general, heading into Sunday's presidential election as the frontrunner with a 20-point lead over his closest challenger. (AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd) AP A man carries home...    Présidentielle au Guatemala: ouverture des bureaux de vote  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 11 septembre 2011 Presidentielle au Guatemala: ouverture des bureaux de vote Les bureaux de vote ont ouvert dimanche au Guatemala vers 07h00 heure locale (13h00 GMT) pour une election presidentielle dont le grand favori selon les sondages est le...   More Related Stories     Images    >         GPE    GPE Image Source: allvoices 10 Candidates are in the run for the Presidents slot        A man casts his vote at a ...    A man casts his vote at a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A man casts his vote at a public school in Guatemala city        Mexico votes amid drugs ...    Mexico votes amid drugs ... Image Source: www.afp.com Mexico votes amid drugs violence        Workers prepare a voting ...    Workers prepare a voting ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Workers prepare a voting station in Guatemala city        Members of the Mexican drug ...    Members of the Mexican drug ... Image Source: www.afp.com Members of the Mexican drug cartel "Zetas"        A boy dressed as Guatemala's ...    A boy dressed as Guatemala's ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A boy dressed as Guatemala's Patriot Party presidential candidate Molina ...      More Related Images    More From Guatemala City          Guatemala: electoral authorities first preliminary results show         A retired general becoming the president of the Guatemalan       Exporters with questions about business text        Aliens blamed for piglet born with human head!         Accused in Guatemalan massacre extradited to U.S        'Pain and anger' in Guatemala by the U.S. illegal experiments that left 83 people dead        Over 80 killed by U.S. human trials in Guatemala        Experiments Americans killed 83 residents of Guatemala          Guatemalan Government to apologize for U.S. experiments with syphilis        U.S. study Syphilis "killed 83 Guatemalans" in the 40's         Earthquake of 4.2 degree shakes southwestern Guatemala        Guatemala arrests 5 suspects in 1982 killings           Guatemala's police arrested two accused of involvement in the slaughter of more than 250 people during the Civil War (1960-1996).                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10305904          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 8       Comments: 10    10       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10305904), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10305904 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10305904 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Guatemala Votes for New President” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10305904-guatemala-votes-for-new-president.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         