 | Firehouse.com





User login


Username or e-mail *



Password *



Create new account
Request new password






  

Home | Subscribe | Contact Us | Advertise















 
 


TopicsCareers
Emergency Vehicles & Operation
Firefighter Safety
Fire Prevention & Investigation
Funding & Grants
Health & Wellness
Leadership & Command
Politics & Law
Rescue & Special Ops
Strategy & Tactics
Technology & Communications
Training
Wildland
Safety Week - 2011
Safety Week - 2010

MyFirehouseMy Profile
Shift Calendar

NewsTop Headlines
Photostories
Features
Local News
Line of Duty Deaths
Industry Wire
Remembering 9/11
Charleston Tragedy
Worcester
Year In Review 2010
EMS Headlines
News Archives

ShoppingApparel & Tees
Books & Videos
Fire & Rescue
Gear & Duty Wear
Gifts & Collectibles
Specialty
Vehicle Equipment
Buyer's Guide

Expos & EventsFirehouse World
Firehouse Expo
Firehouse Central
EMS World Expo
Firehouse World 2011
Firehouse Expo 2011
Firehouse Expo 2010
Events Calendar

MagazineThis Month's Issue
Subscribe / Renew
Archives
E-Inquiry
Media Kit
Heroism Award
Annual Run Survey

JobsFeatured Jobs
Search All Jobs
Discuss Jobs
Update My Job Posts

ForumsCareers & Training
Emergency Response Staffing
Emergency Vehicles & Operations
Fire Prevention & Investigation
Firefighter Safety
Firefighting
Firehouse Direct
Firehouse Events
Forums on our Sister Sites
Funding & Grants
Health and Wellness
In the Line of Duty
Leadership & Command
Meet & Greet
Politics & Law
Rescue & Special Ops
Strategy & Tactics
Technology & Communications
The Off Duty Forums
Wildland

BlogsCaptain Dave Fornell
Christopher Naum
Dayna Hilton
Dr. Harry Carter
Dr. Richard Gasaway
Ryan Pennington
Cynthia Mills

MyFirehouseTrainingAdministration
Domestic Preparedness
Emergency Medical Services
Exam Preparation
Featured Products
Fire Fighting Equipment
Fire Fighting Skills
Fire Prevention
Health and Fitness
Special Operations
Technical Rescue



Video
Webcasts
Podcasts
Training Drills
Apparatus
In Quarters
Contributors
Department Profiles








Search this site 












Hot Topics:

Wildland  |  Careers  |  MyFirehouseTraining.com






Home 

Firehouse News

Search News Archives




Sep 12, 2011


Neb. Firefighters Fall Through Floor at House Fire


OMAHA, Neb.     --
Omaha firefighters responded to a vacant house fire at 4601 Florence Boulevard just before 7 a.m. Sunday.
KETV NewsWatch 7's Alex Hoffman was on scene.  She said a fire official told her that two firefighters fell through the floor of the burning home.  Another firefighter jumped out of a second floor window when the conditions worsened.
The fire official said no one was injured.
The fire is still under investigation, but the fire official said he suspects arson.




Sep 12, 2011


Ohio Firefighters Fight to Save City Hall


Sept. 11--PAINESVILLE --  The iconic dome on City Hall was saved thanks to the fast work of Painesville firefighters responding to the blaze from their department less than 100 yards away Saturday afternoon.
"My crews did a fantastic job of getting up there and containing the fire (to the dome area)," said Painesville Fire Chief Mark Mlachak during an impromptu press conference on the city square.
"This is just so sad," said Debra Fitzgerald who lives across the street from the building.




Sep 12, 2011


Chicago Firefighter Hurt in Auto Shop Blaze


 -- 
     Sept. 11--A Chicago firefighter sustained minor injuries and a three-story apartment building was temporarily evacuated this morning after an auto shop caught fire in the Belmont Central neighborhood, officials said.
     The fire began about 6 a.m. at 5614 W. Grand Avenue and was under control by 7:30 a.m., said Chicago Fire Department Chief Joseph Roccasalva.
     The business is listed in public records as Dannys Auto Glass, officials said.




Sep 12, 2011


Two Children Die in Louisiana House Fire


 CROWLEY, La.
  -- 

 State Fire Marshal Butch Browning said a wood-frame home caught on fire in Crowley that claimed the lives of two children while they were sleeping early Sunday morning.
 

 At 3:43 a.m., the Crowley Fire Department said crews responded to a fire at 210 West 8th St.
 

 Browning said that 4-year-old Tah' Jay Robinson was taken to American Legion Hospital where she later died, while 2-year-old Micah Johnnie died at the scene.
 




Sep 12, 2011


Car Runs Into Crowd at Pa. Festival, 12 hurt


     Sept. 11--About 12 people were injured when a car, fashioned into a giant beer can, drove into a crowd of people at Funfest in downtown Hazleton on Saturday afternoon.
     Police said nine people were taken to Hazleton General Hospital. Additionally, one boy and one girl were flown to Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown and one woman was taken to Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center in Plains Township with head trauma after the crash at West Broad and Laurel streets.




Sep 12, 2011


Fire Forces Residents Out of Mo. Apartments


--
Sept. 11--Residents at City View Lofts had an early morning wake-up call Saturday when fire broke out in a third-floor apartment. Many St. Joseph residents know the Lofts at 201 S. 10th St. as the old St. Joseph Junior College.
"When I opened my hall door, I saw fire in my apartment," said Arthur Dawson, who lives in Apartment 312. Later in the morning, an ambulance transported Mr. Dawson to Heartland Regional Medical Center with symptoms of smoke inhalation.




Sep 12, 2011


Fire, Explosion Rock Calif. Apartment Complex


 SACRAMENTO, Calif.
  -- 

 Fire crews were called to an apartment fire and possible explosion early Sunday morning, according to the Sacramento Metro Fire Department.
 

 It happened at the Garden Plaza apartments on the 2200 block of Watt Avenue.
 

 According to Scott Cockrum, Assistant Fire Chief with Sacramento Metro Fire, one person jumped out of a third floor window and suffered multiple injuries. Three others, including two firefighters, suffered minor injuries.
 




Sep 12, 2011


Firefighters Make Headway on Texas Wildland Fires


 -- 
     Sept. 11--An army of firefighters is making slow but steady headway on a massive fire that has consumed thousands of acres in three counties north of Houston, with the blazes now about 65 percent contained, a Texas Forest Service official said Sunday.
     "We had a good light last night (Saturday)," fire service spokesman Ralph Collum said. "If the winds don't get any stronger, then things will be great for us."




Sep 12, 2011


Colo. Rock Climbers Injure Concertgoers


MORRISON, Colo.     --
A witness told 7NEWS that people were climbing atop a 300-foot iconic rock at Red Rocks Amphitheatre, possibly triggering a rockfall that sent four concertgoers to the hospital early Sunday.
"Without a doubt, I can confirm that I saw two (people wearing) T-shirts, climbing on the edge of Creation Rock," Jeremy Hewett said.
Creation Rock is a jutting monolith that frames the north side of the amphitheatre. A twin 300-foot monolith, Ship Rock, flanks the venue's south side.




Sep 11, 2011


Flight 93 Heroes Honored in Shanksville


SHANKSVILLE, PA. – Firefighters, paramedics and EMTs were among thousands who turned out Sunday to honor the crew and passengers of Flight 93 who joined forces 10 years ago to fight the terrorists who had taken over the airliner.
A large boulder – barely visible in tall weeds near a grove of pines -- marks the final resting place for the heroes who rushed the cockpit and foiled the plot to strike another building, possibly the White House or Capitol.




Sep 11, 2011


Thousands Honor Fallen FDNY Bravest on 10th Anniversary


The steps leading up to the NYC Fireman's Memorial at Riverside Park were packed with FDNY firefighters.


The steps leading up to the NYC Fireman's Memorial in Riverside Park were packed with FDNY firefighters as thousands of other people crowded the street in front of it.





Sep 11, 2011


FDNY Chaplain's Gear Dedicated at Fire Museum


FDNY Chaplain Mychal Judge's bunker coat and helmet were dedicated at the New York Fire Museum on the tenth anniversary of 9/11.





Sep 11, 2011


Texas Brush Truck Burns, Firefighter Injured


     Sept. 10--Rio Hondo firefighters battled a brush fire this afternoon that burned several acres and destroyed a brush truck and sent one firefighter to the hospital.
     The fire was on Bishop Road near the intersection of State Highway 345, also known as Sam Houston Boulevard, Cameron County Emergency Coordinator Humberto Barrera said.
     A caliche driveway is the only thing that seperated the flames from coming near two homes.




Sep 11, 2011


Drunken Driver Hits Calif. Medic Squad Truck


 -- 
     Sept. 10--APPLE VALLEY -- A drunken driver ran into an Apple Valley Fire Protection District Medic Squad truck while personnel were on their way to a fire Thursday afternoon, AVFPD officials said. The driver then fled the scene.
     "Everyone on the Medic Squad is fine, thankfully," Chief Art Bishop said. "The damage to the truck can be repaired. My biggest concern was for the firefighters."




Sep 11, 2011


Pa. Firefighters Get Electric Shock at House Fire


 -- 
     Sept. 10--Bradenville Fire Chief Mark Piantine may have been hotter than the blaze his Derry Township department was called to extinguish on Friday.
     While dousing an electrical fire where West Penn Power lines entered the home at 213 School St., several firefighters experienced minor electrical shocks, the fire chief said.




Sep 11, 2011


Wildland Fire Severely Burns Calif. Woman


 LOMA RICA, Calif.
  -- 

 A wildfire severely burned a woman Saturday afternoon in the Yuba County community of Loma Rica.
 

 The woman whose name was not immediately released was taken by ambulance to a hospital in Marysville.
 

 The fire started near the intersection of Scotts Grant Road and Loma Rica Road.  Firefighters on scene tell KCRA 3 that it appears to have been caused by someone mowing grass in the area.
 




Sep 11, 2011


Two Chicago firefighters Injured in House Fire


 -- 
     Sept. 10--Two firefighters suffered minor injuries while fighting a small blaze in a South Side residence midday today, an official said.
     Fire crews were called to the residence in the 7200 block of South East End Avenue about noon, and found fire in the basement there, said Chicago Fire Department spokesman Joe Roccasalva.




Sep 11, 2011


Elderly Woman Dies in N.H. House Fire


 MANCHESTER, N.H.
  -- 

 Manchester Fire Department officials said they are investigating a fatal fire on Brown Avenue Saturday.
 

 The one-alarm fire broke out around 9:30 a.m. in a single-family home.  First responders were on the scene within six minutes and pulled the victim from the home within minutes.  The victim, however, did not survive the fire.
 

 Fire officials identified the victim as 80 year-old Frances Cross.  Her two sons told Channel 9 she was a self-sufficient individual who lived alone.
 




Sep 11, 2011


Sailboat Washed on Va. Beach by Irene Burns


 -- 
     Sept. 10--NORFOLK -- A sailboat that washed up on the beach at Willoughby Spit during Hurricane Irene and had become something of an attraction was destroyed by a fire late Friday night.
     The 42-foot yacht Maybe Tomorrow was ablaze when firefighters arrived shortly before midnight, Battalion Chief Harry Worley of Norfolk Fire-Rescue said. The vessel was beached during the August storm after it had lost its anchors.




Sep 11, 2011


Pregnant Woman Hurt in Vegas Apartment Fire


 -- 
     Sept. 10--A pregnant woman sustained injuries after an accidental fire on her patio Saturday morning, according to Las Vegas firefighters.
     Fire department spokesman Tim Szymanski said multiple calls came in at 8:57 a.m. about smoke coming from a ground-floor unit at the Casa del Sol apartments on 5100 Obannon Dr.
     Firefighters found the blaze was coming from a utility closet on the patio and extinguished it in less than a minute.



1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »

 





Sign up or Update your Preferences












Popular content
Most ReadMost EmailedDayWeekMonth




FDNY Chaplain's Gear Dedicated at Fire MuseumThousands Honor Fallen FDNY Bravest on 10th AnniversaryWhen the Towers FellFirehouse.com Weekly Drill: No. 35Ohio Firefighters Fight to Save City Hall




 




FDNY Deputy Chief Recalls Collapse of Tower, SurvivalFamily Celebrates Life of 9/11 Firefighter With DocumentaryFire Departments Asked to Make Engines LastAfter Failures, Firefighters Balk at Digital RadiosFather Recalls Son, Fallen FDNY Firefighter




 




Responders Not Invited to Memorial on 9/11Man Dies After NYC Rescuers Drop Car on HimFDNY Rescues Driver After Sanitation Truck Plows Through BuildingSwedish Expert Outlines ‘Stupid’ U.S. PracticesDallas Firefighter Dies in Fall Through Roof




 DayWeekMonth




After Failures, Firefighters Balk at Digital RadiosFDNY Deputy Chief Recalls Collapse of Tower, SurvivalWash. Man Standing in Fire Has 'Weenie Roast'FDNY Counseling Services Have Grown Since 9/11Conn. City Must Pay $3.4M in Fire Truck Deaths




 




After Failures, Firefighters Balk at Digital RadiosFDNY Deputy Chief Recalls Collapse of Tower, SurvivalWash. Man Standing in Fire Has 'Weenie Roast'FDNY Counseling Services Have Grown Since 9/11Conn. City Must Pay $3.4M in Fire Truck Deaths




 




After Failures, Firefighters Balk at Digital RadiosResponders Not Invited to Memorial on 9/11Man Dies After NYC Rescuers Drop Car on HimSwedish Expert Outlines ‘Stupid’ U.S. PracticesChicago FD Set to Hire 111 Black Firefighters




 




New Webcast: AEDs for Community Life Safety


Join Michael Schwartz and Doug Randell as they share how to create a public access defibrillation (PAD) program. The two will discuss all facets of the program, including funding, training and maintenance.Register Today! 












Email
Subscribe for more benefits!


Privacy Policy | 
Terms of Service | 
Email alert preferences | 
Advertise  | 
Contact us | 
RSS | 
Site Map

















