FEMA: Keeping in Touch With FEMA is Essential After Registering

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Keeping in Touch With FEMA is Essential After Registering 

Release Date: September 26, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-022

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- Texas wildfire survivors who have registered for disaster aid should remember that keeping in touch with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) may result in quicker assistance.
Some displaced families may have changed addresses while looking for suitable housing. FEMA recommends that survivors make sure they update their address and phone number whenever either changes during the recovery period. By not providing current information survivors could miss important correspondence or phone calls regarding their applications for assistance.
If banking or insurance information has changed since the original registration, update that information with FEMA. Updated banking information is very important after a disaster because disaster assistance grants may be sent via direct deposit and incorrect information could result in funds being returned.
"We understand that Texans impacted by the recent disasters may be overwhelmed and keeping in touch with FEMA may not be a priority," said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes. "However, in order for us to provide assistance to eligible survivors as quickly as possible, it is important that applicants stay in contact with FEMA."
Applicants may update their contact information at a recovery center in their area, online at www.disasterassistance.gov, or via web-enabled phone at m.fema.gov. They can also call FEMA toll-free at 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 1-800-462-7585.Those who use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services can call 1-800-621-3362. Operators are available by phone from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. seven days a week.
Follow FEMA tweets about the Texas disaster at www.twitter.com/femaregion6. Other online resources are blog.fema.gov, www.facebook.com/fema and www.youtube.com/fema.
Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). For TTY call 800-462-7585.
The mission of the Texas Division of Emergency Management, Texas Department of Public Safety, is to support the citizens of Texas and local jurisdictions as they plan for, respond to, recover from and mitigate the impacts of all hazards, emergencies and disasters. For more information, see: www.txdps.state.tx.us/dem.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Tuesday, 27-Sep-2011 10:39:33




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











