2011  September | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Hazmat prank on TV show scare tactics
No comments







Never forget the cardinal rule for hazmat technicians: Always wear clean underwear to a hazmat run.  You never know when your gonna end up in your skivvies during decon.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 10, 2011 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, hazmat, patient-management, special-operations
		• Tagged: decon, funny video, hazmat, hazmat team, prank, scare tactics, wet decon 


STATTER911 Has Details of a Baltimore county Water Rescue that did not go as planned
No comments












Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 9, 2011 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: baltimore county, BCFD, close call, Statter911, swift water rescue, water rescue 


Texas Task Force 1 Deployed to Search Town Destroyed by Wildfire
No comments






Texas Task Force 1 has been deployed to Bastrop, Texas (Near Austin) to conduct a search of the scorched town.  Approximately 700 homes haves have been destroyed by the wildfire.
The State of Texas has been a leader in enhancing their US&R Task Force as a State asset, as well as taking advantage of the teams robust capabilities for other types of major emergencies.  Check out this 2006 article in Fire Chief magazine where TX-TF1 Task Force Leaders talk about the ability for local fire departments to request the State to deploy TX-TF1 as well the need to cross train TX-TF1 members in water rescue.  If Governor Perry ends up in the White House, lets hope he takes these concepts with him.
Erich Schlegel/Getty Images





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 7, 2011 •
		Filed under: administration-leadership, command-leadership, fire-rescue-topics, firefighting-operations, fires, major-incidents, news, special-operations, wildland
		• Tagged: Bastrop Texas, disaster, Perry, special-operations, task force, TEEX, texas, Texas Task Force 1, TX-TF1, urban search & rescue, urban search and rescue, US&R, Wild fire 


Phenol Leak exposes first responders, Mass. Regional Hazmat Goes to Work
No comments






Photo by Paul Kapteyn
Initial reports are that a worker in Millburry, MA was wrenching on a 50,000 gallon above ground storage tank containing Phenol, when a leak developed.  Two plant workers were exposed or contaminated, followed by possibly a half dozen arriving firefighters and a police sergeant.  A State regional hazmat team and Clean Harbors were called in to help stop the leak.

Click More to read the rest of the story…
 (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 6, 2011 •
		Filed under: hazmat, major-incidents, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations, Uncategorized
		• Tagged: above ground storage tank, Carbolic Acid, chemical spill, Department of fire services, DFS, flash point, hazmat, hazmat teams, HazMatIQ, Massachusetts, Phenol, Phenyl alcohol, regional hazmat, regional response team, RRT 


A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.
2 comments






Photo by Eric Woomer Visalia Times Delta
Early this week the Visalia fire department hazmat team was called out to a spill of an unknown powder.  Two clear plastics bags of white powder fell off a truck in the roadway. (News story here). The hazmat team ultimately determined it was sodium chloride (aka salt).  Mitigating a salt spill is no big deal, you need a DHS, UL, FIRESCOPE, OSHA, NIMS approved broom and dust pan.  OK fine, I over killed the approvals for the broom. A broom from Home Depot will work.
However, identifying sodium chloride is no cake walk. Your usual high speed gadgets the HazMatID or Ahura don’t work so well.
 (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 6, 2011 •
		Filed under: command-leadership, fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, news, special-operations, Uncategorized
		• Tagged: Ahura, First Defender, hazardous materials, hazmat team, HazmatID, HazMatIQ, HMRT, Raman, Smart Charts, Smith's Detection, Sodium Chloride, spill, table salt, Unknown substance, white powder 


Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!t
1 comment






Stock Photo of San Bernardino Hazmat by Bernie Deyo
San Bernardino City and County fire departments sent their hazmat teams to a fire and leak involving molten sulfur.   A police officer first noticed a stank in the air and requested the fire department.  The FD tracked the source of the odor back to a nearby plant. The San Bernardino Sun reported “The investigation determined a seal had breached on a large tank used to mix sulphur, limestone and pitch”.  The tank caught fire, and released molten sulfur onto the ground.
If you respond to an odor call, that can only smell is described as shit or rotten eggs, think Sulfur.  Take a look at Hydrogen Sulfide in NIOSH guide. Look at the formula, and notice the physical description. If you have online access to your LEPC database, check which businesses nearby have sulfur or sulfides.  At the same time, consider possible natural causes for the smell, such as dry or ruptured, blocked sewer systems. A synonym for H2S is Sewer Gas.
Finally, remember to use your instruments.  Don’t give it the nasal appraisal.  Your nose will quickly become fatigued and mislead you to believe the smell is gone.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 6, 2011 •
		Filed under: ems-health-safety, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: 1053, 117, blue canary, california, DOT 1053, H2S, hazmat, hazmat team, hazmat truck, HMRT, hydrogen sulfide, odor investigation, sulfide 
 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















