2011  August | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Philly Fire to be New Sponsoring Agency for PA-TF1
No comments






Photo from www.PA-TF1.com
The State News Service reported that Robert A. Brady (D., PA) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has selected the City of Philadelphia Fire Department as the new Sponsoring Agency for Pennsylvania Task Force One (PA-TF1).
The City of Harrisburg, Bureau of Fire (the current sponsoring Agency for PA-TF1) is relinquishing its role as the Sponsoring Agency and will transition to Participating Agency status.
 





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 12, 2011 •
		Filed under: funding-staffing, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: FEMA, PA-TF1, PFD, Philadelphia Fire Department, Philly Fire, Sponsoring Agency, SUSAR, task force, urban search & rescue, urban search and rescue, US&R, USAR 


McHazmat-  Employees Sprayed with Chemical Through McDonald’s Drive Through Window
No comments







Hazmat responded along with EMS and sheriff’s deputies in Oshtemo, Michigan after McDonald’s employees were sprayed with a powder by a customer at the drive through window.   The employees complained of burning eyes and throats. Hazmat determined the substance was “consistent with the chemistry found in a dry chemical fire extinguisher”.  (Editors Note - Sounds like Smith’s Detection reachback language if you ask me)
Click here for local news story.  Listen to the 911 call and dispatch tones here.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 8, 2011 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, hazmat, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: mchazmat hazmat team chemical unknown suspicious substance hazardous materials big mac 


News Article Illustrates “The Fog of War” that’s common at major hazmat incidents
No comments







I only read half of the article’s headline when I was sucked in: “A night of Tension,  Confusion, and a Toxic Cloud”.   You had me at hello.
OrgeanLive.com updated a story they first ran in May, about a release of nitrogen dioxide and hydrofluoric acid.  Even if the media report isn’t 100% accurate (less face it, are they ever) it’s a text book example of how major hazmat calls unfold in real life.  It’s the part of our business that online NIMS classes, training scenarios, and HSEEP approved exercises can’t simulate…The Fog of War.
 (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 7, 2011 •
		Filed under: administration-leadership, hazmat, major-incidents, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: "hazmat branch" "hazmat group supervisor", hazardous materials team, hazmat officer, hazmat team, ICS, incident command, NIMS 
 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















