Fashion's Night Out - South Coast Plaza



Fashion’s Night Out
					








A Global Celebration of FashionEnjoy a night out at over 100 participating South Coast Plaza boutiques
September 8, 20116–9 PM


FNO 2011 begins in:



Ready for fall fashion? Join more than 100 boutiques at South Coast Plaza for exciting fashion shows, cocktails, DJs, special designs, gifts, discounts and more. Fashion’s Night Out, a global shopping extravaganza, is the hottest night of the year. Fashion fans will not want to miss this unforgettable evening that includes a red carpet photo booth and chance to win $1,000 South Coast Plaza gift certificate.




Like
Share
Tweet


Filter:

All
Women
Men
Kids
Home
Restaurants
Jewelry & Beauty





With any purchase of denim, receive a leather bracelet and denim wallet, as a gift.



Shop an exclusive collection in celebration of FNO and receive a specially designed bag with purchase.



Stop by to preview the new fall line, receive 10% off and a free pair of shoe trees with any shoe purchase



Enjoy shopping, styling, cocktails, hors d’oeuvres, music and 25% off two full-price items or 40% off 3 or more full-price items.



‘Baroque & Roll” themed evening with a glam rock DJ, signature cocktail, candy bar, raffle and a gift with purchase over $250.



Join us for a Front Row Seat and support our handsome, heroic firefighters as they walk the catwalk during another fun evening of Couture & Cuisine. Premiere Catwalk Seating (limited seating available) and General Admission tickets can be purchased by calling (714) 557-5679 by 9/5. Doors open at 6:30pm and the show starts at 7:30pm. AnQi will proudly donate 30% of ticket sales to benefit the Costa Mesa Firefighters Widow’s and Orphan’s Fund. Also, join us at “Fashionably Late” Friday for FNO After Party on 8/9 from 9pm to 2am in the lounge. Red Hour Cocktails and Tapas served all evening.Attire: Fashionably Late



Join Assouline for a Caipirinha bar provided by Cabana Cachaça, Samba lessons led by Carnivale Costumed Samba dancers, and the full flavor of Brazil taken out of the pages of Assouline’s newest book Brazilian Style. Assouline will also be snapping live Brazilian Style photos and uploading them to Assouline’s Facebook & Twitter pages.



Offering neck and shoulder aromatherapy rituals, hair consultations and complimentary perfume. Receive travel size shampoo and conditioner with a purchase over $50.



Visit the boutique to experience a special jewelry trunk show.



Experience the Autumn/Winter 2011 collection and enter to win a Bally handbag.



From 5pm to 9pm, receive 25% off any purchase of $100 or more.



Get “Faced Fashioned” with complementary make-unders and colors matches. Check out the new Drop Red Gorgeous collection and receive a deluxe sample goody bag.



Bloomingdale’s and AnQi co-host the HOT Fashion Show featuring fall’s must have fashions. Doors open at 6:30pm; fashion show begins at 7:30 inside AnQi. For ticket information please call 714.557.5679 . An NBC Lounge in-store features the new fall line-up and a chance to win a walk-on role on a TV show. Also browse the store for special gifts with purchase and trunk shows.


Bottega Veneta
Enjoy cocktails while celebrating Bottega Veneta’s first fragrance launch.



Experience Umbrian wine and hors d’oeuvres while viewing the latest collections for men and women.


Cachè
Receive 20% off your regular price purchase of $100 or more.



Enjoy 20% off your total purchase while you sip Champagne, enjoy small bites and watch a demonstration on how to tie a sarong. Enter a raffle to win a fragrance and sarong.



Enjoy a glass of Scotch and head-to-toe dressing seminars for the modern man.



Sample cuisine from Capital Grille in-store at Tiffany & Co.



Enjoy a quick style with any $25 retail purchase or receive a shampoo & blowout for only $30.



Receive 20% off the Fall/Winter Collection and enjoy face painting, desserts and cider for kids.



Be the first to get your hands on the newest CHANEL Nail Colour Collection created exclusively for Fashion’s Night Out by Peter Philips, Creative Director of CHANEL Makeup. Stop by for a complimentary mini manicure featuring these exclusive hues



Shop five vegan Charles by Charles David boot styles specially priced at $99 and enjoy small bites, beverages and music.



Join the party with cocktails, informal modeling, 15% off and a gift with purchase.



Christofle Silver will feature Christofle Jewelry while Artspace Warehouse will feature Courtney Raney’s Marie Antoinette painting. Also, enjoy refreshments and a special gift with purchase.


CLUB MONACO
Shop special FNO t-shirts and enjoy cupcakes and Champagne.



Enjoy drink samples made with the new CBTL single serve machines.



Join Cole Haan at an exclusive shopping event and enter to win a new pair of Cole Haan shoes every month for an entire year.



Sample “tastes” from the menu and enjoy sweet treats.



Receive a tote bag or a deluxe sample of body cream with a $500 purchase. Champagne and chocolate will be served.



Dior celebrates Fashion’s Night Out with a champagne toast.



Sip Champagne while shopping the new collection.



Sip Champagne while shopping the new collection.



Receive a charming wristlet as a gift with purchase of $159 or more. Enter a drawing for a chance to win an exclusive travel bag.



Enjoy Champagne and receive 20% off on any regular price item (excluding sales and leather goods).



Enjoy a glass of Champagne while viewing the new fall made-to-measure fabrics.



Stop by for a trunk show by designer Rebecca Virtue of Becca and enjoy style, sweet treats and a gift with every purchase. Enter to win for a $500 shopping spree.



Enjoy a Champagne toast and view limited-edition portfolios by Karl Lagerfeld are featured throughout the boutique.



For purchases over $200, receive a Dreamcatcher keychain and for purchases over $350, receive a back to school fringe tote with fabric notebook and pens.



Experience mini-facials and complimentary makeup applications along with refreshments from 2pm to 8pm and a gift with all purchases $100 or more.



Enjoy Prosecco and light refreshments.



Enjoy 25% off all purchases.



Sip Champagne and enjoy light bites along with personalized wardrobe consultations from Armani stylists.



View the new collection while enjoying specialty cocktails.



Visit the store and enter to win a gift card valued at $200. Entries from all participating locations will be entered to win the Grand Prize of an all-expense paid trip to NYC to attend an exclusive prelaunch shopping event celebrating Versace for H&M. Listen to a DJ spin the hottest tunes while you shop the amazing Fall collection.



Ten percent of all sales during Fashion’s Night Out will be donated to Oceana of Orange County.



Shop special FNO merchandise as well as limited edition prints by Izak, Bendel’s illustrator.



Shop the collection while enjoying Champagne, refreshments and an exciting gift with purchase.



View the latest styles while sampling Champagne and chocolate.



Join Intermix for a specially curated photography exhibit by Ursula Liv. Sip Champagne and toast Fashion’s Night Out while you shop the best of fall.



The first 50 customers will receive goody bags and $25 in “cleavage currency.” Enjoy bra fit makeovers, cupcakes and Champagne.



With a purchase of $150 or more, receive a reusable tote bag that was designed specifically for FNO by J. Crew designer, Somsak. Light refreshments will be served.



View the new fall collection.


Jo Malone
Experience a special wine and fragrance pairing event and sampling.



Enjoy cocktails by VeeV and strike a pose to become a rock-n-roll icon.



Guess how many crystals are on a Judith Leiber bag and win a monogrammed keychain. With any purchase receive a pair of Footzy Folds—Judith Leiber ballet slippers with crystals—and a custom-colored amethyst nail polish.



Enter an in-store raffle worth $245 with items such as Super Fluid Sunscreen and Powerful Strength Line Reducing Concentrate.



Enjoy Champagne and special promotional offers.



Bring in a photograph of yourself wearing a new LACOSTE outfit that resembles an old photograph of family, friends, or advertisements displaying the LACOSTE brand. When you post you photo on the LACOSTE Pique Polo board in store with a caption of why that photo is important, cool or interesting, you will receive 20% off your purchase. A winner will be chosen to win a $500 Lacoste gift card.



Enter a raffle to win a free in-store class for you and up to 25 friends. Experience live, in-store yoga demonstrations and receive complimentary Champagne and desserts while shopping the fall collection.



Meet with a MAC artist for a MAC-OVER. Before and After photos are taken of each guest and assembled into a live collage at the event. Hair stylists on hand for touch ups and each guest takes a photo home.



Receive a special gift with purchase and enjoy tunes from a DJ and refreshments.


MAKE UP FOR EVER
MAKE UP FOR EVER will have body painting in store and a special token of appreciation with every MAKE UP FOR EVER purchase $50 or more.



Receive 20% off your purchase.



Marni logo printed balloons will be gifted to all clients and Champagne and little tastes will be served.



Enjoy cocktails and a live DJ.



Enjoy music and makeup with a specialty “lash bar.”



Visit for a chance to win a Michael Kors Hamilton bag. Enjoy wine and exclusive mixes from DJ Frank Delour.



A special edition Japan Relief Pendent will be sold while cocktails are served.



Enjoy a Champagne reception to launch the new fine fragrance collection inspired by locations on the Spice Trail.



Enjoy refreshments and receive $15 off a purchase of $100 or more.



Enjoy wine, hors d’oeuvres and a trunk show featuring new product. With any purchase receive the Oliver Peoples music CD #8.



Stop by the new Omega boutique to see the latest collections and enjoy tasty treats.


Optica
Receive 25% savings on all purchases (excluding Chrome Hearts and Chanel) and a enter to win $500 eyewear gift certificate. Also, for every purchase, receive a FNO canvas tote bag.



Receive a free mini facial and makeup consult with customized samples. Purchase two skin care items and receive a raffle ticket for a chance to win a gift basket of ginger body products.



Experience demonstrations showing customers how to make a tuxedo invitation, a bridal dress invitation, purse invitation, favor boxes and place cards with the same look. Learn about the art of embossing, stamp templates, paper arts and more.



Witness a fashion show on the Papyrus pink carpet to unveil another Rami Kashou creation in the Gallery of Paper Gowns. Rami Kashou will be on site for an exclusive signing and the launch of the exclusive Rami Kashou for NIQUEA.D line of designer cards.



Receive 40% off selected merchandise and enjoy light bites and beverages.



Enjoy Champagne, wine and soft drinks, along with hors d’oeuvres and pastries while viewing the latest collection.



Celebrate the launch of Porsche Design Jeans for men and women with informal modeling to preview the styles of the fall season collections.



Champagne and chocolate truffles will be served by Prada waiters.



Receive 20% off in celebration of FNO.



Make your own margherita pizza with chef coats, hats and photos.



Receive Flip Books with a unique Quiksilver vibe and a special fall package deal at a one-time discounted rate.



Receive 10% off all regular merchandise



Receive Flip Books with a unique Roxy vibe and a special fall package deal at a one-time discounted rate.



Watch a special runway fashion presentation featuring the latest trends, sip on a cocktail and listen to the tunes of a live DJ. Check in with Stylelist, the source for the latest fashion news and trends, to test your Fall Fashion IQ for the chance to win exclusive prizes. For more information or to RSVP, please call (714) 540-3233 or email saksscpevents@s5a.comFashion presentation begins at 7 p.m.



Enjoy an exclusive evening of cocktails and high fashion with Massimiliano Giornetti’s Fall runway collection and a fanciful play on the black and white colors featured in the collection.



Enter to win a hair makeover (cut, color and style) valued at $350.



Visit the Beauty Studio, the makeup destination in every Sephora store. Learn to master a beauty session in minutes.



Enjoy Champagne and appetizers to celebrate FNO. Book an appointment with a wardrobe stylist for an exclusive styling event.



Enjoy discounts and a gift with purchase while a DJ spins.



Enjoy cocktails and lite bites and receive a special gift with purchase.



Enjoy “mocktail” service, an espresso machine raffle, recipe card giveaway and modeling of new vintage inspired aprons.


Swarovski
Enjoy a sparkling celebration with light food and beverages. Spend $150 or more throughout the evening and receive a crystallized compact. Enter to win giveaway and fun crystal tattoos.



Shop the fall/winter 2011 collection and receive 20% off and enjoy light food and beverages.



With any purchase, receive a limited edition “London’s Calling” tote bag. Special oversized “I Heart Ted” lollipops will be handed out to shoppers.



Offering 10% off all merchandise and serving Champagne.



Enjoy delicious bites from Capital Grille while viewing the latest and most beautiful jewelry collections.



Shop TOD’S collections with music and Champagne.



Receive a special gift with purchase.



Tourneau celebrates Fashion’s Night Out with the launch of their new Fashion Catalog “Unwind”.Stop by for your copy of the new catalog featuring the latest in fashion timepieces, enjoy cocktails and refreshments and enter to win a $250 gift certificate from Bliss Spa. Winner will be announced on Tourneau’s Facebook page on Friday September 9th.



Experience a 50s-style event hosted by Glamour Magazine. Shop the new collections and receive discounts on select handbags. Receive TOUS bear key chains, lanyards and fragrance samples with purchase.



Enjoy a packing demonstration alongside sparkling cider and cookies.


United Colors of Benetton
Enjoy 25% off all purchases.


Van Cleef & Arpels
View the launch of the new Rose Gold Alhambra Collection and enjoy drinks and hors d’oeuvres.



Versace toasts Fashion’s Night Out 2011 with champagne and music as guests shop the FW11 collection.



Receive FATAL 50 Tights in black as gift with purchase and a FATAL Belt in black as gift with a purchase of $250 or more.



See the debut of Yves Saint Laurent’s newest handbag, the Cabas Chyc. With the purchase of the Cabas Chyc handbag you will have their bag filled with the “World of YSL.”



Enjoy 15% off accessories (excluding furniture, books and sale merchandise).



Join Zara for a festive party featuring a decadent Champagne bar and ZARA’s hottest looks for the new season.



© South Coast Plaza  |  3333 Bristol Street, Costa Mesa, CA 92626

Media Sponsor: Riviera





