France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown    Canberra :  Australia
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            11 0      
Views: 127
       The French foreign minister, Alain Juppe came down hard on Russia and UN Security Council on their failure to condemn the brutalities of the Asad Regime in Syria. The French foreign minister is in Australia and while talking to the reporters he said that UN's failure to condemn the actions of Syrian security forces against anti-government protesters was a "scandal".  Russia has been a stumbling block in the UN with a threat of vetoing any resolution against Syria. The French foreign minister thinks that the promise for any reforms by the Syrian President at this stage is too late. Only yesterday President Asaad agreed to introduce political reforms in a meeting with the delegation of the Arab league. On the other hand a delegation of the representatives of the protesters in syria has gone to Russia to convince the Government to force President Bashaar Al Asaad to quit. Independent observers say that more than 2,500 perons have been killed during the last six months by the security forces of the syrian Government.        1 of 29        
A Palestinian protester carries a flag during clashes with Israeli security forces at Qalandiya checkpoint
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (44.4%) Portugal (16.7%) Pakistan (13.9%) China (12.5%) 5 other countries (8.3%)           READ MORE: France Slams, UN Failure, on Syria Crackdown, President, security, security force, The Syrian, Syrian, Protesters, in Syria, protest, Security Council, government   More News From: Canberra :  Australia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 10            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 23 hours
ago
  
Well reported and informative thanks Ruby; rated this up!
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Surya Gaire
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Excellent report attitude!, Keep the Good News Coming
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Ruby1204.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
well done job thanks for sharing,rated up
            Reply  Posted By     mus1423
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
thanks for sharing this info.......!!!!!!rated up
            Reply  Posted By     SyedBakhtawar
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
nice reporting.. rated up
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing the report.. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an informative report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     TajdarHaider
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
extra ordinary reporting keep it on.. rated up...
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Assad Adviser Shaaban Says Western Actions Fuel Syria Unrest By: afzal_mehmood      Western sanctions against Syria are
stoking violence in the Middle Eastern country, said Bouthaina Shaaban, President Bashar al-Assad’s political and media
adviser.
“The West should choose the path of peace,” Shaaban told
reporters in Moscow today. “We are making changes aimed at
peace, security and stability. By not ...  9 minutes ago     the Secretary-General of the Arab League in Damascus to display the ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Arab, Nabil  arrived on Saturday to Damascus carrying an Arab initiative to settle the Syrian crisis amid doubts in the success of the mission in light of the continued clampdown on protesters, the positions and spacing between the regime and the Syrian opposition.  It is scheduled to meet ...  2 days ago     Syria Braces for Anti-Government Protests By: karoria      Syria braced for anti-government protests across the country on Friday, while Russia indicated it may be willing to consider a U.N. Security Council resolution that sends a "strong message" to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.The French news agency (AFP) quotes rights activists as saying security forces manning a checkpoint in a northwestern ...  2 days ago     Increasing international pressure against Assad By: namedo      international pressure continued on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to stop the campaign of repression against its citizens demanding freedom and overthrow his regime, while he called Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to "stop the violence," said Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the cast has become a shadow of its legitimacy. ...  3 days ago     France Condemns Syrian Regime's Crimes By: Ruby1204      It seems that the Syrian regime is least pushed about what the International community is saying. Even today the security troops of Syria killed seven people in the city of Homs.
There has been wide condemnation of the regimes brutal use of force against the innocent and unarmed people of syria. according to rough estimates nearly 2,500 persons ...  4 days ago     Russia Condemns EU Oil Sanctions on Syria By: khattar      Despite all the condemnation by the International community against the atrocities being committed in Syria, The Bashar Al Asaad still have synpathisers in the shape of Russia.
Yesterday the EU ministers met in Poland and imposed a ban on the import of oil from Syria to force the regime to stop atrocities against the citizens. Just remember that&...  9 days ago     Arab League tells Syria to end bloodshed soon By: saleh1966      In first official Arab League meeting on Syria Arab foreign ministers told Syria on Sunday to work to end months of bloodshed "before its too late," and decided to send Arab League Secretary-General Nabil al-Arabi to Damascus carrying an initiative to resolve the crisis in Syria. The pan-Arab body has not revealed the details of this initiative, ...  15 days ago     China And Russia Boycott Sanctions Against Syria By: dunite      
After amassing more than 2,200 dead civilians since the
uprising began in March, the United Nations Security Council has encountered
difficulty to take action against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad following a ‘no-show’
by Russia and China delegates during a council meet to discuss a draft
resolution calling for sanctions ...  17 days ago     Tanks burst into volatile city of Syria, activists say  By: rana157      
BEIRUT - Syrian Army tanks stormed a town east of the country and arrested many people, Syrian activists warned Wednesday, as the regime faces international threats of a new arms embargo and sanctions.
The tanks entered Deir el-Zour early Wednesday, according to activist group the Local Coordination Committees, citing witnesses.Deir el-Zour ...  18 days ago     UN rights body orders investigation into Syrian crackdown  By: hkbadal      The United Nations Human Rights Council has ordered a probe into violations committed by the Syrian government during crackdown on protests.
The council passed a resolution calling for urgently dispatching an independent international commission of inquiry.
It also demanded an end to the violence by Syrian security forces against protesters.
...  20 days ago     RUSSIAN CONCERN: UN Resolution on Syria could possibly lead to a ... By: RobertTilford01      The fear of Russia, China, India, Brazil and Lebanon, all current Security Council members is that a U.N. Resolution on Syria could possibly lead to a military intervention or no-fly zone as there was in Libya. This is a serious risk that will lead to thousands of innocent civilians being killed, as it is in Libya right now!
There are ...  24 days ago     Germany urges the UN Security Council to take action on Syria By: mohamedabdelfattah      Germany signed on Monday to impose more sanctions on Syria in the framework of the European Union and urged the UN Security Council to discuss the government crackdown there again this weekend. The spokesman said Foreign Ministry spokesman Andreas Peschke said the news of the bombing of Syrian troops to fire the city of Latakia, tanks and warships ...  27 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     France: UN failure to agree position on Syria a 'scandal'  
Yedioth Ahronoth
 He made the comment when asked about Russian resistance to a draft resolution late last month that called for sanctions against Syrian President Bashar Assad. (Reuters)    France: 'Scandal' That No Sanctions Imposed on Syria  
Israel National News
 Speaking to reporters in Australia, where he is visiting, Juppe said that that it was a scandal l not to have a clear position of the U.N...We should adopt in New York a very clear resolution condemning the violence," Juppe said. France, Britain, the...    French FM: No UN resolution on Syria a 'scandal'  
Al Sharq Al Awsat
 Australia (AP) French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe on Sunday increased pressure on Russia to support a U.N. Security Council resolution against the Syrian regime, describing the lack of such a clear statement of condemnation as a "scandal." AP) An...    Deal struck on Syrian reforms  
Kuwait Times
 Syrian forces killed seven people yesterday to crush anti-regime dissent, activists said, as the Arab League rejected foreign interference in Syria and announced an agreement on reforms. Arab League chief Nabil Al-Arabi met President Bashar Al-Assad...    French FM: UN failure to agree position on Syria a 'scandal'  
Ynet News
 AFP Bashar Assad   Photo: AFP Alain Juppe: We think regime has lost its legitimacy...We should adopt in New York a very clear resolution' Reuters   "I think it's a scandal not to have a clear position of the UN in such a terrible crisis," French...    Elaraby presses Assad for reforms  
Arab News
 The Arab League agreed with President Bashar Assad a series of measures to end months of bloodshed in Syria which will be presented to an Arab foreign ministers meeting in Cairo, the League chief said Saturday after a visit to Damascus. Nabil Elaraby...   More Related Stories     Images    >         A Palestinian protester ...    A Palestinian protester ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A Palestinian protester carries a flag during clashes with Israeli security ...        The Syrian Observatory for ...    The Syrian Observatory for ... Image Source: www.afp.com The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said security forces had arrested ...        At least 24 civilians have ...    At least 24 civilians have ... Image Source: www.afp.com At least 24 civilians have been killed by security forces across Syria, a ...        The US is set to ramp up work ...    The US is set to ramp up work ... Image Source: www.afp.com The US is set to ramp up work on a UN Security Council resolution targeting ...        The US is set to ramp up work ...    The US is set to ramp up work ... Image Source: www.afp.com The US is set to ramp up work on a UN Security Council resolution targeting ...        Juppe also condemned ...    Juppe also condemned ... Image Source: www.afp.com Juppe also condemned continuing divisions within the UN Security Council on ...      More Related Images    More From Canberra          PAF recalls trainee cadet from Australia over filming allegations        PAF recalls trainee cadet from Australia over filming allegations        PAF recalls trainee cadet from Australia over filming charges        UN Chief Urges Turkey and Israel to Fix Ties          CANBERRA: United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Saturday urged all nations to help stabilise Libya but said the future of the country should be decided by its own people.        Australia calls irresponsible latest publications WikiLeaks       YouTube Converter for Lion - convert YouTube video for Mac OS X Lion        So that’s Windows Phone 7 Mango, Android Ice Cream Sandwich         Two suns may be visible from Earth in time for 2012        Protest in Australia for carbon tax        World's Longest Floating Vessel will construct by Shell       Australian High Court decision in delaying the order to deport refugees         Palm oil, misperceptions and the Australian Senate                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10305093          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 8       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 32       Comments: 10    10       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10305093), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10305093 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10305093 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10305093-france-slams-un-failure-on-syria-crackdown.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         