lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2005 » December






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Friday, December 30, 2005
Stephen Hickman

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:14 am 
 

Many fantasy and science fiction artists create images of other worlds and other times. Few can imbue them with the feeling of cultured beauty that Stephen Hickman paints into his work. They are strange worlds, yes, but worlds where the inhabitants have gone to great lengths to beautify parts of their environment. This is an interesting touch and one that infuses Hickman’s  images with a simultaneous impression of being foreign and familiar. Palaces gleam in architectural splendor and you can feel the weight and polish of metal, the smoothness of silken robes, even the texture of baby dragon skin. 
Hickman has been illustrating books by some of the most recognizable names in both contemporary and classic fantasy and science fiction for over 20 years. Of particular interest are a series of paintings for the Pharazar Mythos that evolved from a book that he himself wrote, The Lemurian Stone.
 


Site Quirks: Galleries are "click and click back", and thumbnails are sometimes at the bottom of a page with a tall image, resulting in the need to "click and click back and scroll". It's worth the PITA, though. The images are striking. Below the thumbnails are links to the other gallery sections.
Link: www.stephenhickman.com

Posted in:  Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, December 29, 2005
Winsor McCay

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:04 am 
 


I must have been a good boy this year, because Santa brought me a very nice treat indeed: a copy of Little Nemo in Slumberland – So many Splendid Sundays. This is a wonderful collection of 100 examples of one of the most beautiful comics ever created. 
There are other collections of Little Nemo pages, but the real treat here is that these are presented as they were meant to be seen: at the size of a full Sunday newspaper page! Wow. It’s been 100 years (in October) since Nemo began appearing in Newspapers and almost that long since the pages have been seen at their true size by anyone but collectors. 
The book was lovingly crafted by Peter Maresca. (The book is out of stock with the publisher until March of 2006, but you may be able to find it at Amazon.)
How can I describe Little Nemo? (Sigh.)  Little Nemo in Slumberland was a stunningly beautiful, wildly imaginative, surreal, dazzling, spectacular, dizzying, marvelous, jaw-dropping, eye-popping, mind-expanding work of comic art. (Have I gotten the idea across?)
McCay was a virtuoso draughtsman and a superb colorist, and one of the finest masters of the comic art form. He played with time and space, perspective and proportion, color and design in ways that few artists (in any medium) can ever hope to match. 
He also did several other comic strips, including Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend and Little Sammy Sneeze, created elegant illustrations and beautifully drawn social commentary cartoons (a bit like extravagant political cartoons, but more general in topic) and was one of the earliest creators of cartoon animation with his groundbreaking film Gertie the Dinosaur,  all at the time when comics and movies were just starting to develop. 
To say McCay was a comic art pioneer is like saying Newton was good at physics. 
McCay’s Little Nemo in Slumberland and George Harriman’s Krazy Kat are probably the two finest examples of comics as high art. This is such stuff as dreams are made on.
Rather than go on for pages and pages I’ll point you to some resources. 
Here is a nicely illustrated Wikipedia article on Little Nemo and on McCay, a Little Nemo article on Toonpedia and an informative review of So Many Splendid Sundays on Salon (requires watching an ad to read the entire article.).
The site I link at the bottom of this post has the best reproductions of Nemo pages I’ve found on the web, but here are a few others from my bookmarks. There are three full pages linked from here. (The site’s not in English, but the links are graphic.) There are several linked from here, another page here, and more individual pages posted here and here and here and here. Some smaller ones here and here and some black and white pages here and here.
If you’re hooked, but can’t get So Many Splendid Sundays, there are other (smaller but less expensive) Little Nemo collections worth considering. Little Nemo 1905-1914 is nicely done and probably has the most strips in one volume. The Complete Little Nemo in Slumberland series (6 volumes) is a bit larger in page size, but the paper is matte and the colors are not as rich as the former title.
There is also a new book on Winsor McCay: His Life and Art, and Daydreams and Nightmares, a collection of his other (mostly black and white) illustration.
If you do get any of the books, resist the temptation to read through them in a hurry. The best way to read Little Nemo is to savor it one strip at a time. Try reading one a week (OK, one a day), perhaps just before going to bed, or even better, sprawled out on the floor on a Sunday morning; but imagine that there is no radio, no movies, no television, and you have to wait a week in delicious anticipation of the next Splendid Sunday.


Site Quirks: Despite being reasonably professional looking, the winsor-mccay.com site is poorly arranged. It probably doesn't help that it's in French. The panels in the main image that rollover go nowhere. The "Entrer" button leads to a hub page with articles and some panels for Little Sammy Sneeze, but it's not easy to get back to the home page. Before you leave the home page, click on the red "Birthday Special" banner at the top to go to this page, where you will find graphical links at the right to ten nicely reproduced pages. Keep in mind that these are about 1/5 the size of the real pages.
Link: www.winsor-mccay.com/
www.sundaypressbooks.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, December 28, 2005
Designers who blog

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:51 pm 
 


Designers who blog is a fascinating blog by Catherine (cat) Morley that features, as you might expect, blogs by designers. As she points out, “Due to slop over in the industry, also included are illustrators, photographers, those in advertising and marketing, etc.”, which makes a pretty interesting mix. 
DWB (or “Dweeb”) featured a post about your humble writer today. (Here’s the archived post for lines and colors.) The blog has a rotating title banner composed of photos of previous featured designers, giving the blogs a personal face they may not always have. (It’s the only time you’ll see a photo of yours truly associated with lines and colors.) There is an archive of the banners.
The blogs can be sorted by subject, including illustration. There’s also an extensive blogroll of blogs by designers, many of which are terrific. DWB goes on my “check daily” blog list.
Cat also writes a column for Creative Latitude called “Cat’s fancy: Designers who blog” in which she lets a select group of the designers from that month respond to a round of questions about their blog.


Link: www.designers-who-blog.com/

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »



Robert Liberace

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:43 am 
 


Robert Liberace’s drawings show his devotion to the study of anatomy and his enthusiasm for Renaisance art.   
He starts his drawings by creating a middle ground with a watercolor wash. He works the masses of the figure with Conte crayons and the details with terra cotta or charcoal pencils. He pulls the highlights by erasing the watercolor base or adding white chalk. His drawings occasionally show a fascination with progression of the figure through space: multiple studies on one sheet showing the course of motion.
Liberace teaches anatomy and advanced figure drawing in Virginia and travels to Florence and Rome to study classical art.


Site Quirks: The RobertLiberace.com site is relatively stratghtforward, but the Arcadia Gallery site is not. Click on "Unique Works" or use this link to go directly to his gallery on the Arcadia Fine Arts site. Unfortunately, the site designer has sacrificed usability for style and cleverness. You have to browse the gallery by horizontal scrolling with a mouse-over JavaScript link - a terrible arrangement, but the work is worth the effort. Look for a row of links below the first image. Hover your mouse over the link that says "right" to scroll through the images. There is no scroll bar, you have to move at the pace of the JavaScript. Click on the preview images for the large versions, which appear in a pop-up.
Link: www.robertliberace.com/
www.arcadiafinearts.com/index_liberace.html

Posted in:  Drawing,Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Tuesday, December 27, 2005
Marc Gabbana

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:51 am 
 


Concept artist and illustrator Marc Gabbana has worked on films like Star Wars: The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones, Hellboy, 8 Mile, War of the Worlds  and The Matrix Reloaded and Matrix Revolutions. He has also done cover illustration for Image Comics and Dark Horse Comics, among others. 
Gabbana’s paintings utilize intense color relationships and textural detail that make the images “pop”. His work can also display a keen sense of visual humor. 
He works in acrylic and gouache and sometimes in a type of acrylic called cell vinyl, an animation paint that dries rapidly to a flat finish and allows him to work quickly.


Site Quirks: The gallery on his personal site requires the Shockwave plug-in. His gallery on the Ice Blink site does not. It's worth downloading the plug-in, though. The personal site includes nice detail images of many of his paintings. The "Art" and "Bio" sections of the personal site both have more than one page. Look for the page numbers at the top. The "Bio" section has links to interviews on numbers "1" and "2". The links on "3, 4 & 5" are dead. (The site doesn't appear to have been updated recently.) Both sites have convenient click-through navigation in the galleries.
Link: www.marcgabbana.com/
www.iceblink.com/bios/marcgabbana/gallery1.php

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   2 Comments »


Monday, December 26, 2005
Wally Wood

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:26 pm 
 


This is kind of a special post for me so I may ramble on a bit. Wally Wood’s dazzling, lurid, bizarre, and wonderful comic art is what made me want to draw comics. 
When I was 10 or so, I came across some paperback reprints of the E.C. Mad comics from the 1950′s. These irreverent, hilarious comics, written by comic genius Harvey Kurtzman and maniacally drawn by Wood, Will Elder and Jack Davis, popped the top off my impressionable little brain. 
The early Mad comics were outrageous, subversive and outside the mainstream in a way that’s hard to describe now. (The current Mad magazine is a pale, sad shadow of the original.) 1950′s E.C. Comics were the visual equivalent to early Rock n’ Roll. (Parents were alarmed, congress got in on the act.)
As much as I loved the Mad work by Elder and Davis, both brilliant comics artists, it was Wood who captured my attention. When I later learned that he had also done straightforward (non-humorous) science fiction comics (also published by EC in the ’50s but harder to come by as reprints) I was hooked. In the following years, I spent countless hours drawing from Wally Wood pages, trying to duplicate his trademark lighting effects and render his super-intricate sci-fi spaceships and futuristic machinery, not to mention the coolest monsters ever to slither off a comic page. I later discovered the beautiful tone-board work he did for Mad after it changed from a color comic to a black and white magazine in 1955, which just added another level to my wide-eyed fascination with his work.
Wood has had a similar impact on generations of comics artists, both directly and indirectly. He, in turn, was influenced by comic greats like Hal Foster and Alex Raymond, illustrators like Howard Pyle, Roy Krenkel and others as well as brilliant contemporaries like Al Williamson, Reed Crandall and the rest of the EC crew. 
Woody, as he was known, became something of a comics legend, both supremely gifted and tragic. Driven and obsessive about the quality of his work, he was also hard-bitten and cynical about the treatment he and other hard-working artists received at the hands of a money-to-the-top publishing industry that forced the artists to do “work for hire”, signing all of their copyrights to the publishers. Although it was never an overtly successful venture, Wood was one of the first comics artists to try an end-run around the publishers by self-publishing with a magazine format anything-goes anthology comic called witzend.
His cynicism sometimes manifested itself in hilarious ways, such as his famous “22 Panels that Never Fail”, a guide to dealing with loquacious writers, and “Woody’s Rule”, his cynical artist’s “motto” of: “Never draw what you can copy; never copy what you can trace; and never trace what you can cut out and paste up.” 
His real legacy, though, is a bounty of eye-popping comic art, and hosts of wide-eyed young readers, many of whom became artists that carry his influence in their work. 
When I was creating my webcomic, and needed a name for both the lead character and the comic itself, I took part of it from the Periodic Table and part from the Mad parody of Flash Gordon (black & white panel shown above) in which Wood did his comic turn on another of my favorite comics artists, Alex Raymond. Along with such Wood/Kurtzman classics as “Superduperman” and “Batboy and Ruben”, it’s a strip that has been burned into my cortex since I was 10.
There is no official Wally Wood site that I’m aware of. The main link here is to a fan site on Splash Pages. Here are some others:

Fan gallery that contains some pages from his terrific work for the Warren Magazines: http://psychosaurus.com/frames/wwgallery.html
Fan gallery on Pigdog Productions: www.pigdogproductions.com/wally%20wood.html
Nice cover gallery on American Art Archives: http://www.americanartarchives.com/wood,wally.htm
The wally Wood Letters, correspondence with the artist at the end of his life: www.tvparty.com/comics/wood.html
Wally Wood Wikipedia entry: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wally_Wood
Bio on Bud Plant Illustrated Books: http://bpib.com/illustrat/wood.htm

Books:

Mad About the Fifties, excellent reproductions of some of Wood’s best work.
Wally Wood Sketchbook, not his best stuff, but fun
The Compleat Cannon, collection of his politically incorrect sex & violence spy comic from the 60′s. 
These are recent reprints of the old reprints of the original Mad comics that warped my adolescent brain (out of print, but findable). They’re awkwardly arranged in a small format but still great. Mad About the Fifties has better reproductions, but there are more stories available in this format if you can find them all on Amazon

 


Site Quirks: In each grouping of images on the Splash pages site, the small ones are linked to larger versions, the large one isn't.
Link: http://splashpages.com/wood/gallery/woodgallery1.html

Posted in:  Comics   |   7 Comments »


Friday, December 23, 2005
James Gurney

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:34 am 
 



I don’t usually post two full images by the same artist, but in this case I was fascinated to find out that an artist I thought I was familiar with is, in effect, two artists. 
Many people are familiar with James Gurney as the artist/creator of Dinotopia, a series of lavishly illustrated fantasy books about a “Land Out of Time” in which humans and intelligent dinosaurs co-exist amid fantastic neo-classical cities and spectacular landscapes.  The stories were made into a rather lackluster TV mini-series from Hallmark Entertainment. The books, however, are delightful. I think the designs for the cities  and landscapes in Gurney’s Dinotopia paintings were a large but uncredited inspiration for the cities and palaces of Naboo in Star Wars Episode I. I think Gurney, in turn, was influenced by  Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema (see my previous post) and other 19th century academic painters. 
What I was surprised to learn about Gurney, and didn’t know until I Googled him for this post, is that he is also an accomplished plein-air landscape painter working in the tradition, and general location, of the Hudson River School. His Hudson Valley landscapes and town scenes are open, painterly and full of light. In addition to the landscapes, his professional site includes some of his non-Dinotopia fantasy and magazine illustration.
I give links to both his  Dinotopia and professional sites below, but the images on the Dinotopia site are unfortunately too small to get the real flavor of the illustrations. Here are some larger Dinotopia images linked from the Artcyclopedia. Of course, the best way to see any artist’s work is in person. There is an exhibition of Gurney’s Dinotopia art opening at the Norman Rockwell Museum in Connecticut on February 18th.


Link: www.dinotopia.com/
www.jamesgurney.com/
Site Quirks: The Dinotopia site is bit scattered, but navigation is on most pages. The image gallery is divided into two sections that are not connected without returning to the home page and drilling down again. The galleries are of the unfortunately common "click and click back" style. The professional site is better organized, but the galleries are also "click and click back". The "Illustration" link leads to a descriptive page from which you must click further down into links in the text to "Fantasy Illustration" and "Magazine Illustration". Both "Landscapes and "Studies" have landscape paintings.

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration,Painting,Paleo Art,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, December 22, 2005
Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:26 am 
 


Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema was a 19th century painter in the Academic style. He was born in the Netherlands and moved to England, where he was eventually knighted. He painted luxuriously beautiful scenes of romanticized classical civilizations and medieval France. 
Often disparaged as a painter of “mere eye-candy”, and completely disrespected by the modern art establishment, he is finally regaining some of the attention he once commanded. If, like me, you remove the “mere” from that phrase, you can appreciate his work as eye candy indeed. His excellent draughtsmanship, attention to detail, lush color and masterful handling of the textures of clothing, skin, tapestries, stone and above all, marble, make his work a tasty visual treat. 
The link here is to the Alma-Tadema galleries on the amazing Art Renewal Center site, which I wrote about back in August. The ARC also includes an extensive biography. The best thing, though, is that they provide wonderful high-resolution images of his paintings, so you can get a nice big handful of that yummy eye-candy. There are also some excellent books of his work.


Link: Art Renewal
Site Quirks: Scroll down a bit to see the preview images, click on them for a large image. Underneath the preview image, or in the descriptive text to the left, is often a text link to a high-resolution image that is even larger! At the bottom of the page is a row of small numbered links to the other pages in this artist's gallery. In the case of Alma-Tadema, it's currently 18 pages pointing to 180 images. The ARC is an incredible resource.

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   8 Comments »


Wednesday, December 21, 2005
Mark Fiore

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:28 am 
 


Mark Fiore certainly wasn’t the first to post animated political cartoons to the web, but he is probably the best known of the cartoonists who specialize in animated political commentary. While many animated editorial cartoons are a single panel with animated bits, Fiore actually does 30-45 second animations. He works in Flash and uses sound effects, pop-up banners and starburst announcements that feel like they come from 50′s television ads. 
Though he’ll take a good swing at anyone he thinks is acting stupidly or irresponsibly, Fiore’s political bias is unabashedly to the left. If you like the Bush Administration, you’ll probably find Fiore offensive. On the other hand, if you find the Bush Administration offensive, you’ll probably like Fiore.


Link: www.markfiore.com/
Site Quirks: Click on "New animation" to the left to see the most recent cartoon. From there, the "Next" button takes you back in time. The same arrangement is available from the "animation gallery", where you can see thumbnails of the most recent 6 or 7 'toons, and browse a text list for more.

Posted in:  Cartoons,Motion Graphics & Flash   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, December 20, 2005
Todd Lockwood

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:57 am 
 


The pencil drawing shown here, depicting Cerberus, the three-headed dog that guarded the gate to Hades in Greek Myth, is one of the most striking images I’ve seen in the whole of science fiction and fantasy art. Take a look at the detail images.
Science fiction and fantasy artist Todd Lockwood works both traditionally in oils and digitally in Corel Painter. His fantastic, sometimes phantasmagoric, images have been appearing in magazines and on book covers for over 20 years. He has been a staff artist for TSR and a longtime creator of art for Dungeons and Dragons. 
His site is an exception among artist’s online gallery sites:  it’s well-organized and very easy to use. ( It was created by Lockwood and Mac Web Guru M. Douglas Wray.)
There is a promise of forthcoming tutorials, but they’re not up yet. However the FAQ page includes some detailed comments on his materials and methods for pencil drawing, oil painting and digital painting. There are prints available of many of the works. 


Link: www.toddlockwood.com/
Site Quirks: The initial click into the galleries requires another drill down before you get to the art, but after that the galleries are very well organized. Once you click on the first thumbnail you can navigate either with the  thumbnails or with a convenient click-through navigation. Links are always available to the main gallery page or to the other gallery categories. Most images have thumbnail links to detail close-ups and they are accompanied by information on the image, with title, medium, size and brief description. I wish 95% of the other artists on the web, and their web site designers, would take note.

Posted in:  Digital Painting,Sc-fi and Fantasy,Tools and Techniques   |   9 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






