Beverly Center: Fashion's Night Out




Today's Mall Hours: 10:00 AM - 11:00 PM
See All Hours
Mall Directory
Sign In
Register






Beverly Center



Home
Stores
Sales & Offers
Dining & Entertainment
Events
Mall Info
Our Partners



Fashion's Night Out

Share:



More 

Print


html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"
Untitled document

 
 






 
 
    




  


    




  


EVENT PROGRAM TIMELINE
 
BEVERLY CENTER
CENTER COURT
 
OPENING CEREMONY
5:00PM
LOS ANGELES MAYOR VILLARAIGOSA
LISA LOVE, WEST COAST EDITOR OF VOGUE
NICOLE RICHIE, HOST AND FASHION DESIGNER
 
FASHION SHOWS
5:30PM AND 8:00PM
 
FREE SELF PARKING 
FROM 3:00PM to 11:00PM
 
CELEBRITY DJ LINDSAY LUV
FASHION – CELEBRITIES – EVENTS 
PROMOTIONS – MUSIC – AND MORE!
 
OPENING CEREMONY
 
Beverly Center is again the epicenter for Fashion’s Night Out, L.A. At 5pm, the 2nd Annual Opening Ceremony kicks off the fashion extravaganza with Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa as host, along with Vogue’s Lisa Love and celebrity co-hosts. A massive LED jumboscreen will display the ceremony and runway for three-level viewing.
 
Center Court
 
RED CARPET ARRIVALS  
 
BMW is the proud presenter of FNO at Beverly Center. The Grand Valet  Arrivals and Red Carpet will include fashion’s elite: celebrities,  costume designers, stylists and Hollywood insiders. OBIKÀ Mozzarella Bar  will provide the newest Italian eating experience in the exclusive  Green Room, featuring Pisco Portón specialty cocktails.
 
Center Court
 
LUXURY FASHION SHOW 
 
Following the Opening Ceremony, at 5:30pm, take in a Luxury Fashion  Show on the Beverly Center runway with the hottest fall looks from our  newest stores. The front row will be filled with celebrities, stylists,  press, bloggers, top clients and more. This year marks Beverly Center’s  second year as the main hub of FNO LA.
 
Center Court
 
CONTEMPORARY AND JUNIORS FASHION SHOW
 
At 8pm, experience the high energy, edgy and modern  Contemporary and Juniors Fashion Show featuring looks from L.A.’s top brands  along with Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s. Get inspired by the many stylish  fashion fans in the crowd. Beverly Center is the first and only stop for  thousands of Angelenos on FNO.
 
Center Court
 
BMW NORTH AMERICA

BMW is world renowned for it's design, luxury, and style. So it's  only fitting that it sponsor Fashion's Night Out, an event that  celebrates those qualities in the fashion world. Along with the gorgeous  designs on stage, you'll find some from BMW ­ like the legendary Z4, 3  Series, 5 Series, 6 Series, and 7 Series. It's an event that can't be  missed.
 
MAYBELLINE NEW YORK’S COLOR STUDIO
 
Stop by Maybelline New York’s Color Studio. Guests are invited to  enjoy complimentary mini makeovers while they receive beauty tips and  hear about the latest in Maybelline trends and products. Attendees will  have the chance to meet Lisa Love, Vogue’s West Coast Editor, who will stop by to make a personal appearance at the Color Studio.
 
Level Seven
 
CHAZ DEAN
 
Join Chaz Dean's creative team, the official hair sponsor of  Fashion’s Night Out at Beverly Center and pick up the latest hair and  skin beauty secrets. Meet with a product specialist to get the right  combination of WEN products and receive priceless beauty tips.
 
Level Seven
 
PISCO PORTÓN 
 Pisco Portón has partnered with Angeleno Magazine for  the VIP Luxury Lounge. This invite-only cocktail lounge is the epitome  of chic with a mixologist on hand to concoct specialty drinks throughout  the evening.
 
Level Seven, Luxury Wing  
 
CELEBRITY DJ LINDSAY LUV
 
Join celebrity DJ Lindsay Luv, whom is a regular fixture throughout fashion circles, having provided music for events and special features for the likes of Andrew Marc, Forever 21, Brian Lichtenberg, Rebecca Minkoff, Armani Exchange, and publications such as NYLON, Blackbook and  TimeOutNY, will be spinning the tunes all night long and in a variety of  hot looks to coincide with the fashion shows.
 
CENTER COURT
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
STORE EVENTS & OFFERS
 
BLOOMINGDALE’S

Meet renown dress designer David Meister and get a personal  consultation for a big night on the town. 


Stop by Bloomingdale's red  carpet photo op and upload your new look courtesy of Bloomingdale's  beauty advisors.


Drop by Bloomingdale's custom lounge to see what’s new for fall on  NBC,  take a photo with stars from their new fall lineup and enter for  the  chance to win a walk-on role and a shopping spree*!


Special surprises, gifts with purchase** and more throughout the store! 

* No purchase necessary to enter.
**One per customer, while supplies last.

MACY’S

Meet celeb stylist, Keylee Sanders and Shedding for the Wedding's   Brian  Worley when they host a Star Style Fashion Show at 7pm. 


Enjoy sips 'n sweets served throughout* and strike a pose in front  of  Macy's  Fashion's Night Out backdrop and take home a photo!


DJ Valida kicks the evening off at 6pm spinning the latest in Impulse.


Visit Cosmetics where celebrity DJ Sky Nellor will be spinning courtesy of Guilty by Gucci.


Catch a wave with the Beachy Cream Girls serving organic ice cream sandwiches*.


Enjoy Macy’s Bubbly and Skinny Bars* at Macy’s Star Style Fashion Show.


Stop by the Lemonade Stand-squeezing watermelon and fresh lemonade!*


Visit INC and refresh with a Smart Water!*

*While supplies last.

American Eagle Outfitters
Party with a DJ from 7-10pm and meet with a stylist to update your fall wardrobe.
 
Angl
Celebrate Fashion's Night Out with music, complimentary cocktails and desserts*.
 
Ann Taylor
Celebrate with an evening of shopping, styling, cocktails, hors d’oeuvres, music and first access to Ann Taylor’s fall fashion offer.  Take 25% off 2 full-price items or 40% off 3 or more full-price items from 6-10pm.
 
Aveda
Complimentary red carpet make-up/hairspray touch-ups with a Beverly Hills stylist.  Meet Fashion blogger Minnie from Stylish Wanderer, actress Carolyn Hennessy from Cougar Town and General Hospital and Maxine, from Vanity Girl Hollywood.
 
A|X Armani Exchange
Receive an exclusive A|X duffle bag* with every purchase.
 
BCBGMAXAZRIA 
Enjoy complimentary refreshments, champagne and a gift with purchase*.  Celebrate the launch of the new BCBGMAXAZRIA fragrance on Fashion's Night Out!
 
Get  the coveted BCBGMAXAZRIA Runway Survival Kit, which  includes a mini  bottle of the new fragrance, with any regular-priced purchase.  Plus,  enter for a chance to win a $2,500 wardrobe from BCBGMAXAZRIA's Fall   collection.


 
bebe
The party begins at 6pm!  Take $25 off a purchase of $150 and $50 off a purchase of $250.  Receive a bebe gold nail polish with a purchase of $100 or more and enjoy sips, nibbles, a DJ and more*!
 
Ben Sherman
Receive complimentary trims and shaves from The Proper barbershop and complimentary beer and prosecco*. 
 
Enter  a raffle for a chance to win an electric Gibson guitar with mini amp  and accessories.  Also, any purchase over $150 will receive a free gift
 
 
Bijou Tresor
Meet new fashion jewelry designer Colette Kahn, preview her exclusive limited edition collection and receive an autograph with any purchase.
 
The Body Shop
Check out The Body Shop’s Fashion Party for Two featuring free makeovers with the season’s hottest looks and beauty giveaways.
 
Brow Art 23
The Eyes of Fall! Receive a complimentary eye makeup demo and come and have your brows perfectly shaped or groomed!   Guests can also enjoy the art of henna design!   Eyebrow threading is $6 from 4-9 PM.  One time only.  Celebrate with complimentary wine and cheese*!
 
Burberry
Complimentary champagne*.
 
Cache
Receive 20% off your regular-price purchase of $100 or more.  View informal and freeze modeling and enjoy complimentary refreshments*.
 
Carlton Hair International
Complimentary no wash styling service and hair consultations with a free gift bag.  Sip champagne and receive exclusive product discounts*.
 
Charles David
Exclusive FNO collection: 5 vegan Charles by Charles David boot styles, $99 from 5-11pm. Owner Charles Malka will be on hand to sign shoes.
 
Claire’s
Take 20% off your entire purchase and enjoy promotional merchandise giveaways.
 
Club Monaco
Enjoy complimentary champagne and cupcakes* while you shop.
 
Custo Barcelona
Enjoy music from a DJ and 20% off any purchase.
 
Desigual
Take 20% off* regular-priced merchandise at Desigual Beverly Center.
 
*Not mixable with other promotions.
 
Diesel 
Donate your old jeans to a local LA charity and be entered for a chance to win a new pair of 2011 Diesel denim.  Enjoy live music and complimentary beverages*.
 
Divine Boutique 
Meet designer Mark Von Nark and enjoy music by a DJ, cocktails* and receive 10% off your entire purchase.
 
Ed Hardy
The first one hundred customers will receive a gift with purchase and everyone enjoys 25% off any purchase of $100 or more.
 
Eilatan 
Join Eilatan for the Toms Shoes “Style Your Sole” event with a DJ and three artists designing custom graphics and artwork for your Toms!
 
Everything but Water
Meet Vitamin A Designer Amahlia Stevens and enjoy style, sweet treats and a gift with every purchase*. Come for an FNO raffle for a chance to win a $500 shopping spree.
 
Plus get an exclusive sneak peek and change to pre-order Becca and Vitamin A's Resort collections.
 
*While supplies last.
 
Express/Express Men
MODEL FOR A MINUTE: Cast members from the upcoming America's Next Top  Model--ALL STARS will be in store from 7-10pm hosting and showing  customers how to work the camera. Shoppers will have their picture taken  with the models and receive a printed copy picture and be able to  upload to favorite social networks. Light bites and cocktails will be  served. There will be great in store shopping incentives.
 
Feet Beat
Tasty Treats:  Stop by for some complimentary cake*!
 
Fendi
Fendi at Beverly Center will launch their Fall 2011 Men's Collection, featuring exclusive accessories and ready-to-wear items for a limited time.
 
Ferrari Store
Receive a $25 gift card with a $125 purchase and enjoy refreshments* while you shop.
 
General Nutrition Center
Celebrate Fashion's Night Out with men's and women's multi vitamin giveaways and a lot more*
 
Godiva Chocolatier
Visit GODIVA for Fashion's Night Out -- Spend $25 and receive a free Banana Nut  Bark ($5.99 value)*.
 
GUESS
GUESS list members enjoy double points and a gift with every purchase.  Shop the latest looks while the GUESS DJ spins the newest tracks.
 
H&M
Visit H&M on Fashion’s Night Out to enter for a chance to win a gift card valued at $200!
 Entries from all participating locations will be entered to win the  Grand Prize of an all-expense paid trip to NYC to attend an exclusive  prelaunch shopping event celebrating Versace for H&M.
 
Listen to a DJ spin the hottest tunes while you shop our amazing Fall collection!
 
Henri Bendel
Stop by the store and have your FNO T-shirt customized by a Swarovski technician.
 
Image
Check out live models and enjoy music and cocktails* while you shop.
 
J.Lindeberg
20% off the fall collection, September 8 only. Enjoy a wine bar, live music by DJ Enzo and fine works of art by LA artist, Andrew Hem.
 
Kenneth Cole New York
Celebrate with cocktails and canapés and receive a free Kenneth Cole FNO t-shirt* with purchase or by checking in on Foursquare.
 
L’Occitane en Provence
Celebrate in Provencal style and be transported to the south of France with a preview of the new improved Immortelle Precious and a complimentary hand massage.
 
Lacoste
Bring in a photograph of yourself wearing a new LACOSTE outfit that resembles an old photograph displaying the LACOSTE brand. Post your photo and caption in store to receive 20% off your purchase. See store for details.
 
Le Cadeau
Receive a special gift with every purchase.
 
Louis Vuitton
Louis Vuitton will be offering free personalization on small leather goods.
 
MAX&Co
Celebrate Fashion’s Night Out with cocktails* and a live DJ from 5-11pm.
 
Michael Kors 
Preview Michael Kors limited edition merchandise, listen to music by a DJ, sample tasty desserts* and enjoy special promotions.
 
MONTBLANC
Join Montblanc for music and cupcakes*!
 
Nine West
Enjoy refreshments* and a special in store offer all while shopping to the beats of a DJ.
 
Omega Boutique
Indulge in bubbly and sweets* to the sounds of one of LA's hottest DJ's at Omega.
 
Paragon Watch Company
Receive a complimentary Pandora Clasp Bracelet with any Pandora jewelry purchase of $75 or more.
 
Pinkberry
Purchase any yogurt item at regular-price and receive 50% off a second yogurt of equal value between 5 and 11pm.
 
Prada
Visit Prada and enjoy Proseco while you shop.
 
Premier Kids
Girls and their mothers can have custom made feathers placed in their hair.  Choose the feathers and they'll be placed in for free!
 
Salvatore Ferragamo
Visit Salvatore Ferragamo for the launch of the fall runway collection along with champagne service* in the boutique.
 
SEE Eyewear
Join SEE Eyewear for an exclusive fall trunk show highlighting the fall collection and save up to $100. 
 
Sephora
Get trendy at Sephora’s trend bar:  nail art demos, color and skin consultations, full-face makeovers with a $50 purchase, free gift with any $100 purchase*.
 
Scene
Please join SCENE for savory and sweet snacks and a refreshing beverage* while you check out the latest in luxury eyewear.
 
Shiekh Shoes
Party with female D.J.'s, male waiters, enter sweepstakes and get in store pampering.  Buy one pair of women's sandals and receive the 2nd pair free. Valid September 8-11
 
Solstice
Celebrate Fashion’s Night Out with giveaways, in store stylists, special promotions and a photo booth with complimentary print outs.
 
SONY
Hang out at Sony’s mancave for everything from movies, sports, gaming and tech toys.  Check in on Foursquare and receive a free Sony Music Pass for 50 free songs.
 
Steve Madden
Celebrate fashion with Celebrity DJ, Actress, and Model: Jasmine Dustin and receive a free gift with purchase of $100 or more.
 
Sunglass Hut
Take a cue from sunglass obsessed Sunglass Hut Style Director and  actress Rachel Bilson, who will be on hand to help guests find their  perfect new pair of sunglasses.
 
Buy a pair of sunglasses and get your picture taken with Rachel!
 
Stop by for cocktails and hors d'oeuvres while receiving complimentary VIP makeover treatments including hair and make up.

Superdry
Swing by Superdry USA to enjoy hot beats, delicious sweets and over $500 worth of Superdry treats* that will be raffled off every hour.
 
The Capital Grille 
Please visit The Capital Grille for dinner during Fashion's Night Out  and celebrate with a three-course meal for $39 and happy hour specials  from 4:30-7pm.
 
TIFFANY & CO.
Tiffany will be providing hospitality elements such as a DJ and passing out Tiffany blue sweets from 6-10pm.
 
Tous
Enjoy in store modeling of TOUS’s latest collection, a gift with purchase, complimentary wine* and photos with the Silver Bubble Bear.
 
Traffic Men/Traffic Women
Meet top Hollywood stylists and designers and enjoy a live DJ.
 
True Religion Brand Jeans
Get there early to have your jeans customized on the spot by the artists from Hit & Run while enjoying refreshments, little bites and the sounds of DJ Zen Freeman.  Receive a free gift with any purchase*.
 
Tumi
Stop by the store for a packing demonstration and enjoy sparkling cider and cookies*.
 
Victoria’s Secret
Receive a limited edition Victoria’s Secret tank top with every $60 purchase.  Free panty with any regular bra purchase and complimentary bra fittings.
 
Wet Seal
Gift Card Giveaway!  Wet Seal will give away a $50.00 gift card every hour from 6pm to 11pm.
 
White House | Black Market
Enjoy personal styling and 15% off your entire purchase.  Black Book members receive an additional 5% of your entire purchase.
 
XXI FOREVER

Get styled by an XXI stylist and      receive a free gift with your look!


Enter for a chance to win one of the      five one-of-a-kind outfits to be raffled off, valued around $150 each. 


Forever21 hosts a virtual in store      scavenger hunt, courtesy of SCVNGR.  Customers will log into the      SCVNGR app with their smart phones and complete challenges to earn      rewards.

Yves Saint Laurent
Celebrate the evening with champagne and macaroons at YSL.
 
(*All store offers available while supplies last.  See stores for details).
 
For more information about Fashion's Night Out view our press releases or visit fashionsnightout.com



















 About Us
 Media
 Employment
 Leasing Info
 Our Partners
 Partner with Us
 Contact Us
 Site Map
 eBulletin


Copyright 2011 © Taubman Centers. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy







