lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2005 » November






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Wednesday, November 30, 2005
How Van Gogh Made His Mark

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:00 am 
 


I had a chance to see Vincent Van Gogh: The Drawings at the Met (see my previous post). It’s a great exhibit that continues to the end of December. Unlike many polished master drawings that seem to spring from the artist’s hand fully realized, you can really see Van Gogh working and learning in his drawings. Even after he had mastered some aspects of drawing, deftly executing complex perspective problems in large drawings of fields and farm buildings, you can still see him struggling with other challenges, like human proportions and placement of features on a face. It’s a fascinating and enlightening exhibit for anyone engaged in the ongoing process of learning to draw.
The Met has created another learning experience – an online Flash interactive called How Van Gogh Made His Mark. It’s ostensibly aimed at children, but worth a look for anyone interested in drawing. The interactive uses several Van Gogh drawings to explore some basic principles of drawing as well as investigating Van Gogh’s own process and history. It features reproductions of drawings that can be zoomed in on and dragged around within the interface. It investigates the artist’s tools, methods and learning experience and features a “sketchbook” where you can draw onscreen with a virtual reed pen.


Link: www.metmuseum.org/explore/van_gogh/intro.html
Site Quirks: The interactive has an intro with music, but it's easily skipped. Choose one of the four main sections and then a sub-section. Click "Zoom" to see the full image. Scrolling text is poorly implemented, use the arrows if the slider doesn't work. "Zoom" again to see details. Click and drag to move the image in the window.  Look for small graphic links above the text box in the "Out of Line" section that lead to little demos. Close pop-ups and click on the ink bottle to return to the main interface.

Posted in:  Drawing,Gallery and Museum Art,Museums,Tools and Techniques   |   Comments »


Tuesday, November 29, 2005
Robert Chang

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:16 am 
 

 Illustrator, concept artist and comics artist Robert Chang works in both traditional and digital media. His 2D digital work is often done in Corel Painter and Adobe Photoshop. The “Goodies” section of his site includes tips, techniques and downloadable custom brushes for Painter. There are also several excellent and detailed tutorials for his digital work, including the image shown here.

 
Chang is the co-author of a book on digital painting techniques: d’artiste (Ballistic Publishing).


Link: www.ethereality.info/
Site Quirks: The site is in frames. The main window and image pop-ups have an annoying JavaScript that resizes your browser and forces it to the top left of your screen, but don't let that deter you. The most interesting work is in the first section of "Paintings/Drawings", there are also other sections linked at the top of the page once you reach the gallery. Some of the tutorial images are incorrectly linked, but they are mostly the finished images that you can access in the main gallery.

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting,Illustration,Tools and Techniques   |   1 Comment »


Monday, November 28, 2005
Michel Gagné (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:58 am 
 


I wrote about Michel Gagné‘s wonderful illustrations and comics back in August, but his galleries have recently been revised and are always worth another look. They are now arranged more logically and new work has been added. 
The site also includes an expanded listing of his books, my favorite of which is Odd Numbers, a nicely bizarre and beautifully drawn children’s counting book that sets counting books on their ear (er,… ears).
Also, don’t miss Insanely Twisted Shadow Puppets, a recently added series of terrific short Flash animations Gagné  created for Nickeledeon.


Link: www.gagneint.com/
Site Quirks: Even though gallery navigation has improved, it's still possible to miss things. Check the home page and keep nosing around the site.

Posted in:  Animation,Comics,Illustration,Motion Graphics & Flash   |   Comments »


Friday, November 25, 2005
Tadahiro Uesugi

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:17 am 
 

 I’m not always fond of minimalist illustration. Too often artists will pare down their approach to the point where it loses visual interest. 
Not so with Tadahiro Uesugi. Areas that others might leave flat and lifeless, Uesugi makes alive with beautiful patterns and wonderful textures. His superb design sense, refined control of color and playful use of light and shadow make his images a visual treat. 
Uesugi was part of a recent three-person show called Three Trees Make a Forest at Gallery Nucleus in Alhambra, CA, along with Enrico Casarosa and Ronnie Del Carmen. Some of the works from the show are on view in an online gallery.
His own site features extensive galleries, some Quicktime movies and hand-drawn Quicktime VR panoramas.
 


Link: www10.big.or.jp/~tuesugi/
Site Quirks: Site is in frames. Navigation is almost hidden. There is a crowded line of links in a small frame at the bottom of the browser window. Follow "Illustration" to the gallery. Thumbnails will be displayed in a frame on the left.  The galleries are deeper than they appear. The last image in the frame is a link to a new frame full of thumbnails, and the galleries progress in this fashion for many pages.

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, November 24, 2005
Syd Mead

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:10 am 
 


Futurist Syd Mead has long been one of the premiere industrial design and motion picture concept artists.  His movie work includes Star Trek: The Motion Picture, Bladerunner, Tron, 2010, Short Circuit, Aliens, Time Cop and Johnny Mnemonic.
The official Syd Mead site is a little disappointing. Most of the images are in the Bookstore section, and they’re a bit small. Click on any of the titles to open a pop-up with a selection of images from all of the books. There are also some images in the Features section. There are larger images of posters for sale on the AWN site, and some older images on the unofficial Syd Mead Project site.
The site I’m recommending and linking to below is the Syd Mead Gallery on the Gnomon Workshop site, where Mead is an instructor in concept design.
There are also Syd Mead books available.


Link: www.thegnomonworkshop.com/gallery/mead.html

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, November 23, 2005
A Week of Kindness (Max Ernst)

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:28 am 
 

 Brilliant Dadaist/Surrealist Max Ernst is sometimes lost in the glare surrounding more well-known figures like Dali and Magritte. Ernst was a founding member of the Surrealist movement and created some of the most powerful Surrealist images. 
One of his masterpieces isn’t a painting but a collage-novel. He took engraved illustrations from peridicals and catalogs, painstakingly cut them out and assembled them into a series of remarkable images. The result is a wonderfully disconcerting Surrealist picture-story, or (dare I say it?) graphic novel, titled Une Semaine de Bonté (“A Week of Kindness”).
Remarkably, the entire book has been posted online as part of the NelePets Art Encyclopedia, which also has some images of Ernst paintings here. There are also some larger extracted images from AWoK here. Dover Books has kept a large format edition of the book in print for many years. Like most Dover art books, it’s very inexpensive but the quality of the reproductions isn’t high. In any format, A Week of Kindness is a Surrealist masterpiece.
Addendum, 2/24/08: The NelePets site listed here has gone the way of all things Internet, try the Google Books version.
 


Site Quirks: Navigation isn't the best. Click on the title image to start. Some words in the contents image are linked (days of the week), click on "Sunday", after that look for "Next" link at the upper right.
Link: www.nelepets.com/art/collections/ernst%20max-book/TITL.htm

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Tuesday, November 22, 2005
Rad Sechrist

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:10 am 
 


I don’t know much about Rad Sechrist, except that he is a contributor to the Flight anthologies and he draws wonderful short comics that you can read online. His confident linework and use of a palette that manages to be simultaneously colorful and restrained remind me of Kazu Kibuishi’s wonderful drawings.
There are pages for two different features on the site: Beneath the Leaves and Wooden Rivers. Pages are arranged chronologically from the bottom up. There is some more art on the Gallery Nucleus site, the Flight 2 Preview and on Michael Gagne’s site.


Link: www.radsechrist.com/

Posted in:  Comics   |   2 Comments »


Monday, November 21, 2005
Douglas Klauba

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:19 am 
 


Chicago illustrator Douglas Klauba does illustrations for posters, book covers, calendars and various editorial and commercial clients. His work shows influences from Art Nouveau, classic movie posters, WPA murals and golden-age illustration.


Link: www.douglasklauba.com/
Site Quirks: The site designer has sacrificed usablity for style, resulting in an "enigmatic" navigation scheme. Roll over the dots on the left to see the navigation choices. Gallery choices are by number. A better option is to go to "Thumbnails" (lowest dot on the left) and click on the thumbnails to enlarge the image. Dots at the bottom go to additional thumbnail pages. There is additional art in the "News" section (5th dot down).

Posted in:  Illustration   |   Comments »


Friday, November 18, 2005
Andrew Loomis

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:07 am 
 


Andrew Loomis was a highly regarded commercial illustrator who was prominent in the 40′s and 50′s. He was a superb draughtsman and the author of several how-to books on drawing that are classics in their genre, particularly Figure Drawing for All it’s Worth  and  Drawing the Head and Hands. Anyone interested in drawing people can benefit from studying Loomis, particularly illustrators and comic book artists.
The bad news is that his books are out of print and collectors want upwards of $70 for them. There are a couple of recent books that are extracted from the originals, Drawing: Figures in Action and Drawing the Head. They’re worthwhile (and inexpensive), but incomplete compared to the originals. 
The good news is that there are archives of the original books online. The link below is to a terrific site at saveloomis.org that has an archive of most of his books. There is also a less-well organized archive at fineart.sk. Bud Plant Illustrated Books has a Loomis bio and is a place other than eBay to buy Loomis books. There is an archive of some of his finished illustration here.


Link: www.saveloomis.org/
Site Quirks: Links are dark against a dark background, but servicable. Click on a cover to view the pages in order through Previous and Next arrows, or go to a specific page with the drop-down.

Posted in:  Drawing,Illustration,Tools and Techniques   |   5 Comments »


Thursday, November 17, 2005
William B. Hoyt

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:05 am 
 


New England artist William B. Hoyt does landscapes and still life paintings in a detailed style that approaches photo-realism. I prefer the looser, more painterly work found in the “Italian Sketchbook” section of the site. Most of the images have a link to a “high-res version”  if you look for it.


Link: www.wmbhoyt.com
Site Quirks: Site navigation changes position when you click in to an image. Return the gallery thumbnails link is usually at the top. Hi res link is usually at the bottom.

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






