If Bush Had Done That - powered by FeedBurner
&



If Bush Had Done That

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:



...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get If Bush Had Done That delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Tea Party Debate Analysis: Who Won? Who Lost?


Posted: 2011-09-13 10:01:59 UTC
Although it’s a bit weird to have CNN running a “Tea Party debate,” they did…and all in all, they did well, although there were some flaws. Could someone question about Operation Quick and Furious? How about spending a small more time on illegal immigration since it’s an area where there are some real differences? Did Wolf Blitzer have to be so transparent about trying to get Mitt Romney and Rick Perry to fight with each other? He did everything but look at them and go, “You two gentleman have referred …
Originally posted here:
Tea Party Debate Analysis: Who Won? Who Lost?








Michele Bachmann’s Constitutional Ignorance


Posted: 2011-09-13 09:53:33 UTC
 Having hit Romney on his ridiculous and contemptible Mediscare flier earlier today , I am now forced to defend him (sort of) from a completely ignorant attack from Michele Bachmann. In discussing the repeal of Obamacare (which is something I reckon nearly all Republicans support), Bachmann claimed erroneously that there was no difference between the constitutionality of Obamacare and the constitutionality of Romneycare : Plus, no state has the constitutional right to force a person as a condition of citizenship to buy a product or service against their will . It’s unconstitutional… (APPLAUSE) … whether it’s the state government or whether it’s the federal government . The only way to eradicate Obamacare is to pull it out by the root and branch to fully repeal it. It’s the only way we’re going to get rid of it. ** SNIP ** Why? I just have to say this. It’s because President Obama embedded $105,464,000,000 in Obamacare in post-dated checks to implement this bill. We are never going to get rid of it unless we have a president committed to getting rid of it. And if you believe that states can have it and that it’s constitutional, you’re not committed . If you’ve implemented this in your state, you’re not committed. I’m committed to repealing Obamacare. Michele Bachmann claimed during the course of the debate to be a lawyer, and she likes to talk about how much she likes the Constitution. It therefore baffles me that she has no apparent grasp of the very clear distinction outlined in the Constitution between the powers granted to the states and the powers granted to the federal government. According to the Tenth Amendment and centuries of constitutional precedent, states governments have inherent powers , subject only to the express limits placed upon them by the Constitution. The federal government, on the other hand, is a government of enumerated powers . What that means – as any first year law student or person of ordinary common sense can tell you – is that when asking whether a State  has the authority to do X, you question whether the constitution forbids  it, and when asking whether the Federal government  has the authority to do X, you question whether the constitution authorizes  it. The entire argument for the unconstitutionality of Obamacare is that nothing in Article I permits  the Federal government to mandate the buy of insurance. On the other hand, the notion that States  can compel the buy of insurance is completely noncontroversial. States mandate the buy of all kinds of insurance upon all kinds of their residents – the most common form of this with which people are familiar is compulsory liability insurance for automobiles. For Michele Bachmann to claim that there is no difference in the constitutionality of mandatory health insurance compelled by a State and mandatory health insurance compelled by the Federal government is either ignorance on show or dishonest pandering. Now, as I said, this is only sort of a defense of Romney. Just because Romneycare is constitutional does not mean that it is a excellent thought ; in fact, I reckon it is a spectacularly terrible one . As I have clarified before, Romneycare is easily Romney’s greatest electoral liability and his failure to distance himself from it will probably doom his candidacy . But claiming that everything that is a terrible thought is also unconstitutional  is a classic liberal tactic and Bachmann should have avoided the temptation to do so tonight. 
Read the original here:
Michele Bachmann’s Constitutional Ignorance








Al Gore And The Lakes Of Molten Lava


Posted: 2011-09-13 09:01:34 UTC
CHURCHVILLE, VA—Al Gore returns to your TV screen in a 24-hour telethon September 14. He will presumably warn us about the lakes of molten lava that Mother Nature will pour upon us unless we agree to starve in the dark. Unfortunately for Al, the evidence that our recent global warming is primarily natural just keeps piling up: The U.S. solar observatory is predicting an extending global cooling—perhaps 30 years long. At the same time NASA tells us the Pacific Decadal Oscillation has shifted into its cooling phase. That also predicts a 30-year …
Continued here:
Al Gore And The Lakes Of Molten Lava








CNN/Tea Party Debate CoverItLive/Open Thread!


Posted: 2011-09-13 04:45:59 UTC
 Join the RS Contributors and friends for a CoveritLive! Or, if you prefer, use the comments for an open thread. 
Visit link:
CNN/Tea Party Debate CoverItLive/Open Thread!








Barack Obama tries the same failed tactic on ‘stimulus.’


Posted: 2011-09-13 03:30:27 UTC
 Let me just simplify this for the President’s tired and rather sad proposal on how to pay for his tired and rather sad ‘jobs’ bill: President Barack Obama would pay for his $447 billion jobs plot by ending a series of tax breaks for oil and gas companies, hedge-fund managers and people making more than $200,000, the White House said Monday. In total, Mr. Obama’s plot would end about $467 billion of tax breaks over 10 years, said White House Office of Management and Budget Director Jack Lew. The president has previously proposed ending the tax breaks, but has faced stiff resistance from Republicans. No. We are very possibly approaching the second stage of a double-dip reception, if we are not in one now; and even if we are not it is still not a excellent thought to raise gas/oil prices, not to mention putting yet more tax burdens on our small businessmen (the Left really, really despises it when its pointed out that their vaunted $200K/$250K tax hikes will hit small businesses that file as S-Corporations right between the eyes).  This is known, by the way: after all, as Hot Air helpfully reminds us , the Democrats ran from similar proposals in 2009, back when they were pretending to be responsible legislators keen to do the country’s business .  The reality, of course, is that they were more interested in giving the country the business . In other words: if your own party was uninterested in running up even more debt and taxes to pay for your enthusiasms, don’t expect my party to. Moe Lane 
See original here:
Barack Obama tries the same failed tactic on ‘stimulus.’








Liveblogging The Tea Party Debate At 8 PM EST.


Posted: 2011-09-13 02:02:17 UTC
I’ll be liveblogging the Tea Party debate tonight, which, oddly enough will be on CNN. See you at 8 PM EST!
See original here:
Liveblogging The Tea Party Debate At 8 PM EST.








The #CNNTEAPARTY Debate


Posted: 2011-09-13 01:42:15 UTC
 From 5pm to 7pm tonight I’ll be on WSB providing a pre-game show for the CNN Tea Party Express debate. You can listen live at http://wsbradio.com and call in to discuss the debate at 1-800-WSB-TALK. From 7pm to 8pm I’ll be on John King USA for CNN’s pre-debate coverage. From 8pm to 10pm, we’ll all be tuned to the debate and I’ll be following #CNNTeaParty on Twitter. RedState will have a live chat during the debate. From 10pm until sometime tomorrow after 9pm (with a bit of sleep), I’ll be on CNN providing more coverage and then back on TV and radio tomorrow night at 7pm. Consider this an open thread. 
See the original post here:
The #CNNTEAPARTY Debate








Punch Counter Punch


Posted: 2011-09-13 00:01:29 UTC
 This morning, Mitt Romney surprised a lot of people by announcing Tim Pawlenty’s endorsement of his campaign. One former Pawlenty staffer emailed me lamenting that they’d run against “Obameycare” and then this? That’s politics. Pawlenty will be in Florida tonight for the CNN-Tea Party Express debate. And so will Governor Bobby Jindal. This afternoon the Perry campaign announced their counter punch to the Pawlenty news. Gov. Jindal is endorsing Perry. 
Excerpt from:
Punch Counter Punch








Moonbats Are Still Falling Out of Berkeley Trees


Posted: 2011-09-12 23:31:04 UTC
One thing that keeps moonbats so entertaining is their inability to learn from each other’s idiocy. Remember Nate Hill, the treetard who went out on a limb in Berkeley while protesting the construction of a sports stadium and fell off it, breaking an arm and leg? The kooks infesting those particular trees have long since been cleared out by the Orkin Man, but there are plenty of other trees in Berkeley — and plenty of other kooks: First she was buoyantly up in a “perilous” People’s Park tree protesting “Everything,” but …
The rest is here:
Moonbats Are Still Falling Out of Berkeley Trees








Conviction Upheld in Murder by Veganism


Posted: 2011-09-12 23:27:40 UTC
Abortion isn’t the only means moonbats have of killing children. There is also veganism — although it has the shortcoming that it can subject progressive parents to justice: Georgia’s top court on Monday upheld the conviction and life sentence against an Atlanta vegan couple over the death of their malnourished 6-week-ancient boy, who was fed a diet largely consisting of soy milk and apple juice. The Georgia Supreme Court’s unanimous ruling rejected appeals by Jade Sanders and Lamont Thomas, who were convicted and sentenced after a jury found them guilty of malice …
View post:
Conviction Upheld in Murder by Veganism








FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


