lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2005 » October






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, October 31, 2005
Tim Jessell

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:03 am 
 


Tim Jessell’s site describes his style as “realistic with a twist”. He does both advertising and editorial illustration and is the author/illustrator of the children’s book Amorak (Amazon link).


Link: www.timjessell.com/
Site Quirks: Images in "Advertising", "Editorial" and "Books" sections are small and few. Go directly to the E-Folio (gallery) for larger images.

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Friday, October 28, 2005
Feng Zhu

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:23 am 
 


Feng Zhu creates concept art for feature films, games, theme park rides and toy designs.  The Gallery contains images in a variety of styles and degrees of finish.
Feng Zhu also teaches industrial design at Gnomon Workshop and Art Center College of Design in California. He and his studio have produced industrial design training DVDs featuring such heavyweights as Syd Mead. The site includes some online tutorials.


Site Quirks: Gallery thumbnails are too small to be very helpful. Gallery images open in a pop-up window, with a JavaScript that forces them to the upper left of your screen and resizes them with each image. Thankfully, once the pop-up is open there is a small but very usable click through navigation, as well as image information, at the top of the window. (Are you paying attention, other gallery designers? "Click-through", say it with me.) Be aware that if you accidentally click on the pop-up image, the window will close.
Link: www.fengzhudesign.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Art,Tools and Techniques   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, October 27, 2005
T W Schaller

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:44 am 
 


Architectural presentation art is a form often roundly ignored in art circles, even by those interested in illustration and concept art. Granted, much of it is formulaic, but there are masters here as in other genres of art. Tom Schaller is a case in point. Some of the art on this site is formal architectural presentation art, some is fanciful “imaginary architecture” and some is the equivalent of travel paintings of locations in Prague and elsewhere. All of the images are masterful watercolor renderings. 
Shown above is a formal presntation for a building near one of my favorite public spaces, Rittenhouse Square in Philadelphia. (I don’t intend for this to be a sketchblog, but here are some of my own sketches from the square.)
Schaller is the author of Architecture in Watercolor (McGraw-Hill), and The art of Architectural Drawing / Imagination and Technique (VNR / J Wiley).


Link: www.twschaller.com/
Site Quirks: Site is in Flash. Click in to "Portfolio of Images". There are no thumbnails, you have to click through the images in sequence, but it's worth going through them. There's some really nice work here.

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration,Watercolor and Gouache   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, October 26, 2005
John Nevarez

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:05 am 
 

 John Nevarez is a storyboard and visual development artist for Disney TV Animation. His self-titled blog is, quite simply, a treat. It’s chock-full of characters, creatures, bots and backgrounds drawn in a lively, infectious style that makes you wish he did animations, comics and everything else ’cause you just want to see more of his stuff.
The blog also includes some lively figure drawings. This is a great site for artists (and would-be artists) to visit because Nevarez makes drawing look like the most fun thing in the world.
He has published a sketchbook which is available from Stuart Ng Books (along with a way too cool selection of other artist’s  sketchbooks).


Link: john-nevarez.blogspot.com/
Site Quirks: Blog pages don't have links to "Previous Posts" at the bottom so you have to navigate back though the Archives links. Don't miss any of it.

Posted in:  Animation,Drawing   |   4 Comments »


Tuesday, October 25, 2005
Steve Rude

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:49 am 
 


Many modern comic book artists pride themselves on throwing away what’s come before. A few, however, show their respect for tradition and display the influence of the great comics artists who showed us all how it’s done.
Steve Rude is a comic book artist and illustrator who has reaped the benefit of respect for tradition. His beautifully restrained comic book work shows the influence of comic greats Jack Kirby and Russ Manning and his sophisticated illustration technique shows thoughtful study of the work of Andrew Loomis and other great illustrators.
Most of the artwork on the site is in the gallery but there is also art in News and other sections. There is a new book of his work due in 2006 from Flesk Publications.


Link: www.steverude.com/
Site Quirks: Site does not display correctly in Firefox for Windows or Mac, or in Safari, but is still navigable.

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Monday, October 24, 2005
Mr. Picassohead

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:03 am 
 


If you’ve ever said to yourself: “What I really need is a nice cubist time-sink.”, this is the site for you. Mr. Picassohead lets you create your own Picasso-esque faces with drag-and drop eyes, lips, ears, etc. that you can move, resize, recolor and rearrange in a nicely crafted Flash interface. You can save your masterpiece into the gallery or email it to a friend. You can also just click through the gallery and see what the other Picassoheads are doing. 
The link below is to the main “Create” area. You can also enter through the front door. The site was created by Ruder-Finn Interactive.
Suggested by Lias Harris


Link: www.mrpicassohead.com/create.html

Posted in:  Amusements   |   1 Comment »


Friday, October 21, 2005
Sargent in Venice (J.S.S. Virtual Gallery)

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:50 am 
 


I recently returned from my first visit to Venice(!), dazzled and eager to revisit Sargent’s watercolors of that amazing city. I had the chance to see several of them at the Sargent show in D.C a few years ago, and I’ve admired them in books for years, but it’s different after having been there.
This is not a site devoted to Sargent in Venice (although that would make a great theme for a site). Instead, I’ve pulled some links out of the John Singer Sargent Virtual Gallery.  This site is a great reference, even if it isn’t arranged as well as I would like.
Here are some links to images of  the Grand Canal, some side canals, and a wonderful map of Venice, in which you can click on dots to bring up images from that spot, red for paintings by Sargent, blue for photos from the same area. This is how I found the image of Scuola di San Rocco shown above.
The link below is to a Venice overview page, but it’s still not that easy to find all of the Venice images from there.


Link: www.jssgallery.org/Essay/Venice/Map_of_Venice.htm
Site Quirks: The site is frustratingly inconsistent and difficult to navigate. The navigation is there, but it's awkward, a bit unclear and often involves opening new windows and jumping in and out of frames. The best advice I can give is to be persistent, there's some great stuff here.

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting   |   5 Comments »


Thursday, October 20, 2005
Ryan Terry’s Ry-guy.com

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:55 am 
 


I’m not a fan of most “clever” web site interfaces because they usually sacrifice any shred of usability on the altar of coolness. Ryan Terry’s Ry-guy.com is so clever, however, that it becomes an entertainment in itself. This is one of the most fun Flash interfaces I’ve ever seen on the web. The site is beautifully illustrated and wonderfully executed, with lots of great little touches.
The interface opens in a pop-up window and is an illustration of a street corner. Some animated elements are immediately evident – a car and a dump truck drive by – and other elements only animate when you cursor over them (like the line of laundry). You can search around the image, looking for hot spots that display tool tip identifiers, or “Drop an Alien” from the upper left, each one of which will introduce you to a site section. Most of the “hot” elements are themed to their image (the mailbox is the link to email, etc.). The site sections open in another pop-up. Occasionally the paperboy will ride by and drop a paper that is a link to the “Quick Version”, a condensed portfolio in the format of a newspaper. 
Ryan Terry is an interactive designer and illustrator living in Georgia. The site showcases his animation and illustration work. There is a sketchbook lying on the corner.


Site Quirks: Site quirks are mostly listed in my description. In this case the interface is strong enough to make you want to pursue the links, but if you're actually trying to find something directly, it's still difficult navigation.
Link: www.ry-guy.com/

Posted in:  Amusements,Animation,Illustration,Motion Graphics & Flash   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, October 19, 2005
Van Gogh’s Drawings

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:27 am 
 

A few years ago I had the chance to see some of Van Gogh’s drawings at an exhibit in Philadelphia. I was stunned by how beautiful and how accomplished they were. Even though publishers tend to bypass his drawings in favor of the more popular paintings, I had seen some reproduced, but drawings suffer even more than paintings in reproduction. I didn’t realize how powerful the actual drawings were until I saw them in person.
A must-see exhibition of Van Gogh’s Drawings has just opened at the Met in NY and runs to 12/31/05. The link below is to the online gallery in the Met’s exhibit listing. The images reproduced here are not large and there aren’t very many of them, but it’s a taste.
 


Link: www.metmuseum.org/special/Van_Gogh/images.asp
Site Quirks: As usual with the Met's online exhibit previews, there is a nice click-through navigation for the smaller images, but the details require that you click and click back.

Posted in:  Drawing,Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Tuesday, October 18, 2005
Bill Hall

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:46 am 
 


Bill Hall is a Texas illustrator who specializes in sports illustration. He works digitally in Corel Painter, using blurred brushstrokes and anime-like motion lines to convey movement. 


Link: www.billhall.com
Site Quirks: The site offers you a choice of Flash or HTML versions, ostensibly based on connection speed, but pick the HTML version first. The Flash version opens in a pop-up, has an overly long intro, and each section makes you wait while the images animate in from offscreen. If you like the work enough  in the HTML version, you can come back and wade through the Flash gallery.

Posted in:  Digital Painting,Illustration   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






