Texas wildfire flames surrounded for now - World - CBC News






Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to Texas wildfire flames surrounded for now
Skip to supplementary story content
Skip to related news content
Skip to CBC accessibility page




 







CBC Global Header Navigation


CBC.ca

News
news drop down menu


Sports
sports drop down menu


Radio
radio drop down menu


TV
tv drop down menu


My Region drop down menu
 


More drop down menu
 


Watch 
Watch drop down menu


Listen
Listen drop down menu









Search CBC.ca

Submit Search


Sign Up
Log In


 







CBC News World

Major StoriesIn The News

Bin Laden raid 
Japan six months later
Toronto Film Festival
Celebrities up close


CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

World
Photo Galleries




updatedTexas wildfire flames surrounded for now
'Everything's gone now,' Texas man says after fire destroys his home


The Associated Press

Posted:

Sep  8, 2011   4:34 AM ET



Last Updated: 

Sep  8, 2011   6:52 PM ET



 
Accessibility Links






Related Story Content

Story Sharing Tools



Share with Add This
Print this story
E-mail this story







Related


Related Links

The science of wildfires
Life in a forest firefighters team








Accessibility Links


Beginning of Story Content
Officials say firefighting crews are making progress against a massive Central Texas wildfire and have its biggest flames surrounded.Eric Kemper sorts through the debris that remain of his home after it was destroyed as wildfires burned out of control near Bastrop, Texas.   (Mike Stone/Reuters)Smouldering hotspots remain Thursday across some 115 square kilometres blackened by the destructive Bastrop County blaze. But a spokesman for a team assisting the Texas Forest Service says crews have been able to tame many of the big flames.
Rudy Evenson says the major concern now is wind sparking hotspot flare-ups or fanning flames outside the surrounded area.
Nearly 1,400 homes have been destroyed about 40 kilometres east of Austin and about 5,000 residents have been forced to leave their homes.
Neighbourhoods outside the area where the fire already has burned will reopen Thursday. Evenson couldn't immediately say how many of the evacuees live in those neighborhoods.
© The Associated Press, 2011
Accessibility Links

Story Social Media

Story Tools


Report Typo
Send Feedback









Print this story
E-mail this story





Related News Content

Stay Connected with CBC News

Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


Big Box Advertisement







Top News Headlines




Father in B.C. abduction case criticizes courts  

The father of Kienan Hebert, the three-year-old boy who was miraculously returned after being abducted last week, is criticizing the Canadian justice system for failing to keep his son safe.  more »




Canadian diplomats back in Libya 

Canadian diplomats are back on the ground in Libya, seven months after evacuating the north African country, CBC News has learned. more »
Amnesty finds abuses on both sides in Libya 

Forces loyal to Moammar Gadhafi committed war crimes and abuses that may amount to crimes against humanity during the Libyan conflict, but some rebels also engaged in abuses and a "settling of scores," Amnesty International says. more »
INTERVIEW: Rising star Michael Fassbender

Michael Fassbender is cementing his leading man status, propelled by his latest role as a sex addict in the buzzed-about Shame. CBC's Arisa Cox sits down for a talk with the rising star. more »
U.S., NATO buildings attacked in Kabul 

Insurgents fired rockets and assault rifles in the direction of the U.S. Embassy, NATO headquarters and other official buildings Tuesday as gunfire and explosions rocked the heart of the Afghan capital.  more »

More Headlines »




Most Recent


Watch
Listen





Show previous slide





Show next slide




Show previous slide





Show next slide





Latest World News Headlines




Republican hopefuls go after Rick Perry in debate 

Rick Perry came under attack from all sides in a debate as his Republican presidential rivals tried to raise doubts about his record as Texas governor and blunt the momentum that has made him the front-runner to challenge President Barack Obama next year.   more »




Canadian diplomats back in Libya 

Canadian diplomats are back on the ground in Libya, seven months after evacuating the north African country, CBC News has learned. more »
Amnesty finds abuses on both sides in Libya 

Forces loyal to Moammar Gadhafi committed war crimes and abuses that may amount to crimes against humanity during the Libyan conflict, but some rebels also engaged in abuses and a "settling of scores," Amnesty International says. more »
Kenya pipeline blast death toll hits 82 

The death toll from a gasoline pipeline explosion in the Kenyan capital has risen to 82, a Red Cross official says.   more »
Obama calls on Congress to act on jobs bill  

U.S. President Barack Obama has proposed paying for his costly new jobs plan with tax hikes that Republicans have already rejected, and he accused them of political motives if they still refuse to go along. more »

More Headlines »




Dispatches »

Asian carp approach Great Lakes Sep. 12, 2011 11:16 AM Rick MacInnes-Rae went to Chicago to see how the most dangerous invasive aquatic species since the zebra mussel is eating its way north towards the Great Lakes -- and meet the front line fighters trying to stop it.





Connect Newsroom Blog
Manhunt in B.C., Nuclear Tension & SpongeBob Scapegoat? Sep. 12, 2011  7:04 PM A new study says that kids who watch SpongeBob can't concentrate. But are we turning SpongeBob, into a scapegoat?


Google Ads











Show previous slide

Don't Miss



photos
9/11 Memorial opens
The former site of the twin towers re-opens as 9/11 memorial plaza




photos
Kenyan pipline explosion
Deadly fuel explosion rips through a Kenyan slum




PHOTO GALLERY
U.S. remembers 9/11
U.S. remembers 9/11




Osama bin Laden
Go inside the operation to kill the al-Qaeda leader
A Fifth Estate multimedia examination of the top-secret raid in Pakistan




JAPAN
Six months later, radiation still a major worry
Craig Dale writes about the country's nuclear anxiety




RICHARD HANDLER
9/11 memorials break down our emotional defenses
Like the attacks themselves, commemorations were rich in symbolism




AIR SAFETY
6 questions about Russian aviation safety
Facts about air travel in Russia




CHART
Unemployment rates in the U.S., 2001-2011 





10 questions
Test your knowledge of this week's top stories





MUSLIMS IN AMERICA
Reflections on a decade of suspicion
Nahlah Ayed talks to an L.A. comedian and Sufi convert about Islam 




9/11 SECURITY
New border measures affect Canadians' lives
Many unsure if lineups, searches, lists have helped




SLIDESHOW
Life inside Kenya's biggest refugee camp
Thousands affected by drought, famine seek help at Dadaab




PHOTOS
Memorializing Sept. 11
Ways the attacks and their victims are remembered



Show next slide




CBC Global Footer Navigation


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Kids' CBC Wonder World
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


CBC Member Centre
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Jobs
Visit the Canadian Broadcasting Centre
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts


Independent Producers
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Tapes, Transcripts and Image Assets
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2011

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca











