2007  September | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Cal Fire Hiring Firefighters and Fire Apparatus Engineers
1 comment






Want to become a member of the greatest wildland firefighting force in the world?
Job listings  for Firefighter
Job listing for Fire Apparatus Engineer
Final filing date: November 8, 2007







Posted by Mike
on 09/29/2007 •
		Filed under: Cal Fire, CDF, firefighter jobs



Halo 3 Has Invaded My Front Room
3 comments






My two teenagers are video game fanatics. My high school junior has waited for the release of Halo 3 since the release of Halo 2 so Tuesday was a big day in our house. Since I don’t play video games the significance of the day was lost on me.
My motto is as long as they get straight A’s and manage homework I feed their video game entertainment appetite, I just don’t need to understand it all.
So 10:00 am Tuesday we (mom and dad) are in a line of about 40 adults and assorted 20 somethings standing outside Game Stop to pick up our pre-ordered Halo 3 game. The line was 9 to 1 guys to women.  The only women in line were moms picking the game up for their sons.
Freshman son gets home an hour before Junior son so he tore into the package, took the XBox 360 into his room and began playing on his little 12 inch tv monitor.  I warned him when his older brother comes home there will be a Halo 4 battle in the house if he refuses to give it up.  “No problem Dad,” he knew the consequences.

When I picked up older son from school he could not wait to get home. Days before he asked me if he could use the big screen in the living room the first few days after Halo 3 arrived. Sure I said.
Gets home, secures Xbox 360 from brother’s room and begins transforming the front room and the 58″ Mitsubishi. Halo 3 is best played with an Internet connection but for some reason the wireless network in the home doesn’t work on our XBox Live so he ran a 20 foot cable to the box from the router.
I watched with amazement as whiz kid set up the game with lightning quick reflexes, settings, names, registration, blah blah blah.
Now down to the game. He checks to see if his comrades from afar are on board, he has a headset and is barking out ideas with the friends on line.
By the way there are 661,600 other players online at the very moment he is starting.
The action begins and while I’m doing my computer stuff I am watching the action on the TV screen beyond and it’s nothing short of amazing. The graphics are near real like, damn cool, but to the kids it’s just background, they are there for one reason, one reason only, and that’s to kill.
They enter zones like forests and deserts and while I’m totally taken aback by the art of the sets the players are blind to the graphics. It’s just a setting to them.  Not once did I hear “can you believe this scenery?”By 9:00 pm the game is moved to his room to the 32 inch Sony we retired from front room duty years ago. Can’t get Internet back there from the wireless so he’s on his own but it’s no deterrent.11:30 still at it and he’s shut down. Day one of battle is complete, the soldier sleeps.
Day two after school, “Dad, can I use the big TV until 6?”  Ok I say, besides I’m liking the opening music with this pretty cool Benedictine monk chanting.  Back to battling with the online friends but I’m tiring as it’s only about killing and shooting.
Years ago my kids advised me they had no intentions of becoming actual mass murderers. It’s their entertainment, they read, get A’s and figure the game play is the reward.  It could be worse, they could be watching MTV so this is the lessor of evils I tell myself.
So the battle for control of the front room is on.
I admit I tried Second Life and found it kind of fun but there was too much lag and when I teleported from one world to the next I really didn’t know up from down.  In fact I was stuck in space for 10 minutes once and was spinning around when someone from the ground came up and asked if I was alright. How did I know? So when I got down she (presumably a she) asked me to follow her to her place. Not understanding jack about the game I followed and she sits on a chair and says sit down.  How the hell do you sit, I had no clue then she/he went on to say isn’t this a great apartment.
This is fun?
I left never to return.
I prefer Yahoo! chess or a poker tournament now and then.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dbdPPmjiiwc]




Posted by Mike
on 09/27/2007 •
		Filed under: halo 3, oOff Topic



Sponsor Seeking A Worthy Cause
Comments Off






Firefighter Blog is honored to welcome Ahern & Brucker Fine  jewelryas a sponsor. Ahern & Brucker Fine jewelry is producing a limited edition Firefighter ring seen here and in the image below as well as on the sidebar.

As you see in the graphic 10% of sales will go to charities that support firefighters. Ahern & Brucker has asked me to send out word that they are looking for the right charity to support.
If your department has a firefighting/firefighter based cause that needs support, or if anyone reading this can nominate a cause or foundation please email mikeswebmail @ gmail .com.
Will update once one or more charity is determined.




Posted by Mike
on 09/21/2007 •
		Filed under: Firefighter ring, Sponsor



Another Vanity Post?
Comments Off






A couple of weeks ago I responded to an interview request from Blog Interviewer. Flattered of course, I hammered out some answers in the digital interview form, sent it off and today they posted my interview.
Thank you BlogInterviewer.com




Posted by Mike
on 09/21/2007 •
		Filed under: Vanity



Butler II Fire Contained
Comments Off






The way this potentially disastrous incident was doused should act as a case study in wildland firefighting. CDF/Cal Fire and responding agencies at their best!
From CDF / Cal Fire
  * Last Updated: September 20, 2007 7:00 am  * Date/Time Started: September 14, 2007 1:51 pm  * Administrative Unit: San Bernandino National Forest  * County: San Bernandino County  * Location: Northwest of Big Bear/Fawnskin  * Acres Burned:  * Containment 93% contained – 14,039 acres  * Full containment expected September 20.  * North of Big Bear  * Phone Numbers (909) 383-5688 (Butler #2 Fire Information)





Posted by Mike
on 09/20/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler II Fire



"Fusee" Frank Wildland Firefighter Topics
4 comments






Direct from firefighters who battled the current blazes in Idaho the guys at Fusee hold nothing back as they discuss the Cascade Complex Wildfire, the ICP burn-by (burn over) and the efforts to save the small community of Yellow Pine.
The essential point made in the Idaho fires related series of blog posts is why put firefighters at risk to save cabins and homesteads of those that subvert (snub) defensive space ordinances.
Some excerps from their series of posts on the Idaho wildfires of 2007 (to date);
“Everyone tasked with fighting these fires reaches three basic conclusions:
1.  Once these big fires become established, no amount of firefighting will stop them ‘until the snows fly’.2. We are fighting these fires because some people live in these woods, and nobody wants to be the person who burned them out, and,3. After 50 years of saving Yellowpine, we could have paid Big Sur land prices to buy out each and every hermit between Yellowstone and Oregon, and still come out ahead.”
And..
“Most of the characters that I met in Yellowpine look like they would be happy living in the 19th century. That’s fine with me, but we should recall that the West of the 1800s had no organized wildland fire suppression, and that frontier towns burned to the ground on a fairly regular basis. As much as I would hate to deprive Yellowpine’s residents of an authentic historic experience (wildfire burning their town), I am even less excited about putting wildland firefighters in there to chase spotfires through hazmat shacks, ammo caches, and tire fires as the big one rolls in. [for photos of Yellowpine, click here]
Now don’t get me wrong: I have nothing against people living in the hills, being off-the-grid, or collecting a personal treasure-trove of ‘might-come-in-handy-someday’ car parts, old trucks, snowmachines, old barrels of acid, or junk lumber. The personal junkyard is a Western Institution, and I would be a hypocrite to advocate for its abolition; just don’t expect me to put my ass between your junkpile and a running wildfire.”

Hear hear, take a few minutes to read this well presented material. Bookmark them and consult their work often, I will. It’s refreshing to hear the guys from the trenches speaking the truth.
Don’t just stop at the blog, Fusee’s mission statement says it all;
“FUSEE promotes safe, ethical, and ecological wildland fire management. We inform and empower fire management workers and their citizen supporters to become torchbearers for a new paradigm in fire management.” Fusee.org






Posted by Mike
on 09/19/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Cascade Complex, Firefighter Blogs



Butler II Fire, Snow Possible Later In Week
1 comment






I finally found a scanner link to air and ground nets for the Butler 2 Fire. Containment is at 53% and revised acreage is around 14,000. 2,400 firefighters are assigned but the main actors on this show is air attack and their cast.These experienced pilots worked together to choke out the fire before it could stuff Fawnskin. Make no mistake, Fawnskin would have been barbecued had it not been for the directed attack by air tankers and helicopters.
Listening to the (amazingly addictive) scanner traffic you hear the dozer operators piping in once in awhile, detectable by the clatter of their diesel engine and steel tracks. This is a familiar and welcomed sound if you are a ground slug. They generally work on slopes under 60 degrees. Hand crews cut line on the steeper slopes.Bulldozer operators don’t get a ton of credit by media but they are possibly the smartest guys on the fire line. They cut where necessary relying on intuition, mostly work alone and give the best bang for the buck than any other piece of equipment in the forest. Unsung heroes for sure.  Also if a dozer is on a fire they are working! You don’t catch them breaking off for a coffee fire.
Watching the evening news from Los Angeles two channels focused on one of the Fawnskin restaurants where the workers have been feeding idle (bored) structure protection engine crews free of charge day and night as a sign of appreciation.
The restaurant profiled is;
North Shore Cafe  –  more info »
39226 North Shore Dr, Fawnskin, CA
(909) 866-5879
If I am ever in Fawnskin they have my business!




Posted by Mike
on 09/18/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire, Butler II Fire



Cascade Complex; What Happens In The Forest
2 comments






………stays in the forest?
Wildlandfire.com admin. posted the text of the official report of the Cascade Complex ICP burn over on August 12.  It’s a great read, what it says in part;“On the afternoon of August 12th 2007, two individuals funded through a wildland fire resource order were moving roll-on garbage dumpsters from a spike camp. The couple was involved in a motor vehicle accident within the closure area of the Cascade Wildland Fire Complex. The accident disabled their vehicle and apparently resulted in non-life threatening injuries to both occupants. Following the accident the individuals left their vehicle and began hiking towards the Cascade Complex Incident Command Post. During or shortly before this time, the road they were on was closed due to fire activity. While hiking along the closed road, the individuals were overrun by the wildland fire. The individuals took shelter from the fire in or near a culvert. It does not appear that either individual was injured by the fire. Several hours later the couple was discovered along the same road by other contractors who then transported them out of the fire area……..
For reasons unknown at this time, the facts surrounding this entrapment were not reported to the Washington Office until September 13, 2007.
On August 13th the Cascade Complex Incident Command Team implemented a Stay-In-Place plan as the Cascade wildland fire burned around their Incident Command Post. The Stay-In-Place plan, the decision to implement the plan and the decision to remain in place for several days following the event resulted in several unintended consequences including the fact that numerous individuals were subjected to elevated levels smoke and carbon monoxide resulting in acute respiratory symptoms and illness.“
You can see the offending smoke and action about the camp as the  fire made its run in this PDF photo essay compiled by the Great Basin National Incident Command Team there at the time.You can see the non fire personnel with paper air filters over their mouth sitting in the middle of the camp in one image.
I find it interesting this report is not posted on Inciweb, but that would only happen if the incident command team places it there.  I sense  a bit of a “circling the wagons” defense developing here.  These command teams don’t want to shed a negative light on one another and since the fire is two months old up to 5 teams have rotated through.
By not reporting the accident and entrapment that led to the two contractors nearly becoming ash they opened the door to other questions about safety by  Occupational Safety and Health Program Manager Randy Draeger and his people.
I don’t pretend to know if they could have evacuated the camp support personnel safely but those folks should have been afforded a ticket by helicopter or truck to a main road at least.
I’ve followed the Cascade Complex Fire since late July and even called it “The Full Forest Employment Fire of 2007.”
Not too sure I’m wrong.
On August 17 the fire had nearly 1,150 firefighters assigned to the (then) 155,000 acre blaze.  The fire was 16% contained and the costs were $13.5 million to date.Today the fire is 28% containment, 950 firefighters are assigned, the acreage is 299,000 and the costs to date are over $50 million.
The same evacuations are in place for some of these small communities like Yellow Pine and Johnson Creek.
Here is transcript of the Incident 209 sent to me this morning;
 Remarks:“Johnson Creek, Yellow Pine and Warm Lake residences are now in a Level II evacuation. Power lines to Johnson Creek and Yellow Pine are still shut down due to fire spread. Ditch Creek Bridge was burned and is still unsafe to cross. Coordination with East Zone continues for actions in and around Yellow Pine. The Salmon-Challis N.F. will take management action on areas east of the Middle Fork, in coordination with the Cascade Complex, but will still be reported on Cascades 209. Updated acres include: Monumental – 299,932. Acreage summaries are based on “administered forest” boundaries: Boise National Forest 205,011 Payette National Forest 34,223 Salmon-Challis National Forest 60,698 Private 272. No acre change due to trouble with the IR flight on 9/16 with only Middle Fork done. IR request on 9/17 is in areas of Curtis Creek and Yellow Pine.”Finally and most important is 12 more firefighters have been injured since August 17. This “managed” fire approach is not only costly in dollars but risky to the health of firefighters and affected communities.In light of the revelations outlined in the report above, the injuries to 16 firefighters, the extended evacuation orders and health concerns for outlying communities I hope the Forest Service big shots in Washington commission a team to pick this one to pieces for the benefit of firefighters that follow.




Posted by Mike
on 09/18/2007 •
		Filed under: Cascade Complex



Butler 2 Fire Tanker 492 Down, NO INJURIES
1 comment






The scanner transcription from Rim Of The World included in the last 30 minutes;
1:12 PM “{pilot} “just had a engine failure, over the lake, going to put it in the field”; {another broadcast} “I think we just had an engine failure in one of the SEATS”
1:21 PM “Tanker 492; no apparent injuries”
1:25 PM “No injury; Medivac is not needed; we have paramedics on scene; pilot is ambulatory; kind of a hard landing plane is generally in one piece; wet the ground around it”
SEAT – Single Engine Air Tanker, generally a contract tanker(pic above is not tanker 492)




Posted by Mike
on 09/17/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire



Butler II Fire Crews Facing Wind Challenges Today
Comments Off






Butler II Fire perimeter map 
(From Butler II ICP)

The graph below is from an experimental wind model run by U.C. Santa Barbara in concert with NASA. The model predicts winds at 20 MPH this evening.
Fire Location;  Latitude and Longitude Lat: 34° 15´ 18″ Long: 116° 59´ 59″
Wind graph UCSB/NASACheck the transcribed scanner traffic on Rim Of The World .






Posted by Mike
on 09/17/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire



Battle For Fawnskin Underway
Comments Off






Scanner traffic being caught by Big Bear local media outfit Rim Of The World is indicating firefighters are waging hand to hand combat with the Butler II Fire as it tries to invade Fawnskin on the north shore of Big Bear Lake.
Apparently the webmaster picked up the air attack tactical net and is recording the “action” as it happens. 
The transcription is riveting.
Entry 4:30 “Punch a line from just west of fire station straight south. (Fawnskin)”
Entry 5:57 “They’re doing structure protection in Fawnskin; running tankers in the sse corner, so a little coordination would be great”
The map below shows the location of the of the fire station in Fawnskin.
View Larger Map
To all fire personnel, please be safe!




Posted by Mike
on 09/17/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire, Fawnskin



Resources Beat A Path To Big Bear
3 comments






Following this thread on Wildland Fire you get a sense of the urgency surrounding the Butler II Fire near Fawnskin. Last evening Central Valley crews were amassing at Fresno air attack base, as well strike teams were moving down from Shasta. Prado staging ground in Chino was busy with equipment and firefighters arriving before assignment.
It looks like the revised acreage is under 16,000. Wind pushed the fire away from the resort community of Green Valley Lake and the evacuation order has been lifted for residents there. The incident 209 still shows 600 structures in danger but it looks like Fawnskin is OK for now.  This is a tribute to the expert ground and air attack crews that hit the fire hard last evening and through the night.
With Inciweb (based in Idaho) down again and I’m wondering if maybe the Forest Service should hit up Google, Yahoo, Microsoft or Amazon for some upgraded server space. Small trade off might be an ad or two?It’s a shame this system is not better administered, flick some switches guys.
Here is a satellite image I received by mail –> (Thanks Risk S.)  You can see why the residents of Las Vegas were getting choked out by the smoke.





Posted by Mike
on 09/16/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire



Angel Fire, Links Updates, Cams, Forums
2 comments






Webcam View of Angel Fire near Julian in distance, evening 8/15
WildlandFire.com Forums. Updated by firefighters close to the incident.
San Diego Local News Video. Reporter describes multiple fronts.
Inciweb Angel Fire updates .  Be warned; sporadic outages




Posted by Mike
on 09/16/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Angel Fire



Angel Fire, 500 Homes Threatened Near Julian
Comments Off






The Angel Fire started this afternoon and has already consumed 500 acres.
According to the Imperial Valley News,“Subdivisions of Julian Being Evacuated – in face of what’s being described as a “Very Big Fire” this fir was initially spotted at 1:35 this afternoon. Fire crews and equipment have been diverted from the Big Bear Lake fire. The fire has exceeded 500 acres
Roads into Julian are closed as aerial tankers and ground crews are being rushed to the area.. A huge plume of smoke is visible throughout the region.
State Route 78 has been closed between Julian and Scissors Crossing, 20 miles to the east. “
This looks like a CDF / Cal Fire show all the way. Cal Fire has their hands full tonight.  Does this combination of fires in Big Bear and now Julian remind anyone of the one-two punch of October 2003?The big difference between then and today is the conflagrations of 2003 were Santa Ana wind driven.
Southern California, October 2003





Posted by Mike
on 09/16/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Angel Fire



Butler 2 Wildfire, 18,000 Acres In 24 Hours
1 comment






This one exploded overnight. The fire is threatening more than one community near Big Bear.
Inciweb update:
The fire is currently about 18000 acres. Mandatory evacuations have been called for the Fawnskin area from the Big Bear Dam to The Discovery Center north of Hwy 38. An evacuatiion center has been setup at the Big Bear High School in Sugarloaf.

New Evacuations–Sept. 15, 230 pm–The entire community of Green Valley Lake is under mandatory evacuation orders. An evacuation center is being established at Rim of the World High School.
The fire has destroyed multiple residences so far. ABC Channel 7 in Los Angeles showed overhead video with multiple dark plumes emanating from the fire ground.
Tanker 910 on scene.
MORE as details come clearer.
[googlemaps http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Fawnskin,+CA,+United+States+of+America&ie=UTF8&ll=34.277574,-116.943283&spn=0.014611,0.02811&t=h&z=14&iwloc=addr&om=1&output=embed&s=AARTsJrAOlM-Bj1j3cOt74oLqN69Rtso5g&w=425&h=350]





Posted by Mike
on 09/15/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Butler 2 Fire



The Maltese Cross
2 comments






“Firefighters wear the Maltese Cross to symbolize their willingness to risk their lives to save others” Local 1259 IAFF 
The cross, which is considered sacred, represents the principles of charity, loyalty, chivalry, gallantry, generosity to friend and foe, protection of the weak and dexterity in service.
Other sources label the eight principles as:

Loyalty
Piety
Frankness
Bravery
Glory and honour
Contempt of death
Helpfulness towards the poor and the sick
Respect for the church





Posted by Mike
on 09/15/2007 •
		Filed under: Maltese Cross



3 Million Acres Burning In Paraguay
Comments Off






Russian supertanker called to help. U.N sending aide as well as neighboring countries.

Image Waterbomber.com
 From the Los Angeles Times:“BUENOS AIRES — – Wind-blown fires scorching the parched Paraguayan countryside have scarred almost 3 million acres of forest, brush, pasture and farmland, officials said Friday, forcing the evacuation of 15,000 people and threatening nature reserves.
A protracted drought and the common practice of burning land for agriculture have contributed to the disaster, which some authorities have called the worst fires in Paraguay’s history.
 “The complexity of the situation is well beyond human control,” Jose Key Kanasawa, chief of the National Emergency Secretariat, told Inter Press Service. “The only thing we can do is contain it, resist it, stop it from spreading and pray that the rain comes.”
Authorities have blamed an explosion of separate blazes largely on peasants who routinely use fires to clear pasture and farmland, especially to plant export crops such as soy beans and cotton. Hot, dry and windy weather has fanned the blazes.
But experts cite other culprits: illegal loggers seeking access to protected forest areas, clandestine marijuana farmers and illicit hunters opening paths. Many of the affected regions have few police officers or other authorities.”
Hindustan Times reports;“Paraguay declared a national state of emergency as wildfires have burned more than 600,000 hectares of forest and agricultural land……
The Ilyushin plane can carry 40,000 litres of water per flight and was expected to be deployed for about five days, the Ultima Hora newspaper reported.
 
The fires are burning in the departments of Concepcion, San Pedro, Amambay and Canindeyu. Amambay and Canindeyu have important national parks containing endangered plants and animals.
 
Many of the fires have been blamed on land clearing by peasant farmers, a common practice in Paraguay. They were spreading rapidly because of a long-time drought, and meteorologists estimated that rain would come to the fire areas in 20 days at the earliest.“

Precise satellite images for Paraguay specifically are hard to locate.  The image below is from RapidFire-Nasa. Paraguay is not labeled, it’s a sliver of a country on the map between Argentina and Brazil but the image is close.




Posted by Mike
on 09/15/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, International



Desiree's Zaca Fire Photo Array
Comments Off






If you follow this blog regularly you know I am a huge fan of Copter Chick Desiree Horton.  As you may know Desiree and her crew spent many weeks on the Zaca Fire. Click here to view her unbelievable images of the Zaca Fire from the air.





Posted by Mike
on 09/15/2007 •
		Filed under: Copter Chick, fire photos, Zaca Fire



Cascade Complex, 2 Months, 300k Acres, $50mil.
10 comments






Map from Inciweb.

The Cascade Complex wildfire had been burning since July 17.  The fire has now burned close to 300,000 acres.  The fire is burning in parts of the Boise, Payette, Salmon-Challis National Forests.
Acreage to date per Inciweb is as follows;
“Updated acres include: Monumental – 286,205. Acre summaries are based on “administered forest” boundaries: Boise National Forest 197,037 Payette National Forest 32,277, Salmon Challis National Forest 56,670, Private 221..”
30% containment, yes, after 2 months it’s 1/3 contained. They should just rename this fire “The Forest Service Full Employment Act Fire Of 2007″.
Think I’m wrong? From the Incident 209 yesterday we read this;“Given the current constraints, when will the chosen management strategy succeed?
The current strategy is open-ended, some containment objectives are being achieved and threats point protection targets are being reduced but full containment is not the current strategy. The current strategy will likely not change until a season slowing event is reached.”
That means SNOW. This sucker will burn until it snows!
However once you read on and see the fuels involved it makes some sense.
“Fuels/Materials Involved: Heavy Logging Slash”
So this is a managed fire feeding off the transgressions of the logging industry. Nearly 1,000 firefighters and nearly $50 million spent so far to clean up the slash left by loggers.
We should note that 15 firefighters have been hurt to varying degree over the last 2 months.
I recall a fire we responded to in a virgin redwood grove in the Santa Cruz Mountains. We accessed the fire smoldering in a logger slash pile and I have to tell you the scene was out of a science fiction post nuclear war film. I can’t figure out how the logging crew left such a mess.There were craters and mud bogs, stumps and slash everywhere.  This had to be the work of wood poachers.  We shocked some pot farmers ferrying 55 gallon water barrels to their gardens and I asked them who created this mess and they were no help.  They were polite because they were scared someone in a uniform was so close to their hidden operation.  Surely they didn’t want tree cops snooping around after my crew left so they were mum, but they knew.
Bottom line is loggers often leave a mess and the forests involved in the Cascade Fire sound like they are getting cleaned up. Sounds strange but thinking of it this way helps to rationalize the $50 million price tag.No price can rationalize the 15 injuries though.  Maybe the Whalen ICT, with help from forest managers can trace back the responsible lumber companies for some help in suppression costs.  Concentrated logging slash/trash is unnatural.
How many of these 15 injured firefighters were hurt because of the unpredictable fire activity contributed by these piles in the forest?
Surely though all 286,000 acres is not slash, maybe they should put this one out before the first snow.
A commenter below asked what defines slash! Here you go.





Posted by Mike
on 09/12/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Cascade Complex



343 Remember
10 comments






[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F7Fjz_EzzFE]
On September 11, 2001 FDNY Firefighter Tommy Dunn was on his way into WTC Tower II with his engine company as it collapsed.  His accounting of the day is permanently posted on Firefighter Exchange.
Please take a minute and click over the read Firefighter Dunn’s incredible story of that tragic day.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoxxix0QQdU]




Posted by Mike
on 09/11/2007 •
		Filed under: Sept 11 war on terror, Sept.11



NorthTree Fire Maps The Moonlight Fire
4 comments






The map below was constructed by NorthTree Fire.Image URL

NorthTree Fire is a private mapping outfit that contracts for fires and other large-scale events.To access their works you have to download Google Earth. NorthTree is clearly the leader in fire mapping and you can see why by the image above.




Posted by Mike
on 09/10/2007 •
		Filed under: fire maps, Moonlight Fire, Northtree



Moonlight Fire Maps & Links
3 comments






Blogging local fires by local media is catching on. Earlier this summer the Tahoe Daily Tribune covered the Angora Fire in blog form but refused to call it a blog even though “posts” were laid out in blog form.  The Santa Barbara Independent ran a great semi-blog covering the monster Zaca Fire.
The Moonlight Fire is getting full blog style coverage from Plumas County News who operates multiple print newspapers in the Plumas County area. Not only great coverage but up to the minute. They offer some great images that locals sent in as well as maps dragged from around the web. 
I guess newspapers don’t have to cite (credit) material?
No matter, if you want to get the freshest info and great photos click their link.
The following map is built by  Google Earth Data conversion by Zeke Lunder  from NorthTree Fire International  using  KML in Google Earth.
The map following it is from Inciweb.  The Google Map shows the fire area.  The second map shows the hot spots. Do your own overlay to get an idea of where the hot spots are.
[googlemaps http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=http:%2F%2Fnorthtreefire.com%2Fgis%2Fintel%2F20070905_moonlight-ir-no_placenames.kmz&ie=UTF8&t=h&om=1&ll=40.219007,-120.742753&spn=0.15097,0.248013&output=embed&s=AARTsJreGGuZehKkkufGc5BhqR2n_EEYpg&w=425&h=350]





Posted by Mike
on 09/10/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Moonlight Fire



Moonlight Fire Day 7, 52,000 Acres To Date
5 comments






Estimated Fire Area(Map from Inciweb)
Moonlight Fire command is predicting troubling N/E winds today and into Monday. While the fire has only grown by 2,000 acres in the last 24 hours according to Inciweb the chance for a significant increase in acreage should be expected with this wind change.
Here is unedited text from the Incident 209 this morning;Major problems and concerns (control problems, social/political/economic concerns or impacts, etc.) Relate critical resources needs identified above to the Incident Action Plan.
Steep, rocky terrain, heavy fuel loading, long range spotting, erratic high winds, extremely low live and dead fuel moisture levels all are contributing to extreme fire behavior. An East wind event is predicted for Sunday. Open abandoned mine shafts and associated hazardous materials, are a safety concern that is constantly being addressed. Heavy smoke limits visibility.
 Significant events today (closures, evacuations, significant progress made, etc.):
Evacuation orders remain in effect in the North Arm of the Indian Valley and for small, isolated parcels to the East, including Taylor Lake, Wilcox Valley, and Franks Valley. Precautionary alerts have been delivered to residents of Taylorsville, Genesee Valley, and North Valley Road to Pecks Valley in Greenville. A Forest closure is in place to ensure safety in the vicinity of the fire.

—————
Injuries are up too. 10 firefighters have been injured to date on the Moonlight Fire, the extent of injuries are not available. (the right people haven’t asked) Old media would be granted that information if they wanted it.  Bloggers don’t count enough YET to get that info.
Moonlight Fire command has been consistent in requesting dozer supervisors.  They have been making this call from the first day of the fire.As the wind changes today everyone associated with this fire will be tested.Be safe guys!
Post Update (2 pm): Wildlandfire.com postings on this thread of deteriorating conditions on the Moonlight Fire.




Posted by Mike
on 09/09/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Moonlight Fire



Spotlight on Moonlight Fire
4 comments






Map Image Inciweb(click map to enlarge)Facts from morning sit report 0700 hours today September 9
Size/AreaInvolved          34,100 ACRES% Containedor MMA16 PercentTotal personnel assigned 2,476
Injuries To Date:5Remarks:
 Fire made a significant run to the Northeast and East last night. It made it to the Browns Cabin area,and Lone Rock Valley. Acreage and any structure loss is being evaluated this morning. Dozer Bosses are needed for contingency efforts and direct/indirect attack. Air tankers are critical to slow advancing fire. With active fire behavior throughout the night time hours, air tankers are critical during the morning. Type 1 crews and Division Supervisors are critical for holding of established line, construction of direct line and burnout operations. The fire was very active in the Diamond Mountain area and pushing Northeast to the Red Rock Lookout.Significant events today (closures, evacuations, significant progress made, etc.):
Fire made a significant push towards Antelope Lakes area. Antelope Lake campground was evacuated. Evacuation orders remain in effect in the North Arm of the Indian Valley and for small, isolated parcels to the East, including Taylor Lake, Wilcox Valley, and Franks Valley. Precautionary alerts have been delivered to residents of Taylorsville and Genesee Valley, and North Valley Road to Pecks Valley in Greenville. A Forest closure is in place to ensure safety in the vicinity of the fire. All major highways remain open, however most Forest roads are closed to access.———————-
Summary from Inciweb;
“A favorable shift in wind patterns has allowed firefighters to make progress on the Moonlight Fire. While containment is still 8%, growth was kept to a minimum overnight.
Prevailing light winds coming from the southwest are expected for the next 3-4 days and will provide some fire stability. Residents in Susanville, Janesville, and the Doyle areas should expect to be inundated with smoke. However, residents in Greenville, Taylorsville and the North Arm area should see significant smoke leaving the valley during the day with some settling in the evening.”
————
The winds are constantly changing presenting some interesting challenges.  The good news is no high winds are predicted. Coincidently the Moonlight Fire is burning only miles south of Hamilton Mountain as seen on the map above.  As we know the Lick fire is burning only miles south of Mt Hamilton.





Posted by Mike
on 09/08/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Moonlight Fire



Lick Fire Bosses Gain Ground
Comments Off






Lick Fire Incident Commander Bob Whallen, his command team and the 1,900 firefighters assigned to the incident have turned a corner.  The weather helped as humidity and winds worked to their favor.According to the morning report from the incident the fire is at 39,585 acres and is 45% contained. Demobilization of some of the resources begins today.
Other facts from the Incident 209 report filed at 0700 hours today;
Injuriesto Date: 4
Actions planned for next operational period:Indirect line construction in lighter fuels, burnout operations planned, Mop-up and secure completed line.
Today’s observed fire behavior (leave blank for non-fire events):Active fire runs with short range spotting, complete consumption of dead fuels.Fuels/Materials Involved: 4 Chaparral (6 Feet)Heavy brush and Oak Woodlands, some timber
 Major problems and concerns (control problems, social/political/economic concerns or impacts, etc.) Relate critical resources needs identified above to the Incident Action Plan.Access to remote areas very difficult, road conditions are deteriorating
Projected Final Size:48000
Estimated Final Cost:          $10,000,000
Image Mt Hamilton Webcam

The Hamcam is not pointed towards the fire ground however you can see the Santa Clara Valley is socked in with fog.  I believe that’s smoke above the low lying clouds.

Click HERE for a topographical map of the Lick Fire area.






Posted by Mike
on 09/08/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Lick Fire

 

Next »



 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 1 day ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 2 days ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 2 days ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 1 week ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video
Willie Wines Jr. 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



State Fire News Roundup…

September 11th: One Victim Identified in Triple Fatal MVA
September 9th: Hundreds Attend 9/11… (more)




Zen Zone #30…

When you are challenged with a problem, it always helps to maintain perspective.… (more)




Report: Driver Error Blamed For Missouri…

Three firefighters in the truck were injured.… (more)




9/11 Commemoration … Firegeezer is…

The average citizen doesn't comprehend the cohesiveness that firefighters and police officers have… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















