2007  August | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Stevens Fire Update
Comments Off






You can see for yourself from this webcam view that the fire is no longer a threat.  If you can’t believe your eyes then you can read it here at Desastres.org, Peru’s top fire reporting site. I did a double take when I saw Google News had the Peruvian web site up top for news on this 150 acre wildfire.
Comment; The IC sized up the fire and requested Tanker 910. Dispatch approved the request and the Supertanker was overhead 2 hours later. Recall they believed this fire had the potential to reach 3,000 acres.  My guess is the heavy tanker delivered a couple of well laid lines as part of the well coordinated air attack assault. The combined actions put this to bed.
Forty five engines were summoned to the scene along with crew strike teams and additional overhead.  They were gearing up for a days long event.
It’s my contention the DC-10 Supertanker blew this fire away. This is the second time in the last week an initial attack incident commander asked for the tanker. These BC’s and fire captains are among the most experienced wildland firefighters in the world. If they order a piece of equipment it’s because the armament will help save property or lives of civilians and firefighters.
Particulars for this fire are as follow per the Incident 209 report.
Size/AreaInvolved             105 ACRES% Containedor MMA55 PercentProjected Final Size:135 ACRESEstimated Coststo Date              $250,000Estimated Final Cost:           $1,500,000Actions planned for next operational period:MOP UP, PATROL, IMPROVE FIRE LINE
Total Personnel assigned to fire 849, (yup eight hundred and forty nine)
That is roughly 8 firefighters per acre and between them it will cost the state $1 million more before this one is “cold trailed” i the next day or so.
I hope to read some eyewitness accounts of the effectiveness of the big plane and the role it played.  I am maintaining my theme for this summer that we are at the dawn of a new era in wildland firefighting, an era where supertankers become part of the initial attack arsenal statewide.
Reminder of what Tanker 910 can do.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ui_PC0XJvhU]




Posted by Mike
on 08/31/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, DC-10 Supertanker, Tanker 910



Fire: Santa Cruz Mountains, Watch Real Time
Comments Off






ALERT: Google searchers landing here may be looking for coverage of the Summit Fire burning in the Santa Cruz Mountains near Corallitos…… 
CLICK HERE for SUMMIT FIRE Updates From Firefighter Blog.

 
 
 
CDF/Cal Fire is responding to a fire above Los Gatos in the South Bay and you can follow the incident from a distance via this webcam situated on Mt. Hamilton across the valley.
I was watching this smoke plume before the contributors at WildlandFire.com started this thread following the initial attack information.
The IC upon size up asked for Tanker 910.
“IC requested air tanker 910, st of cdf engines for structure protection , Santa Clara County E-1,7,and Saratoga E-30 staged on Montabello for structure protection County brush patrols at incident.”
Dispatch honored his request and according to another poster the tanker arrived on scene at 14:40 hours, two hours after the request.
This is one to watch as early projections place the potential at 3,000 acres. Additional resources from throughout the Bay Area including OES engines for structure protection have been ordered.
Here is an overhead view of the Stevens Fire area:
View Larger Map 




Posted by Mike
on 08/30/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season



Firefighter Blog Recent Observations, Traffic Etc.
Comments Off






I have been playing around with the direction of this blog since it’s beginning.  Originally the idea was to post on firefighter injuries and deaths as a tribute to heroes. The blog was started just as blogging as a communication platform was taking off.  I’m not sure if this was the first firefighter blog but it was one of the first.
The traffic numbers have always been low, enough that I could look at the traffic logs and see where each visitor was coming from. Often I’d follow a link from a visitor to his or her area, investigate the referring site and then research the fire service in that area and post a blog on the local fire departments or points of interest.
Enough to keep an ageing retired firefighter occupied and frankly a very fun hobby.
Along the way I have kept up with the gizmo’s, widgets and gadgets that make content richer and more appealing to the eye.  Firefighter Blog has maintained the top search spot on Google, Yahoo and MSN Search for years now, not because the content is absolutely material but because of optimization techniques learned from running my search marketing business.
Some things I have learned recently have changed the way I view this blog a little. I have learned in order to get “hits” I have to blog an event just as it happens. Google loves fresh blog content.  I have seen some of the posts from this blog on Google Blog Search within minutes of publishing. Google sends 90%  of the traffic here. Yahoo! a little, ASK.com less than 1%, the rest is from referring sites that link to one of the posts. An example is a game forum site called DarkFall Online. They linked to one of the Greek Fires satellite posts and as a result sent hundreds of visitors here.  Who knew, as much as my kids play online games I had never heard of that one.Another is a news forum in Turkey that also referred hundreds of unique visitors.
An ego boost and possibly a glimpse of the future for this blog was when CNN.com and Washington Post referrals showed up on the logs. Both sites linked to Firefighter Blog from their front news pages for the keywords “Greek fires” or “Greece”.
Firefighter Blog was listed under “Greece Blogs.” (trust me it’s there) The Washington Post was one of the first newspapers to give blogs a space and voice on their online pages.  The New York Times has dabbled in the practice as well. Old media in general has been slow to embrace blogs as a resource but we see this changing.
Event blogging by locals is here.
Efforts by local blog coverage of the Angora Fire in Lake Tahoe and the Zaca Fire near Santa Barbara provide blueprints for event blogging. Local blogging of the Castle Rock Fire near Sun Valley Idaho (Sun Valley Online) is another superb example.
Numbers. The Angora Fire brought 4,500 visitors on the second day of the fire. Google picked up one of my posts with a fire map.The Zaca Fire brought under 1,000 visitors a day on average.The Greek Fires brought 9,000 clicks the second day of the fires.  Google decided my satellite maps were worthy. Google also indexed Greek fires content from Firefighter Blog (mostly satellite images) in every European Google search engine.
In contrast to U.S. fires and local blog coverage there is very little blog coverage from Greece and what can be found has little to do with fires and much to do with blasting the government.
So where does the blog go from here? As far as making money from the little ads sprinkled here and there forget it, I disabled all ads.  The day of the 9k visits one person clicked an ad and I netted .34 cents, a waste of space.Ads may be displayed here on a CPM basis. The demo’s excite some brands so I may sell a banner here and there in the future.  The blog was never intended as a money maker but I’d like to be able to cover my Direct TV Football Sunday Ticket and a pizza or two from this blog.
I’ll keep plugging on blogging larger incidents and firefighting items that interest me. If the site returns to the days of 5 to 30 visitors a day I’m OK with that.In the meantime if anyone needs an incident blogger for their publication(s) drop me a line.
Mikeswebmail @ Gmail dot Com




Posted by Mike
on 08/30/2007 •
		Filed under: fire bloggers



Zaca Incident Firefighter Suffers Serious Leg Injury
Comments Off






The Zaca Fire, or Zaca Two Fire as it is being referred to is better than 95% contained but still incurring damage. The Santa Barbara Daily Sound covers the story of injured 20 year old Kern County Firefighter John Lee;
“A firefighter from Kern County sustained serious injuries after falling 30 feet while working on containment lines for the Zaca Fire in the Sisquoc River area on Sunday, fire officials said.Josh Lee, 20, suffered an open compound fracture of his lower left leg, as well as other minor fractures, County Fire Spokesman Eli Iskow said.“We hoisted him out with County Air Support Helicopter 309 with a rescue hoist and a county fire paramedic on board,” Iskow said. “He was flown to Cottage Hospital and he had his tibia pinned [Sunday] night.”Lee, a first-year crew member with Democrat Crew 87 from Kern County, will remain under observation and treatment for his other injuries for the next few days, officials said.”
View Larger Map




Posted by Mike
on 08/30/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Firefighter Injuries, Zaca Fire



Castle Rock Wildland Fire Remains a Threat
Comments Off






Take a look at the Castle Rock Fire perimeter map below and notice the unsecured line surrounding the Upper Board Ranch. I can’t find any information on how many structures are in that area. Structure protection engines and crews may be doing battle before it’s over.  Some Ketchum area neighborhoods are being protected by private crews provided by AIG Insurance Co.
Fire Map from Inciweb
Here is a great  Sun Valley Idaho area blog that offers a fantastic post with a fire timeline and photos.




Posted by Mike
on 08/29/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Castle Rock Fire



Castle Rock Fire ICP Tour…….What???
Comments Off






Wait, you say the Castle Rock Wildfire Incident Command would host a tour of the command post?  Apparently Yes!
The event was postponed until the weekend.
Here is the notification that also includes the original text announcing the grand tour plans;
Can you believe this?
“Tonight’s Castle Rock Command Post tour canceled 
Tours will be staged this weekend
The Castle Rock Incident Command Post tour scheduled for tonight, Wednesday, August 29 has been canceled.The public is invited to tour the Command Post located near River Run on Saturday, September 1 and Sunday, September 2. Tours will be conducted at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., fire activity permitting.Participants should meet at the Incident Command Post located at Highway 75 and Serenade Lane south of Ketchum. Follow the signs to the parking area and meeting location.
All tours will take 60 to 90 minutes. Please wear comfortable shoes and be ready to walk on uneven surfaces. For more information, please call 622-7384.”
Recall the thunderous applause that greeted Castle Rock Fire Commander Jeanne Pincha-Tulley as she entered the hall at a fire information meeting just the other day. Maybe this was a natural extension of the shared love, reciprocation for the heroesque welcome. You know, “come on by the camp, bring the kids and cameras, but oh wait, be sure to wear comfortable shoes and bring your appetite”!

Breaking: Firefighter Blog has been tipped to the probable menu for the Tour and Reception!
Menu selections to may offer a simple selection of appetizers including;
Pate` and Cracker Assortment Duck Liver, Forest Mushroom and French Truffle Pates are featured with a complete array of Stone Creek Hearty Rye, Toasted Sesame, and Whole Grain Crackers.
Prosciutto Wrapped Melon Wedges If there were two ingredients that were made for each other these are them, fresh melon wedges are wrapped with thinly sliced imported Italian prosciutto ham.
White Boudin with Honey Creole Mustard Dip Fresh boudin sausage is grilled, then sliced into balls and served with our honey creole mustard dip!
Featured dish!
Stuffed Grape Leaves The Greeks yell, Opah! When they are excited and having a good time. (which they are not right now sadly)Our stuffed grape leaves are made with currants,dill weed and pine nuts.Then drizzled with olive oil and fresh lemon juice. Opah! Opah!Follow this down with a sampling of regional wines from Idaho’s own Snake River wine region.
*A moment of silence followed with a tip of our wine glasses to the East aimed at our friends in Greece who actually had homes and villages burned to the ground, will be observed before the guided portion of the tour begins.
A word of caution: Please do not bother the people you see walking around with dirt and ash on their faces, hands, cloths and uncomfortable boots. We apologize in advance for their appearance. We tried to arrange this tour at a time when camp is at its quietest (when we like it best) but this is a working camp and interruptions by the camp inhabitants should be expected. Again our apologies.

I bit my tongue hard the other day for a number of reasons and still am. Many of you who read this blog certainly have your own opinions on the underlying issues here. I don’t need to spell them out.





Posted by Mike
on 08/29/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Castle Rock Fire



Greek Fires Video View
2 comments






The human side of this Greek national tragedy may be the story of 2007.  There is stressed emotion visible in every image from stills to video. The first video is raw footage from the fire front in Grilos. The second is a montage to music and the final video news based from yesterday 8/27.
(Warning: If you like bunny rabbits don’t watch this video.)
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPyoQrxrCxY]
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sswWktvmAZM]
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LNMHXkmQho]




Posted by Mike
on 08/28/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Greek Fires Satellite Images, Acreage 450k
Comments Off






64 confirmed dead, Over 450,000 acres scorched
Images from NASA-MODIS Rapidfire (below) seem to show less fire activity today than yesterday. This view only shows Southern Greece.  Probably the best spot on the web to get world news round up of the tragedy is Google News. The best coverage of the Greek fires is coming from Europe, Asia, Canada and Australian news agencies.
From EUBusiness “(BRUSSELS) –  Fires in Greece which have killed more than 60 people ravaged some 184,000 hectares of land late last week, according to data released Tuesday by the European Union’s fire information service.
The damage, recorded from August 24 to 26, brought the total amount of land burnt in fire-prone Greece this year to 268,834 hectares (672,085 acres), the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS) said.
The European Commission said EFFIS data also showed that weather conditions in the southern peninsula of Peloponnese, the area worst hit since the fires started on Friday, were likely to improve in coming days….”
Image today August 28

Image from August 27





Posted by Mike
on 08/28/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Castle Rock Fire Lays Siege On Ketchum Idaho
Comments Off






UPDATE 8/28: Ketchum no longer threatend.Incident Commander Jeanne Pincha-Tully  is applauded wildly by appreciative residents of upscale Sun Valley during a community briefing. (biting my tongue hard right now)
Image and fire data from Inciweb.org
“The 41,901 acre Castle Rock fire is now 31 percent contained. Resources fighting this fire include 1,630 firefighters, 11 helicopters, 5 bulldozers, 45 hand crews and 110 engines. No lives or structures have been lost to this point.
The weather forecast today calls for partly cloudy skies, with slightly decreased temperatures, decreased wind speeds, and higher humidity. Variable winds in the morning will shift to the southwest in the afternoon. Winds will gust to 20 mph.”
Significant events yesterday;“The cold front that passed over the fire yesterday produced winds that channeled with the topography and caused the fire to make a significant run towards the east and north, immediately threatening 3 structures in the Greenhorn area. With structure protection already in place, and with the support of air resources, crews protected the structures with no damage. The fire reached the Seattle Lodge and Bald Mountain communications site with two different flame fronts. With structure protection already in place and with the support of air resources, the structures were protected with no fire damage. Crews contained a spot fire in the area of Hulen Meadows. The fire slopped over in the area of Norton Lake; crews continue to try and gain control. The slop over on the western perimeter was contained as crews continue to construct direct line north and south from Boyle Mountain.”
With two fronts affected by the predicted wind shift today will be a challenge for the incident command team headed by Jeanne Pincha-Tulley.





Posted by Mike
on 08/27/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Castle Rock Fire



Greek Fires Pictures via Video Caps
Comments Off






With round the clock coverage of the national disaster some viewers in Greece are taking to the web to catalog the event. Have a look at this Flickr page for some amazing video captures including some that show suspected arsonists caught in the act.






Posted by Mike
on 08/27/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Satellite Images Of Fires In Greece
3 comments






Satellite images from NASA-Modis Rapidfire indicate the fires in Southern Greece may be weakening.
Compare the images from August 26 to the image below.(Click to enlarge)
Image from August 25, 2007






Posted by Mike
on 08/27/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Budget Contrasts California vs. Idaho
1 comment






The Zaca Fire to date has consumed 240,000 acres and has cost taxpayers $100 million.
The Cascade Complex Fire has eaten 225,000 acres at a cost of $35 million.
Both fires are more than one month old with containment dates extending into September.
Both fires were mainly confined to Federal lands.  Zaca in the Los Padres National Forest, San Rafael Wilderness and Dick Smith Wilderness, while the Cascade Complex burned Boise National Forest, Payette and Salmon-Challis National Forests.
At one point there were 3,200 firefighter and support personnel on the Zaca Fire.  Total personnel on the Cascade Complex never exceeded 1,200.
Forty firefighters have been injured to date on the Zaca Fire while nine firefighter injuries have been reported on the Cascade Complex Fire.
If Fed heads ever get around to investigating this disparity their discussions might center on decisions made once the Zaca Fire entered the San Rafael Wilderness.
The results of those decisions was enormous, not the least of which nearly the whole of two national wilderness areas burned.




Posted by Mike
on 08/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Cascade Complex, Zaca Fire



Greek Fires Terror Related?
5 comments






A sensational headline but a very real subject.  The quote below is taken from  Atlas Shrugs. 
“The police, the armed forces and the Greek antiterrorism authorities have found arson devices in Greek forest areas which are triggered by mobile phones.  Satellite images reveal that within a space of a single hour, many fires appeared in different locations of Greece. The plan was to make the fire brigade forces overstretch.  
It is certainly a terrorist attack. George Karatzaferis, the leader of the right wing party, LAOS, called the day, ‘Greece’s 9/11’.


Who did it is anyone’s guess. It could be Greek anarchists or radical groups of Greece’s northern neighbours which have claims on northern Greece. We should never forget that there will be general elections in Greece soon. Who might have an interest from an image of a weak and overstretched state mechanism?”
First indications are a 65 year old man and a couple of juveniles were arrested for setting a couple of the 100 fires were set.  As the Greece Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis was quoted saying:
“So many fires breaking out simultaneously in so many parts of the country cannot  be a coincidence”

I hope Homeland Security sends a team over to review what the Greek arson investigations reveal. California and much of the U.S. West is vulnerable to organized arson by determined terrorists. Does anyone know if we have a fire-terror response plan on the State or community level?
Some food for thought from idle chat forum from Cyprus.




Posted by Mike
on 08/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires, terror related



Greece Wildfires Assault Ancient Olympia
Comments Off






U.S. news coverage of this real life Greek tragedy has been stimulated now that the fires threaten the ancient ruins of Olympia.  So far 51 people, including 3 firefighters have died in the blazes.Olympia is home to 11,000 people, the historic ruins will survive any fire.
From PR-Inside.de“The worst blazes _ 42 major fronts _ were concentrated in the southern mountains of the Peloponnese and on the island of Evia, north of Athens. Arson has been blamed in several cases, and seven people have been detained on suspicion of causing fires.Another ancient site was under threat, with flames approaching the Temple of Apollo Epikourios, a 2,500-year-old monument near the town of Andritsaina in the southwestern Peloponnese, said the town’s mayor, Tryphon Athanassopoulos. The blaze was about three kilometers (less than 2 miles) away.«We are trying to save the Temple of Apollo, as well as  Andritsaina itself,» he told Greek television.A separate blaze had abated Sunday in Kalyvia, an area between Athens and the ancient site of Sounion to the south, while 42 fires in various parts of the country had been brought under control.Nearly 1,000 soldiers, backed by military helicopters, reinforced firefighters stretched to the limit by Greece’s worst summer of wildfires.”
And this;“The government, which has declared a nationwide state of emergency, announced Sunday it would offer up to ¤10,000 (US$13,615) to people who lost relatives or property.”
This is the best image I could get from NASA’s Rapidfire/Aeronet dated today 8/26.
This reminds me of the Kelowna B.C. fire of 2004 where the fire burned to the water.
The image above is a part of Kelowna going up in flames.





Posted by Mike
on 08/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Satellite Images of Greek Wildfires
8 comments







UPDATE! Newer Satellite Images Here!
Map and Image from NOAA/OSEI Site
Note the fires burning in Albania and Italy

August 24, 2007
The image below (taken 8/25) is from a site that is normally home to an Athens Webcam. The fires have gripped the nation of Greece as the death toll surpasses 60. A family friend who pays for Greek TV feeds tells me the station is carrying 24 hour coverage of the fires.
From the news wires and related blogs:
“And new fronts emerged. Dozens of fresh fires broke out across the country — including some blamed on arson — with the worse infernos concentrated in the mountains of southern Greece.
By sea and by land, authorities evacuated hundreds of people trapped by the flames.
An extra 500 soldiers were to join firefighters on Sunday, the fire department said. At least 12 countries also pledged reinforcements, including firefighting aircraft and crews.
Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis said arson was suspected in some of the blazes.
“So many fires breaking out simultaneously in so many parts of the country cannot be a coincidence,” Karamanlis said in a nationally televised address. “The state will do everything it can to find those responsible and punish them.”
A 65-year-old man was arrested and charged with arson and multiple counts of homicide in a fire that killed six people in Areopolis, a town in the southern Peloponnese, said fire department spokesman Nikos Diamandis. Separately, two youths were arrested on suspicion of arson in the northern Greek city of Kavala, he said. Their parents were also to face charges, he said…More“
Blogosphere search results for Greek Fires


…




Posted by Mike
on 08/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Greek Wildfires



Zaca Fire Busts $100 Million, 83% Containment
Comments Off






Firefighters are still working hard on the Zaca Fire, the second largest wildfire in California history. As the fire “winds down” weather continues to challenge ground and air crews.Below is a wind prediction chart that shows unfavorable winds developing over the next 24 hours.

Image/Chart SCWHC

The fire perimeter map shows uncovered fire line on two fronts.

(Map from Inciweb)

Incident Statistics Inciweb.
Saturday, August 25, 2007 8:00 AM


Fire Status
Acres Burned: 238,968 acres
Acreage Increase (last 12 hours): 2732 acres
Fireline to Build: 6 miles
Date Started: July 4, 2007 at 10:53 am
Percent Contained: 83 percent
Expected Containment: September 7, 2007
Injuries: 40
Structures Threatened: 66
Structures Destroyed: 1 outbuilding
Cost to date: $101 million dollars






Posted by Mike
on 08/25/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Zaca Fire, Zaca Fire Map



170 Fires Devastate Peloponnese Region Of Greece
Comments Off






Free Republic describes the horror in the town of Zahero:“Greek emergency workers continue to find the charred bodies of people burned to death by forest fires that are raging in the south of the country. Officials raised the death toll from the fires over the past two days to 44. 
Searches of burnt cars, houses and fields were still turning up the remains of those who could not escape. 
The Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, called the situation “an unspeakable tragedy” and the government appealed to the EU for help.  Greek newspapers are calling the southern Peloponnese region a “crematorium”, says the BBC’s Malcolm Brabant in Athens.The fires have been moving so fast that people have been cut off before they could escape. With emergency services overstretched, desperate residents and local officials called television and radio stations to appeal for help.Some of the worst fires are concentrated along an 80km (50 mile) stretch on the west coast of the Peloponnese to Mani in the very south of the peninsula. But others are burning across the country. 
Two new fires broke out near Athens, forcing a road between the city and its airport to be closed 
A monastery and homes were evacuated as flames closed in on the capital.Arson was suspected in several cases, with 20 new fires starting during the night, a fire department spokesman saidAll top football matches were postponed on the opening weekend of the season 
France responded to Greece’s appeal for help, sending two water-dropping planes, which were scheduled to arrive on Saturday afternoon, AFP reported Family foundAt least nine people are reported to have burnt to death in their cars as they attempted to flee the flames near the town of Zahero, west of the Peloponnese.The Associated Press reported that a car had crashed into a fire engine, causing a traffic jam from which people could not escape as the flames advanced. 
Zahero seemed to be the centre of the disaster. Fire crews said they had found at least 30 bodies in villages near the town, as they searched burned out cars and houses. “It’s a tragedy,” an eyewitness told Greek television. “I can see the burnt bodies of a mother holding her child in her arms. Further away there are more bodies. It’s terrible.” 
Fire officials confirmed that a mother and her four children had perished, as had three firefighters. 
A local prefect close to the scene described it as horrific.“The situation is extremely dire… The speed with which this fire has been spreading is astonishing,” said the mayor of Zahero, Pantazis Chronopoulos.Six deaths were confirmed in the seaside town of Areopolis in the Mani region of Greece’s deep south. Hotels and several villages have been evacuated, fire officials said….”
Greece suffered from multiple wildfires in late July and were aided at that time by Russian firefighting aircraft and crews. In the video below the reporter describes how the Russian crews would help and that the crews would be stationed in Greece throughout the fire season.  Presumably they are on scene now.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EVArf1NnJRg]  

The BBC uploaded a remarkable video of the Fires in Greece on YouTube but provided no embed ability.




Posted by Mike
on 08/25/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season



Wildfires Kill 44 In Greece, Including 3 Firefighters
Comments Off






View Larger Map
Reuters via Yahoo! news:“Fire brigades were battling 87 forest fires around the country on Saturday, in “western Greece, the Peloponnese, the island of Evia and the Attica (Athens) region,” fire department spokesman Ioannis Stamoulis said. 
Soaring temperatures, hot winds, drought and arson have been blamed for the unusual number of forest fires this summer.
Worst hit was the Peloponnese, where dozens of villages have been evacuated while others remain cut off by the flames. Fires in the region stretched some 160 km (100 miles) from the Ionian Sea in the west to Mani in the peninsula’s most southern part.
“My village is burning,” a resident from Travlos in the Ilia region told Greek television. “There are about 500 people here. We have gathered water in buckets and are waiting for the flames to approach. There is nothing else we can do…..”
“…….I can hear the flames outside my door. There is no water anywhere, there is no help. We are alone,” a resident from the village of Adritsaina told a Greek TV station by mobile phone. 
 Greece declared a state of emergency in the provinces of Lakonia, Messinia and Ilia – where electricity and phones were largely cut off – and called for urgent help from its European Union partners. 
 European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he was “saddened by the tragic loss of human lives” and he hoped EU partners would “provide all the material support Greece needs in this moment of distress.” 
 Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyanni said France was sending 4 Canadair planes, due on Saturday, and also 60 firefighters. 
 Germany had offered three helicopters and Norway one plane under a joint European firefighting program.”




Posted by Mike
on 08/25/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Google Maps



80 Fire Initial Attack Requests DC-10 Tanker, Denied
4 comments






I came across an interesting item on the “Initial Attack” forum thread on WildlandFire.com.
Members reported a new fire off Interstate 80 near the summit dubbed the “80 Fire.”
As you follow the thread it is apparent the Incident Commander upon size up requested a “heavy” air tanker from dispatch. For whatever reason the request was denied. Posters believe the aircraft requested is Tanker 910 most recently on assignment on the Zaca Fire in Santa Barbara. The fire, reportedly now at under 100 acres and holding was initially deemed a threat to a housing development in Truckee, 1/2 mile ahead of the fire.
Not second guessing dispatch here, in fact the information is second hand and it would not be fair to say the IC actually requested the DC-10 Supertanker (T-910).  In any case this says the following;

Battalion level fire officers know the tanker exists and what it is capable of.
There is no turning back on the project after the current contract ends.
Opinion from the field will put pressure on Fed tightwads who killed the 747 Supertanker.
Firefighters will be looking overhead for the “heavy” on incidents in the future.

I predict a day when there will be a half dozen DC-10 or 747 tanker conversions stationed around the Western States in years to come. There is no turning back.
More coverage on the “80 Fire” here.




Posted by Mike
on 08/23/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, DC-10 Supertanker, Tanker 910



Ikhana, NASA's Image Drone Aids Firefighters
1 comment






Ikhana is the name of NASA’a unmanned aircraft put in use last week on the Zaca Fire.
From NASA;
“A Predator B unmanned aircraft system has joined the inventory of research aircraft at NASA’s Dryden Flight Research Center, Edwards, Calif. Built by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. of San Diego, NASA took possession of the aircraft during the fall of 2006. The aircraft has been given the Choctaw Nation name “Ikhana”(pronounced ee-kah-nah), which means intelligent.
Designed for long-endurance, high-altitude flight, Ikhana will be flown primarily on Earth science missions under the Earth Science Capability Demonstrations project at NASA Dryden. It will also be used for advanced aircraft systems research and technology development.”
Images from NASA (links above and below)
NASA issued this press release and within claim;
““The images from the flight demonstrated that this technology has a future in helping us fight wild land fires,” stated Zaca Incident Commander Mike Dietrich. “We could see little on the ground since the fire was generating a lot of smoke and burning in a very remote and inaccessible area. This technology captured images through the smoke and provided real time information on what the fire was doing,” said Dietrich. NASA’s Ikhana, a Predator B remotely piloted aircraft adapted for civil missions, is flying its first operational effort during a series of four or five missions over the western states. Its sensor payload is collecting detailed thermal-infrared imagery of wildfires and is demonstrating the ability of unmanned aircraft systems to collect data continuously for 12 to 24 hours. The second flight in the series, a mission that will take Ikhana over Idaho and last an estimated 20 hours, is scheduled for Thursday, Aug. 23.”It honestly beats me how Ikhana can house a camera any better than a human piloted aircraft. At least with a drone no pilot is in danger.




Posted by Mike
on 08/22/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, firefighting technology, Zaca Fire



Zaca Commander Honored At "Outgoing" Reception
Comments Off






Legendary comedian Jonathan Winters, toasted outgoing Zaca Fire Commander Bill Molumby  and his (timed out) 40 man team at an “outgoing reception” on the rooftop of the Santa Barbara’s Hotel Adalucia.
Praise was heaped on the team by the grateful Monetcito residents in attendence.
“You are very special people and we appreciate you and what you have done for us here in Santa Barbara,” Winters said in a serious tone. And then, with his perfect comedic timing, Winters changed the mood. As he was presented with a “Team Two” cap, and honored as the first-ever celebrity Team Two honorary member, he deadpanned how he thought that appreciation might grow.  
“I’ve been thinking of running for governor of California,” he said. “I’d win, you know, because I know how to pronounce ‘California.’” The audience roared with laughter and, as Winters departed, he left behind a room full of mutual admiration and genuine smiles — perfect souvenirs of our community’s appreciation!”




Posted by Mike
on 08/22/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Zaca Fire



Zaca Incident Winding Down
Comments Off






Text within the Zaca Fire incident 209 form this morning.
“Live Oak Zone: The fire is expected to have little active fire spread in all areas except unburned islands. Small pockets of heat expected to continue smoldering within the upper Caliente drainage. Active fire spread in the unburned islands in Santa Cruz drainage. Richardson Zone: West and North down Sisquoc River toward Sierra Madre Ridge. North to Dry Canyon, East to Hwy 33.
Live Oak Zone: Transferring out of unified command as the threat to Santa Barbara County has been mitigated. The fire has not progressed on the county jurisdiction and will be managed by the USFS. Richardson Zone: Block 16: Total zone mileage calculated at 70.1 miles. Contained zone mileage = 35.8 miles. A Precautionary Evacuation Order is in place for the area west of Hwy 33 from the Santa Barbara/Ventura Co. line south to Pine Mountain Inn. Road Closure in effect on Hwy 33; Closed to all traffic from Pine Mountain Summit to Ozena. All other areas are open to residents.”
Estimated Coststo Date           $90,235,873 Size/AreaInvolved         222,907 ACRESExpected ContainmentDate: 09/07/2007That containment date will be updated soon. Costs will exceed $100 million or more as rehabilitation costs are factored in over the coming months. 




Posted by Mike
on 08/22/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Zaca Fire



Hwy33 Not Breached, Firefighters Prevail
Comments Off






This thing is about over folks. You have to credit the incident management teams, superb piloting, skilled firing teams and brave hand and engine crews.  When the chips are finally counted there will be some great stories to tell about the battle of Hwy 33 on the night of August 20.
From Santa Barbara County Fire- Zaca Fire update.
“Monday the existing fire line held even though unfavorable winds caused discontinuation of back firing operations. Firefighters are continuing to hold the line at the Monte Arido Fuel Break and the Pendola Jeepway. The fire was smoldering and creeping within the Caliente drainage with little active fire spread yesterday and fortunately is expected to progress very little. Unburned islands of fuel continue to burnout in several of the drainages. In the Richardson Zone on Monday strong winds, high temperatures, and extremely low humidity, in combination with exceptionally dry, heavy fuels in alignment with the winds and slopes again produced intense fire behavior. Aggressive suppression action with air tankers, helicopters and ground forces is ongoing along Hwy 33. Fire fighters have completed their backfiring operations from the Pine Mountain Summit North to Ozena….”
Updated statistics from Inciweb.
This is pretty much the way the final Zaca Fire perimeter will look.(Click to expand)
Acres Burned: 220,863 acres
Acreage Increase (last 12 hours): 5,171 acres
Date Started: July 4, 2007 at 10:53 am
Percent Contained: 77 percent
Expected Containment: September 7, 2007
Injuries: 39
Crews: 72
Engines: 139
Helicopters: 20 
Air Tankers: 8 
Air Attack: 3
Dozers: 55
Water Tenders: 80
Total Personnel Assigned: 3,162
Cost to Date: $ 87.5 million
Live Oak Zone: The fire is in a smoldering condition in Agua Caliente Canyon. A Direct attack with Crews and Dozers are continuing. Richardson Zone: A Precautionary Evacuation Order is in place for the area west of Hwy 33 from the Santa Barbara/Ventura Co. line south to Pine Mountain Inn. Road Closure in effect on Hwy 33; Closed to all traffic from Pine Mountain Summit to Ozena. All other areas are open to residents.



Current Wind Conditions
8 (g-16) mph NE 



  




Posted by Mike
on 08/21/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Zaca Fire, Zaca Fire Map



Is Zaca Monster Finally Dying?
Comments Off






Wind projection graphs from SCWHC  indicate wind will be favorable for firefighters and fire strategists. There will be 20 MPH winds blowing from the East and North at 2:00 pm that should push the fire away from Hwy 33 and back into the burn.
Later in the evening the winds flatten out providing firefighters a chance to firm existing lines.  Provided the fire did not breach Hwy 33 overnight this wind forecast means the Eastern advance of the fire should be over.
The satellite loops last evening showed heavy smoke drift to the East and it will be interesting to read if firefighters had to chase spots. There is nothing to be found on Google News or Google Blog search and no such information has come from the incident command.
If Hwy 33 lines held overnight this fire is very close to done.

Zaca Fire — Lat: 34° 46´ 45″  Long: 120° 5´ 24″
(Left Center of Images)






Posted by Mike
on 08/21/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Zaca Fire, Zaca Fire Maps



Tanker 910 Video From Zaca Fire Lines
Comments Off






Caught this on YouTube just now. If the firefighter who captured this amazing video wants to follow it with a story I would love to publish it here.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cm1w9muZkQw]
Tanker 910, (T-910) Wikipedia page.




Posted by Mike
on 08/21/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, T-910, Tanker 910, Zaca Fire

 

Next »



 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 1 day ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 2 days ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 2 days ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 1 week ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video
Willie Wines Jr. 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



State Fire News Roundup…

September 11th: One Victim Identified in Triple Fatal MVA
September 9th: Hundreds Attend 9/11… (more)




Zen Zone #30…

When you are challenged with a problem, it always helps to maintain perspective.… (more)




Report: Driver Error Blamed For Missouri…

Three firefighters in the truck were injured.… (more)




9/11 Commemoration … Firegeezer is…

The average citizen doesn't comprehend the cohesiveness that firefighters and police officers have… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















