Buchanan  continues attacks on Sotomayor | Media Matters for America






About us


Login


Get email updates











Login












Home
Research
Clips
Blog
Studios
myMediaMatters




Search Options

























Print
Email






Buchanan  continues attacks on Sotomayor
June 03, 2009  8:39 pm ET



















Please upgrade your flash player. The video for this item requires a newer version of Flash Player. If you are unable to install flash you can download a QuickTime version of the video.
        



EMBED


Embed this video:






SUMMARY: Pat Buchanan claimed that Sonia Sotomayor has a "long record" of "basically  believing that it's OK to discriminate against white males as long as you're  advancing people of color who have been held back in her judgment." But the  New York Times article Buchanan  cited as evidence does not support Buchanan's claim. 
12 Comments



On the June 2 edition 
of Hardball, MSNBC political 
analyst Pat Buchanan, who has previously asserted Supreme Court nominee Sonia 
Sotomayor is an "affirmative 
action pick" who "practices race-based justice," "believe[s] 
in reverse discrimination against white males," and is "an 
anti-white, liberal judicial activist," purported to "lay out 
the record of Judge Sotomayor, especially on the issue of race-based justice, 
her long record, as reported in The New York Times, all the way back to 
Princeton and Yale, basically believing that it's OK to discriminate against 
white males as long as you're advancing people of color who have been held back 
in her judgment." In fact, the May 29 Times article 
Buchanan was apparently referencing did not in any way report or establish that 
Sotomayor's record supports the conclusion that she "believe[s] that it's OK to 
discriminate against white males." 
Moreover, as Media Matters for America has previously 
noted, Supreme Court litigator Tom 
Goldstein wrote in a May 29 SCOTUSblog post that after reviewing 96 race-related 
cases she decided on the court of appeals, "it seems absurd to say that Judge 
Sotomayor allows race to infect her decision 
making."
Goldstein 
wrote:

I've now 
completed the study of every one of Judge Sotomayor's race-related cases that I 
mention in the post below. I'll write more in the morning about particular 
cases, but here is what the data shows in sum:
Other 
than Ricci, Judge Sotomayor has 
decided 96 race-related cases while on the court of appeals. 

Of the 96 
cases, Judge Sotomayor and the panel rejected the claim of discrimination 
roughly 78 times and agreed with the claim of discrimination 10 times; the 
remaining 8 involved other kinds of claims or dispositions. Of the 10 cases 
favoring claims of discrimination, 9 were unanimous. (Many, by the way, were 
procedural victories rather than judgments that discrimination had occurred.) Of 
those 9, in 7, the unanimous panel included at least one Republican-appointed 
judge. In the one divided panel opinion, the dissent's point dealt only with the 
technical question of whether the criminal defendant in that case had forfeited 
his challenge to the jury selection in his case. So Judge Sotomayor rejected 
discrimination-related claims by a margin of roughly 8 to 
1.
[...]
In sum, 
in an eleven-year career on the Second Circuit, Judge Sotomayor has participated 
in roughly 100 panel decisions involving questions of race and has disagreed 
with her colleagues in those cases (a fair measure of whether she is an outlier) 
a total of 4 times. Only one case (Gant) in that entire eleven 
years actually involved the question whether race discrimination may have 
occurred. (In another case (Pappas) she dissented to favor 
a white bigot.) She participated in two other panels rejecting district court 
rulings agreeing with race-based jury-selection claims. Given that record, it 
seems absurd to say that Judge Sotomayor allows race to infect her 
decisionmaking.

During the Hardball segment, Buchanan went on to cite 
Sotomayor's reaction when she was a law student -- as reported by the May 29 
Times article -- to Regents of the University of California v. 
Bakke as evidence of her "long record" of "believing that it's OK to 
discriminate against white males," stating: "For example, the Allan Bakke case, 
1978. White medical school guy got higher grades than almost every single 
minority, kept out because of his race. She was apoplectic, or alarmed, it was 
said, when that court decision came down throwing out the quotas." (The Times reported that Sotomayor "shared the 
alarm" of others in a group of Latin, Asian, and Native American students at Yale 
Law School at the decision -- not that she was "apoplectic.") However, 
Sotomayor's reported "alarm" was not out of mainstream legal opinion at the 
time, given that four justices dissented from the court's ruling that the University of California at Davis' medical school admission program violated the Constitution. 
Additionally, on the June 3 edition of MSNBC 
Live, ThinkProgress.org legal research analyst Ian 
Millhiser responded to Buchanan's repeated 
invocation of Sotomayor's reaction as a law student, 
saying: "I don't think that 
Bakke much matters. This came along well before Judge Sotomayor became a judge, 
and when you look at her record, you see that this is a judge who understands 
that she has to follow the law regardless of what is popular."
From the June 2 
edition of MSNBC's Hardball with Chris 
Matthews:

CHRIS 
MATTHEWS (host): We're back in time for the "Politics Fix" with MSNBC political 
analysts Pat Buchanan and Lawrence O'Donnell. Pat, I was somewhat unsatisfied 
with our earlier guests at the beginning of this show, because I think people on 
the right want a real bruising battle over this Sotomayor nomination. They don't 
want it to go smoothly. They want a lot of friction and a lot of heat. What do 
you think?
BUCHANAN: 
I don't know if it's friction or heat. They certainly do want a long battle, 
Chris, I think, and to lay out the record of Judge Sotomayor, especially on the 
issue of race-based justice, her long record, as reported in The New York Times, all the way back to 
Princeton and Yale, basically believing that it's OK to discriminate against 
white males as long as you're advancing people of color who have been held back 
in her judgment.
For 
example, the Allan Bakke case, 1978. White medical school guy got higher grades 
than almost every single minority, kept out because of his race. She was 
apoplectic, or alarmed, it was said, when that court decision came down throwing 
out the quotas.
Chris, 
we've got have to have this out. I agree with [Sen.] John Cornyn [R-TX]. This ought to be laid on the table, but it ought to be laid out case by case -- what do 
you believe? Is this what we want on the court? Stop the 
name-calling.
MATTHEWS: 
OK, let me ask you, Lawrence: Do you think that she 
will lose if the issue becomes the Ricky case up in -- Ricci case, rather, up in 
New Haven, where 
the firefighters -- the white firefighters did well on the test, had the test 
thrown out because no African-American did well in it. Do you think that's a 
good issue for Democrats or a bad one?
O'DONNELL: Well, there's no way she's going to lose on the basis of that case. She was following 
settled law. Remember, it was the city of New Haven. She was finding for the city of 
New Haven. 
Meaning, she was finding in favor of a local government making its own local 
governing decision, which is something that Pat and his side of the world always 
championed until it became convenient to yell about this particular case. And so 
--
MATTHEWS: 
But what about they raised the principle? Suppose the guys who don't like her on 
the committee say, what about the principle? Should law be used to offset the 
advantages of whites, even if it's about results, not 
process?
O'DONNELL: Look, if 
the Supreme Court confirmation vote is simply on the basis of affirmative 
action, she's going to win, and she's going to win with 60 votes or more. So 
affirmative action is not a controversial thing. Rush Limbaugh and Pat think it 
is. There are still some old white men out there who think affirmative action is 
an extremely contentious thing in this country when, in fact, it 
isn't.
BUCHANAN: 
Hey, Chris -- Chris, racial --
MATTHEWS: 
Pat, have you got a nail in -- have you nailed her yet, Pat? Have you found 
something on her that you think will keep her number down below 
70?
BUCHANAN: 
Yeah, I think she'll -- I have to find it hard to believe any Republican is 
going to vote for her. But let me say this --
MATTHEWS: 
Any Republican? There's 40 of them.
BUCHANAN: 
I find it hard to see a Republican who will vote for her who will ever be 
considered for national office, I should say. Listen, race preferences were 
rejected overwhelming majorities in the state of California, in the state Michigan, in the state of Washington, as well as Nebraska. I think here's a case, Chris -- she 
tried to overturn a law in New 
York state which prohibits felons from being allowed to 
vote who are in the penitentiary. She said because there are so many Hispanics, 
so many African-Americans in the penitentiary, this law has a disparate impact 
on minorities, and therefore, under the Voting Rights Act of Congress, they have 
to be given the right to vote.
This is 
insanity, and that's what this woman believes in. It's her whole career. Read 
David Kilpatrick in the New York Post Saturday. It's laid 
out.
O'DONNELL: Pat, why 
did she --
MATTHEWS: 
Lawrence, I 
thought denial of voting rights to felons was common law. I thought that was a 
common law practice going back many hundreds of 
years.
O'DONNELL: Why did she 
-- why did she find against the black worker in a hospital in Long Island who thought she was discriminated against? She 
found against the black plaintiff in that case. So, Pat, there's -- she's got 
thousands of cases here. You can harp all day long about your horrors in the 
face of affirmative action, and all the discrimination you and your family have 
suffered over the years from the time you were slaveholders 
here.



							— S.P.
						


















Expand All
Expand 1st Level
Collapse All



 


 
						by Dem02020 
						(June 03, 2009  8:49 pm ET)
					
4
 




I don't ever hear or see this guy buchanan, outside of these web pages at Media Matters, but of late and in these pages, this guy buchanan, regarding the SCOTUS nominee, he seems like a "one trick pony", or else just an obsessed horse's arse, I don't know which... there's a reason why I never see or hear this guy buchanan outside of these web pages, and I just said what that reason is. 


Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by loonz 
						(June 03, 2009 10:38 pm ET)
					
1
 



                    He's just projecting.
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by Appleboy 
						(June 03, 2009 10:45 pm ET)
					
 
 



                    Buchanan is simply an actor whose current role is to bash Sotomayor. This is all about entertainment and ratings. Our media is dead.
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by jataylor 
						(June 03, 2009  9:57 pm ET)
					
 
 



                    I had to watch this video several times due to buchanan getting verbally bitchslapped at the very end. It's so nice to hear someone call him out on the fact that these pundits and commentators are covering up their contempt for seeing a latina woman on the supreme court with charges of reverse racism and bias. If you take two minutes to look at her records, you'll see that she isn't anything like the monster limbaugh, gengrich and others are making her out to be. It's almost shameful.
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by ConservativeFriend 
						(June 03, 2009 10:24 pm ET)
					
 
4



                    Dem02020 - I really don't understand the need to use personal insults.  Keep in mind that when you do so it is a reflection on you, not on your target.

It is also discouraging that you are making commentary on a political forum and do not know who Pat Buchanan is.  He has been a conservative mainstay for a very long time.  He has advised many of the recent Republican presidents.  He is a regular on many political talk shows.  He ran for president 8 years ago.  Yet you do now know who he is.
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by juliajayne1 
						(June 04, 2009 12:31 pm ET)
					
2
 



                    Demo02020 knows very well who Pat Buchanan is. He doesn't see him because like many of us that know better, he doesn't choose to get his news from illegimate, hyperbolic cable shoutfests, the likes of which Buchanan primarily participates in.  

We are all as God made us, and many of us much worse. I would apply that quote to your hero, Buchanan. 
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by Dem02020 
						(June 04, 2009  3:20 pm ET)
					
1
 




And that's true, that in the rather wide and rich spectrum of sources for information about the affairs of government, and about Public Policy or even current events, that if you explore and sample enough of that spectrum and those sources, you eventually conclude that cable television is worse than just an insipid wasteland in this regard, it is misleading destructive malicious and dishonest... 

I can still recall when I first discovered this web site Media Matters for America, it was in the first week they went online (I believe), back in May of 2003 I think (shortly after the IRAQ invasion is how I reference the time), and I was referred by an article in the New York Times (online) that mentioned this thing about 'conservative misinformation' and about a website devoted to monitoring it... 

When I first visited these pages, I had not a clue who any of the people were who were being cited here (like hannity for example, I had never even heard of the guy, let alone heard anything he'd said on the radio or on cable television), yet in that historical context, of the Bush administration ordering U.S. Armed Forces to invade and occupy IRAQ, and wondering what the freak for and where are the many voices of reason that I had been under the impression might be guiding this Nation, in that context, I was amazed and even startled and offended and maybe felt threatened too, by the extraordinary things I saw cited here at Media Matters for America, things in our national media (which were in places I generally didn't look to myself) and on cable television and on the radio... 

In that historical context of a senseless invasion of IRAQ, the media that I saw being monitored in the web pages of a website that the New York Times tipped me off to, it was a revelation... 

Truly, this national media, cable television especially, was now revealed to me, I having already chosen and made my best use of, other better and richer sources of news and National and Public Policy information and commentary... 

A revelation, that altered my view of National Policy in the United States, as I then saw that Policy being partly if not greatly involving noise and misinformation and deceit and distractions and intentional confusions, all of it from a privately owned and controlled and interested corporate media, and much of it on cable television... 

Cable television shows pretending to deal in matters of National and Public Policy, crap that I was blissfully unaware of back then, but think now I am on the leading edge of in understanding and monitoring, here in these web pages of Media Matters for America... 

Which brings me back to where I began above, in that I never watch or listen to media hacks like pat buchanan, outside of the video clips and transcriptions I come across here in these web pages... 

And so that's true, and that's the context of it all (and the context is historical, for the reason of the IRAQ invasion, which I am inclined to think had something to do with the launch of Media Matters), and I'm none the worse informed for visiting this web site... 

Quite the opposite, I now know enough about cable television and hacks like pat buchanan, to save myself the trouble and frustration of suffering them : because why subject yourself to lies and misinformation and distractions and confusions (all of which are true enemies and threats to Democracy and to the formulation of good Policy), why do that when you have professionals who can do the job for you... 

Leaving you and me to make our best use of those better and richer sources of news and information, about the affairs of our government and about National and Public Policy, all of them found these days it seems, on the Internet Wire. 

Praise! 


Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by vhw28672478 
						(June 04, 2009 12:47 pm ET)
					
1
 



                    who cares what he think anyway he is has been
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by Dem02020 
						(June 04, 2009  2:00 pm ET)
					
2
 



                    I know who pat buchanan is. 

That's a strange interpretation, to think because I don't watch or listen to the guy, means I don't know who he is. 

I have two questions : one, what "personal insult" did I use? 

And two, so what? 
                

Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by mikehuck1976 
						(June 06, 2009  2:17 pm ET)
					
1
 



                    Well, Friend, I will be glad to remind everyone who Pat Buchanan is.  He was kicked out off the National Review years ago by Buckley, I believe, for his writings and ravings against Jews.  He was an open and explicit supporter and one of the brains behind the Southern Strategy for the Republican party of Nixon.  

He wrote of Dr. Martin Luther King AFTER his murder that "many believe Dr. King is a fraud, a demagogue, and perhaps worse" and that "others consider him the devil incarnate.  Dr. King is one of the most divisive people in history."  He wrote that to dissuade his boss, Nixon, from meeting with the widow of Dr. King a year after he had been murdered.

He supported the apartheid regime in South Africa.  While defending it he wrote that there is nothing in our Constitution to prevent a white minority from ruling a black majority.  He has been a constant defender of segregated DC - where he and his sister grew up.  He writes glowingly of the way races got along while living separately.  "The Negores has their public schools...and we had ours."

He is also the man who told Nixon to burn the Watergate tapes.  So, clearly, we should take his stance on law and order seriously.

For whatever reason, the Washington media elite find him charming and amusing.  However, the truth is that he is a racist who is scared of black people (and others of color) and scared sh*tless that there may be a day when the white, male power structure is no longer in control of this country.  To allow him to speak about Sotomayor as a racist as if he has any grounds to stand on is pathetic and should be embarassing to any rational journalist.  But, as we know, that ship has sailed.


Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by rwmacdonald2091 
						(June 04, 2009  4:19 am ET)
					
1
 



                    The best thing about Buchanan being on Hardball, is Matthews usually puts on O'Donnell at the same time. It's so refreshing finally to see someone basically call a right wing crackpot for what he really is, a bigoted liar



Reply
Report Abuse


 


 
						by MickD 
						(June 04, 2009  7:37 am ET)
					
1
 



                    He seems to be a scared old man, cranky because his anger has turned into depression. At the end of the day, can MSNBC producers be proud that such an analysis is on their news feed?
                

Reply
Report Abuse
























  





Personalities:
Pat Buchanan
Shows:
Hardball
Networks:
MSNBC
Issues:
Government
The Judiciary
Nominations & Appointments




Phone calls, emails and letters from the public do make a difference.  Remember that to be effective you must be polite, and professional. Express your specific concerns regarding 
		that particular news report or commentary, and indicate what you would like the media outlet to do differently in the future.

MSNBCMr. Phil Griffin,
Senior Vice President, News
NBC Television Network
30 Rockefeller Plz
New York, NY 10112
phil.griffin@nbc.com

Steve Capus,
President, NBC News
steve.capus@nbc.com
MSNBC
letters@msnbc.com
MSNBC/Microsoft-NBC
30 Rockefeller Plz
3rd Fl
New York, NY 10112
(212) 664-4444
http://twitter.com/msnbc
Hardballhardball@msnbc.com











Varney Again Pushes Conspiracy That Buffett Invested In Bank Of America On Obama's Orders
6 minutes ago







Broken Record: Doocy Calls Obama's Jobs Bill "Class Warfare ... One Of Those Soak The Rich Things"
23 minutes ago







Doocy Mocks Obama For Using Binder Clip To Hold Paper Together
40 minutes ago







Fox's Bolling Calls Unemployment Benefits A "Socialist Proposition"
6 hours and 53 minutes ago







Fox "Straight News" Anchor Baier Kicks Off His Show's Assault On Regulations: "Too Many Rules, Too Little Common Sense"
September 12, 2011  8:36 pm ET







Juan Williams Forces Krauthammer And Carlson To Walk Back Their False Claim That Social Security Is A Ponzi Scheme
September 12, 2011  8:35 pm ET






















Username or Email



Password

Forgot your password?



							or
                            
								Create An Account










Email



Username (required, for posting on forums)



Zip Code



  
                            Click here to subscribe to Media Matters action alerts and newsletters.



							or
                            
								Log in to an existing account


















About Us
Press/Bloggers
Special Reports
Corrections
Jobs
Store
Privacy Policy
Contact Us




Most Popular Tags

Fox News Channel
Bill O'Reilly
Glenn Beck
The O'Reilly Factor
Premiere Radio Networks
Rush Limbaugh
The Rush Limbaugh Show
CNN Newsroom
Dana Loesch
CNN
Jim Angle
Pamela Geller
Robert Spencer
Mara Liasson
NPR
The Washington Times
Neil Cavuto
Your World w/ Neil Cavuto
Happening Now
Donald Trump



RSS Feeds



Select a Feed
Latest Items
Research
Blog
Clips



Get personalized rss or email alerts  


Connect & Share







© 2011 Media Matters for America. All rights reserved.





























