Help / FAQ | tapinbayarea.com




              
                Marketplace
              
            


Overview 
Business Directory
Community 
Rewards 







All Content







Facebook
My Bang.com








Log in / Sign up


Directory Home
Reviews
Coupons
Categories






Search for

Examples: restaurants, pizza, real-estate


Near

Zip or address

Search


All Bay Area
East Bay
Monterey
North Bay
Peninsula
San Francisco
Santa Cruz
South Bay







Back to home
Help / FAQ

Help
We're constantly working to improve our business directory. If you have need assistance, have questions, comments or concerns, please let us know.
FAQ
How do I find my business?
You can find your business by entering the name in the "search" field and the city in the "near" field. If you find your business isn't available in our search, you can add it here.
How do I claim my business?
Claim your business by finding your business and clicking the "Is this your business?" link on the listing page. Follow the instructions to create an account and begin the process of claiming, correcting and improving your listing.
How can I correct and improve information in my business listing?
Once you have gone through the business claim process, one of our representatives will help you access your listing information as well as understand the various techniques and packages that you can use to improve and enhance your listing.
Someone wrote a negative review about my business, what can I do?
Once you have claimed your business, you have the ability to reply to reviews of your business with the business owner badge appearing with your response. You can also flag any review for inappropriate content, which will alert our staff to the problem.








Ads & Coupons


20% Off All Caps, Join the 20/20 Cap Club!
Join SPORTS FEVER 20/20 Cap Club $20 Lifetime Membership = 20% OFF all cap purchases! Visit a store for more details and to purchase membership! Membership Terms: A one time ...
Sports Fever



2 tacos & 1 chavela for $7!
Get Down Taco Tuesdays @ Chacho's from 8pm-11pm Pre Grub down Special!! Just say "Get Down" and get 2 tacos & 1 chavela for $7!
Chacho's



FREE BUTTER AND SUGAR CREPE
FREE BUTTER AND SUGAR CREPE with the purchase of a gift card of $20 or more. Limited time offer.
Yolatea

See more


Add your business
If you're a business owner and notice you're missing from our listings please add your business for free.


Problem or suggestion?
If you'd like to make a suggestion or report a problem, contact us.




Powered by Ellington Marketplace
tapinbayarea.com
Copyright | Contact Us | Help/FAQ | Privacy/Terms


Add your business /
          Feedback /
          Contact tapinbayarea.com














