austin360.com : Austin musicians hold benefits to aid fire relief effort
















Austin musicians hold benefits to aid fire relief effort
By Pete Mongillo
Posted: 
                    09/06/2011 1:45 PM


                                
                                
                                      
                                
                                
                                    


Home

Austin musicians are beginning to announce efforts to collect donations for those affected by the wildfires. Please email musicsource@statesman.com with information on other benefit shows.

At their tribute to the music of Police at the Nutty Brown Cafe this Saturday, Will Taylor and Strings Attached will be collecting medical supplies, bedding, toiletries, non-perishable food and gently used clothes for people affected by area wildfires. The show starts at 7:30 p.m. For more information and a full list of items needed, visit stringsattached.org. 
On Sunday, Shelley King, Wendy Colona, John Pointer, Mark Allen Atwood, The Chevelles, Ginger Leigh, Will Dunlap and others will hold a benefit show from noon until 8 p.m. at the Red Shed, 8504 S. Congress Avenue. Donations of non-perishable food items, clothing, kids toys, diapers and other toiletries will be accepted for the Red Cross of Central Texas. Tickets are $15.
Red 7, 611 E. 7th St., is holding an ongoing benefit drive in conjunction with the American Red Cross of Central Texas and Austin Christian Fellowship.

										Full Story >>


                                                
                                                
                                                      
                                                
                                                
                                                    


Text A Friend >>


Home













Home | 


Top

    
        
        
         | Sitemap
    
    
        
         | About Us
    
    
	
         | Full Site


Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman. All rights reserved.





