Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People Missing




Alerts
Contests
Facebook
Twitter
Blogs
Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    













  



Watch LiveGood Day Atlanta, 4:30-10 am
Alerts
PHOTOS: Dr. Oz Visits FOX 5
Dr. Oz on FOX 5
PHOTOS: Chef Gordon Ramsay on Good Day
Sign Up: Breaking News Alerts from FOX 5
MyAtlantaMoms.com: Join the Conversation
Post a Job on the MyFoxAtlanta Job Shop
myfoxatlanta on Your Phone
Links from FOX 5 News? Click Here!
myfoxatlanta iPhone and Droid Apps






Job Shop
I-Team
What's on TV
Swift Justice
American Idol
Yellow Pages
Seen on TV
Contact Us





Home
News




News
Local News
National
International
Politics




Georgia





OffBeat
Most Wanted
FOXe


ITeam
Seen on TV
News Tips
Recalls
Live Video
Live Video 2





Weather




Weather
Georgia
Severe Weather
Live Vipir
Video Forecast
Weather Alerts
Weather Photos
Weather Videos


Closings
Current
MyFOXHurricane
Tropical
NetCams





Traffic
Sports




Sports
MLB Braves
NFL Falcons
NBA Hawks
NHL Thrashers
Auto Racing
High5Sports
College FB BCS


Find Tee Times
UGA
Ga Tech





Money Watch




Money Watch
Stocks
Recalls
FOX 5 Deals





Health




Health
Give Miracles





Entertainment




Entertainment
Television
Movies
Music
TMZ
FOX 5 Schedule
Wendy Williams
Family Fun


Dogs
Cats
Online Family
Living Well
Style
Geek Weekly
Teens
Green Simple


MyAtlantaMoms
Mens Style





Good Day ATL




Good Day ATL
Road Warrior
MyAtlantaMoms
World Travel
Birthdays





About Us




About Us
FOX 5 History
FOX 5 People
Georgia Gang
Contact Us
EEO Reports
Advertise
Jobs At FOX 5


Programming
Internships
Calendar
Mobile News
Networking
Closed Caption










Autos
Jobs
Travel
+


 


Home : News : 













Video
Photo










 Bastro wildfire. (MyFox Houston) 



Firefighters continue fighting a wildfire in Bastrop, Texas. (MyFOX Houston)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2



Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People MissingUpdated: Sunday, 11 Sep 2011, 4:28 PM EDTPublished : Saturday, 10 Sep 2011, 4:23 PM EDT


(NewsCore) - Texas officials were planning to allow more residents back into neighborhoods damaged by the largest of the state's devastating wildfires Sunday after announcing the Bastrop County blaze was roughly 50 percent contained, The Austin American-Statesman reported. But authorities said a number of people remained unaccounted for after the Bastrop blaze, which consumed roughly 34,000 acres, destroyed 1,554 homes and killed at least two people, The Statesman reported. They stressed, however, that does not mean any of the missing are dead. "We have about 17 people we have not heard from," Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said during a news conference Sunday, according to the newspaper. "Some of these people may have [been] on vacation, or whatever." That number was later revised to 22, made up of 12 individuals and five couples. Pickering asked anyone reported missing to contact the sheriff's department, so authorities can "check them off the list," The Statesman reported. The number of homes presumed destroyed by the fire also increased to 1,554 from under 1,400, The Statesman reported Sunday, citing Bastrop County Emergency Management Corridor Mike Fisher. He noted that the number is expected to rise even further. County officials told the newspaper Saturday evening that the Bastrop fire is now 50 percent contained, up from 40 percent earlier in the day. Two people have been confirmed dead in the fire located east of Bastrop, which is roughly 30 miles (48km) southeast of Austin. The first was identified as 48-year-old Michael Troy Farr. The second victim was identified Saturday as 58-year-old Vickie Faye Keenan, The Statesman reported. Meanwhile, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday that firefighters are making progress battling a massive fire north of Houston, which is now about 65 percent contained. "If the winds don't get any stronger, then things will be great for us," fire service spokesman Ralph Collum told the Chronicle. The fire had burned through 18,468 acres as of Sunday morning, the newspaper said, which is down from an earlier estimate of 21,619 acres. One business and 59 homes have been destroyed in that blaze, the Chronicle reported. A woman and her 18-month-old daughter also died in the wildfires that have rampaged across the state in recent weeks. They were killed Sept. 4 when they were unable to escape their home between Gladewater and Liberty City, 43 miles (69km) northeast of Houston. President Barack Obama declared Texas a major disaster zone on Friday, ordering federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the affected areas.     Read more:  Austin-American Statesman   



When you're on the go, get the latest news from myfoxatlanta with our iPhone, Droid or Blackberry apps. Click here to find out more about how to get myfoxatlanta on your mobile phone.




















Comment on this story on Facebook




















FOX 5 Storm Team


68°
Mostlycloudy

Enter zip code to change location





Error: Improper zip code.
  




















Bookmark & Share





Email This


Print this story


View Story on a Single Page






















Local News
ITeam
Off Beat






Car Break-Ins Lead to Jeep Wreck



Thieves Hit Beauty Supply Store…



Mom Convicted in Library Outburst…







More News »









I-Team: Sunset Cove

A young woman fears she may have been a victim of sexual assault on a houseboat during a Fourth of July …




More Stories »





PD: Man Bit Off Man's Eyebrow in Fight


Colo. Cat Found in NYC After 5 Years


Video: Webcam 101 for Seniors



Thief Swallows Diamond, Caught by X-Ray


Study: Parents May Buy Guilt Away













Advertisement

  










Suggested Search











Advertisement

  

  















  





Home
News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Money Watch
Health
Entertainment
Good Day ATL
About Us


Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Ad Choices
Contact Us
TV RatingsMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2010 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.













