Texas Wildfire Report on Texas Business



 
 



 
 






 



 


 Thu, Sep 15, 2011 06:32



HomeMost Recent NewsLone Star Business BlogContact UsAdvertise With Us













 Texas Metros

Abilene
Amarillo
Austin
Beaumont/Port Arthur
Brownsville/Harlingen
College Station/Bryan
Corpus Christi
Dallas/Fort Worth
El Paso
Houston
Killeen/Temple/Fort Hood
Laredo
Longview
Lubbock
McAllen/Edinburg/Mission
Midland
Odessa
San Angelo
San Antonio
Sherman/Denison
Texarkana
Tyler
Victoria
Waco
Wichita Falls

 Texas Indicators

 

 To get the oil price, please enable Javascript.

 

 To get the natural gas price, please enable Javascript. 
 

American Dollar Exchange RateCurrency Exchange Rate

 

 To get the gold price, please enable Javascript. 

 Share Us


Twitter Button


 Advertisements






 


Texas Wildfire Report
By: TexasBusiness.com     Posted: Wednesday, September 7, 2011 2:47 pm
  Print









Related Articles
 Online program to help coastal tourism businesses ‘fish’ for customers  Paint On Roadside.At The Horny Toad.Maine Firm To Build $19.9 Million Fort Sam Houston Student CenterTexas Wildfire Report  Shell Partners with UT Austin to Pursue New Solutions to Unlock Gas Resources  Texas Crop ReportWhaleShark Media Inc. Appoints Jill Balis as Senior Vice President, Marketing  Forbes Energy Services Enters into $75 Million Revolving Credit Facility with Regions Bank  Rice, UW win $2M grant for synthetic biology research  View All
More from the Agribusiness section






Chopper Water. Photo by C.P. Gian. Copyright 2011. 



Texas Business reports:  The Texas Forest Service responded Tuesday to 19 new fires for 1,490 acres, including new large fires in Red River and Rusk counties.
In the past seven days Texas Forest Service has responded to 172 fires for 135,051 acres.
An assessment has been completed on the Bastrop County Complex and 785 homes have been reported destroyed. An additional 238 have been reported lost on other fires in the past three days, for a total of approximately 1,023.
A significant number of aircraft have been mobilized to assist with the heavy fire activity. Six heavy airtankers, three 1,500-gallon scoopers, 15 single-engine airtankers, 12 helicopters, and 12 aerial supervision aircraft are in place.
Eight National Guard Blackhawk and three Chinook helicopters have been providing critical aerial support. In addition, a 12,000-gallon DC-10 airtanker will be activated Friday morning at the Austin-Bergstrom Airport. This aircraft was instrumental in helping to contain Wildcat Fire in Coke County last April.
A Type I Incident Management Team is in place in Bastrop this morning and is assisting Texas Forest Service in managing the Bastrop County Complex. Additional Type 1 teams have been requested to assist with the large fires in Northeast and Southeast Texas.
New large fires from yesterday (more than 100 acres in timber, 300 acres in lighter fuels; or where homes were lost):
HALSBRO COMPLEX, Red River County. 950 acres, unknown containment. The fire is burning in grass. Fifteen homes are threatened, but none reported lost.
#510, Rusk County. 400 acres, unknown containment.
Uncontained fires from previous days (more than 100 acres in timber, 300 acres in lighter fuels):
BASTROP COUNTY COMPLEX, Bastrop County. 33,038 acres. The State Operations Center is reporting 30 percent containment. Heavy airtankers, scoopers, helicopters, and SEATs assisted on this fire that started in the Lost Pines area just northeast of Bastrop. Most of the forward progress of the fire has stopped, but significant intense burning continues in the interior. Twenty subdivisions remain evacuated. An assessment team has confirmed 785 homes have been destroyed. Two civilians were found dead yesterday as search crews went through the charred subdivisions.
PEDERNALES BEND (Spicewood), Travis County. 6,500 acres, 80 percent contained. The fire is burning four miles southeast of Spicewood. Sixty-seven homes were destroyed.
BEAR CREEK (#536), Cass County. 14,000 acres, unknown containment. The fire is burning in heavy timber and is threatening a gas facility and chicken houses. Six homes have been destroyed. A FEMA Management Assistance Grant was received.
RILEY ROAD, Grimes/Montgomery/Waller counties. 5,000 acres, 30 percent contained. Seventy-five homes have been destroyed on this fire burning just west of Magnolia.
 
TAMINA ROAD, Montgomery County. 150 acres, unknown containment. Hundreds of homes were evacuated Monday evening, but none was reported lost.
UNION CHAPEL, Bastrop County. 912 acres, 20 percent contained. Twenty-five homes were destroyed on this fire just west of Bastrop. Aircraft responded immediately after the fire was reported, but were ineffective in the windy conditions.
MOONGLOW, Williamson County. 75 acres, 95 percent contained. This fire is burning in Leander where 150 homes were threatened. Thirteen homes are reported lost.
PETERS CHAPEL, Harrison County. 650 acres, 80 percent contained. The fire is burning actively in pine plantation. Numerous homes have been evacuated. There are no reports of losses.
STEINER RANCH, Travis County. 125 acres, 40 percent contained. The fire started just north of the Steiner Ranch subdivision. More than 1,000 homes were evacuated. Thirty-five homes were destroyed.
HENDERSON #495, Anderson County. 5,000 acres, unknown containment. Three homes were saved.
#491, Limestone County. 3,000 acres, 90 percent contained. Six homes were saved and one was lost on this fire 20 miles east of Waco.
DELHI, Caldwell County. 6,000 acres, 60 percent contained. Twenty homes were saved and six were lost on this fire east of Lockhart.
BAILEY, Colorado County. 2,300 acres, 75 percent contained. This fast-moving fire threatened 40 homes near Columbus. Ten homes were destroyed.
DIANA (#545), Upshur County. 2,500 acres,70 percent contained. The fire is burning in grass and timber. Twenty homes are threatened.
LUTHERHILL, Fayette County. 2,700 acres, 95 percent contained. The community of Ruttersville was evacuated. Fourteen homes were destroyed.
BONBIEW RANCH, Van Zandt County. 350 acres, 80 percent contained. Twenty homes were saved southeast of Canton.
MOORE, Smith County. 1,500 acres, 90 percent contained. Ten homes were evacuated and five were lost on this fire burning on the Smith/Gregg County line. Two civilian fatalities were reported.
BOOT WALKER (#553), Marion County. 2,000 acres, unknown containment. Thirty homes are threatened.
TOAD ROAD (#552), Upshur County. 350 acres, unknown containment. The fire is burning in timber. Three homes were lost and dozens remain threatened.
HOPEWELL (#854), Walker County. 1,000 acres, 90 percent contained. Thirty homes have been evacuated, five homes were destroyed.
#507, Anderson County. 1,400 acres, unknown containment.
#504, Anderson County. 800 acres, unknown containment.
#502, Nacogdoches County. 4,000 acres, unknown containment. More than a dozen homes have been evacuated, but none lost.
ARBOR, Houston County. 3,000 acres, 90 percent contained. The fire is burning in timber. Up to 15 homes are reported lost.
KENNEDY ROAD, Rusk County. 150 acres, unknown containment. Numerous homes threatened, one lost.
PETTYTOWN, Caldwell County. 200 acres, 95 percent contained. Twenty homes were saved east of Lockhart.
OLD MAGNOLIA, Gregg County. 1,000 acres, 80 percent contained. Several structures and a gas plant are threatened. Two fuel tanks exploded.
#839, Leon County (Concord Robbins). 4,000 acres, unknown containment. An estimated twenty homes are reported lost and more than 300 were evacuated.
101 RANCH, Palo Pinto County. 6,555 acres, 85 percent contained. The fire is burning on the south side of Possum Kingdom Lake near the town of Brad. Thirty-nine homes and nine RVs have been reported destroyed.
Weather Outlook:
A surface ridge of dry high pressure will dominate most of Texas today. A surface trough along the front range of the Rockies near the northern New Mexico/Texas border will increase the winds over the panhandle area of Texas. Lows relative humidities of 10 to 20 percent can be expected over all west Texas with low RH’s of 5 to 10 percent around Fort Stockton, San Angelo and Midland areas. The strongest winds will be over the panhandle and sections of Northwest and West Branch along and to the north of Interstate 20. High temperatures will range in the 80s and 90s, except for some upper 70s in the northern panhandle. Poor overnight recoveries are expected for areas away from the coast.
Dry conditions expected today with high pressure over North Texas. Northeast flow will prevail at 8-11 mph gusts to 15 mph. Sunny skies with afternoon highs 84-92. RH values falling to 14 to 20 percent northwest and 18 to 30 percent southeast. Poor to moderate overnight recoveries.
251 of the 254 Texas counties are reporting burn bans.



  Print

 Facebook Newsvine StumbleUpon Google


 Texas Markets

Agribusiness
Aviation
Construction
Economics
Energy
Entertainment
Executives
Feature Stories
Food Service Industry
Finance
Government Contracts
Healthcare
Industrial
International Texas
Legal
Marketing
Media
Movie Industry
Music Industry
Real Estate
Retail
Service Industry
Sports Business
Startups
Technology
Texas Patent Of The Day
Tourism
Transportation
Utilities
Workforce

 Texas News Wire

Texas News Scrawl The Texas News Scrawl is a handy reference to stories Texas Business recommends from other news sources.  Full Story »

 Lone Star Business

Texas Wild FiresBigger than the Big 12 problem.  Bigger than an agribusiness problem.  Full Story »Big 12 Seeks To Avoid Butt Of Serious Aggie JokeNew Briefcase.Life, the Universe, And Everything, And A Few More ThingsNo Coffee And Death Of A SalesmanTexas Eat California   Ding Dong Is Gone. End Of The World?  That Solves Our Economic Problems. Never Irritate The Texas Football GodsBusiness, Bin Laden and A Smack On The SkullDenial of Science, Invisible Gorillas  Traffic Jams And High Speed Rail Technical Deception NoirFat Ho and Fortune  Dogma Dogs Texas EconomyTexas Disaster Marketing Pecans, Amanatsu And World Economies: Broken Japan As The Shoes Drop: Earthquake, Tsunami and Nuclear DisastersThe Sound And The FuryTexas Economy Sucks A Bit Less Than The National EconomyDang It, Texas Needs More GunsArbitrage & Spring Break In Mexico Alligators & Iguanas. Mild Scott's Tree:  A Civil TrespassHouston Sprawls And Sprawls Egypt And The World's InfrastructureAre Frozen Embryos People, Property Or Something Else? Texas Commodities And The WorldThe Mexico Problem Is A Texas ProblemThe $100 Bill:  Snarlups & Snafus Keynesian Endpoint: To Refudiate or Not To RefudiateRooster RestrictionFootball More Complex Than Chess More Cowboys Than CowsA Lack of Human ConnectionNow The Door’s Open To China . . . The End of PrintBurgers & BouffantsIt's Not Hollywood, It's Fort HoodThe Owner of The Texas Rangers Has A GutPakNew MindsetiPhone Part Two On Top Of The Tower Of BabelI phone, you phone, iPhone. Voicemail Artifacts. A Circle of Permanently Unfinished BusinessI Finally Count, I ThinkMost Minted Coin In World HistoryA Walk, A Storm, A Power OutageDalworthington.Magic Never Before Encountered Or Imagined. Disaster Resets Economic GameboardCertain UncertaintyEveryone Takes The CreditFootball Rules Universities' Economic Fate

 









Home |  Most Recent News |  Lone Star Business Blog |  Archives | Contact Us |  Login


Copyright 2010 Old Mesquite LLC Privacy Statement | Visitor Agreement














Making Web Design Easy Since 2001
Newspaper Software, Magazine Software, HOAs, Trade Associations & Community Website Software  |  Email Marketing, E-Commerce, Church



