Gordon wins…US Open rained out…Garrard cut | Info for Students




Info for Students


Info for Students




 




 





 Recent Posts 
Solyndra: Blame It On Bush, Say Obama Officials
‘Mover and shaker’ – The Pueblo Chieftain: Local
Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation
Enough of this green energy fairy tale!
Rare blue whale sighted on Maine whale watching tour
LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian Sneak a Date Night at Fashion Week
Solyndra be darned, Dept. of Energy awards $145M in solar grants – Boston Business Journal
South Florida Classical Review  » Blog Archive   » Seraphic Fire’s Brahms debuts at No. 5 on iTunes
Trying Not to Lose Sleep or Jokes Over a Baby
Vita Food Products Recalls Sliced Smoked Salmon
Why You Should Wash A Melon Before Chowing Down
NFL-Indy out to shed ‘Naptown’ image with Super Bowl
Ball Four in Beijing
Doctors at Le Bonheur separate conjoined twins
The Stage / Reviews / Siamese Twins

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsamp
barack obama
cnn
crowd
daily mail
dallas cowboys
direction south
earth
e mail
espn
facebook
flickr
followers
franchise
game
games
getty images
google
hollywood
investors
ipad
iphone
job
lady gaga
launch
match
mdash
money
nasdaq
nbsp
nnamdi asomugha
no doubt
nyse
parents
photos
quot
relationships
release source
reuters
rsquo
shia labeouf
target
twitter
weather
wind direction
 



 

Gordon wins…US Open rained out…Garrard cut



 
HAMPTON, Ga. (AP) — Jeff Gordon took the checkered flag today in the rain-delayed and rain-interrupted Sprint Cup race at Atlanta Motor Speedway. Hendrick Motorsport teammate Jimmie Johnson was second and Tony Stewart finished third. Five-time defending champion Johnson takes over the lead in the series point standings with his showing. UNDATED (AP) — Persistent rain in New York forced organizers to call off both the day and night sessions of the U.S. Open. They'll try again tomorrow, but the weather forecast isn't favorable. JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) — Despite misgivings at the end of last season, Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio had been steadfast in his support of quarterback David Garrard (guh-RARD') during the preseason. Jacksonville released Garrard today and will likely go with Luke McCown under center for Sunday's regular-season opener against the Tennessee Titans. CHICAGO (AP) — It appears that Bears running back Matt Forte (fohr-TAY') won't get his wish to enter the new season with a new contract. Word out of Chicago has the negotiations between the two sides on hold. Forte, the NFL's fifth-leading rusher since he was drafted in 2008, is entering the final year on his rookie contract. SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) — Linebacker Tavares Gooden has signed a one-year deal with San Francisco, giving the 49ers a reliable defender against tight ends entering Sunday's season opener against the defending NFC West champion Seattle Seahawks. After being picked by Baltimore in the third round of the 2008 draft, the 6-foot-1, 242-pounder played in 26 games with 12 starts for the Ravens, recording 66 tackles on defense and 22 on special teams.

 












            © 2011 
                Info for Students            







