Obama: U.S. stronger 10 years after September 11 attacks | North Carolina News










North Carolina News
Latest North Carolina News


Contact Us







 


North Carolina News
Privacy Policy
Contact Us









Obama: U.S. stronger 10 years after September 11 attacks
September 11 | Posted by NorthCarolinaNews | North Carolina News
Tags: news, north carolina




By Jeff Mason

WASHINGTON |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 8:03pm EDT


WASHINGTON (Reuters) – President Barack Obama said on Saturday the United States was stronger 10 years after the September 11, 2001, attacks and Americans would “carry on” despite continued threats against their safety.

Marking Sunday’s 10th anniversary of the “9/11″ attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, Obama noted that al Qaeda’s strength had been sapped by relentless U.S. efforts in the decade since the tragedy killed nearly 3,000 people.

“Thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence, law enforcement and homeland security professionals, there should be no doubt: today, America is stronger and al Qaeda is on the path to defeat,” Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address.

New York police amassed a display of force on Friday, including checkpoints that snarled traffic in response to intelligence about a car or truck bomb plot linked to the anniversary.

At a Saturday morning meeting, Obama told national security and intelligence officials to pursue all threat information “vigorously” and also stressed vigilance against potential attacks needed to extend beyond the anniversary weekend.

Rudolph Giuliani, the mayor of New York at the time of the attacks, said the country still had work to do to become better prepared for further threats.

“People often ask me, ‘Is America safer now than it was before September 11?’ The answer is: ‘Yes, but not as safe as we should be,’” he said in the weekly Republican address.

“We’ve made significant improvements in intelligence gathering and in airport security. But much work remains,” he said, citing port security and preparedness levels at state and local governments as requiring improvement.

LEGACY OF AN ATTACK

Obama will travel to all three sites on Sunday where hijackers turned planes into missiles, bringing down the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York, hitting the Pentagon in Virginia and crashing into a Pennsylvania field.

The attacks sparked U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the latter of which Obama, a Democrat, opposed.

“They wanted to draw us in to endless wars, sapping our strength and confidence as a nation. But even as we put relentless pressure on al Qaeda, we’re ending the war in Iraq and beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan,” he said. “Because after a hard decade of war, it is time for nation building here at home.”

Giuliani, who made a failed bid for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination, said the attacks showed the importance of a U.S. military presence abroad, and he indicated he opposed a hasty withdrawal of forces from those two war zones.

“The (drawdown) timetable should not be based on a politically expedient calendar, but on when we’ve eliminated the threat of domestic attacks being generated in that particular part of the world,” he said.

“We must not allow impatience to prevent our military from achieving its objective in Iraq and Afghanistan — and the objective is the elimination of the threat to our nation.”

U.S. forces killed former al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, considered the mastermind of the September 11 attacks, earlier this year. The president referred to bin Laden’s death and said the democratic movements in Arab countries cast a shadow over al Qaeda’s legacy.

“We’ve forged new partnerships with nations around the world to meet the global challenges that no nation can face alone,” Obama said. “And across the Middle East and North Africa, a new generation of citizens is showing that the future belongs to those that want to build, not destroy.”

(Additional reporting by Malathi Nayak and Laura MacInnis, Editing by Sandra Maler)

Article source: http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/11/us-sept11-obama-idUSTRE7890WQ20110911?feedType=RSS&feedName=topNews
Tags: news, north carolina





Comments are closed.

 

« Obama declares state of emergency in wildfire-ravaged Texas
Netanyahu pledges allegiance to treaty with Egypt »




 Latest News 
NASA unveils deep-space rocket to succeed the space shuttle
Security Forces End Kabul Siege
Sarah Palin Could See This Guy From Her House
House OK’s casino bill
Bomb suspect grows defiant
Missing Colorado cat found in Manhattan
Boeing, NLRB Battle Heading for a Vote in the House
Analysis: Happy talk doesn’t mean compromise in Congress
Slain Miss. man’s kin ask no death penalty
GOP adds to House majority, taking 2 seats in special elections
From the Halls of Harvard Into the Street, in Pursuit of a Senate Seat
White House defends loan for now-bankrupt solar firm
Sarkozy, Merkel ‘Convinced’ Greece to Stay in Euro Area Amid Fiscal Steps
TSA changes rules on child shoe removal, pat-downs
Israel okays PA’s acquisition of antiriot gear ahead of UN vote
Las Vegas man: $2M Bulger reward paid to tipster
GOP upset win in NY portends challenge for Obama
Santorum keeps needling Perry
As Fighting in Kabul Wanes, Sniping on Twitter Begins
Some Democrats Are Balking at Obama’s Jobs Bill
Taliban offshoot blamed for assault on US Embassy in Kabul
Palin and Miami Heat’s Glen Rice had a one-night tryst
Reuters/Ipsos poll: Obama gets slight boost from jobs speech
Turkey Asserts Self as Bold Regional Power
Obama on jobs plan: ‘Give me a win? Give me a break!’
FBI Investigating Alleged Nude Scarlett Johansson Photo Hack
Jackie: JFK mused on own assassination
New York election a referendum on Obama, GOP says
House Probes Solyndra Loan
NYC TV Meteorologist Admits False Attack Claims
DNA in child’s murder matches suspect – years after his death
Polls: Weak support for Obama jobs plan
Minn. wildfire smoke still blankets Chicago area
Police find 8 explosives in Calif. man’s home
US hikers to remain in jail, says Iranian official
HPV Vaccine Safe Despite Bachmann’s Charges, Doctors Say
US Blames Kabul Assault on Pakistan-Based Group
Muslim Brotherhood angry at Erdogan call for secular Egypt
Republican wins House race, seen as Obama rebuke
US woman upset over mother’s flight phones in bomb hoax
Iran’s president offers to pardon Americans
Feinstein aide Kinde Durkee held in alleged fraud
Decline in US Income Raises Stakes in 2012 Presidential Race
Airport security to relax youth shoe checks
Obama team urges swift passage of jobs bill
Palos Township teen accused of killing parents
Some pro-Israel groups defend U.S. aid to Palestinians
Afghan forces kill last of Kabul attackers
Republican Wins House Race in New York, Seen as Obama Rebuke
Iran Sets Bail for Two Americans

 



Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Back to Top










