Photo Gallery: Key players in the early states of the GOP presidential race | Rick Perry 2012 Campaign for President– News and updates














 


Home
News
First Word
Texas on the Potomac
Texas Politics
Opinion
Chron
mySA
  
 
 





Photo Gallery: Key players in the early states of the GOP presidential race

Posted on August 1, 2011 at 8:52 am by Richard Dunham					 in General 

0   |  
0 1  
Tweet


Share

 

 share

E-mail




For candidates preparing to campaign for the 2012 Republican nomination, knowing who to talk to in the early states – Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada – can be pivotal.
Texas on the Potomac talked to political analysts and read upon the key officials, advisers and grassroots organizers, and now you can check out our photo gallery to see who the candidates – including Texas Gov. Rick Perry, should he decide to run – will want on their side if they try for the GOP nomination.
Rollover the images to see thumbnail descriptions of major Republican figures in each state, and click on the pictures for more detailed explanations. 
Iowa
“When you have a candidate that’s an unknown, it can be very important,” Tim Hagle, a political science professor, said of the Feb. 6 caucus in his state. He also said the field is still open.
“People are kind of sitting back, they like the people who are running but they want somebody who maybe has that spark.”
New Hampshire
“Winning the NH primary is the single most important determinant in becoming Republican nominee,” said Andrew Smith, associate professor of political science and director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center. The primary is expected to take place Feb. 14.

Nevada
Expected Feb. 18, the Nevada caucus is the first in the West. This election’s caucus takes place in a state where the Republican party is reeling from recent losses, said David Damore, a political science professor at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas.

South Carolina
The South Carolina primary will take place on Feb. 28 and is candidates’ first real contest in the South.




 

0   |  
0 1  
Tweet


Share

 

 share

E-mail




Next Post »



 

Richard Dunham

					Rick Dunham is the Washington bureau chief of the Houston Chronicle and Hearst Newspapers. He created Texas on the Potomac in 2007.				

Follow: 




Latest Posts:
Romney stronger among independent voters than Perry, new poll finds 9/14/11
Rick Perry impresses Liberty University students with talk of faith and family 9/14/11
Perry’s campaign is sucking up all the media oxygen in the room 9/14/11
At Virginia event, Perry says Obama, Democrats are “on the ropes” 9/14/11
Jon Stewart calls Rick Perry’s rivals ‘jealous’ 9/14/11








Photo Gallery: Key players in the early states of the GOP presidential race
Blogs
Who are some of the key Republican players in the first four states to choose delegates to the 2012 Republican National Convention? If Rick Perry wants to be the GOP nominee, he needs help from some or all of these people in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada.

















 
 

 






Most Read





Where were Rick Perry’s trademark boots?


Poor debate performance raises questions


Jon Stewart calls Rick Perry’s rivals ‘jealous’


Rick Perry to Liberty University students: ‘This is your future that we are debating today’


Romney stronger among independent voters than Perry, new poll finds










 

 


Categories

Select Category
Abortion  (2)
Budget  (14)
Campaign 2012  (159)
Campaign Ad  (6)
Campaign Finance  (1)
Endorsement  (2)
Energy  (4)
Environment  (6)
Evolution  (4)
Foreign Policy  (7)
Fundraising  (9)
General  (50)
Gov. Rick Perry  (165)
Healthcare  (13)
Immigration  (15)
Issues  (36)
Job Creation  (20)
Michele Bachmann  (53)
Mitt Romney  (73)
Polling  (12)
Pres. Barack Obama  (16)
Ron Paul  (30)
Sarah Palin  (10)
Shakey Hand Productions  (4)
Social Issues  (12)
Social Security  (24)
The Factchecker  (2)
The First Word  (7)






Archives

 ► 2011

September
August





 
 

Categories

Campaign 2012

Gov. Rick Perry

Michele Bachmann

Mitt Romney

Pres. Barack Obama

Ron Paul

Sarah Palin



Campaign Ad

Endorsement

Fundraising

General

Issues

Budget

Campaign Finance

Energy

Environment

Foreign Policy

Healthcare

Immigration

Job Creation

Social Issues

Abortion

Evolution



Social Security



Polling

Shakey Hand Productions

The First Word

The Factchecker





Links

Gov. Perry on Facebook
Office of the Governor
Rick Perry's Official Campaign Site
Texas Tribunes Perrypedia
TSHA: Paint Creek, Texas













 
 




About Rick Perry 2012 Campaign for President– News and updates
Our coverage of TX Governor Rick Perry\'s 2012 campaign for president including news, updates, and media from the Houston Chronicle, MySA, and Hearst.

Follow Us:











 | Home
 | chron.com
 | mySanAntonio.com





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.














