Perry’s tough talk wins him fans in California | Rick Perry 2012 Campaign for President– News and updates














 


Home
News
First Word
Texas on the Potomac
Texas Politics
Opinion
Chron
mySA
  
 
 





Perry’s tough talk wins him fans in California

Posted on September 10, 2011 at 9:51 pm by Nolan Hicks					 in Campaign 2012, Fundraising, Gov. Rick Perry, Social Security 

1,382   |  
0 1  
Tweet


Share

 

 share

E-mail




Gov. Rick Perry, left, waves to members of the media upon his arrival to the Bakersfield Jam Events Center, on Sept. 9, 2011, for a fundraiser breakfast for his presidential campaign - Casey Christie/Bakersfield Californian
By Carla Marinucci and Joe Garofoli
San Francisco Chronicle Staff Writers
SAN FRANCISCO — Texas Gov. Rick Perry attracted new supporters during his first  presidential campaign road trip through California with the provocative  talk that enrages his opponents, such as his description of Social  Security as a Ponzi scheme.
Perry’s blunt language on Social Security is “absolutely part of his  appeal,” Floyd Kvamme, a venture capitalist and former adviser to  President Ronald Reagan, said Friday outside an East Palo Alto  fundraiser. “It’s plain-spokenness. It’s his realism. The fact of the  matter is … it’s broken.”
Kvamme echoed the view of many Republicans interviewed during  Perry’s three-day visit to California this week. Stops included  Wednesday’s GOP debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi  Valley, six fundraisers – including the one Friday at the Four Seasons  Hotel in East Palo Alto – and a handful of public events.
Perry is connecting with a growing number of Republicans because of  his uncompromising rhetoric and his back-slapping, guy-who-married “the  first girl I dated” persona. The man who has presided over 234  executions as governor signs campaign placards with a small heart above  “Rick.”
Supporters love how Perry refused to back down at Wednesday’s debate  when confronted with his “Ponzi scheme” description, which he first used  in his 2010 book, “Fed Up.” After addressing the East Palo Alto  fundraiser, where 150 business leaders paid between $1,000 and $5,000 to  be photographed with him, Perry remained steadfast, telling The  Chronicle that while people already receiving Social Security shouldn’t  worry about their benefits, Americans in their 20s should.
Straight talk
“Why are we trying to kid our kids, and say, keep paying into this  thing, it’s going to work out all right for you,” Perry said Friday.  “It’s not. It is broken. It’s not going to be there for them. We’re  trying to be political gamesmen. Be leaders. Leaders stand up and say we  got a broken system, here’s how we fix it.”
Unlike the more tightly scripted GOP candidate Mitt Romney, who has  done few retail political events during his California fundraising  trips, supporters see in Perry a personable straight-talker,  unencumbered by political niceties.
As Romney-backer-turned-Perry supporter John Warner, a retired Orange  County surf clothing CEO said, Romney’s “campaign seems too nervous  about everything.”
Perry’s approach seems to be working: He’s drawing big crowds and big  donations – $500,000 at a single Orange County fundraiser – in  California.
And polls show his support is solid: A USC/Dornsife Poll of  California GOP voters taken days after Perry entered the race in August  and released this week found him tied with Romney at 22 percent.  Nationwide, Perry has 29 percent of the support compared with 18 percent  for Romney, according a Real Clear Politics average of major polls.
Inaccurate description
Few of Perry’s supporters seem concerned that his characterization of  Social Security is inaccurate. A Ponzi scheme is a crime, a financial  swindle where the swindlers aren’t obligated to pay benefits and the  participants don’t know the stakes.
Social Security is a form of social insurance. The benefits aren’t  expected to run out until 2037, according to the Congressional Budget  Office. Numerous independent fact-checkers, including the nonpartisan  Politifact, have called Perry’s statement false.
“Some inflammatory rhetoric – sometimes it proves your point,” Orange  County Supervisor Shawn Nelson said Thursday in introducing Perry at an  event in Corona del Mar. “When an organization promises to give away  more than what we mathematically know it takes in, what do you call it?”
While Perry’s bluntness may resonate with grassroots activists, top  Republicans are warning that it may have political repercussions. This  week, Perry’s former political adviser, Karl Rove, called his Ponzi  scheme description “toxic,” and former Vice President Dick Cheney said  he doesn’t “believe it is a Ponzi scheme.”
The topic will probably arise again Monday, when the GOP candidates  debate in Florida, which holds an early, pivotal primary and where  one-third of the voters in the 2008 primary were at least 65 years old.
Mixed feelings
Americans have mixed feelings about Social Security. While 87 percent  of the respondents to a July Pew Research Center poll say the program  has been good for the country, 34 percent think it needs “major changes”  – 60 percent don’t want to see benefits cut.
Romney’s campaign has pounced on Perry’s comments, saying he wants to  “abolish” Social Security. Romney himself told conservative commentator  Sean Hannity that if Republicans nominate someone Democrats can say  opposes Social Security, “we will be obliterated as a party.”
Perry “says things that will spark debate and generate results – and  that’s what he’s doing here,” his spokesman Mark Miner said this week.
“We wouldn’t be talking about this issue if it wasn’t for Gov. Perry  bringing this up and saying it should be fixed,” Miner said. “Mitt  Romney would have been fine, going down the road and never addressing  Social Security, never addressing these issues.”
E-mail the writers at jgarofoli@sfchronicle.com and cmarinucci@sfchronicle.com.
This article appeared on page A – 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle



 

1,382   |  
0 1  
Tweet


Share

 

 share

E-mail


Tags:California, California Republican Party 
« Previous Post
Next Post »



 

Nolan Hicks

					Nolan Hicks covers politics, the census and redistricting for the San Antonio Express-News (and occasionally for the Houston Chronicle because we're owned by the same folks). He came to San Antonio from the Houston Chronicle/Express-News' merged Austin Bureau, where he covered the state legislature, Texas Politics and wrote the bureau's morning political brief 'The First Word.'						 Read Bio


Contact: 

Follow: 





Latest Posts:
Romney stronger among independent voters than Perry, new poll finds 9/14/11
Rick Perry impresses Liberty University students with talk of faith and family 9/14/11
Perry’s campaign is sucking up all the media oxygen in the room 9/14/11
At Virginia event, Perry says Obama, Democrats are “on the ropes” 9/14/11
Jon Stewart calls Rick Perry’s rivals ‘jealous’ 9/14/11








Perry's tough talk wins him fans in California
Blogs
Reporting from SAN FRANCISCO — Texas Gov. Rick Perry attracted new supporters during his first presidential campaign road trip through California with the provocative talk that enrages his opponents, such as his description of Social Security as a Ponzi scheme.

















 
 

 






Most Read





Where were Rick Perry’s trademark boots?


Poor debate performance raises questions


Jon Stewart calls Rick Perry’s rivals ‘jealous’


Rick Perry to Liberty University students: ‘This is your future that we are debating today’


Romney stronger among independent voters than Perry, new poll finds










 

 


Categories

Select Category
Abortion  (2)
Budget  (14)
Campaign 2012  (159)
Campaign Ad  (6)
Campaign Finance  (1)
Endorsement  (2)
Energy  (4)
Environment  (6)
Evolution  (4)
Foreign Policy  (7)
Fundraising  (9)
General  (50)
Gov. Rick Perry  (165)
Healthcare  (13)
Immigration  (15)
Issues  (36)
Job Creation  (20)
Michele Bachmann  (53)
Mitt Romney  (73)
Polling  (12)
Pres. Barack Obama  (16)
Ron Paul  (30)
Sarah Palin  (10)
Shakey Hand Productions  (4)
Social Issues  (12)
Social Security  (24)
The Factchecker  (2)
The First Word  (7)






Archives

 ► 2011

September
August





 
 

Categories

Campaign 2012

Gov. Rick Perry

Michele Bachmann

Mitt Romney

Pres. Barack Obama

Ron Paul

Sarah Palin



Campaign Ad

Endorsement

Fundraising

General

Issues

Budget

Campaign Finance

Energy

Environment

Foreign Policy

Healthcare

Immigration

Job Creation

Social Issues

Abortion

Evolution



Social Security



Polling

Shakey Hand Productions

The First Word

The Factchecker





Links

Gov. Perry on Facebook
Office of the Governor
Rick Perry's Official Campaign Site
Texas Tribunes Perrypedia
TSHA: Paint Creek, Texas













 
 




About Rick Perry 2012 Campaign for President– News and updates
Our coverage of TX Governor Rick Perry\'s 2012 campaign for president including news, updates, and media from the Houston Chronicle, MySA, and Hearst.

Follow Us:











 | Home
 | chron.com
 | mySanAntonio.com





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.














