
sections:

Most Popular
U.S.
Sept. 11, 2001 Coverage
World
Politics
Brian Ross Investigates
Health
Entertainment
Money
Tech
Travel
Extreme Video
ABC News Audio
Live Video



Playlist:

Entertainment News
Jimmy Kimmel Live!
The View
What's the Buzz
Popcorn with Peter Travers
Amplified



Home > Video > Entertainment > Entertainment News





Scarlett Johansson Taps FBI Over Nude Photos Leak

Scarlett Johansson Taps FBI Over Nude Photos Leak
								The actress appears to be the latest victim of a cell phone hacker ring.
							





'Dirty Dancing' Makes Move to Facebook

'Dirty Dancing' Makes Move to Facebook
								1987 film gets new life as a game on the social networking site. 
							





Soleil Moon Frye's Crushes and BFF's

Soleil Moon Frye's Crushes and BFF's
								Crazy love for Mark Wahlberg and Demi as a midwife?
							





'Breaking Dawn' Sneak Peek

'Breaking Dawn' Sneak Peek
								Newly-released trailer gives glimpse at Bella's wedding and labor pains.
							






Michael Symon's Mom's Lasagna, Zucchini Crudo

Michael Symon's Mom's Lasagna, Zucchini Crudo
								The "Iron Chef" cooks up mom's lasagna and zucchini crudo.
							





Affordable Fashion With Suze Yalof Schwartz

Affordable Fashion With Suze Yalof Schwartz
								The fashion expert discusses the success of discount designer lines.
							





Italian Designer Causes Frenzy at Target

Italian Designer Causes Frenzy at Target
								Italian designer Missoni released a new clothing line for the discount store.
							





'Model' Citizens: Inside the World of Modeling

'Model' Citizens: Inside the World of Modeling
								ABC News' Dan Harris follows a pair of model scouts looking for fresh faces.
							






Facebook Grouping Friends; Lady Gaga Takes Spill

Facebook Grouping Friends; Lady Gaga Takes Spill
								Lara Spencer explains what's buzzing on the "GMA" Pop News Heat Index.
							





Charlie Sheen Gets Skewered at Roast

Charlie Sheen Gets Skewered at Roast
								The actor is the target of harsh comedic jabs.  
							





Salma Hayek's Husband Discusses Love Child

Salma Hayek's Husband Discusses Love Child
								Francois-Henri Pinault speaks for first time about child with Linda Evangelista.
							





Diane Sawyer Talks Jacqueline Kennedy on 'Live'

Diane Sawyer Talks Jacqueline Kennedy on 'Live'
								"World News" anchor on the former first lady's audio tapes with Regis and Kelly.
							




			1 of 5 | Next 


