Silver: Silver marches southwards                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Silver: Silver marches southwards    New York City :  NY :  USA
| Sep 15, 2011
 
By shiraxinco            2 0      
Views: 303
          Silver prices declined 0.96% to USD 40.70 per ounce during the 24 hours ending 23:00GMT. In the Asian session at 3:00GMT, silver is trading at USD 40.61 per ounce, 0.22% lower, from 23:00GMT. The first level of short term resistance on the upside is at 41.22, followed by 41.82. The pair is expected to find support at 40.13, with the subsequent support level at 39.64. The white metal is showing convergence with its 20 Hr and its 50 Hr moving averages.     
shiraxinco is based in Islamabad, Federal Capital Area, Pakistan,
and is a Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (38.4%) India (8.4%) United Kingdom (6.3%) Canada (4.7%) 29 other countries (37.9%)           READ MORE: Forex, CFDS, Stocks, markets, asian session, trading, prices, price, Asia, silver   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 1            Reply  Posted By       mus1423
| about 2 hours ago
  
Excellent piece of work.....!!!!!!!!rated up
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Gold, Silver and Crude Oil  
International Business Times
 Commodities&Futures Top news for investors and traders interested in the Commodity market Sample Crude Oil futures closed lower by 1.4% at 88.91 bbl upticked early and faded...Prices rose to highs of the session at 4.10 heading into afternoon trade,...    The Silver Question  
International Business Times
 Get breaking news on precious metals and commentaries Sample It's pretty easy to see why silver has been so popular for individual investors. First off, gold has tacked on more than 225% in gains since the beginning of 2009. While stock and debt...    Silver, Gold rise  
NewKerala
 The precious metals rebounded today after two days downslide, as Silver soared by Rs 1,120 to Rs 65,180 per kg and Gold advanced by Rs 330 to Rs 28,165 per ten gm on fresh demand from industrial users amidst encouraging global advices, traders at the...    Zambia: Metal Prices Rise  
Africa Headlines
 Metal Prices Rise 14 September 2011 THE prices of copper, gold and oil on the international market yesterday rose up due various global economic factors at play. According to Reuters the prices of copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) rose by 1.1...      More From New York City          Lion King is back into theaters, this time in 3D        Keeping it Together        It's Clubbing Time         Photos: New Scandal :Lady Gaga Walrobe Malifunction without Panties           Ashlee Simpson Look Sexy in Herve Leger        Toast Movie (2011)        Cat lost in Colorado turns up in New York        Lady in Red          And They’re Off Movie (2011)        Last Call at the Oasis Movie (2011)       Father of Invention Movie (2011)        USA black listed 8 countries         Carnage Movie (2011)                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10343136          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 4       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 0       Comments: 1    1       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10343136), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10343136 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10343136 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Silver: Silver marches southwards” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10343136-silver-silver-marches-southwards.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         