 May 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Los Angeles Clippers and BeGreen Carbon Offsets Team Up for ‘Green Night Game’
POSTED BY Tina on May 31 under Eco Friendly Events
Encouraging fans to take action to reduce their environmental footprint, the Los Angeles Clippers and BeGreen, the carbon offset division of Green Mountain Energy Company, are teaming up to host the first-ever Green Night Game at STAPLES Center. On Saturday, April 11, as part of the team’s game against the Portland Trail Blazers, the Clippers [...]


Comments Off



SunPower Announces the Solar Industry’s Most Powerful Rooftop System
POSTED BY Tina on May 27 under Alternative Energy, Eco Business, Solar Power
SunPower Corp., a manufacturer of high-efficiency solar cells, solar panels and solar systems, today announced its new SunPower T5 Solar Roof Tile (T5 Roof Tile), the solar industry’s most powerful roof overlay system. The T5 Roof Tile system approximately doubles the energy generated per square meter compared to systems that are mounted onto flat commercial [...]


Comments Off



Appliance Recycling Centers of America (ARCA) Awarded Contract by Xcel Energy
POSTED BY Tina on May 26 under Appliances, Eco Business, Recycling
Appliance Recycling Centers of America, Inc. today announced that it has been awarded a contract by Xcel Energy to provide refrigerator recycling services for the utility’s residential electric customers in Colorado and New Mexico. The program is scheduled to begin on June 1, 2009 and run through December 31, 2010. Through this program, participating utility [...]


Comments Off



U.S. Cellular Launches a Free Battery Swap Program
POSTED BY Tina on May 22 under Eco Business, Eco Gadgets, Recycling
U.S. Cellular has launched its Battery Swap program, where customers can come into any store and change out a dead or dying battery for a fully-charged one, for free. U.S. Cellular is the first wireless company to offer this service. “Our Battery Swap program is a convenience for people who depend on their wireless devices [...]


Comments Off



Hawk Recycling Program Resumes During the PGA Tour
POSTED BY Tina on May 14 under Eco Business, Recycling
Teletouch Communications Inc. continues its drive to put e-waste in its place as the company has announced that they will be continuing its “Go Green with Hawk” cell phone recycling and disposal program at the upcoming Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial PGA TOUR Golf Tournament, being held Monday May 25 through Sunday May 31, 2009, [...]


1 Comment



It is the Month to be EcoDriving
POSTED BY Tina on May 5 under Transportation
May is EcoDriving month hence a call for motorists to try and improve their driving skills such as improving fuel consumption and reducing the carbon footprint use. To mark the first EcoDriving month, the program is partnering with Indy Goes Green, sponsored by the racing team of Nelson Philippe. The program raises awareness about how [...]


Comments Off



LedEngin LuxDot MR16 Replacement Lamps
POSTED BY Tina on May 4 under Eco Business, Lighting
  Has your electric bill got you down? Well fret no more. Here is an eco-friendly way to save you money on your next electric bill. Luxdot is the newest LED MR16 lamp capable of replacing 35W halogen lamps at Lightfair in New York City, May 5-7. While LuxDot’s high flux density is par of [...]


1 Comment









Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


global warming
money
richter scale
climate change
saving energy
christmas
carbon footprint
pr newswire
Recycling
lifestyle
earth
earthquake
recycled materials
prnewswire
reuters
epicenter
Eco-friendly
clothes
global warning
eco
organic cotton
environment
tropical storm lee
national hurricane center
barack obama
ecofriendly
hurricane irene
mother earth
green
consumers
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




