Yahoo Ousts BartzYahoo Ousts Bartz as CEO - Karameloo News USA

















&nbsp









Home
U.S.

World

Sports

Business

Entertainment

Technology

Health

  Latest News

Top Stories

Politics

Odd News





 


Latest News  » 	 
	07 September 2011


Yahoo Ousts BartzYahoo Ousts Bartz as CEO



Yahoo’s board ousted CEO Carol Bartz after growing impatient with the lack of a turnaround. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s CFO, has been named interim CEO.



[!] Report this news


 Processing your request, Please wait....
	




Report as: 

---------
Broken link
Invalid Contents
Privacy Violation
Inappropriate Contents
Other



Write in Words:  (Optional) 
















View Article »   |   Source: online.wsj.comTag: carol bartz, cfo, interim ceo, s board, tim morse, turnaround, yahoo

Other News:Yahoo Ousts Bartz as CEO
Yahoo’s board ousted CEO Carol Bartz after growing impatient with the lack of a turnaround. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s CFO, has been named interim CEO. Yahoo shares rose more than 6% in after-hours trading.

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    
  
Yahoo Ousts Bartz
Yahoo’s board ousted CEO Carol Bartz after growing impatient with the lack of a turnaround. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s CFO, has been named interim CEO. Yahoo shares rose more than 6% in after-hours trading.

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    
  
Bartz Out as Yahoo CEO
Carol Bartz is out as Yahoo’s CEO. She was informed of the decision by Yahoo’s board on Tuesday, and didn’t expect it. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s CFO, has been named interim CEO. Yahoo shares rose more than 6% in after-hours trading.

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please
Carol Bartz Out as Yahoo CEO
Carol Bartz is out as Yahoo’s CEO. She was informed of the decision by Yahoo’s board on Tuesday, and didn’t expect it. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s CFO, has been named interim CEO. Yahoo shares rose more than 6% in after-hours trading.

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please
Carol Bartz is out as Yahoo CEO
Bartz says in a memo to employees that Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock fired her over the phone. Tim Morse, Yahoo’s chief financial officer, is named interim chief executive.
Yahoo Inc. Chief Executive Carol Bartz was ousted by the company’s board Tuesday, bringing an abrupt but not surprising end to a rocky tenure at the struggling Internet
Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz no longer with company: report
SUNNYVALE, Calif. — Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz is no longer with the company, AllThingsD reported Tuesday, citing sources.
Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse has been named interim CEO, sources said…

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request, Please wait....
	
	
    
    	
		  
			Report
Yahoo fires Bartz as CEO, names CFO to fill void


    Yahoo Inc. fired Carol Bartz as CEO Tuesday after more than 2 1/2 years of financial lethargy that had convinced investors that she wouldn't be able to steer the Internet company to a long-promised turnaround.
  

	
	
	
    	[!] Report this news
    
	
		 Processing your request,



 






Yanks sweepless in Seattle, fall 2-1 in 12
Mariano Rivera’s pursuit of history is headed north of the border. Luis Rodriguez belted a walk-off home run against Cory [...]


Myers: Giant loss won’t fly with Eagles on deck
While there was hardly any feeling of desperation in the Giants locker room Wednesday, it will be there next week [...]


If have Alzheimer’s, divorce OK: Pat Robertson
Televangelist Pat Robertson has given his blessing to divorce – as long as one spouse is afflicted with Alzheimer’s Disease.


Do the math, Mets officially out of playoffs
In reality, the end came quietly Wednesday afternoon when the Braves beat the Marlins, officially eliminating the Mets from postseason [...]


She mixed cocaine into boyfriend’s dinner
Monica Cookman’s lover sensed something wasn’t right with the grub after he scarfed down a few mouthfuls and his heart [...]


Federal report cites causes for Gulf oil spill
A report on the Gulf oil spill blames poor safety practices, a faulty cement seal and a rush to meet [...]


 

10th anniversary
amp
apple
authorities
bank of america
barack obama
cbs
cbs news
congress
credit rating
dow jones
east coast
economy
europe
fears
federal reserve
game
google
gop
hurricane irene
investors
job
jobs
libya
losses
moammar gadhafi
new york city
obama
rebels
recession
regime
reuters
rick perry
stocks
tripoli
united states
victory
wall street
white house
yankeesWP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck and Luke Morton requires Flash Player 9 or better.
 




Odd News 

Video: World record for longest female fingernails
Video: How neon signs are made
Trucker on cell phone at time of crash that killed 11 
    (Reuters)
Gumby attempted robbery suspect surrenders to San Diego police 
    (Reuters)
Banning half-naked men, love triangles on TV 
    (Reuters)
General’s son crashes into wall of outrage 
    (Reuters)
Poe Museum Nevermore? 
    (Reuters)
Video: Couple recreates Noah’s Ark
Smoking marijuana not linked to obesity: study 
    (Reuters)
Woman bites elderly man in "vampire" attack 
    (Reuters)





Recent News

Gulf Drilling Rebounds
Police in London arrest suspect in UBS losses
Fire forces evacuation of Norway cruise ship
Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya
Stock Futures Point to Gains
Memorials set as Marine gets Medal of Honor
‘ANTM’ premiere: Fan favorites return
Metal’s Big Four overtake Yankee Stadium
Tony Bennett won’t perform Amy Winehouse duet
Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor





© Karameloo News USA - Latest World News and U.S. News Headlines
