Police: Human remains found in search for Utah mom







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 











News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health
Coupons


Home : News : National : West : 













Video
Photos










This undated picture made available by Hardman Photography shows Susan Powell. (AP Photo/Hardman Photography, Amber Hardman)



Authorities have been searching since Monday in the area near Topaz Mountain in Juab County, Utah. (CNN/KTVX)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2













Related Coverage



Remains found in search for Utah momNearly two years after a mother vanished, her friends and …



New lead in 2009 missing mom caseInvestigators returned Friday to the remote Nevada desert in …



Husband of missing mom has left UtahA Utah man considered a person of interest in the disappearance…



Cops suspect foul play in Utah mom caseUtah authorities say they suspect foul play may be involved in …








Advertisement







Remains found in search for Utah momSusan Powell has been missing since 2009Updated: Thursday, 15 Sep 2011, 6:24 AM CDTPublished : Thursday, 15 Sep 2011, 6:24 AM CDT

JENNIFER DOBNER,Associated Press

DELTA, Utah (AP) — Nearly two years after a mother vanished, her friends and family are waiting to learn whether her case may have seen a major break after authorities discovered human remains during their latest search for clues in the Utah desert. Susan Powell was 28 when she was reported missing Dec. 7, 2009, after she failed to show up for her stockbroker job. The case has cast a harsh spotlight on Powell's husband, who remains the only person of interest but has never been arrested or charged. It wasn't immediately known if the remains found Wednesday belonged to Susan Powell, or if they were even female. Authorities planned to resume their investigation Thursday morning. "It's a game of patience at this point," West Valley City Sgt. Mike Powell said. "We need to slow down a little bit and identify what it is we found." Meanwhile, friends and family waited and prayed. Kiirsi Hellewell, a close friend of the missing woman, said the discovery of remains brought a sense of hope that the case might finally move forward but also sadness that she might really be dead. "It's always a mixture of emotions because we've been down this road before with the discovery of bodies and remains," Hellewell said. "It's like a seesaw because we also don't want to find out that she's dead." In May, speculation swirled that remains found in the desert about 50 miles southwest of Salt Lake City might have been those of Powell, but authorities later said it was a young adult male. Authorities have been searching since Monday in the area near Topaz Mountain in Juab County. The site is about 135 miles southwest of the location where Susan Powell was last seen where she lived in West Valley City. Last month, investigators searched mine shaft-dotted mountains near Ely, Nev., and later served a search warrant at the Puyallup, Wash., home that her husband, Josh Powell, shares with his father, seizing computers and journals. This latest search is in an area popular for gem and rock hunters. Police have said Powell's husband liked to rock hunt in the area. "From the very beginning he clearly indicated he had been in and around the area," said Sgt. Powell, who is not related to the family of the missing woman. Susan Powell's father, Chuck Cox, expressed doubt that the remains belonged to his daughter. He said that would mean whoever took her would have had to dump her body in the middle of a high desert freezing winter where the ground would have been covered in snow and frozen solid. "We're just waiting," he said Wednesday evening. Josh Powell didn't return telephone calls. He believes his wife ran off with another man and has told police he left her at home about 12:30 a.m. on that Dec. 7 to go winter camping in freezing temperatures with their young sons — then 4 and 2 — about 80 miles west of Salt Lake City. The 4-year-old confirmed the trip to police. Over the past weeks, the case has taken salacious turns as family members on both sides sparred over truth and fiction, and accusations of sex and lies. Josh Powell's family claims Susan Powell was sexually promiscuous, emotionally unstable and suicidal. They were offering as proof several diary pages from the missing woman's teenage years. Her family says the entries were written by a young girl still growing up and have no bearing on her disappearance. They got a temporary order in a Washington court prohibiting the Powells from distributing them. Josh Powell has mostly remained quiet throughout the investigation, and police say he hasn't been cooperative. But in a string of national television interviews in August, Josh Powell denied having anything to do with her disappearance. In another strange twist, Steve Powell, Josh's father, said he and Susan Powell were falling in love and even implied a sexual relationship had occurred. Susan's father, Chuck Cox, said the allegations are false. He claims it was Steve Powell who initiated unwanted sexual advances, and that his daughter had no interest in her father-in-law. The feuding between the two sides got so heated that a court commissioner in Washington state ordered Chuck Cox and Josh Powell to keep 500 feet apart. ___ AP writers Lynn DeBruin and Brian Skoloff contributed to this report from Salt Lake City, Eugene Johnson from Seattle, and Ted S. Warren from Puyallup.  Copyright Associated Press,    Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.   



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



Fate of historic Bastrop pine trees


Homecoming parade takes on new meaning


Disaster Recovery Center helps victims


Medal of Honor winner recalls battle


Fire didn't snuff out love of music





Perry holding $50M for disaster relief


Hill Country D.A. will not run again


Texas State to get Christmas Mountains


Perry hits back on HPV vaccine claims


Boil-water notice lifted in Bastrop








More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Latest wildfire information


Dead grass? Replace it via city program


Fate of historic Bastrop pine trees


Homecoming parade takes on new meaning


Perry holding $50M for disaster relief






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












