The Frame: Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas





















Sign In
Join





Logout





Reader Services


Place a classified ad
Place an obituary
Manage your sacbee.com account
Manage your subscription
Make a payment
VIP Club
Order reprints
Contact us


Stay Connected


Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
e-Edition
Archives
Contact us


Site Feedback





                Subscribe to The Bee TODAY
            






The Frame
 


News

Business
Local
Education
Crime
Obituaries
Weather
Data Center
Investigations
Nation/World
Popular Topics
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
ROSEVILLE TOYOTA






Capitol & California

Capitol Alert
State Workers
State Politics
State News
Jerry Brown
Marijuana
Budget
Prop 8
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
California Credit Union League






Our Region

Business
Real Estate
City Beat
Transportation
Our Towns
Arrest Logs
Medical
Environment
Religion
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
Roseville Toyota






Sports

Kings/NBA
UFL/Mountain Lions
49ers
Raiders
High Schools
Colleges
A's/Giants
River Cats
Golf
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
JOHN L. SULLIVAN CHEVROLET






Living Here

Moms & Family
Pets
Appetizers
Food & Wine
Home & Garden
Outdoors
Health & Fitness
Books & Media
Fun & Games






Sponsored By
Sutter Health






Entertainment

Events
Movies
Dining
Things to Do
Fun & Games
TV Listings
Travel
Books & Media
Music
Theater & Art
Bee Buzz Points







Opinion

Editorials
The Conversation
Viewpoints
Letters to the Editor
The Swarm
Rex Babin Cartoons
California Forum
Editorial Board





Cars

Bee Auto Ads
Auto Show
Buy/Sell
Research
Shopping Advice
Transportation News
Car Photos/Videos





Jobs

Healthcare/Social Service Careers
Career Fairs and Events
Post a Resume
Who's Hiring
Employer Resources
Search Classifieds





Homes

Visit Our New Real Estate Section
Homefinder.com
Apartments.com
Commercial Real Estate
Community News





Classifieds

In Memoriams
Garage Sale Kit
Legal Notices
Place a classified ad





Deals

Find n Save
Dealsaver
Daily Deal
Local Coupons
Local Ads
Golf Card
Weekly Inserts & Gift Cards










 












        Wednesday, September  7, 2011
    








            Web search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH
        

 This blog
 sacbee.com
 Web






Weather | Traffic

57° F

 






The Frame

A photo blog of world events by Sacbee.com Assistant Director of Multimedia Tim Reese.




 Subscribe to this blog's feed







September  6, 2011
Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas




BASTROP, Texas (AP) -- A roaring wildfire raced through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance that was fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.
At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said.
Strong winds and drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. The blaze consumed as much as 25,000 acres along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.
The new outbreak led Gov. Rick Perry to return home to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president. He also canceled a trip to California.
Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut, Perry said. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, he said. (46 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 A helicopter drops water onto a blaze in Cedar Park, Texas  on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.   Thomas Allison / The Daily Texan


MORE IMAGES








 A series of large wildfires as seen heading east approaching Bastrop, Texas  on Highway 71 Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. Erich Schlegel / AP










 Brian Covish, waves to fire bombers from the roof of his home on Cedar Lane in the Blue Bonnet Acres subdivision west of Bastrop, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Rodolfo Gonzalez / Austin American-Statesman










 Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. Erich Schlegel / AP










 Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.   Erich Schlegel / AP










 A large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011 burns piles of lumber and ranch posts.   Erich Schlegel / AP










 Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.   Erich Schlegel / AP










 Firefighters from Smithville Fire Department battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  Erich Schlegel / AP










 Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.   Erich Schlegel / AP










 A large wildfire burns along Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas  as a bulldozer from the Texas Forest Service rumbles by Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  Erich Schlegel / AP










 A fire rages near Highway 71 east of Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011.  Jay Janner / Austin American-Statesman










 Smoke can be seen from a 300-acre wildfire in Magnolia, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. Nearly 8,000 residents were evacuated from the area.  Karl Anderson / The Courier










 A Maud, Texas firefighter closes his eyes to avoid being hit by fire debris while fighting a 7,000 acre fire in southern Cass County, Texas Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Christena Dowsett / Texarkana Gazette










 A resident carries a shovel to pat down smolders while fighting a 7,000 acre fire in southern Cass County, Texas Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Christena Dowsett / Texarkana Gazette










 A member of the Cushing V.F.D. fights a brush fire that started when a car caught fire Monday, Sept. 5, 2011 in Nacogdoches, Texas.   Dustin Anderson / The Daily Sentinel










 Aldine firefighters battle a 300-acre wildfire on FM 1774 near FM 1486 in Magnolia, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. Nearly 8,000 residents were evacuated from the area. Karl Anderson / The Courier










 An Aldine firefighter battles a 300-acre wildfire on FM 1774 near FM 1486 in Magnolia, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. Nearly 8,000 residents were evacuated from the area. Karl Anderson / The Courier










 Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  Erich Schlegel / AP










 Home owner, Dennis Kleiber, left, uses a chainsaw to cut a hole in his floor to get to smoldering wood as Brian Schultz uses a bucket of water to put out embers from the fire on Cedar Lane in the Blue Bonnet Acres subdivision west of Bastrop, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Rodolfo Gonzalez / Austin American-Statesman










 Angel Malagor, left, and Mike Moreno, right, use buckets to pull water from a cattle pond to haul towards hot spots along Cedar Lane in the Blue Bonnet Acres subdivision west of Bastrop, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.   Rodolfo Gonzalez / Austin American-Statesman










 Ryan Joseph Terranova packs up his belongings moments before evacuating his home   in Bastrop, Texas, as a huge fire approaches  on Monday Sept. 5, 2011.   Jay Janner / Austin American-Statesman










 A man,  uses a shovel to extinguish flames Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, near Lilbert, Texas.   Andrew D. Brosig / The Daily Sentinel










 A helicopter is used to drop water on a wildfire, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, near Bastrop, Texas.   Eric Gay / AP










 Residence watch from the intersection of FM 1488 and FM 1774 as smoke from a 300-acre wildfire burns in Magnolia, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Karl Anderson / The Courier










 A large plume of smoke rises from a wildfire at onlookers watch from a hill, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   Eric Gay / AP










 A plane flies through smoke billowing from a large wildfire in Cedar Park,Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Thomas Allison / The Daily Texan










 Bastrop, Texas County resident John Raworth and his two dogs watch as a wildfire jumps the street in their central Texas neighborhood on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Trent Lesikar / The Daily Texan










 A firefighting helicopter is dwarfed by massive plumes of smoke in Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011.  Jay Janner / Austin American-Statesman










 Embers and small flames on tree roots glow with heat in a wooded area off of County Road 320 in Anderson County, Texas, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. The fire in the area near Frankston originally began Thursday and rekindled Saturday morning. Winds have caused many fires to spread and rekindle in the East Texas area. Sarah A. Miller / Tyler Morning Telegraph










 Remnants of a burned out home off Highway 71 near Bastrop, Texas as a series of large wildfires continue to burn Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. Erich Schlegel / AP










  J Cindy Cruz wipes tears from her eyes as Texas Gov. Rick Perry talks with her at Bastrop Middle School in Bastrop, Texas, Monday, Sept.  5, 2011.   Alberto MartAnez / Austin American-Statesman










 Amanda Stark drops to her knees and prays for her home to be saved as Texas Forest Service' Assistant Chief, Mary Martinez, left, Marc Calderon, and Jose Audelo, evacuate the Blue Bonnet Acres subdivision west of Bastrop, Texas on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Rodolfo Gonzalez / Austin American-Statesman










 Marsha Moore, left, is comforted by a friend as she keeps an eye on the fire near her home, near Linden, Texas,  Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Christena Dowsett / Texarkana Gazette










 Linden, Texas resident Sierra Young takes pictures from Highway 59 of a 7,000 acre fire spreading across southern Cass County, Texas, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. Christena Dowsett / Texarkana Gazette










 Jack Novak, in red, head pastor with The Grove church, leads a prayer outside Magnolia High School where residents evacuated from their homes near  a 300-acre wild fire gathered Monday, Sept. 5, 2011 in Magnolia, Texas. Nearly 8,000 residents were evacuated from their homes. Eric S. Swist / The Courier










 Students from a local 4-H group drop off bottled water for firefighers and displaced residents at Magnolia High School where residents evacuated from their homes near  a 300-acre wild fire gathered Monday, Sept. 5, 2011 in Magnolia, Texas. Eric S. Swist / The Courier










 Patricia Bloodworth-Neville sobs inside the Bluebonnet Volunteer Fire Station in Bastrop County, Texas  on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.  Trent Lesikar / The Daily Texan










 Evacuated residents gathered for information about the fire and news about their homes, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, during a wildfire at Steiner Ranch west of Austin, Texas. Ricardo B. Brazziell / Austin American-Statesman










 A plane drops fire retardant on a house on Mauna Kea Lane in the Tahitian Village neighborhood in Bastrop, Texas,  on Monday Sept. 5, 2011. A house on the street was burned to the ground. Jay Janner / Austin American-Statesman










 This aerial photo shows a golf course alongside fire-scorched homes and forest, near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas, Thursday, Sept. 1, 2011. Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols told The Associated Press that 39 homes have been destroyed by the blaze, which has blackened at least 6,200 acres since Tuesday. Ian McVea / Fort Worth Star-Telegram










 This aerial photo shows charred land, near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas, Thursday, Sept. 1, 2011.  Ian McVea / Fort Worth Star-Telegram










 A wildfire roars through dry trees near  Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas, Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011.    LM Otero / AP










 A helicopter returns to the lake to refill it's tank for a water drop on fires Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011 near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas. Ron Jenkins / Fort Worth Star-Telegram










 An air tanker drops fire retardant on a fire in The Cliffs development Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011 near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas.  Ron Jenkins / Fort Worth Star-Telegram










 In this photo made Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011, a brush fire truck drives in an area destroyed by a wildfire at Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas.    LM Otero / AP










 In this photo made Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011, Palo Pinto County Sheriff Ira Mercer looks over an area destroyed by a wildfire at Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas.   LM Otero / AP












Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

12:03 AM
11:55 PM |
		
		Comments
		
		
			|
			
Share









© Copyright The Sacramento Bee.  All rights reserved.




About Comments
Reader comments on Sacbee.com are the opinions of the writer, not The Sacramento Bee. If you see an objectionable comment, click the "report abuse" button below it. We will delete comments containing inappropriate links, obscenities, hate speech, and personal attacks. Flagrant or repeat violators will be banned. See more about comments here.


What You Should Know About Comments on Sacbee.com
Sacbee.com is happy to provide a forum for reader interaction, discussion, feedback and reaction to our stories.  However, we reserve the right to delete inappropriate comments or ban users who can't play nice. (See our full terms of service here.)
Here are some rules of the road:
• Keep your comments civil. Don't insult one another or the subjects of our articles.  If you think a comment violates our guidelines click the "report abuse" button to notify the moderators. Responding to the comment will only encourage bad behavior. 
• Don't use profanities, vulgarities or hate speech.  This is a general interest news site.  Sometimes, there are children present. Don't say anything in a way you wouldn't want your own child to hear. 
• Do not  attack other users; focus your comments on issues, not individuals. 
• Stay on topic.  Only post comments relevant to the article at hand.  If you want to discuss an issue with a specific user, click on his profile name and send him a direct message. 
• Do not copy and paste outside material into the comment box. 
• Don't repeat the same comment over and over.  We heard you the first time. 
• Do not use the commenting system for advertising. That's spam and it isn't allowed. 
• Don't use all capital letters.  That's akin to yelling and not appreciated by the audience.
You should also know that The Sacramento Bee does not screen comments before they are posted.  You are more likely to see inappropriate comments before our staff does, so we ask that you click the "report abuse" button to submit those comments for moderator review.  You also may notify us via email at feedback@sacbee.com.  Note the headline on which the comment is made and tell us the profile name of the user who made the comment. Remember, comment moderation is subjective.  You may find some material objectionable that we won't and vice versa.
If you submit a comment, the user name of your account will appear along with it.  Users cannot remove their own comments once they have submitted them, but you may ask our staff to retract one of your comments by sending an email to feedback@sacbee.com.  Again, make sure you note the headline on which the comment is made and tell us your profile name.







Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
 
 
 





Contact Us

Site Feedback
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Bee Jobs



Share Content

Share your pictures
Share your videos
News tips



Advertise With Us

Place a classified ad
Place a real estate ad
Place a rental ad
Place a newspaper ad



Online Extras

Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Maps & Directions






Copyright © The Sacramento Bee
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About The Sacramento Bee
About the McClatchy Company





















