BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean    Washington :  DC :  USA
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy             4 1      
Views: 236
         Can you imagine waiting almost 18-months to find out if you're going to be charged with a crime you knew you committed? You can bet BP was playing the waiting game with sweat on their brow and a constant replaying of the scenarios that led up to the April 20, 2010 nightmarish oil spill--hoping, pacing, wanting so badly not to get caught.  ~~~~~ Lets go to BP's theoretical dark dungeon, I mean office, and see what may have transpired.... Scene opens with Master demon sitting behind his desk with his finest "yes" demon, Minion. Minion regularly gets used and abused and forced to follow him around in an effort to keep his spirits up during the multitudes of lowly situations the lying, cheating, money-loving Master gets himself into. Minion: (In a submissive tone) Uh, master, maybe it won't be so bad... Master: (Jumps out of his chair -- slams hands down on desk) You idiot! You cockroach! Of course it's going to be bad...the question is, how can we divert this negative attention away from ourselves? How can we get the media to side with us so we won't get the raw end of the deal---so we won't get ALL the blame!!! Minion: (Shaking)...uh, uh, sir, uhem, uh permission to speak sir? Master:  (Pacing) WHAT DO YOU WANT NOW! Minion: ...Your highness, Master, uh, sir, uhem, I know a couple of journalists that call me in at night and ask me for wisdom sometimes...uhem, sir, uh, I could whisper to them to make sure and point a lot of the blame on Transocean....can I...can I....please, it'll be so much fun, sir, uh, they always listen to my evil whispers because they know my suggestions will help them make more money....and sir, they LOVE money.  Master: That's a fantastic idea! Uhem, I mean--shutup you little flea...I'll be the one who comes up with all the good ideas...just...okay, I got it, poop breath---you go to the Times and find the hottest journalist there--remind him he will make more money if he breaks new information....keep planting the love of money into his brain and remind him of the upcoming raise he could get if he gets news before all the others.  Then put our puppet writer in a dreamy trance and say, "Transocean should get the blame--money--Transocean is also responsible--money." Remind him, he'll be the first and all the others will copy him...then he'll get fame too for breaking the new information...NOW move it! Get out of here you piece of rat excrement!  ~~~~~  So, you can imagine BP was probably sweating it out for months waiting and wondering. Then hump day came, which is usually a day of hope for the average employee, reminding that Friday's just around the corner. But this Wednesday may have had the opposite effect on BP when the investigation results were released--until they read the whole report... BP executives must've been flush with the feeling of heat stroke as a federal report released damning information charging them with negligence which included rushing to meet a deadline, inept safety practices and a faulty cement seal, according to USA Today.  Billions of dollars to clean up the mess and economic losses were cited in the report regarding the explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig, which caused erroneous losses of life and a nearly incalculable amount of ecological damage and cleanup needed in the Gulf.  Having 11 crew members killed during the chaos only mounted the possibility of irresponsible business and safety practices which needed an indepth investigation that would not bring immediate results to the public.  But, light at the end of the tunnel came for BP when other companies and Transocean, owner of Deepwater Horizon, had been named as sharing in safe procedure responsibilities. Transocean, though, was cited as neglecting to meet them, thereby participating in the blame for unsafe work conditions that caused the deaths of 11 personnel onboard the rig.  The report surfaced after 18-months of careful examination of the scenario and conditions by both the Coast Guard and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement.  Who knows how much power the media has...what part officials read and listen to...if seeds are planted in the heads of investigators when certain types of news stories reveal another angle...who knows... I remember when the news broke that BP was trying to focus the attention towards Transocean and other companies...I remember, because I wrote about it. Related articles: 1 year after spill: I know what you spilled last summer-----One year after spill, BP sues Gulf of Mexico Showdown--BP's all in         1 of 1        
Save money on safety, save money on equipment, save money for more money...
    
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (64.9%) United Kingdom (4.2%) Philippines (4.2%) Canada (4.2%) 16 other countries (18.5%)           READ MORE: bp, Transocean, BP oil spill April 2010, 2010 oil spill, BP Spill, gulf spill, deepwater horizon rig, master demon, 212 page report, results of oil spill, BP responsible for oil spill   More News From: Washington :  DC :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Blame shared over Gulf oil spill  
BBC
 A US federal report has blamed the worst oil spill in US history on "key mis-steps", poor leadership and a poor cement job by BP and its contractors. BP was "ultimately responsible" for rig safety, with Transocean responsible for safe operations and...    BP shares blame over Gulf of Mexico oil spill  
ITN
 However, the investigation found that rig owner Transocean and contractor Halliburton also played a part in the catastrophe. The disaster last April was the worst offshore oil spill in US history. Almost five million barrels of oil leaked into the...    Oil Spill Report Chastises BP, Others  
KSAZ
 Federal investigators released their final report Wednesday on the causes of last year's Deepwater Horizon drilling rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico, castigating BP PLC and its contractors for risky decisions and criticizing the government for...    Deepwater Horizon report syphons off some of blame from BP  
Guardian Unlimited
 P Official findings suggest the oil giant's contractors should share responsibility for the disaster Shares in BP jumped on Wednesday morning on news that an official report into the Deepwater Horizon disaster, due to be formally released at 5pm on...       Images    >         BP oil spill $$$    BP oil spill $$$ Image Source: allvoices Save money on safety, save money on equipment, save money for more money......      More Related Images    More From Washington          BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Pentagon says Zawahiri still in Pakistan        Obama to name Russia adviser as Moscow envoy        World Bank: Global Economy in the New Danger Zone          U.S Report blames BP , contractors for Gulf oil spill        Jacqueline Kennedy’s closely guarded secrets       Nielsen estimates, about 140 million people visit Facebook in May        Indiana Stands to Gain 24,000 Jobs Under the President’s American Jobs Act          CIA to inform Congressional committees on the body of Bin Laden        Barack Obama rejects pact with the narco Mexico        IMF warns of risk of reversal of investments in emerging        US Poverty Rises to a Record High 46.2 million          US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for safety nets                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10341514          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 4       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 3       Images: 1       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10341514), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10341514 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10341514 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10341514-bps-master-demon-directs-minion-to-transocean.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         