 April 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






GREENIES Products to be Marketed Exclusively at Veterinary Hospitals, Pet Specialty Retailers
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 30 under Animals, Eco Business, Organic
Nutro Products, Inc. announced today that its GREENIES products will now be offered exclusively through veterinary hospitals and pet specialty retailers. The products include canine GREENIES dental chews, FELINE GREENIES dental treats, GREENIES PILL POCKETS treats and GREENIES SMART BISCUIT treats. “GREENIES products are recognized by veterinarians and other pet professionals as functional treats with [...]


Comments Off



‘Green’ Becomes Organic Part of the Architectural Design Workflow
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 28 under Eco Business, Eco Gadgets
Graphisoft EcoDesigner is an integrated, easy-to-use energy evaluation tool for architects. EcoDesigner enables architects to control the energy consumption of their buildings, and sets new standards in sustainable design, making ArchiCAD the leading software solution for contemporary architectural demands. With EcoDesigner, architects will have easy access to much needed energy information concerning their project in [...]


Comments Off



Verizon Wireless HopeLine Phone Recycling Program
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 21 under Recycling
Northern Californians can help preserve the Earth’s resources and support victims of domestic violence this Earth Day – and every day – by recycling their no-longer-used wireless phones, batteries and accessories through Verizon Wireless’ HopeLine phone recycling and refurbishing program. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), recycling 1 million phones would save enough [...]


1 Comment



Annual Earth Day Recycling Drive by Great Lakes Electronics Corporation
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 17 under Eco Business, Recycling
Great Lakes Electronics Corporation is again hosting its annual “Earth Day” consumer electronics recycling drive, where they will be collecting electronic waste (eWaste) free of charge to all Michigan residents. This year, the collection will be held at their newest recycling and processing facility located at 22100 Sherwood Ave., in Warren, MI. The 6-acre recycling [...]


12 Comments



First Solar Powered Home Theater Launched!
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 17 under Appliances, Solar Power
Are you wary of the energy consumption of a home theater setup? Well if you are, her e is something that may comfort you or even entice you to start setting up the home theater of your dreams! The Home Theater Specialists of America have teamed up with vendors to deliver the first-ever solar powered [...]


2 Comments



Nickelodeon Celebrates Earth Day
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 14 under Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly
  Got kids?  Maybe you’re a Nickolodeon fan youself?  If so, take note because Nickelodeon has lined up a schedule of  eco-friendly programming and off-channel initiatives on Earth Day - Wednesday, April 22. New green-themed episodes from hit tween shows iCarly and True Jackson, VP and even selected preschool shows, will air on Nickelodeon and NOGGIN throughout [...]


1 Comment



Awesome Green Products from Natural Expo West
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 14 under Eco Business, Eco Friendly Events
  The 29th annual Natural Products Expo West/SupplyExpo (www.expowest.com), which was held March 5-8, 2009 at the Anaheim Convention Center in California, attracted more than 53,000 industry members and showcased the newest and most innovative products in natural, organic and healthy living. Check out these awesome green living products from this year’s show: Verterra Dishware (made from discarded [...]


Comments Off



The Best Hybrids for the Money
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 13 under Transportation
  Hybrid vehicles are becoming more and more popular with consumers, but with so many options available, it’s hard to discern which hybrids are really the best car for the money.  Cars.com has made it a little easier by putting together a list based on vehicle size that identifies which hybrids offer the best value, so if you’ve been in [...]


1 Comment



A High-Performance Running Shoe with Less Waste
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 13 under Eco Business, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly
  Runners World magazine has named END Footwear (which stands for Environmentally Neutral Design) the ”Best Trail Running Shoe Debut” in it’s Spring Trail Running Shoe Guide.  Andrew Estey, CEO and Creative Engine for END: “We’re psyched to receive such high praise from our first season of product! Our original goal was simple and continues today: design high-performance running [...]


Comments Off



10 Tips to Green Your Home
POSTED BY Tina on Apr 10 under Appliances, Conservation, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Lighting, Recycling
  Below are 10 surefire ways to green-up your home and improve energy efficiency, decrease your carbon footprint and save money: Look for home products that contain recycled content – like carpeting made from soda bottles. Use safe, natural and non-toxic cleaners. Your body and wallet will thank you. Ask your power company if they do free [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


christmas
carbon footprint
barack obama
earthquake
mother earth
Recycling
money
global warming
earth
eco
ecofriendly
saving energy
epicenter
richter scale
Eco-friendly
pr newswire
clothes
recycled materials
climate change
lifestyle
environment
reuters
global warning
organic cotton
national hurricane center
consumers
prnewswire
hurricane irene
tropical storm lee
green
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




