9/11 families press court to get list of kin







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 











News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health
Coupons


Home : News : September 11 : 













Photo



In this Sept. 11, 2001 photo, the remains of the World Trade Center stand amid the debris following the terrorist attacks in New York. (AP Photo/Alexandre Fuchs)

Regular Photo Size












Sept. 11 Coverage



9/11 families want to get list of kinSept. 11 victims' relatives who say a museum is no place to put…



Name misspelled on 9/11 memorialThe name of a man killed in the Sept. 11 attacks is misspelled …



Petraeus: Al-Qaida is still out thereAmerica's top two intelligence officials said Tuesday that …



NY-to-AZ flight diverted to St. LouisInvestigators have determined that there was no terrorism …



Clinton: Kabul group will be dealt withThe Obama administration declared Tuesday it wouldn't allow the…








Advertisement







9/11 families want to get list of kinHearing in lawsuit against New York CityUpdated: Wednesday, 14 Sep 2011, 3:38 PM CDTPublished : Wednesday, 14 Sep 2011, 9:49 AM CDT

JENNIFER PELTZ,Associated Press

NEW YORK (AP) — Sept. 11 victims' relatives who say a museum is no place to put unidentified victims' remains went to court Wednesday to press for access to a city-maintained list of the next of kin for all the nearly 2,800 people killed at the World Trade Center, information the relatives say they need to gauge opinion on the issue. In a hearing that was technically about public-records law but overlaid with an emotionally charged debate over the future of 9,000 pieces of unidentified remains, relatives' lawyers said they needed the list to poll families. But a city lawyer said releasing it would invade the privacy of people whose identities became the government's business only through tragedy. A judge didn't immediately rule or say when she would. The case is a byproduct of a bitter disagreement between some victims' relatives and city officials, the National Sept. 11 Memorial & Museum and, indeed, some other victims' relatives over the unidentified remains. Remains have never been identified for more than 1,100 victims. The 17 relatives who are suing oppose a plan to put the unidentified remains 70 feet underground in the subterranean museum, behind a wall inscribed with a quote from Virgil. The remains wouldn't be visible to the public, and a private room next to the repository would be set aside for families. The relatives who object want the remains to be in a separate space on the memorial plaza above. They see the nonprofit museum as commercially minded, and they're put off by the idea of paying respects in a place that could include a gift shop and may ask visitors — though not families — for an admission fee of up to $20. "It would be much more respectful if it was something that was on the plaza level. ... To us, now it's tantamount to an attraction in a museum," says Fire Department Lt. Jim McCaffrey, who lost his brother-in-law, Battalion Chief Orio Palmer. McCaffrey was among about a half-dozen victims' relatives who were in the courtroom audience Wednesday, some wearing photographs and pins with their loved ones' names and images. The city and memorial foundation — which has some victims' relatives on its board — have said they conducted an extensive effort to include families in planning, family members were OK'd the arrangement and the plan has been known for years. They point to various plans, mailings and other documents dating back to 2004. But those who are suing they were never consulted about the idea of placing the remains underground in the museum, saying plans referred only broadly to putting remains at the memorial. "If it was well-known, we wouldn't be here today," the families' lawyer, Norman Siegel, told the judge Wednesday. "And that's the underlying issue here: Who decides where the remains will go? Does the government decide, or do the families decide," he asked, or what obligations does the government have to consult families? The families have sued the city, proposing that the list be released to a retired judge. He would send out a letter explaining the plan and asking for opinions to the next of kin of the 2,752 trade center victims. The city argued that under public-records law, the list would have to be released publicly if it were released at all, and that would invade victims' families' privacy and subject them to a deluge of unwanted solicitations and communications. "The names and addresses of 9/11 victims' family members is an amalgamation of experiences that are intensely private," Thaddeus Hackworth, a city lawyer, told the judge. The fact that the relatives were caught up in the terrorist attacks "should not also mean that these individuals have given up all rights to privacy," he said. Manhattan state Supreme Court Justice Cynthia Kern asked whether the relatives and city might be able to work something out. "Why would the city not want to give notice to family members about what's going to happen with the remains?" she asked. At the other sites where hijacked planes crashed on Sept. 11, 2001, the placement of unidentified remains has been resolved. Three caskets of unidentified remains from the crash of United Airlines Flight 93 in a field in Shanksville, Pa., were buried there Monday. Unidentified remains from the Pentagon, where American Airlines Flight 77 crashed, were buried at Arlington National Cemetery on the first anniversary of the attacks. ___  Copyright Associated Press,    Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.   



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



Fate of historic Bastrop pine trees


Homecoming parade takes on new meaning


Disaster Recovery Center helps victims


Medal of Honor winner recalls battle


Fire didn't snuff out love of music





Perry holding $50M for disaster relief


Hill Country D.A. will not run again


Texas State to get Christmas Mountains


Perry hits back on HPV vaccine claims


Boil-water notice lifted in Bastrop








More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Latest wildfire information


Dead grass? Replace it via city program


Fate of historic Bastrop pine trees


Homecoming parade takes on new meaning


Perry holding $50M for disaster relief






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












