


  


Eukanuba Bloggers


DonnaResearch and Development
JenniferClinical Trials Manager
JeniferEditor/Eukanuba Community Manager
VickyExternal Relations
BeckyProducts Researcher
BevP&G Pet Care Community Manager



|
About the Blog











  





13 Sep 2011


		Adult Dogs




The Chihuahua: Man’s Best Amigo?

Who could resist a cuddly little Chihuahua burrowed into his makeshift den (most likely your bedcovers)? These diminutive dogs are known for being fiercely loyal to one owner. If you’re lucky enough to be a Chihuahua’s “person,” your amigo will enjoy spending all his time with you. And, because they’re so small and portable, it’s easy to do just that!

Warm and Sometimes Fuzzy
One of the joys of owning a Chihuahua is her easy grooming. The smooth-coated Chihuahua has short, soft fur that requires minimal care. Stroking her body will keep her coat clean and glossy and improve the bond between you and your pet. The long-coat variety also needs minimal care — just occasional brushing to keep his coat fluffy. Both smooth and long-coat varieties should have their nails clipped monthly and bathed as needed. Keep in mind that your one-person Chihuahua might resent being handled by a stranger, so it’s important for you to personally make the introduction between your pet and the groomer.
Terrier-like Behavior
Chihuahuas have terrier-like personalities: intelligent, loyal, loving, very active and often opinionated! Be patient but firm to earn their respect and to nip any aggressive behaviors in the bud. Being tiny, they might fear larger dogs, so set them up for success by socializing them with other Chihuahuas and toy breeds. They might also fear people they don’t know, so use positive reinforcement when introducing your Chihuahua to newcomers.
Small in Size, but Big in Nutritional Needs
You wouldn’t think such small dogs would have large appetites, but they do. And they’ll eat practically anything, so it’s up to you to give your Chihuahua a high-quality diet. Because of the Chihuahua’s little size and need for frequent refueling to support his fast metabolism, you can leave food in a bowl and let him nibble at-will all day. This is especially important for toy breed puppies, as hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) can occur if they wait too long between meals. Make sure the dry kibbles, or meat chunks if you’re feeding your pet canned food, are sized for a toy dog’s small mouth.
This Toy Breed is Not a Toy
The Chihuahua might be pint-sized, but he’s definitely not a child’s toy. The typical Chihuahua weighs between 3 and 6 pounds, so young children might inadvertently hurt them. Also, if your dog jumps off the sofa to follow an excited child, the jump from that height could dislocate your dog’s patella (kneecap) or break a leg. In fact, subluxation (moving out of position)
By Joan P. Scott

This article originally appeared on www.exceptionalcanine.com, an independent editorial source.
Read Entry | Read Comments Off| By: Jenifer, RVT





12 Sep 2011


		Adult Dogs




Breed Spotlight Week on Eukanuba Facebook:  The Chihuahua


X
Have a Chihuahua?  Then this week is for you~  Post a picture of your Chihuahua on the Eukanuba wall, we can’t see them if you post it on your own wall!
Tell us:  In 3 words, describe your Chihuahua.  We will post the Eukanuba Chihuahua Photo Album this Friday~
Read Entry | Read 0 Comments| By: Jenifer, RVT





9 Sep 2011


		Newsroom




Central Texas Wildfire Disaster Aid from P&G Pet Care


X
P&G Pet Care has donated 30 tons of pet food to assist with the relief efforts of the animals that have become displaced from the wildfires in Central Texas.
P&G is proud to partner with local distributors and retailers to warehouse and distribute this product to animal welfare organizations in the Austin and Houston regions of the state.
This large donation consists of Iams, Eukanuba and Natura Pet Food products.
For information on our donation efforts for Hurricane Irene and other disaster donations, see here.

Read Entry | Read 0 Comments| By: Jenifer, RVT





7 Sep 2011


		Adult Dogs




Reading Your Dog’s Body Language


By Stacy Braslau-Schneck
As you train and bond with your dog, one of the most important things you should understand is when she’s uncomfortable with the situation she’s in. Many people — even experienced dog owners — are not good at reading subtle signs of discomfort. They think their dog is fine with what’s happening when, in fact, the dog is sometimes enduring the interaction under duress and protest. But you can learn what various body signals mean, and reading your dog’s body language can help you guard him from the things that cause him distress.
Read the Signs
If your dog is happy, content and comfortable, you’ll usually notice these signs:

He looks soft, with a loose and wiggly body, warm eyes, and a gently wagging tail or even a “wagging body”
His eyes are squinty and almond-shaped, with no whites showing
Usually she opens her mouth loosely, but the corners aren’t pulled back
Her ears are neutral or up. A dog showing mild or comfortable curiosity perks his ears forward and might slow down other movements

Understand What Is Normal for Your Dog
It’s important to keep each dog’s normal expression into account, as dogs have different neutral positions for tails, ears, brow wrinkles, etc. A Border Collie or Greyhound in a calm, neutral mood will hold her tail a lot lower than a Husky or Akita, and as these dogs raise or lower their tails they might not even come close to the other breed’s neutral.
When a dog holds his tail higher than normal and his ears are forward or up, it indicates confidence and interest. Tails and ears held lower than normal indicates uncertainty, fear, or nervousness.

Recognize Distress
If your dog is nervous, uncomfortable, stressed or distressed, you’ll often see these signs:

As a first step, he’ll often look away from something that bothers him, as if he’s trying to ignore it
His body is stiffer and stiller
His eyes look rounded, with the whites showing. The eyes may appear hard or cold (some people report, “He gets that look in his eyes”)
She closes her mouth
She pins back or lowers her ears
She might wag her tail, but it’s stiffer (and sometimes held higher or lower than the comfortable neutral position). A wagging tail does not always mean a happy dog. If your dog is wagging her tail but the rest of her body is stiff, this is probably not a happy wag

If you see your dog go still and close his mouth, turn to focus on whatever might be disturbing her. If she goes from soft almond-shaped eyes to harder rounded eyes (sometimes with whites showing), it’s a sign she’s not comfortable with the situation. It’s not a cause to panic, it’s just information: Your dog is saying “I don’t like this” or “This makes me uncomfortable” or “When you do that, I feel uncomfortable.” Make note of what’s going on and change it; redirect the dog to move farther away or stop any unwanted interactions (with you, other people or other dogs).
Reading your dog’s body language can greatly help you understand how she’s feeling, so you can keep her as comfortable and safe as possible.
This article originally appeared on www.exceptionalcanine.com, an independent editorial source.

Read Entry | Read 0 Comments| By: Jenifer, RVT





6 Sep 2011


		Adult Dogs




9/9/2011 UPDATE:  Rescheduled for 9/25! Surf Dog Surf-A-Thon

****UPDATE as of 9/9/2011****
Due to the power outage, and subsequent sewage spill, the Surf Dog Surf-A-Thon has been rescheduled for Sunday,  September 25th.  The safety of the surfing dogs, and of course their humans, comes first~ besides, it’s just more time to practice and raise more money for Helen Woodward Animal Center!!



X
This Sunday, September 11th will be the 6th Annual Surf Dog Surf-A-Thon, presented by Helen Woodward Animal Center.
This year, Eukanuba is sponsoring Dr. Jessica’s dog (you know her as Dr. V from Pawcurious) “Brody” a Golden Retriever.  This is his first time surfing!  He will be sporting his own hip Eukanuba pink rash guard.  Dr. V will also have a Eukanuba Pink rash guard of her own!  Besides, who doesn’t want matching rash guards, especially with their surfing dog?!
Dr. V put together a fun video as part one of the Hang 20 Surf Dog Experience as she and Brody explore what it means to live healthy:
X

Read Entry | Read Comments Off| By: Jenifer, RVT




< View Older Posts
















View Categories Breeds

Nutrition

Products

Stories

Training


  


Archives September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011



View older entries


 


 
Get Email Updates


G-Lock opt-in manager for send email newsletters   



Other ways to stay involved
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
 



Related Links
American Kennel Club (AKC)
Canine Companions for Independence (CCI)
Eukanuba
Eukanuba Sport
Guiding Eyes for the Blind
IAMS
Morris Animal Foundation
Puppy Information







 



 



P&G Pet Care •
            Privacy Statement •
			Terms & Conditions •		
			P&G Links

Copyright Eukanuba ©2010 Procter & Gamble Pet Care • All rights reserved worldwide.


