Wildfires rip through sun-scorched Texas - CNNWildfires rip through sun-scorched Texas

















Share this on:


Facebook
Twitter
Digg
delicious
reddit
MySpace
StumbleUpon
LinkedIn


















September 05, 2011|By the CNN Wire StaffSmoke billows from a wildfire in Bastrop County, Texas, on Sunday.Firefighters southeast of Austin, Texas, battled strong winds Monday as they struggled to gain ground against a fast-moving wildfire that has so far scorched some 25,000 acres and destroyed close to 500 homes.Another fire in eastern Texas killed a mother and her 18-month-old child when flames engulfed their mobile home Sunday near Gladewater, the Gregg County Sheriff's Department said."We got a long way to go to get this thing contained," Gov. Rick Perry said about the fire raging near Austin. "I have seen a number of big fires in my life. This one is as mean looking as I've ever seen."Advertisement


Dozens of fires are burning across the parched state, the Texas Forest Service said Monday.Earlier, the governor issued a statement in which he called the wildfire situation in Texas "severe" and said that all state resources were being made available to protect lives and property."We will pick up the pieces. We always do," he told reporters.Texas is battling its worst fire season in state history. A record 3.5 million acres -- an area roughly the size of Connecticut, Perry said -- have burned since the start of the season in November as hot and dry weather, coupled with a historic drought, made conditions ripe for rapid fire growth."It's a very serious, scary situation," said Jan Amen, a Texas Forest Service spokeswoman. "The drought has gone on so long -- it's just bone dry. Anything that catches fire takes off."Over the weekend, officials said low relative humidity and strong winds from Lee, which made landfall as a tropical storm but then weakened, further fanned the flames.A red flag warning was in effect for much of east, south and central Texas on Monday, with wind gusts of up to 35 mph in places, according to the National Weather Service.A fire broke out about 45 miles north of Houston Monday afternoon. It was moving between 15 and 20 mph and threatening homes, said Rhonda Reinholz with the Magnolia Volunteer Fire Department.Another fire burned in the Steiner Ranch subdivision in Travis County, forcing families out of their homes. Justin Allen evacuated from there with his five kids. Though he does not think the flames will reach their house, which is tucked near the back of the development, they are close enough to worry about, he said."It's pretty scary," said Allen. "And it's really sad for everyone that's in that path."


12>>>


We recommend



From around the web








Related Articles »Strong winds whip up wildfires in central TexasSeptember 4, 2011Wildfires burn across parts of TexasApril 9, 2011Wildfires burn in south, central and west TexasApril 29, 2011Advertisement© 2011 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights ReservedPrivacy GuidelinesTerms of ServiceIndex by DateIndex by KeywordArticles.CNN.comAdvertising Practices









