TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again    London :  United Kingdom
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By HumTum            18 0      
Views: 134
         TV Choice Awards in excess of EastEnders picked up gongs. Butthen, it always does.  The party, which was held at the Hotel Savoy in London, wasnamed as the best soap rang out. Stars Shane Richie and Jessie Wallace - who play husband andwife Alfie Moon and language - won best soap actor and actressgongs respectively.But Jessie was missing from the party in particular. Vincent Morris married his personal life and about half of thecancellation came after weeks of speculation. Less is said about it better. It was not all bad for coronation street, Paula Lane,, Kylie Plattplays which won best soap newcomer. In addition, the show's 50th birthday marked the dramatic story ofthe tram accident was named best soap.        1 of 2        
The star-studded TV Choice Awards 2011 were held at London's swanky Savoy hotel. EastEnders picked up a hat-trick of awards, including Best Soap.
     
HumTum is based in Sargodha, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (32.5%) Pakistan (21.7%) Portugal (7.2%) Canada (6.0%) 15 other countries (26.5%)           READ MORE: EastEnders   More News From: London :  United Kingdom      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 21            Reply  Posted By       shiri
| about 20 hours ago
  
very well written.rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Asim Mukhtar
| about 19 hours ago
  
Well entertainment news good work.
             Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
| about 19 hours ago
  
That’s the good writing, Keep it up, rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       taophuyen
| about 19 hours ago
  
Beautiful actress always has interesting things,That’s the good writing, Keep it up, rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Qaiser_Riaz
| about 18 hours ago
  
well entertain.... rated up
             Reply  Posted By       mus1423
| about 16 hours ago
  
very well reporting......!!!!!!!!!rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Danish Malik
| about 16 hours ago
  
Hmm I really like you writing style rated up :)
             Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 16 hours ago
  
Well Written And Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please Comment on my News.
             Reply  Posted By       shiraxinco
| about 15 hours ago
  
very well reporting......!!!!!!!!!rated up
             Reply  Posted By       YawarNaqvi
| about 15 hours ago
  
very very nice pic.well report.rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 14 hours ago
  
Thanks for the share rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       faraway
| about 14 hours ago
  
Good report....rates up
             Reply  Posted By       abeer almadawy
| about 13 hours ago
  
very nice report, thanks for sharing , rate up
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 8 hours ago
  
Thank you for sharing the entertainment news story.
             Reply  Posted By       mllovric
| about 5 hours ago
  
Good report but it could be better.
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Excellent piece of work.....rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
| about 2 hours ago
  
rated up for this reporting, thanks!
             Reply  Posted By       crown62
| about 2 hours ago
  
thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       PirShahShamsulHaq
| about 1 hour ago
  
It was not all bad for coronation street, Paula Lane,, Kylie Plattplays which won best soap newcomer.
             Reply  Posted By       abshi
| about 1 hour ago
  
THANKS FOR SHARING NICE ENTERTAINING NEWS, RATED UP!
             Reply  Posted By       HumTum
| 20 minutes ago
  
Thanks all friends for lovely comment on my post
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     EastEnders wins TV Choice gongs  
BBC
 EastEnders triumphs at TV Choice Awards Richie and Wallace returned to EastEnders last year following a break EastEnders has collected a trio TV Choice Awards, including best soap. Shane Richie was named best soap actor, while his on-screen wife,...    TV Choice Awards: check out the red carpet fashion from Chloe Sims, Lydia ...  
Unreality TV
 There were winners and losers at the awards in terms of fashion and accolades, scroll down to find out who won the awards and have a look at all the photos from the night...We loved Chloe Sims' regal purple dress which showed off her surgically...    TV Choice Awards 2011: everyone off the telly was there  
Holy Moly
 It's always there, and it never judges you for eating hummus out of the tub with a spoon because you can't reach the Doritos. TV Choice had their annual awards last night, celebrating the awesomeness of telly. Some wins (Sherlock, Karen Gillan , The...    Tennant Is Big Winner At TV Choice Awards  
IMDb Celebrity News
 TV Choice Awards on Tuesday, taking home one of the night's top prizes. The former Doctor Who star accepted the Best Actor trophy for his role in drama Single Father , while Karen Gillan , who now appears in the sci-fi show with new Time Lord Matt...    EastEnder Shona McGarty ditches Whitney's tracksuit for glam photoshoot  
Daily Mail
 But as she fast approaches her 20th birthday next month, the actress is clearly ready for a sartorial change. The raven-haired star , 19, was given a grown-up makeover a world away from her soap persona for a new magazine shoot. All grown-up:...       Images    >         TV Choice Awards 2011: ...    TV Choice Awards 2011: ... Image Source: allvoices The star-studded TV Choice Awards 2011 were held at London's swanky Savoy ...        A baby-swap story line helped ...    A baby-swap story line helped ... Image Source: www.afp.com A baby-swap story line helped Eastender retain its crown as best of British ...      More Related Images    More From London          My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions        Land Reform in Britain -Crown Estates (Video)       Scrap food sell by dates? But why wait so late?         A Different Look of Pippa Middleton         Cricketism: ICC also Declares Sachin OUT, finally!       Plug & Play with The SSL Store        TV Choice Awards 2011 Complete Winners         David de Gea to return for Man Utd against Chelsea          NHS hospitals risk £5bn rescue bill        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in your BMW        Britney Spears' Mysterious 'Criminal' Art Hits Net        How Your Site Can Benefit from Web Design Newcastle          Re-Mastered Stones on the Way                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10335384          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 12 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 5       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 2       Comments: 21    21       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10335384), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10335384 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10335384 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10335384-tv-choice-awards-2011-surprised-eastenders-victory-again.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         