Info for Students | Info for Students




Info for Students


Info for Students




 




 





 Recent Posts 
Solyndra: Blame It On Bush, Say Obama Officials
‘Mover and shaker’ – The Pueblo Chieftain: Local
Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation
Enough of this green energy fairy tale!
Rare blue whale sighted on Maine whale watching tour
LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian Sneak a Date Night at Fashion Week
Solyndra be darned, Dept. of Energy awards $145M in solar grants – Boston Business Journal
South Florida Classical Review  » Blog Archive   » Seraphic Fire’s Brahms debuts at No. 5 on iTunes
Trying Not to Lose Sleep or Jokes Over a Baby
Vita Food Products Recalls Sliced Smoked Salmon
Why You Should Wash A Melon Before Chowing Down
NFL-Indy out to shed ‘Naptown’ image with Super Bowl
Ball Four in Beijing
Doctors at Le Bonheur separate conjoined twins
The Stage / Reviews / Siamese Twins

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsamp
barack obama
cnn
crowd
daily mail
dallas cowboys
direction south
earth
e mail
espn
facebook
flickr
followers
franchise
game
games
getty images
google
hollywood
investors
ipad
iphone
job
lady gaga
launch
match
mdash
money
nasdaq
nbsp
nnamdi asomugha
no doubt
nyse
parents
photos
quot
relationships
release source
reuters
rsquo
shia labeouf
target
twitter
weather
wind direction
 



 

Solyndra: Blame It On Bush, Say Obama Officials

After spending months touting the Obama administration's decision to loan $535 million to the California solar energy upstart Solyndra, top officials took a new tack Wednesday while testifying before Congress about the company's abrupt shut-down and bankruptcy: the loan, they said, was actually the Bush administration's idea. The Energy Department's top lending officer told Congress that the Solyndra loan application was not only filed during President Bush's term, but it surged towards completion before Obama took office in January 2009."By the time the Obama administration took office in late January 2009, the loan programs' staff had already established a goal of, and timeline for, issuing the company a conditional loan guarantee commitment in March 2009," said Jonathan Silver, who heads the Energy loan program.Republicans pushed back hard against this version of events, unearthing internal Energy Department emails that indicate the panel evaluating the loans had made the unanimous decision to shelve Solyndra's application two weeks before Obama took office.Blaming the failed loan on the Bush administration marked an abrupt turn for the Energy Department, which had championed the Solyndra loan as a model for its efforts to build a so-called "green energy" industry that creates jobs and safeguards the environment. The Solyndra loan was so central to this strategy that the administration initially planned to have Obama personally announce it, and later sent the president to the company's solar panel manufacturing facility in Fremont, California to celebrate its work. The path taken by Solyndra's application for a massive government loan was just one of several questions explored by members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's investigative subcommittee Wednesday. Members grilled Silver and Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, as to why the initial loan was approved, and why the Solyndra deal was restructured earlier this year. The restructuring came at a time when the company was already showing signs of financial stress, with Chinese competitors offering similar products for less money.The House investigation into the matter had been underway well before the company collapsed. Federal auditors had already questioned the methods the energy department was using to analyze the loans. And beginning in March, ABC News, in partnership with the Center for Public Integrity's iWatch News, began reporting on simmering questions about the role political influence may have played in Solyndra's selection as the Obama administration's first loan guarantee recipient.WATCH the Original ABC News Report on SolyndraOn Tuesday, some of the fruits of that investigation began to surface in anticipation of the hearing.Emails uncovered by investigators for the House Energy and Commerce Committee showed that the Obama White House closely monitored the Energy Department's deliberations over the $535 million government loan, which was backed by an Obama fundraiser. The internal emails uncovered by investigators showed the administration was keenly monitoring the progress of the loan, even as analysts were voicing serious concerns about the risk involved."This deal is NOT ready for prime time," one White House budget analyst wrote in a March 10, 2009 email, nine days before the administration formally announced the loan."If you guys think this is a bad idea, I need to unwind the W[est] W[ing] QUICKLY," wrote Ronald A. Klain, who was chief of staff to Vice President Joe Biden, in another email sent March 7, 2009. The "West Wing" is the portion of the White House complex that holds the offices of the president and his top staffers. Klain declined comment to ABC News.


 




‘Mover and shaker’ – The Pueblo Chieftain: Local

 As the next president of Colorado State University-Pueblo,Lesley Di Mare said she would need to be involved in the campus,the community and the state, if the university is to continue themomentum it gained the past few years.  "I'm a mover and a shaker and I have to be out in thecommunity," Di Mare, interim president … Continue reading





Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation

SALT LAKE CITY— Conjoined twins, Kendra and Maliyah Herrin, were surgically separated at Primary Children's Medical Center in 2006. Last month they celebrated the five-year anniversary of their surgery."As far as the decisions we made for the girls, I believe every one of them has turned out well,” said the twins’ father Jake Herrin. Kendra … Continue reading





Enough of this green energy fairy tale!

CORPUS CHRISTI —The solar panel maker Solyndra just declared bankruptcy and took $512 million of tax payer money and 1,100 jobs with it. Enough of the green energy fairy tale! All of our energy, except nuclear, comes ultimately from the sun. We humans are extremely fortunate. Over many millions of years nature created vast deposits … Continue reading





Rare blue whale sighted on Maine whale watching tour

By Amanda Cedrone, Globe Correspondent An 80-foot blue whale gave tourists a rare treat on Sunday when it made an appearance off the coast of Maine during a whale watching tour.The critically endangered mammal was spotted about 15 miles from Boothbay Harbor by those aboard the Pink Lady II, a whale watching boat. The 80-foot … Continue reading





LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian Sneak a Date Night at Fashion Week

John Parra/WireImageNewlyweds LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian didn’t seem to mind the close quarters in the front row at Monique Lhuillier Saturday night, enjoying each others’ company at their very first fashion show together.“I love Monique, she is one of my favorite designers,” Rimes told PEOPLE at New York’s Lincoln Center. “So it’s nice to … Continue reading





Solyndra be darned, Dept. of Energy awards $145M in solar grants – Boston Business Journal

In a week when the solar energy sector has been under fire, MIT and two Massachusetts are among the beneficiaries of a U.S. Department of Energy solar technologies program that has awarded $145 million to 69 organizations in 24 states.The DOE SunShot initiative is designed to help shape the next generation of solar energy technologies, … Continue reading





South Florida Classical Review  » Blog Archive   » Seraphic Fire’s Brahms debuts at No. 5 on iTunes

Patrick Dupre QuigleySeraphic Fire’s new recording of Brahms’ German Requiem hit No. 5 on the iTunes Classical chart on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after its release.The Miami choir’s Brahms ranked just ahead of the London Symphony Orchestra’s recording of the complete Beethoven symphonies under Josef Krips but behind The 100 Most Essential Pieces of … Continue reading





Trying Not to Lose Sleep or Jokes Over a Baby

Unfortunately, a baby also changes television comedy, forcing writers to tiptoe through jokes and babyproof their story lines. Network television has grown remarkably callous and blasé about all kind of things, including rape, adultery and masturbation, but there is still a taboo against child endangerment. So “Up All Night” takes three of the funniest actors … Continue reading





Vita Food Products Recalls Sliced Smoked Salmon

Illinois-based Vita Food Products, Incorporated announced a recall for certain batches of its sliced smoked salmon product. The reason for recalling the product is the possibility that the batch was contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes.The number of individual packages recalled totals 8,088 retail packs. The recalled products were sold under the Vita Classic brand and have … Continue reading






Older posts >>










            © 2011 
                Info for Students            







