ShortFormBlog
    The Hello Bar is a simple notification bar that engages users and communicates a call to action.



 teases: on
reblogs: on
 


ShortFormBlog

Read a little. Learn a lot. • Ask Us Stuff! • Archive • Timeline



Our best freaking stuff right now:

1 Reflecting on September 11, ten years later
2 Obama's jobs speech, as it happened
3 CNN Tea Party debate: A liveblog recap
4 Weather update: From flooding to hurricanes
5 Have a phone? Check our mobile site!


  September 15, 2011

00:26 • 7 hours ago 


Tags:

Nicolas Cage
Celebs
Fudgesicle
best quote ever
we love everything about this

 from brooklynmutt
 75  Reblog  Link



It was two in the morning. I was living in Orange County at the time and was asleep with my wife. My two-year old at the time was in another room. I opened my eyes and there was a naked man wearing my leather jacket eating a Fudgesicle in front of my bed. I know it sounds funny … but it was horrifying.
Nicolas Cage awoken by naked man with Fudgesicle - Reuters (via brooklynmutt)


  	







  September 14, 2011

22:35 • 8 hours ago 


Tags:

youtube
video-editing
youtube video editing
youtube editing

 15  Reblog  Link




YouTube now offers video-editing: It’s surprising it took this long, really, but it’s certainly welcome. Can’t wait to see what this means for the quality of the videos on the site. 

  	





Sponsored links:



22:25 • 9 hours ago 


Tags:

social network
social networking
bebo
nvibe
aol
possibly bad ideas

 13  Reblog  Link



Because they didn't waste enough money on Bebo, AOL is reportedly working on its own social network.

Patents in place, domain registered (NVIBE is rumored to be the name). Call us cynical, but we don’t think they’ll pull this off. They burned through nearly a billion dollars selling off their last social network, Bebo.


  	








21:53 • 9 hours ago 


Tags:

Elizabeth Warren
democrats
scott brown
massachusetts

 from pantslessprogressive
 125  Reblog  Link




pantslessprogressive:

“I can be outspent, but I cannot be outworked.” - Elizabeth Warren, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate, responding to MA Senator Scott Brown’s $10 million campaign war chest.

Random thought: If she wanted to go that way, Warren would make an interesting presidential candidate someday. But would she want the job?

  	







21:13 • 10 hours ago 


Tags:

a kind of death
alzheimer's
bad ideas
divorce
he really said that?
pat robertson
pat robertson divorce
religion

 45  Reblog  Link



I know it sounds cruel, but if he’s going to do something, he should divorce her and start all over again, but make sure she has custodial care and somebody looking after her.
Pat Robertson • Telling a man looking for advice that it’s OK to divorce someone — if they’re suffering from Alzheimer’s, which he refers to as “a kind of death.” Um … we really have no clue what to say about this other than that we wouldn’t do this ourselves. Sometimes, our boy drops some whoppers.  source (via • follow)


  	







21:07 • 10 hours ago 


Tags:

rino
mitt romney
word cloud
president
presidential election
presidential
2012 election
republican
gop

 from johnness
 9  Reblog  Link




johnness:

Mitt Romney Is Presidential, Electable, HuffPost-Patch GOP Power Outsiders Say: I love this feature we do with primary/caucus state influentials. Our influentials like Romney’s chances against Obama and they think he’d make a good president. But you can see that big RINO accusation hovering at the middle everything.
If you look at what they said about Perry, the choice looks like what you thought it was: Too much TEXAN or too much RINO.

What do you guys think of when you think of Mitt?

  	






Follow us on Facebook!


20:57 • 10 hours ago 


The three craziest claims from Joe McGinniss’ Sarah Palin book
Tags:

books
cocaine
former neighbors
glen rice
Joe McGinniss
over-the-top
sarah palin
wild claims

 15  Reblog  Link



one According to a recap of the book by the National Enquirer, Sarah Palin was a former cocaine user, most notably during a snowmobiling trip.
two The book also repeats the claim the Palin had an affair in the mid-90s with one of her husband’s friends. She’s already denied this.
three Most shockingly, the book claims that Palin had a one-night stand — prior to her marriage — with former NBA star Glen Rice. WTF?! source
» Wait, is this stuff actually true?! Well, that depends on if you believe Joe McGinniss, the best-selling author of “The Selling of the President 1968.” McGinniss is no stranger to controversy, and he certainly wasn’t when writing this book — see, he moved to Alaska, within shouting distance of the former vice-presidential candidate, leading to rebukes from Palin’s staff. It will be interesting to see what happens when people besides Garry Trudeau get the book.
Read ShortFormBlog • Follow

  	








20:34 • 10 hours ago 


Tags:

al-Qaeda
juries
osama's alive
outburst
terrorism
trials
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab
underwear bomber

 21  Reblog  Link




Underwear bomber shouts “Osama’s Alive!” in courtroom: Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 24, made the outburst while potential jurors were filling out questionnaires. Guess the trial on this one’s gonna be fairly painless. source Follow ShortFormBlog

  	







15:32 • 15 hours ago 


Tags:

staring past the camera
michele bachmann
books
my story
core of conviction

 310  Reblog  Link




Our suggested title for Michele’s new book.

  	







15:27 • 16 hours ago 


Tags:

michele bachmann
books
politics

 from newsweek
 60  Reblog  Link




newsweek:

cheatsheet:

Exclusive sneak peek of Michele Bachmann’s new book cover.

There’s something about this that’s quite uncanny. Michele! Put down the Photoshop!

This is the real cover. After this, we’re going to post our recommended title for her book.

  	







15:14 • 16 hours ago 


Tags:

bsod
blue screen of death
error messages
awesome
smiley face
sad face
microsoft
windows 8

 61  Reblog  Link




Windows 8 has a blue screen of death that’s a bit friendlier than their normal BSOD. The only thing which would make it friendlier is if the smiley face was smiling.

  	






Recent posts and stuff we dig:
«


Photo via pantslessprogressive





“I can be outspent, but I cannot be outworked.” -... 
Photo via pantslessprogressive


Quote via apsies

“I know it sounds cruel, but if he’s going to do something,...”

Quote via apsies


Post via futurejournalismproject

                How Tumblr is Changing Journalism            

 
Earlier this week we...
Post via futurejournalismproject


Post via evilteabagger

                Evil Teabagger's List of People You Should Follow:            
Post via evilteabagger


Post via dcdecoder

                Tea Party Debate: Three things to watch            
Post via dcdecoder


Photo via brooklynmutt





needtherapy:

(via Miss USA Goes For Subtlety With...

Photo via brooklynmutt


Photo via inothernews





Heh. 
Photo via inothernews


Photo via dcdecoder





Want some comic relief during the debate tonight? Every... 
Photo via dcdecoder


Photo via negevrockcity





From The Onion, for my Philly friends. (via ... 
Photo via negevrockcity


Post via the-bryman
shortformblog replied to your post: I’ve lost 3...
Post via the-bryman

»

11:26 • 20 hours ago 


Tags:

cartoons
chicago tribune
doonesbury
editorial page
Joe McGinniss
journalism
prickly city
sarah palin
The Rogue: Searching for the Real Sarah Palin

 7  Reblog  Link



As you might guess I am torn. On the one hand I understand their reasoning. They did the same thing to my comic strip Prickly City a few years back in a series on Ted Kennedy. This was before I was on staff here. So this is not a new policy aimed squarely at liberal comic strips as has been suggested. On the other hand, it ticked me off when it happened to me. As a creator you never want your work stiflied. You know that.
Chicago Tribune cartoonist Scott Stantis • Discussing his paper’s decision to pass on running a week of Doonesbury strips that openly cite passages from a biography on Sarah Palin — “The Rogue: Searching for the Real Sarah Palin,” an unauthorized tome written by Joe McGinniss. The Tribune’s reasoning for skipping out on the strip this week is reasonable — the book isn’t on the market yet, so they can’t check it on their own — but nonetheless has ruffled a few feathers. Stantis’ take, of course, is interesting. source (via • follow)


  	







11:13 • 20 hours ago 


Tags:

animals
LOL
dogs
beards
dogs with beards

 from buzzfeed
 154  Reblog  Link




buzzfeed:

[19 Dogs With Beards]

Iron and Rawhide.

  	







11:02 • 20 hours ago 


Tags:

attack sites
attackwatch
fight the smears
gop
obama
Politics
republican

 21  Reblog  Link




AttackWatch: Obama campaign makes its own GOP watchdog site
So this is what we’ve come to. The Obama administration has created its own version of NewsBusters — except, instead of attacking the media for liberal bias, the site’s attacking Republicans for saying false things. It’s actually a sequel to Fight the Smears, a site he ran during the 2008 campaign, but with one major difference — it looks like the site’s going for a more ruthless approach. It feels like, with this move, Obama is starting to use tactics we’d be more likely to see from Fox News commentary shows. Do we want Obama to run an attack dog ahead of the election, or be above the fray? Which one would work better? source
Follow ShortFormBlog

  	






Sponsored links:


10:44 • 20 hours ago 


Tags:

luxury cars
cars
stories that depress us
rich vs. poor
disparities
austerity

 3  Reblog  Link




The only winners here are jaded cynics like us who can make jokes about stories like these. And car companies. And rich people.

  	










More posts:



1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
»





 

ShortFormBlog is the product of Ernie Smith, Seth Millstein, Chris Tognotti, Julius the laid-off RSS robot, a bunch of pretty awesome links  from a bunch of awesome sources, a highly hacked version of Wordpress, Tumblr's Tumblarity, the letter Q, the number 13 and a series of tubes.
Copyright 2009-2011 Ernie Smith • Ask us stuff! • E-mail us • Follow us on Twitter • Follow us on Facebook • Ads via BlogAds  
     

      












 


