Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees | CowboyByte






CowboyByte






Skip to content
Home
About
Patriot Depot
 






← Cattle Outlook: July beef exports 33 percent higher than a year ago
Flight 93 memorial dedicated →










Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees


Posted on September 10, 2011 by Cowboy Byte 







Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.
Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape.




















							Continue Reading on www.usatoday.com




						This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged federal response, texas, wildfire. Bookmark the permalink.						



← Cattle Outlook: July beef exports 33 percent higher than a year ago
Flight 93 memorial dedicated →


10 Responses to Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees




 farmerproducer says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 1:28 pm 
Vegetation is beautiful but grass  needs to be grazed, trees need to be thinned and fire breaks  maintained.  We let nature take it’s course at our detriment.  Radical environmentalist were born two hundred years too late.


Reply 





 Major Dan says: 

			September 12, 2011 at 6:30 am 
You are right on all counts.  But as a firefighter of many years in Central Florida I can attest to watching a raging fire jump over a 6 lane highway with a two lane median and continue on its merry way.  A firestorm of that magnitude generates its own wind and travels like a high speed express train   The preparation prior too and the response after Katrina was a boondoggle.  Early evacuation plans were scuttled by the City’s administration which left thousands, stranded with little or no planning.  Even the Mayor had left the city for Texas.  The recovery and rescue efforts were hampered for many months due to the lack of enough trained  personnel and equipment.  There was much conflict between the Federal, state and local levels as to who, how and when coordinated efforts were to take place.  You know that old saying, “too many Chiefs and not enough Indians?”  Well we had the Indians (still too many Chiefs with no planned direction) But no concerted coordination.  Additionally, the local law enforcement efforts were almost non existent and in many cases self serving.  Sort of like finding the candy store open for business and no one around to tend it.  The one thing that is apparent after each disaster is that each administration to date hasn’t learned the meaning of pre-planning and learning from the mistakes of the past.  Each new administration continues to place political bureaucrats in charge that have had no or little training, or experience  then allowed to make uninformed decision making policies that usually have an adverse affect on the local populace.  The bottom line is that it is in the best interests of the local citizenry to develop their own plans for exigent circumstances ahead of time and allow a much larger time line for assistance from the State and Federal agencies and even the insurance companies for those that had insurance.


Reply 







 Curtis says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 1:57 pm 
FEMA did not go in to fight the fires.  They went in to “control” the area and the people.  Look at the record of what happened in Louisiana with Katrina.  Thugs collected guns and left the people defenseless.  Those without supplies and water went begging.  There are places for those people called “concentration camps” of more easily recognized as FEMA camps where they will feed, house and abuse you.  Take care Texas… your people are headed for more disaster.


Reply 





 Bob Marshall says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 5:37 pm 
FEMA is just one of 22 organizations under Homeland Security. Their primary goal is not natural disasters.


Reply 







 RobinPC says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 3:52 pm 
FEMA = Fooling Even Mature Adults.  Anyone that believes that the govt is the answer to their devastating situation is just like believing in the tooth fairy.


Reply 





 off plum says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 7:31 pm 
Right on Curtis
FEMA went in and turned volunteer fire fighters away …. fire breaks could have been made way ahead of time but FEMA wants destruction! This agency and the people running it are negligent! Don’t ever trust FEMA, they take a bad thing and turn it into a disaster!


Reply 





 Gordon says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 8:41 pm 
Obama and his Marxist Administration’s end goal is to bring the people to their knees or
create a climate of frustration and then an uprising. Giving them, the Marxists an opportunity
to declare Marshall Law, thus compromising the US Constitution as they do now in so many
ways.  Are you ready to defend our Liberty’s.


Reply 





 Mary says: 

			September 12, 2011 at 12:33 am 
Our friend in Washington state is still waiting for his check from FEMA years after the last bad flood that hit there.


Reply 





 Emme says: 

			September 12, 2011 at 7:38 pm 
Any organization that goes to Ray Nagel (former mayor of New Orleans who let hundreds of buses flood instead of busing people out of the city in them to begin with–although all cities have suffered from increased crimes from their presence) to get advice when a hurricane is coming, definitely is “fooling even mature adults”.  This country sickens me with their ideas of giving everything we have including life (and education and welfare) for illegal immigrants and other countries  and people who hate us and then shorting and cutting off to our own good hard-working citizens when they are in need.  Prayer:  America’s Only Hope!


Reply 





 Mary says: 

			September 12, 2011 at 9:19 pm 
Obummer isn’t going to help Texas because we have gone republican for the last 30 years.


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 







Search for:



 



Join Our Mailing List







Email: 














For Email Marketing you can trust


 
  Recent Posts 
Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio Grande
New liability law, DNR program combine to help landowners experiencing deer damage
Montana cattle herd quarantined over disease
Concealed Carry Reciprocity Advocates Could Get Major Win With New House Bill
Colorado Cantaloupes Prompt Warning After Multi-State Listeria Outbreak

Recent CommentsAliveStillKickin on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeJanice Fortin on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeJ.M.R. on New liability law, DNR program combine to help landowners experiencing deer damageJohn Goult on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeRobbie Eagle on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeArchives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011

Categories 
Uncategorized


Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Other Sites

1599 Geneva Bible
2012 Dream Ticket
American Vision
Christian Reader Store
Conservative Byte
Creation Revolution
Front Porch Politics
Godfather Politics
iPatriot
Patriot Depot
Patriot Update
Pit Grit
Tolle Lege Press
Vicki Goes to Washington
Vision to America
Zionica









					CowboyByte				



					Proudly powered by WordPress.				




