Texas wildfires scorch homes; death toll climbs to 4 - CNNTexas wildfires scorch homes; death toll climbs to 4

















Share this on:


Facebook
Twitter
Digg
delicious
reddit
MySpace
StumbleUpon
LinkedIn


















September 06, 2011|By the CNN Wire StaffA raging wildfire near Austin, Texas, killed two people, officials said Tuesday, as firefighters fought to gain the upper hand against flames, wind and fatigue.The deaths raise the overall toll from the outbreak of fires to four lives lost. A wildfire killed a woman and her 18-month-old child Sunday when flames engulfed their home near Gladewater, officials said."Texas is in a difficult situation right now, and our priorities are pretty simple. No. 1 is to protect life at all costs," said Nim Kidd, chief of the state Division of Emergency Management.Advertisement


The Texas Forest Service said it has responded to 181 fires that have burned more than 118,400 acres over the last week.The fires have destroyed more than 700 homes since Sunday, according to the forest service. More than 1,000 homes have burned in the state since fire season began in November, Gov. Rick Perry's office said.Winds that had peaked at nearly 30 mph had calmed to little more than half that Tuesday, giving firefighters a bit of a break."It's been a little calmer today," Mary Kay Hicks, a forest service official, told CNN's "AC 360.""The wind has really died down and helped us get more of a handle of what's going on out there," she said.The largest fire, near Austin, has spread across 30,000 acres, destroying more than 600 homes and forcing the evacuations of at least 5,000 people, officials said Tuesday. Known as the Bastrop County Complex, the fire has burned largely uncontrolled since it began Sunday afternoon.The two people killed by the blaze near Austin were not public safety personnel, according to incident command officials. The officials declined to offer details."I don't think it's registered in our brains that our house is gone and that, really, half of Bastrop is gone," said evacuee Claire Johnson.The danger from a fire near Houston -- called the Magnolia fire -- appeared to be lessening for the most populated areas. Officials in Harris County, which includes Houston, said the fire was no longer a threat there. Also, many residents were being allowed back into their homes Tuesday in neighboring Montgomery County.About 4,000 homes in Montgomery had been evacuated, according to Lt. Dan Norris of the county's emergency management office. Firefighters continued to battle hot spots in Montgomery, but the bulk of the problems from the Magnolia fire appeared to be centered in Waller and Grimes counties, Norris said.


12>>>


We recommend



From around the web








Related Articles »Firefighters battle to contain Texas wildfiresApril 11, 2011Forecast is a mixed bag for Texas firefightersApril 22, 2011Firefighters battle brush fires in 4 Western statesJuly 7, 1999Advertisement© 2011 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights ReservedPrivacy GuidelinesTerms of ServiceIndex by DateIndex by KeywordArticles.CNN.comAdvertising Practices









