Texas wildfires destroy 1,000-plus homes - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







China's arms buildup
•
Expanded sanctions on Syria
•
Milky Way created by cosmic crashes
•
Palin and Glen Rice?








			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Texas wildfires destroy 1,000-plus homes 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

U.S. News



Texas wildfires destroy 1,000-plus homes

        		Published: Sept. 7, 2011 at 10:25 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Related Stories

Wildfires rage in Texas
Wildfires in Texas, Okla. destroying homes
Wildfires threaten 190 Oregon homes



Advertisement

BASTROP, Texas, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Fire officials said the largest fire racing through drought-stricken central Texas was about 30 percent contained Wednesday.
Officials said two people died while two fires still burned on either side of the city of Bastrop in Bastrop County, KXAN-TV, Austin, reported. The overall death toll from the outbreak of fires is four, officials said.
Officials said the biggest fire, just east of Bastrop, had consumed 38,089 acres and destroyed 785 homes, the Los Angeles Times reported.
President Barack Obama talked with Texas Gov. Rick Perry by phone Wednesday to "express his concern for citizens of Texas impacted by the unprecedented fires" and extend "his condolences for the lives that have been lost." Obama affirmed the federal government "will continue to make federal assistance available to state and local officials as they fight the fires," the White House said in a statement.
"The president also assured the governor that requests for additional assistance, including as recovery begins, would be quickly assessed," the statement said. "Over the last several days, at the request of the governor, the administration has granted eight fire management assistance grants, making federal funds available to reimburse eligible costs associated with efforts to combat the fires."
The Times said the Texas forest service is spending about $1.5 million a day to fight the 122 active wildfires in the state.
"We feel like perhaps today, perhaps today that we'll have the perimeter secure where the fire will not get larger," Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher told radio station KUT-FM, Austin.
The smaller fire west of Bastrop, about 20 percent contained, burned through about 800 acres and destroyed 28 homes, fire officials said. About 150 homes are threatened, and 200 people have been evacuated.
The Texas Forest Service said on its Web site Wednesday it responded to 19 new fires covering 1,490 acres, including new large fires in Red River and Rusk counties. The service said it had responded to 172 fires affecting 135,051 acres during the past seven days.
About 1,023 homes have been destroyed during the last three days, the Texas Forest Service said.
"I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous," Perry said.
A number of aircraft have been mobilized to assist with the heavy fire activity, the forest service said, including six heavy airtankers, three 1,500-gallon scoopers, 15 single-engine airtankers, 12 helicopters, and 12 aerial supervision aircraft. A 12,000-gallon DC-10 airtanker will be activated Friday.
The crew of the International Space Station captured video of the wildfires burning in Texas, KUT said.
"It is a sad sight with all the fires burning in Texas right now," flight engineer Mike Fossum said. "See one major one, and three smaller ones."
Fire officials said they suspect a fire that destroyed dozens of homes in Leander and forced hundreds of people to evacuate was deliberately set, KXAN-TV, Austin, reported. Officials said they were looking for four teens -- two girls and two boys -- in connection with the fire, which was about 75 percent contained Tuesday afternoon.
Arson is also suspected in a fire that started Tuesday afternoon in North Austin.
Perry -- who stopped campaigning for the GOP presidential nomination Monday to deal with the raging wildfires, returned to the trail Wednesday when Republican hopefuls gathered in California for another nationally televised debate.
Major homeowners insurance companies declared the Texas fires a catastrophe and sent specialized claims workers and equipment to help customers through the process. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


Boy investigated for grenade launcher
NOVATO, Calif., Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Police said they were investigating a 15-year-old California boy after a car he was driving was found to contain a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.
		
China cracks down on 'gutter oil'
Man to be sentenced in sons' disappearance
Search for Utah mom leads to remains
Gunman dies in Ark. courthouse shooting


Entertainment News


Salahi leaves hubby for Journey guitarist
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			"Real Housewives of D.C." cast member Michaele Salahi is in Memphis with Neal Schon, the lead guitarist for Journey, the band's publicist said.
		
Rachel Reilly wins 'Big Brother 13'
Murphy crowned 'Talent' winner
'Big Brother' renewed for 14th season
People in the news




Business News


EADS EFW picks U.S. cargo system
WOOD DALE, Ill., Sept. 15 (UPI) -- 
			EADS EFW of Germany has selected Illinois' AAR to manufacture main deck cargo loading systems for its Airbus A300-600 and A310-300 freighter conversion program.
		
ATI helping with interagency op centers
BAE enters Aussie supply chain agreement
Auto talks inconclusive at deadline
UPI NewsTrack Business


Local News

Top Chef: Just Dessert Recap- Pure Imagination
Campaign to Cut Waste in Action: $2 Billion Saved
Guest Editorial: C-2-B Zone District is Appropriate for the Colonel Brooks' Site
1972 Renovated Techbuilt in Garrett Park $884K
Rex Grossman still thinks the Redskins will win the NFC East






 


UPI News Photos

U.S. Embassy attacked in Kabul



Social Media Scandals



Tea Party Republican Debate



9/11 Memorial opens in New York



Egyptians raid Israeli Embassy in Cairo





Most Popular



1.
Conjoined twins successfully separated


2.
Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs.


3.
Larger women more apt to have sex on date


4.
Woman refuses abortion for conjoined twins


5.
Man sues White Castle for bigger chairs





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 29
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Scientists tread carefully through a seemingly endless landscape of ice, sea, and meltwater in the Canada Basin of the Arctic on July 22, 2005. The blanket of ice coating Earth's northernmost seas was thin and ragged in July, setting a record low for sea ice extent for the month. Sea ice stretched across only 3.06 million square miles whereas the long-term July average is 3.9 million. Scientist note that this breakup of ice is a result of global warming.  Photo made from the  U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Healy.   UPI/Jeremy Potter/NOAA		













 





Bodies hanging from bridge in Mexico are warning to social media users, "This is going to happen...

Group says mainstream Muslims are violent and Mohammed was a "cult leader". Is the group: a) a Tea...

Hey, let's all play a game of cowboys and decomposing corpses

Drivin' around town blaring music at 9:40 in the morning when your fifteen-year-old self should...

Photoshop Theme: Reinventing the wheel

The pinnacle of things on a stick technology has been reached with the introduction of liquor on...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















