Sacramento Bee -- The Frame





















Sign In
Join





Logout





Reader Services


Place a classified ad
Place an obituary
Manage your sacbee.com account
Manage your subscription
Make a payment
VIP Club
Order reprints
Contact us


Stay Connected


Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
e-Edition
Archives
Contact us


Site Feedback





                Subscribe to The Bee TODAY
            






The Frame
 


News

Business
Local
Education
Crime
Obituaries
Weather
Data Center
Investigations
Nation/World
Popular Topics
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
ROSEVILLE TOYOTA






Capitol & California

Capitol Alert
State Workers
State Politics
State News
Jerry Brown
Marijuana
Budget
Prop 8
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
California Credit Union League






Our Region

Business
Real Estate
City Beat
Transportation
Our Towns
Arrest Logs
Medical
Environment
Religion
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
Roseville Toyota






Sports

Kings/NBA
UFL/Mountain Lions
49ers
Raiders
High Schools
Colleges
A's/Giants
River Cats
Golf
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
JOHN L. SULLIVAN CHEVROLET






Living Here

Moms & Family
Pets
Appetizers
Food & Wine
Home & Garden
Outdoors
Health & Fitness
Books & Media
Fun & Games






Sponsored By
Sutter Health






Entertainment

Events
Movies
Dining
Things to Do
Fun & Games
TV Listings
Travel
Books & Media
Music
Theater & Art
Bee Buzz Points







Opinion

Editorials
The Conversation
Viewpoints
Letters to the Editor
The Swarm
Rex Babin Cartoons
California Forum
Editorial Board





Cars

Bee Auto Ads
Auto Show
Buy/Sell
Research
Shopping Advice
Transportation News
Car Photos/Videos





Jobs

Healthcare/Social Service Careers
Career Fairs and Events
Post a Resume
Who's Hiring
Employer Resources
Search Classifieds





Homes

Visit Our New Real Estate Section
Homefinder.com
Apartments.com
Commercial Real Estate
Community News





Classifieds

In Memoriams
Garage Sale Kit
Legal Notices
Place a classified ad





Deals

Find n Save
Dealsaver
Daily Deal
Local Coupons
Local Ads
Golf Card
Weekly Inserts & Gift Cards










 












        Tuesday, September 13, 2011
    








            Web search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH
        

 This blog
 sacbee.com
 Web






Weather | Traffic

57° F

 






The Frame

A photo blog of world events by Sacbee.com Assistant Director of Multimedia Tim Reese.




 Subscribe to this blog's feed







September 13, 2011
Japan marks 6 months since earthquake, tsunami




TOKYO (AP) --  Last Sunday was the six-month anniversary of the day the massive earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan's northeast coast.
Some 20,000 people are dead or missing. More than 800,000 homes were completely or partially destroyed. The disaster crippled businesses, roads and infrastructure. The Japanese Red Cross Society estimates that 400,000 people were displaced.
Half a year later, there are physical signs of progress.
Much of the debris has been cleared away or at least organized into big piles. In the port city of Kesennuma, many of the boats carried inland by the tsunami have been removed. Most evacuees have moved out of high school gyms and into temporary shelters or apartments.
Last week the Kyodo News agency distributed an amazing group of combination photographs showing three scenes. The first scene is right after the earthquake and tsunami hit, then three months later and finally, how the scene looks now. (44 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 
This combination of three photos taken over a six-month period shows aftermath of the March 11, 2011 tsunami and its cleanup progress in Wakabayashi-ward in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, in northeastern Japan. The left photo, taken March 16, 2011, shows debris of houses and vehicles cover the area after the tsunami. The middle photo, taken June 2, 2011, shows some debris and cars were removed, while the right photo taken Sept. 3, 2011 shows student volunteers getting rid of smaller rubble in a cleared field.   AP / Kyodo News 


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Japan marks 6 months since earthquake, tsunami.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

10:50 AM
10:52 AM |
		
		Comments








September 12, 2011
Looking back and ahead, America remembers 9/11




NEW YORK (AP) -- Determined never to forget but perhaps ready to move on, the nation gently handed Sept. 11 over to history Sunday and etched its memory on a new generation. A stark memorial took its place where twin towers once stood, and the names of the lost resounded from children too young to remember terror from a decade ago. In New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, across the United States and the world, people carried out rituals now as familiar as they are heartbreaking: American flags unfurled at the new World Trade Center tower and the Eiffel Tower, and tears shed at the base of the Pentagon and a base in Iraq. President Barack Obama quoted the Bible and spoke of finding strength in fear. George W. Bush, still new to the presidency that day, invoked the national sacrifice of the Civil War. Vice President Joe Biden said hope must grow from tragedy. (50 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 People pause by the waterfall pool at the National September 11 Memorial before a planned ceremony marking the 10th anniversary of the attacks at the World Trade Center site, Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011, in New York.  Matt Rourke / AP


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Looking back and ahead, America remembers 9/11.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 4:02 AM
 9:49 PM |
		
		Comments








September  9, 2011
Days of rain trigger widespread Northeast floods




WILKES-BARRE, Pa. (AP) -- Stretches of the swollen Susquehanna River began receding Friday after days of rainfall from what had been Tropical Storm Lee flooded communities from Virginia to New York, leading to evacuation orders for nearly 100,000 people. At least 12 deaths have been blamed on Lee and its remnants.The damage was concentrated along the Susquehanna in Binghamton, N.Y., in Wilkes-Barre, where more than 70,000 people were told to evacuate, and other communities downstream in Maryland. The National Weather Service said the Susquehanna crested above 38 feet Thursday night in Wilkes-Barre -- below the top of the levee system and under the levels reached after historic flooding spawned by Hurricane Agnes in 1972. 
 (30 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 
The ramps from Route 42 going on and off Route 11 in Bloomsburg, Pa., just disappear into the flood water from Fishing Creek which cover Route 11 Thursday, Sept. 8, 2011.  Bloomsburg Press Enterprise / Jimmy May 


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Days of rain trigger widespread Northeast floods.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

11:39 AM
11:40 AM |
		
		Comments








September  7, 2011
Hockey in shock after Russian jet crash kills 43




TUNOSHNA, Russia (AP) -- A private Russian jet carrying a top ice hockey team slammed into a riverbank moments after takeoff Wednesday, killing at least 43 people in one of the worst plane crashes ever involving a sports team. Two other people on board were critically injured.
Both Russia and the world of hockey were left stunned by the deaths of so many international stars in one catastrophic event. The International Ice Hockey Federation said 27 players of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl team were killed, along with 2 coaches and 7 club officials. (19 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 
Fans of the Lokomotiv ice hockey team lay flowers and light candles at the Lokomotiv Arena to pay tribute to the Lokomotiv players killed in a plane crash, in the city of Yaroslavl, on the Volga River about 150 miles (240 kilometers) northeast of Moscow,  Russia, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011.   AP / Misha Japaridze 


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Hockey in shock after Russian jet crash kills 43.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 4:08 PM
 4:09 PM |
		
		Comments








September  6, 2011
Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas




BASTROP, Texas (AP) -- A roaring wildfire raced through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance that was fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.
At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said.
Strong winds and drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. The blaze consumed as much as 25,000 acres along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.
The new outbreak led Gov. Rick Perry to return home to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president. He also canceled a trip to California.
Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut, Perry said. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, he said. (46 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 A helicopter drops water onto a blaze in Cedar Park, Texas  on Monday, Sept. 5, 2011.   Thomas Allison / The Daily Texan


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

12:03 AM
11:55 PM |
		
		Comments








September  1, 2011
August was America's deadliest month in Afghan war 




KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -- August was the deadliest month yet for U.S. forces in the nearly 10-year-old war in Afghanistan, increasing pressure on the Obama administration to bring troops home sooner rather than later.
The 66 U.S. service members killed last month eclipses the previous record of 65 killed in July 2010, according to an Associated Press tally. Nearly half the August deaths occurred when insurgents shot down a Chinook helicopter Aug. 6, killing 30 American troops, mostly elite Navy SEALs.
Though American military officials predicted high casualties this summer as the Taliban try to come back after recent offensives, the grim milestone increases pressure on the Obama administration to withdraw U.S. forces quickly.  (32 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 
U.S. Marine Lance Cpl. Lane Edward Morrow, of Susanville, Calif., of the 3rd Platoon, Kilo Company, 3/ 4 Marines, walks during an early morning guard shift at a vehicle checkpoint near Patrol Base 302, in Helmand province, southern Afghanistan on Aug. 25, 2011. The Marines living in austere conditions at PB302 exchange fire regularly with Taliban who attack from multiple positions.   AP / Brennan Linsley 


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading August was America's deadliest month in Afghan war .
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

10:02 AM
10:04 AM |
		
		Comments








August 30, 2011
Greenland's ice: beauty and threat




ILULISSAT, Greenland (AP) -- Greenland's Inuit people have countless terms to describe ice in all its varieties. This gallery of photographs by Brennan Linsley of The Associated Press is something of a visual vocabulary for the striking forms ice takes on the giant Arctic island.
Greenland's ice sheet and glaciers are melting more and more as the world warms, sending gushing water and towering icebergs into the sea, threatening to raise ocean levels worldwide in the years and decades to come. Researchers are hard at work trying to gauge how much will melt and when.
Some of the most spectacular icebergs are calved from the 6-kilometer-wide (4-mile-wide) Jakobshavn Glacier near the town of Ilulissat on Greenland's west central coast. These icebergs push out into the 50-kilometer-long (30-mile-long) Ilulissat Ice Fjord, and then into Disko Bay and eventually the North Atlantic ocean.
The ice, much of it tens of thousands of years old, originates in the 1.7-million-square-kilometer (660,000-square-mile) ice sheet covering 80 percent of Greenland.  ( 28 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 
A large iceberg shed from the Greenland ice sheet floats near Ilulissat, Greenland on July 18, 2011. Greenland is the focus of many researchers trying to determine how much its melting ice may raise sea levels.   AP / Brennan Linsley 


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Greenland's ice: beauty and threat.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 4:19 PM
 4:20 PM |
		
		Comments








August 29, 2011
Irene: Wet, deadly and expensive, but no monster




NEW YORK (AP) -- Stripped of hurricane rank, Tropical Storm Irene spent the last of its fury Sunday, leaving treacherous flooding and millions without power -- but an unfazed New York and relief that it was nothing like the nightmare authorities feared. 
Slowly, the East Coast surveyed the damage -- up to $7 billion by one private estimate. The center of Irene crossed into Canada late Sunday, but for many the danger had not passed.
Rivers and creeks turned into raging torrents tumbling with limbs and parts of buildings in northern New England and upstate New York. Flooding was widespread in Vermont, and hundreds of people were told to leave the capital, Montpelier, which could get flooded twice: once by Irene and once by a utility trying to save an overwhelmed dam.
Meanwhile, the nation's most populous region looked to a new week and the arduous process of getting back to normal. (43 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 A flooded road is seen in Hatteras Island, N.C., Sunday, Aug. 28, 2011after Hurricane Irene swept through the area Saturday cutting the roadway in five locations. Irene caused more than 4.5 million homes and businesses along the East Coast to reportedly lose power over the weekend. Jim R. Bounds / AP


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Irene: Wet, deadly and expensive, but no monster.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 3:14 AM
10:17 PM |
		
		Comments








August 26, 2011
NATO forces helping rebels in hunt for Gadhafi




TRIPOLI (AP) -- British warplanes struck a large bunker Friday in Moammar Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte, his largest remaining stronghold, as NATO turned its attention to loyalist forces battling advancing Libyan rebels in the area.
The airstrikes came a day after fierce clashes erupted in the Libyan capital, which remained tense as rebels hunted for the elusive leader and his allies. Pro-Gadhafi forces were shelling the airport and sporadic shooting was reported elsewhere, but the streets of Tripoli were relatively calm on Friday.
The rebel leadership has offered a $2 million bounty on Gadhafi's head, but the autocrat has refused to surrender, fleeing to an unknown destination as his 42-year regime crumbles in the North African nation. (25 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 Rebel fighters and a television cameraman take shelter as an intense gun battle erupted outside the Corinthia hotel, where many foreign journalists are staying, in Tripoli, LIbya, Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011.   Sergey Ponomarev / AP


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading NATO forces helping rebels in hunt for Gadhafi.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 8:21 AM
 8:23 AM |
		
		Comments








August 24, 2011
Strongest quake since '44 jars East Coast




MINERAL, Va. (AP) -- Tens of millions of people from Georgia to Canada were jolted Tuesday by the strongest earthquake to strike the East Coast since World War II. Three weeks before the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11, office workers poured out of New York skyscrapers and the Pentagon, relieved it was nothing more sinister than an act of nature. 
There were no known deaths or serious injuries, but cracks appeared in the Washington Monument and the National Cathedral, which had three capstones break off its tower. Windows shattered and grocery stores were wrecked in Virginia, where the quake was centered. The White House and Capitol were evacuated.
The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake registered magnitude 5.8. By West Coast standards, that is mild. But the East Coast is not accustomed to earthquakes at all, and this one unsettled some of the nation's biggest population centers. (39 images)
 Follow @sacbee_theframe


 

 Debris covers the isle at the Miller's mart food store in Mineral, Va., Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011.  A magnitude 5.8 earthquake hit the area which was felt up and down the east coast.   Steve Helber / AP


MORE IMAGES





            Continue reading Strongest quake since '44 jars East Coast.
        




Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

 2:01 AM
 9:41 PM |
		
		Comments







More Entries: September 2011 (6) 
    
            More Entries: August 2011 (15) 
    

 
 
 





Contact Us

Site Feedback
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Bee Jobs



Share Content

Share your pictures
Share your videos
News tips



Advertise With Us

Place a classified ad
Place a real estate ad
Place a rental ad
Place a newspaper ad



Online Extras

Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Maps & Directions






Copyright © The Sacramento Bee
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About The Sacramento Bee
About the McClatchy Company





















