Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief ~ The Twilight Awards

















skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



































Home
News & Events

Fandom Calendar
Contests News
Awards News
Fandom Events
Moved Fics
Pulled Fics


Reviews & Recs

Guest Reviews
Twi-Lite Reviews
Under the Radar
Weekly Fic Picks
What the Writers are Reading


Features

Spotlight Interviews
The Published Fandom
TwiFic Bites Teasers
WCs


Fanfic Library

Fandom Faves
Finished Fics
Must Read Fics
One-Shots


About Us

About the Site
Our Staff
Notable Mentions
Affiliates & Partners
FAQs


Forms

Submit a Contest
Submit an Awards Round
Submit a Fandom Event
Submit a Change
Submit a Teaser
Send in your Under the Radar Fic
Add Your Fic to Our Tweets
Be a Guest Reviewer
Become an Affiliate
Join Our Staff


Contact

















Need a beta?













TwiFic Bites

      



Click
HERE to submit your teaser.











Facebook Fic Rec

The Long Walk Home
by Lulabelle98
*Selected from our "Got a fic to pimp?" Facebook discussion


Join Our WCs

Need a little motivation to finish your next chapter?  Join our WC Leaders in weekly WC sessions!
With JennDur (Skype): Mon Sept 12, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With KitsuShel (Skype): Wed Sept 14, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With JennDur (Skype): Thur Sept 15, 9pm EST/6pm PST
For details, email:


Subscribe

Enter your email address to get all the latest in fandom news, reviews, and more delivered daily to your inbox!











Vote for Us!













Our Partners

 











All Fandom Events



25 Days of Christmas


Back to School Fundraiser


Banner Giveaway


Fandom Against Domestic Violence


Fandom Against Famine


Fandom Cookbook


Fandom Cookie Jar


Fandom Fealty Fundraiser


Fandom Fic Art Week


Fandom Fights Hunger


Fandom Fights the Tsunamis


Fandom Fights Wildfires


Fandom for Cancer


Fandom for Leukemia and Lymphoma


Fandom for Preemies


Fandom for Sexual Assault Awareness


Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief


Fandom Gives Back


Fandom Gives Back Spotlight


Fandoms Fight the Floods


Finding Your Voice


Foxy Fics


Support Stacie


TT25


Twific Meet-Up


Twilight Counsel


Twilight Fanfiction New Years Challenge


VampSlash Halloween Fest

















Like what we do?A couple of clicks is all it takes to vote for us!Seriously, we're silly little gluttons for fandom love ;)
  
















Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief


Posted by ysar on 9/11/2011




Aweek ago I posted a plea for help in assisting the many victims of the Texas wildfire outbreak.  Since then I've spoken with so many in our fandom whose friends or family have lost homes in the fires, or who have had to pack what they could and run as the fires approached their own neighborhoods.  Thousands of homes have been destroyed, hundreds of thousands of acres have been burned, and so many people have lost everything. And the fires are still burning.

With the support of so many other Texans in our fandom, Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief has been launched.  In appreciation of any donation of at least $5 to any organization providing care and assistance to the thousands who've been displaced, a compilation of stories from a growing number of talented, generous authors will be given.  The compilation will also be sent to all participating authors and those who create banners for these stories.

Every dollar makes a difference, and so very many families desperately need the help.  Please consider contributing a story or donating to one of the many relief agencies that are helping the Texas wildfire victims start over and rebuild.























Labels:
Fandom Causes,
Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief,
news








0
comments:
        






Post a Comment
IMPORTANT!!!!We love all your comments; however, we will not respond to questions asked in comments. If you have a question for us, please click on "Contact Us" in the menu bar to find our email.





















Older Post

Home



















































Fic of the Day

Sugar Daddy Neededby Jess2002*brought to you by The Writer's Coffee Shop



Weekly Wolf Fic

The Neighbor: Anytime Any Place by ArtsBeatsLifeon FF.net or JBNP
*brought to you by JacobBlack-n-Pack



What great fics are you missing?


Loading...












Recently Completed!


Loading...












Recent Fic Updates!


Loading...












Our Followers
















Show Some Love!

Click here for all our buttons!



























 



TwilightAwards is a fansite run by women who are so obsessed with the books that we've resorted to fanfiction. If you wanna know more about what we do and all the money we're not pocketing, click HERE.  TwilightAwards is in no way affiliated with Stephenie Meyer, Summit Entertainment, Little Brown Publishing, or anyone who has claim to authentic Twilight thingamabobs. Site Administrators, owners, and staff are not responsible for the accuracy of dates/events listed on TwilightAwards.com, nor are we responsible for content of linked sites. All publicly recognizable characters, settings, etc. are the property of their respective owners. No copyright infringement is intended.
TheTwilightAwards website and original content © 2008-2011 ysarWordPress Theme Design by New WP Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha | Modified by ysar











