Welcome to Eukanuba Unleashed |


  


Eukanuba Bloggers


DonnaResearch and Development
JenniferClinical Trials Manager
JeniferEditor/Eukanuba Community Manager
VickyExternal Relations
BeckyProducts Researcher
BevP&G Pet Care Community Manager



|
About the Blog











  



6 Oct 2009
Pet Product and News



 About the Author
Krenda
 



Welcome to Eukanuba Unleashed


I’m Krenda, the brand manager at Eukanuba, and I first want to thank-you for visiting our brand new blog – Eukanuba Unleashed. 
We decided to launch this blog for a few reasons. 
We want to share our love of dogs with you.
First, we have a passionate and dedicated group of people who spend their days working to bring you all the best for your pet.  We want to give them a chance to share their knowledge and experiences with you.  We have award-winning handlers and breeders, veterinarians, licensed trainers who will be sharing their best tips with you.



We want to help bring information you can use.
Second, we want to be a resource for you.  We know that it can be difficult to find the right information about breeds, nutrition, training and products, and we want to provide you with information. 
We want to hear from you.
Finally, we want to hear from you.  Whether it is breeds, training, news, product information or anything else, we want to know how we can better help you and your dog.   It doesn’t have to be about our dog food (in fact, we won’t even write about Eukanuba here).  Please leave comments on our posts and tell us what you think.
We love Pets. We have Pets.  We think about them all day.
When I joined the Eukanuba team two years ago I was impressed by the number of passionate and enthusiastic pet owners that we are fortunate enough to work with. 
You’ll also read articles on this blog from people like Vicki who works in External Relations.  She brings over 15 years of experience as a professional dog handler and has earned over 100 Best in Show titles.  Becky works in R&D and is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer as well as an AKC Canine Good Citizen Evaluator.  These are just a few examples of people that will be writing for the blog.
We hope that you enjoy reading this as much as we enjoy writing it.
Our aim is to give you tips, tricks and information from our many experts.  We hope that you enjoy reading it.  If you have comments, suggestions or feedback, please leave a comment, or contact our blog editor Emily (EukanubaEmily.im@pg.com).  If you have something great to share and are interested in guest posting please send us a note – we’d love to hear from you.
Thank-you
Thanks for visiting us.  We really hope that you enjoy this blog and look forward to a vibrant conversation!
 - Krenda, Brand Manager for Eukanuba




Comments (11)

Bev | October 7th, 2009 at 7:49 pm
Kudos to Emily, Krenda, and the Euk team for finally getting this blog launched!

Romeo the Cat | October 16th, 2009 at 5:11 pm
I love it! I look forward to hearing from all of your fantastic bloggers!

Krenda | October 16th, 2009 at 8:27 pm
Romeo the Cat, I love your blog!  Thanks for checking out the new Eukanuba Unleashed blog, keep in touch.  Krenda

AboutVetMed | October 16th, 2009 at 10:47 pm
Looks like you are off to a good start! I will be interested to see what’s ahead on this space. 
::: waves hello to Romeo :::

Janet | November 16th, 2009 at 7:30 pm
I am unable to attend the AKC show, so I will enjoy reading your blog describing all the exciting events! I would enjoy hearing more about the display which lets you experience the world through a dogs eyes.

Emily, RVT | November 16th, 2009 at 8:19 pm
Hi Janet!  
I’m sorry you won’t be able to attend this year    I’ll be sure to take lots of pictures including the “Be a Dog” exhibit so you & Elmo can enjoy from the comfort of your home. 
Thanks for stopping by!!

Shelley | November 16th, 2009 at 8:57 pm
The AkC show is a wonderful show and love to watch it every year on Animal Plant.  I look forward to your updates about the show.  Great blog!

Marilyn Day | November 18th, 2009 at 2:48 am
I have been to the show for the last three years.  I appreciate the Eukanuba
booths and the free samples.  I talked to the rep last year about my cat and she gave me a sample of “Sensitive Stomach”.  I have had him on it ever since and he looks great!
I was there last year to cheer on “Tripper” the only Irish Red and White Setter to be in Agility.  He will be there this year and I am entering my Irish Red and White Setter, Ruby in conformation.  She is Tripper’s granddaughter.
Best wishes for a great show!

Emily, RVT | November 18th, 2009 at 1:33 pm
Hi Marilyn!
Thanks for stopping by our site!  I’m so glad to hear that your cat has done well on the Euaknuba Sensitive Stomach diet.  We love to hear stories like this!
I’ll be at the show this year for the first time and I’m super excited.  I’ll be on the lookout for Tripper & Ruby.  They sound like beautiful dogs!!  Good luck to both of you.
If you are on Twitter, we will be covering the show through @AskEukanuba as well as our Facebook Fan Page (AENC) and our blog.
Thanks again for stopping by and using our products!

Reseller Hosting | January 5th, 2010 at 9:36 pm
Your blog keeps getting better and better! Your older articles are not as good as newer ones you have a lot more creativity and originality now keep it up!

Yahoouj | February 23rd, 2010 at 8:42 am
Really good work about this website was done. Keep trying more – thanks!

Share a comment on your experience or questions

 Name 
 Email 



























View Categories Breeds

Nutrition

Products

Stories

Training


  


Archives 


View older entries


 


 
Get Email Updates


G-Lock opt-in manager for send email newsletters   



Other ways to stay involved
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
 



Related Links
American Kennel Club (AKC)
Canine Companions for Independence (CCI)
Eukanuba
Eukanuba Sport
Guiding Eyes for the Blind
IAMS
Morris Animal Foundation
Puppy Information







 


 



P&G Pet Care •
            Privacy Statement •
			Terms & Conditions •		
			P&G Links

Copyright Eukanuba ©2010 Procter & Gamble Pet Care • All rights reserved worldwide.


