REVIEW: Mission Street Food | Christian Media Cross

 
 
































Christian

Men
Women
Youth
Family
Missions


National
World

United Nations
Britain
China
Asia
Mexico
Iraq
Iran
India
North Korea
Japan
Africa
Latin America
Russia


Politics
Business
Tech

Tech Reviews
Web Apps
Business Tech
Green Tech


Entertainment

Album Review
Music
Movies


Devotional

Bible Pathway
My Utmost For His Highest


More

Culture


 







 
















REVIEW: Mission Street Food
On September 7, 2011  · Leave a Comment · In Books 


 







Share this Post
Tweet





The inspiring story (and delicious recipes) of leaders in the mobile food movement.
Years before the locator app, the Los Angeles festival or the Food Network reality show about food truck culture, Mission Street Food was serving up pork belly with jicama from a rented Guatemalan food cart in a suspect neighborhood of San Francisco. They had customers lining up over an hour each night and food bloggers following their every move on Twitter. Then, inexplicably, they shut it all down.
Mission Street Food was mobile food before mobile food was cool. It became a restaurant inside a restaurant before anyone knew that was possible. It spun off into a burger stand inside a butcher shop, followed by a Chinese take-out place whose name contained an intentional racial slur and finally into a permanent haute cuisine establishment with a charitable bent. 
Keeping this kind of pace, you get the feeling that chef Anthony Mynit can’t sit still. But reading through his recently released book (co-authored with his PhD wife Karen Leibowitz and appropriately titled Mission Street Food) it’s obvious that he’s just warming up—and that he has the ability to spark revolutions at any time based entirely upon how he’s feeling that day. 
Mission Street Food was not the first alternative restaurant, but it was at the tip of a broader movement involved in what’s been called the “sportification” of food. A response to the homogeneity of current American food culture, consumers are now opting instead for extreme individualism in their meal choices. But with the ease of brand building through social media and the low overhead costs of mobile kitchens, the level of one-upsmanship is so fierce among chefs has developed it prompted NPR to suggest that the food truck explosion may already be over. Unless, like Mission Street Food, it keeps evolving. 
The layout of Mission Street Food is not unlike a recipe. It’s divided into two basic sections: their story and their food, with an eight page comic and several essays added in for flavor, all marinaded in the maddeningly high level of wit expected by its McSweeney’s publishing label. But for all the pretense possible when discussing foodie culture, especially from those who have found success in it, Myint and Leibowitz manage to maintain a level of idealism so authentic that you can almost feel yourself brainstorming ingredients with them. Surely it helps that they often speak the commoner’s language, as when Myint spends an entire essay arguing that Popeye’s fried chicken should be the food equivalent of the gold standard.
Many of the recipes featured in Mission Street Food are accessible to stay-at-home moms and college freshman alike. Because most of the food is designed to be served in ill-equipped kitchens at a McDonalds-like pace, there are few specialty tools needed and many detailed workarounds are described for more complicated cooking methods. Highlights include Myint’s proclamation of how burgers and wings should be cooked (my attempt at the cilantro aioli seemed to work well, though I still don’t know exactly what the word “aioli” means). 
Of course, for those looking to really impress, Mission Street Food also features tips on how to improve your basic bone marrow-stuffed squid recipe or how to best control an octopus without it opening your jars and outsmarting you (stick it in the washing machine, apparently).
Perhaps the most interesting essay features Sara, a former chef/war correspondent, and her Episcopal priest Paul, both of whom cooked for a time at Mission Street Food. They are also openly gay. Through their nonprofit, The Food Pantry, they feed 750 immigrant, mentally ill and poor members of their community each week while participating with them in communion and prayer. 
Though Myint and Leibowitz admit they are not believers, Leibowitz comments on Sara’s impact by saying that she is “the kind of Christian you imagine if you read the Gospels and extrapolate from there.” If this makes any of us uncomfortable in our Christianity, it should. But let’s hope it’s because that description inspires us to be more like Sara, rather than dismissing her work based on any theological or cultural litmus test many Christians may impose upon it. 
As a treatise on what’s possible against improbable odds, Mission Street Food is really more about innovation than food. Myint and Leibowitz are stretching beyond the physical mobility of their pop-up restaurants by creating social mobility as well. They’re blurring the chasm between novices and experts, and in the process bursting apart the well-established hierarchy of their industry. As with musicians and publishers before it, would-be chefs have never had this kind of access to new customers or opportunities for success. And now the bar for excellence has never been higher. 
Even if your palette is better suited for Lean Cuisines and microwaves, Mission Street Food is inspiring. Through their story Myint and Leibowitz show us what can happen if we have the nerve to step into the chaos, to fight the resistance and to just do something. 
David Buckmaster works with a faith-based nonprofit in Lakeland, Fl. He can be found on Twitter at @d_buckmaster. 


Book Reviews
You might also be interested in:Restaurants Lobby for Food Stamps Business
Meet Jon Huntsman: ‘No drama’ conservative and fan of street food
Food Labelling App Launched for Smart Food Choice
Wendy’s Opens First Fast-Food Restaurant in Russia
REVIEW: CJ Emulous “Suicide Mission”





								Tagged with: american food culture • butcher shop • chef anthony • culture consumers • culture mission • delicious recipes • extreme individualism • food cart • food movement • food network • food truck • guatemalan food • haute cuisine • jicama • meal choices • mobile food • mobile kitchens • pork belly • racial slur • street food 
							









						If you enjoyed this post, please consider sharing it!	
					

















 



 































 Latest Posts 
Facebook Could Buy WebOS: Analyst
Man Arrested in $2-Billion UBS Rogue Trading Probe; Third Quarter Loss Likely, Shares Tumble
UK Economy: Does Ed Balls Have a Credible Alternative?
French, Greek, German Leaders Discuss Greek Crisis
Will Graham to join Rock Thurrock
Charity uses radio to reach out to people in debt
Toddlers and Tiaras and the inner beauty God desires
This Phone Has No Apps But It’s Made Of Gold
Solyndra Flop May Cost Taxpayers, Embarrass Obama
Palestinians To Seek Full U.N. Membership Next Week

 
Christian Media Cross Connect 






 



 
Christian News 






Christian Music 







Hot Topicsafp
amp
associated press
barack obama
christian broadcasting network
christian music
christians
cnn
cnnmoney
david cameron
debt ceiling
debt crisis
debt limit
espn
facebook
faith
getty images
god
google
heart
house speaker
iphone
jesus
jesus christ
john boehner
love
lyrics
michele bachmann
mitt romney
moammar gadhafi
music
music video
news world
obama
photo
protesters
reuters
rick perry
target
tea party
tripoli
twitter
washington post
yahoo
yahoo news
 






 




 

















 
 
 














Christian News

Christian Post


CBN News


Christian Telegraph


One News Now


CrossWalk News


Christian Today


World Mag


Christianity Today


Urban Christian News



Christian Music

Da South


K Love


Air 1


Todays Christian Music


Breathecast


Holy Culture


CCM Magazine


Gospel Music Channel


New Release Tuesday


CM Spin


Hear it First


Jesus Freak Hideout


Christian Sonic



Christian Resources

E-Sword


Life Way


CrossWalk


Free Christian Resources


Bible Gateway


Christian Book


Gospel


Viral Outreach


Youth Worker



More Christian Sites

Ultimate Tube


Relevant Magazine


God Tube


Reach Life



Christian Social Network

LIBAW Social



Connect

Facebook


Twitter


Youtube


RSS

















© 2011 LIBAW / Christian Media Cross 






