Texas battles catastrophic blazes - GlobalPost.com











Global Economy: 7 Deadly Stories
Innovation, Inc.
Powerland
 
 
 





Search this site: 








RSS












 
 






 
 









Home
Video
GlobalPost Blogs
Special Reports
Mission
Research
Members










 
 






Regions
Business & Tech
War
Politics
Culture & Lifestyle
Offbeat
Photo Galleries
Opinion
Green
Health


 
 




Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East


 
 



Skip to Content Skip to Navigation







 
 





Catastrophic Texas wildfire destroys 1000 homes
 








Catastrophic Texas wildfire destroys 1000 homes



One of the worst wildfire outbreaks in Texan history has destroyed more than 1,000 homes and killed at least four people so far as fires raged for the past week.




News DeskSeptember 7, 2011 06:58


PrintEmailTweet




A tanker airplane drops fire retardant on a wildfire on September 1, 2011 in Graford, Texas. More than 6,500 acres and more than 45 homes in the area have burned since Tuesday. (Tom Pennington/AFP/Getty Images)


	One of the worst wildfire outbreaks in Texan history has destroyed more than 1,000 homes and killed at least four people so far as fires raged for the past week.

	About 1200 firefighters from as far away as Oregon are battling blazes as Governor Rick Perry is faced with the disaster just as the Republican presidential contest begins, the Associated Press reports.

	More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the state, with nearly 600 homes ruined in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that continued to rage on Tuesday for a third day, the Guardian reports.

	Homes were reduced to metal roofing and smoldering ash, Associated Press reports.

	Tropical Storm Lee's winds whipped the fire into an inferno over the weekend, stretching across 33,000 acres, and forcing 5000 people to flee their homes, CNN reports.

	The Bastrop fire - the most devastating blaze in Texas in a decade - killed at least two, bringing the overall death toll to at least four.

	The Guardian reports:

Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, and later deployed the state's elite search team to the area to look for more possible victims. Texas Task Force 1 is the same outfit sent to New York after the September 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

"[There are] pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," he said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."





 
 


Suggest & Vote




Members ask: What should GlobalPost cover?





135


votes



The Wise Ignorant suggests:


How likely is it for China to split into several countries in the next few years, and what would be the global...








40


votes



Guest suggests:


Compare the economies of various countries to get a sense of how relative economic stability and growth relate to the...





Voting Ends:
Voting ends in: 4 hours 31 min



 
 
 
 



Last Week's Winner

165
votes


"Astute Observer" suggested:


India and Pakistan are the powerhouses of South Asia as well as historic enemies. How do their military forces stack up today?


Last week's winner compares the military might of two continually feuding countries. Check the membership site in late-September for a link to completed piece.


 
 


The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of". 

But his campaign spokesman, Mark Miner, said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.

	Perry, a favorite of the conservative Tea Party movement, blamed red tape for keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the army's Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being putting to use. However, Fort Hood was battling its own 3,700-acre blaze, the Guardian reports.

	White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration had approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and: "We will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials."

	Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping up 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.

	"We're getting incredible support from all over the country – federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.

	The disaster is mostly due to the severe, year-long drought.

	The fire in Bastrop county is worse than a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in the north of the state in April.


	 

Natural Disasters
United States


PrintEmailTweet

 
   




 
 
 


 








 
 


Don't Miss

RelatedMost PopularRecommended


 





Palin "took coke and cheated on husband"







NASA aims for Mars with monster rocket







Teen fakes cancer, raises $17,000







Chicago launches daily crime database







No Miranda for Underwear Bomber







NTSB: Ban truckers’ cellphones








BP blamed for gulf oil spill







Cantaloupes blamed for Listeria outbreak







Facebook IPO put off until late 2012?







"Gumby robbery" may have been prank







Minnesota wildfire spreads to 100K acres







New questions about closed solar company








Windows 8 preview unveiled at conference







Missoni for Target line crashes website







Google lists WTC as flight destination







US poverty rate hits record high







Insurgents killed as troops secure Kabul







Jackie Kennedy's secret tapes released








Bob Turner scores upset win in NY







Warren to challenge Brown in Ma.







Russia delays Space Station trip again







Nevada governor endorses Perry







NYPD investigating dancing cops video







Living Social deal sets record






 


 





King Crabs take over Antarctica







Iran releases video guide to sex







Peru declares state of emergency







Chinese lovebirds in Nazi garb







First, Arab Spring. Next, Cuban Autumn?







Indonesia: in-humane chains








Living Social deal sets record







Hells Angels held over Ma. murders







US poverty rate hits record high







Missoni for Target line crashes website







Domestic abuse pervasive in China







Jackie Kennedy's secret tapes released








Dalai Lama: Mexico is not so violent







Even good news is bad news for Israel







Mexico: killed for a tweet







Bystanders lift car to save biker







Google lists WTC as flight destination







Kabul attack: shape of things to come?








Protecting rugby fans from boobs







Map of the day: the world of the web







Fluorescent cats created for AIDS study







Jackie O dissed MLK Jr. on audio tapes







NYPD investigating dancing cops video







Congressman: Mexico faces insurgency






 


 





First, Arab Spring. Next, Cuban Autumn?







Even good news is bad news for Israel







Domestic abuse pervasive in China







Zimbabwean lawyer wins Inamori prize







Kabul attack: shape of things to come?







Map of the day: the world of the web








South Africa: Song banned as hate speech







Turkey: tailspin after Palmer Report







Hockey: Head shots take a hit







Indonesia: in-humane chains







Outing Syria's citizen-spies







Libyan rebels accused of war crimes








Will Syrians fight back?







Dutch TV: Who wants to be a refugee?







Mexico: Paying for your life







Migrants or mercenaries?







Libya: Rebels ready to attack Bani Walid







10 years later, Saudi slowly modernizing








Does Japan's new PM have what it takes?







Libya rebels set deadline for Gaddafi







Germany fights neo-Nazis






  
 
 





 
 



 
 











 
 
 


Footer Menu 2

Home
Contact Us
Headlines Widget
GP on Twitter
GP on Facebook
Terms of Use
Syndication
Advertising
 
 
 





 
 





 
 



This site was co-developed with Viewpoint Creative of Boston
 
 
 


Get our Newsletter


Email: *



Get GlobalPost in your Inbox: *

 Daily Chatter


 Great Weekend Reads Newletter


 Charles Sennott Contacts








 Copyright 2011 GlobalPost – International News  















