Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Texas Gov. Rick Perry”
        
                                



Rick Perry Talks Faith, Military at Liberty University 


    
                By UCN on September 14, 2011  7:37 PM





Rick Perry wowed students and faculty at the world's largest Christian university. (Joel Coleman/Liberty University)Texas Gov. Rick Perry avoided contentious social issues in a speech Wednesday at the nation's largest evangelical university, offering the youth a testimonial about his own path to Christian faith and praising the men and women of the military.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Talks Faith, Military at Liberty University .
        





Perry Assailed by GOP Rivals in Florida Tea Party Debate, Defends His Record 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  2:57 AM





Republican presidential candidates (L-R) Jon Huntsman, Herman Cain, Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN), former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Rep. Ron Paul, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum during the pledge of allegiance as they prepare to debate during the event sponsored by CNN and The Tea Party Express at the Florida State fairgrounds on September 12, 2011 in Tampa, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images North America)Attacked from all sides by fellow Republicans, Texas Gov. Rick Perry softened his rhetoric if not his position on Social Security in a crackling presidential campaign debate Monday night. He fended off assaults on his record creating jobs and requiring the vaccination of schoolgirls against a cancer-causing sexually transmitted virus.


            Continue reading Perry Assailed by GOP Rivals in Florida Tea Party Debate, Defends His Record .
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:18 PM





Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. (Erech Schlegal/AP Photo)In the last 48 hours, 852 homes have been consumed in the flames of Texas wildfires as dozens of blazes continue to sear the drought-plagued state, according to the Texas Forest Service.


            Continue reading 852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires .
        





Rick Perry in South Carolina: Keep Praying for Rain 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  2:23 PM





Republican presidential candidate and Texas Governor Rick Perry speaks to workers at Epoch Homes August 18, 2011 in Pembroke, New Hampshire. (Darren McCollester/Getty Images North America)Texas Gov. Rick Perry came out swinging today in South Carolina, making his fiercest hit yet on former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and his record as a job creator.


            Continue reading Rick Perry in South Carolina: Keep Praying for Rain .
        





Judge Strikes Down Key Provisions of Texas Abortion Bill 


    
                By UCN on August 31, 2011  8:17 AM





The law would make it significantly more difficult for women to get abortions, the judge says. (AP Photo)A federal judge on Tuesday blocked key provisions of Texas' new law requiring a doctor to perform a sonogram before an abortion, ruling the measure violates the free speech rights of both doctors and patients.


            Continue reading Judge Strikes Down Key Provisions of Texas Abortion Bill .
        





GOP Presidential Candidates Bachmann and Perry Both in Iowa, Seeking Support of Evangelical Voters


    
                By UCN on August 14, 2011  7:25 PM





Republican presidential candidate Texas Governor Rick Perry (R) visits with Cecelia and Jim Mudd of Waterloo, Iowa, during the Blackhawk County Republican annual Lincoln Day Dinner at the Electric Park Ballroom August 14, 2011 in Waterloo, Iowa. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images North America)The surest place to find Michele Bachmann on Sundays this summer is at a worship service somewhere in Iowa, offering the testimony of a Republican presidential candidate who has long tied her political beliefs to her faith.


            Continue reading GOP Presidential Candidates Bachmann and Perry Both in Iowa, Seeking Support of Evangelical Voters.
        





Rick Perry to Make Presidential Bid Official Today 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011  5:16 AM





The Texas governor is expected to enter the race for 2012 GOP presidential nomination, Saturday with appearances in South Carolina and New Hampshire. (AP Photo/Butch Dill)Texas Gov. Rick Perry is opening a second front in the battle for the Republican presidential nomination for a day, vying for the spotlight with the Iowa Straw Poll.


            Continue reading Rick Perry to Make Presidential Bid Official Today .
        





Rick Perry Prepares to Announce His Candidacy, Evangelical Leaders Are Listening


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  6:13 PM





Texas Gov. Rick Perry leads a prayer event August 6 in Houston. Thousands prayed for God to save "a nation in crisis." (Getty Images)Evangelical pastor Jim Garlow has met Texas Gov. Rick Perry only once, but the politician left quite an impression.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Prepares to Announce His Candidacy, Evangelical Leaders Are Listening.
        





Atheist Creates Film to be Featured at Rick Perry's Presidential Announcement 


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  3:32 PM






Ourselves and Our Posterity...Created for the Rick Perry/RedState Gathering video contest.Texas Gov. Rick Perry is slated to feature a video at his Saturday presidential announcement that includes religious statements and scenes of a family at prayer.


            Continue reading Atheist Creates Film to be Featured at Rick Perry's Presidential Announcement .
        





Ames, Iowa GOP Debate: Lots of Minnesota Sparring, Talk About Perry


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  4:17 AM





Republican presidential candidates (L-R) former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum, businessman Herman Cain, Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX), former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN), former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty, former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman and former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-GA) take the stage for a debate in the Stephens Auditorium at Iowa State University August 11, 2011 in Ames, Iowa. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images North America)Minnesota rivals Tim Pawlenty and Michele Bachmann sparred bitterly Thursday night during an eight-candidate Republican debate, trying to break out of the GOP presidential pack ahead of an Iowa test vote with huge consequences. Each seeks to become the main challenger to Republican front-runner Mitt Romney.


            Continue reading Ames, Iowa GOP Debate: Lots of Minnesota Sparring, Talk About Perry.
        





In Iowa, Michele Bachmann Keeps Touting Faith 


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  3:58 AM





Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann arrives at the Stephens Auditorium at Iowa State University for the Republican party debate August 11, 2011 in Ames, Iowa. (Scott Olson/Getty Images North America)The surest place to find Michele Bachmann on Sundays this summer is at a worship service somewhere in Iowa, offering the testimony of a Republican presidential candidate who has long tied her political beliefs to her faith.


            Continue reading In Iowa, Michele Bachmann Keeps Touting Faith .
        





Analysis: Rick Perry's Entrance to the Race May Pose Biggest Threat To Frontrunner Romney 


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  3:52 AM





Former Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney, attends a business roundtable to discuss the economy during a campaign stop at the Vermeer Corporation on August 9, 2011 in Pella, Iowa. (Scott Olson/Getty Images North America)The biggest development of the Republican presidential campaign on Thursday happened in Austin, Texas -- 1,000 miles from the leadoff caucus state where GOP front-runner Mitt Romney and seven of his opponents squared off ahead of an important test vote this weekend.


            Continue reading Analysis: Rick Perry's Entrance to the Race May Pose Biggest Threat To Frontrunner Romney .
        





Texas Gov. Rick Perry Running for President, Set to Officially Announce Candidacy on Saturday


    
                By UCN on August 11, 2011  6:21 PM





Texas Gov. Rick Perry (C) speaks on stage alongside Rev. C.L. Jackson, of Houston's Pleasant Grove Missionary Baptist Church (L) and Alice Patterson, Texas State Coordinator for The Response USA at the non-denominational prayer and fasting event, entitled "The Response" at Reliant Stadium August 6, 2011 in Houston, Texas. (August 5, 2011 - Photo by Brandon Thibodeaux/Getty Images North America)Texas Gov. Rick Perry is running for president, a spokesman confirmed Thursday, a move certain to shake up the race for the GOP nomination much to the delight of conservatives looking for a candidate to embrace.


            Continue reading Texas Gov. Rick Perry Running for President, Set to Officially Announce Candidacy on Saturday.
        





Gallup: Rick Perry in Strong Position if He Enters Race 


    
                By UCN on August 10, 2011  1:47 AM





Perry's Positive Intensity Score is highest of any Republican tested


            Continue reading Gallup: Rick Perry in Strong Position if He Enters Race .
        





Sam Rodriguez: Hispanics are the Future of American Evangelicalism 


    
                By UCN on August  6, 2011  6:01 AM





Center for American Progress (via Flickr)For the Rev. Sam Rodriguez, who leads a Hispanic organization that represents more than 24,000 Christian congregations, the future of American Evangelicalism is clear.


            Continue reading Sam Rodriguez: Hispanics are the Future of American Evangelicalism .
        





Rick Perry Backs a Constitutional Limit on Marriage 


    
                By UCN on July 30, 2011  1:58 PM





Texas Governor Rick Perry autographs his book "Fed Up" prior to speaking at the Western Conservative Summit in Denver on Friday, July 29, 2011. Perry and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum are scheduled to give keynote addresses Friday night. (AP Photo/Ed Andrieski)Texas Gov. Rick Perry says he supports a constitutional amendment limiting marriage to a man and a woman, though just last week he said New York's gay marriage law is fine with him.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Backs a Constitutional Limit on Marriage .
        





Rick Perry Addresses Western Conservative Summit in Denver


    
                By UCN on July 30, 2011 10:44 AM





Texas Gov. Rick Perry addresses the Western Conservative Summit in Denver on Friday, July 29, 2011. Perry and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum gave keynote addresses Friday night. (AP Photo/Ed Andrieski)Texas Gov. Rick Perry told Colorado Republicans on Friday night, "There is no better time to move our country forward."


            Continue reading Rick Perry Addresses Western Conservative Summit in Denver.
        





Rick Perry Believes Abortion Should Be a States' Rights Issue 


    
                By UCN on July 27, 2011  8:19 PM





Despite holding personal pro-life beliefs, Texas Gov. Rick Perry categorized abortion as a states' rights issue today, saying that if Roe v. Wade was overturned, it should be up to the states to decide the legality of the procedure.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Believes Abortion Should Be a States' Rights Issue .
        





Polls: Rick Perry Gains on GOP Presidential Contender Mitt Romney 


    
                By UCN on July 27, 2011  2:02 PM





A series of recent polls suggest that the Republican presidential primary will come down to two governors with great hair and solid executive experience. The crucial difference? One is Mormon.


            Continue reading Polls: Rick Perry Gains on GOP Presidential Contender Mitt Romney .
        





                                    1 2  Next >












 




New York City Plans Launch of Bicycle-Sharing Program 


NBA Lockout Continues 


Dodgers Owner Reach Temporary Spousal Support Deal 


Djokovic, Nadal Prepare to Lead Countries in Davis Cup 


New Mega-rocket Design Unveiled by NASA 


Study: Rise in Sea Levels to Hit California Beaches Hard 


Crystal Cathedral Bankruptcy Plan Will Proceed 


Some Churches Doing Away With Sunday School to Embrace Family-Integrated Congregations 




 


















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










