Nasa ‘needs more astronauts’  |  News Global TV







News Global TV
World Breaking News, Politics, World News, Exclusives, Interviews





Top Stories
Explore
Timeline
Contact
 
Find Us Online:


  






Business
Entertainment
Health
Mobile
Money
Politics
Social Media
Sport
Startups
Tech
Video
Weather
World
 










About the Post



Author Information
Posted by: NewsGlobal TV
Amerinews TV is part of News Global network focusing on providing quality news, articles, roundups, politics and interviews. News Global posts daily updates in America Breaking News, Politics, World News, Exclusives, Interviews. The News Global network is focused on creating a portal to Professionals in all the fields, granting all access to news worldwide.




Post Information
Posted on: September 7, 2011
Posted in: America
Comments: 109900 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Famerinews.tv%2Fblog%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fnasa-needs-more-astronauts%2FNasa+%27needs+more+astronauts%272011-09-08+01%3A33%3A05http%3A%2F%2Famerinews.tv%2Fblog%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fnasa-needs-more-astronauts%2F



Share The Post
Please use the following buttons below to share the post that you are reading with the popular aggregators:


   







Nasa ‘needs more astronauts’


Tweet
Tweet

7 September 2011
Last updated at 15:28 ET

 US astronauts are hitching rides with Russian crews after the end of the space shuttle programme
Nasa does not have enough astronauts, even though the space shuttle programme has ended, a report says.
The National Research Council, a non-profit group advising on science policy, said Nasa should increase the size of its space-flying crew.
It said astronauts were needed to staff the International Space Station (ISS) and pave the way for new exploration.
American astronauts currently have to travel on Russian spacecraft in order to reach the ISS.
The US space shuttle programme ended in July, after 30 years.
 ‘No flexibility’
After many American astronauts retired or quit this year, there are only 60 left, down from a peak of 149 a decade ago.
Wednesday’s report warns that Nasa’s current projected astronaut corps size of 55-60 could pose a risk to crew replacements in case of illness or injury.
It said: “The committee concluded that the currently projected minimum staffing target size for the active astronaut corps poses a risk to the US investment in human spaceflight capabilities.” 
It added: “Given the range of potential crew assignment constraints and uncertainty in future requirements, the astronaut corps appears to be sized below the minimum required.
“The current plan for the size of the astronaut corps does not have the flexibility to accommodate commercial, exploration, and new mission development tasks, or unexpected increases in attrition.”
The committee that worked on the report for Nasa was made up of 13 experts, including five former astronauts. 
US astronauts currently fly on Russian Soyuz capsules to reach the ISS. A planned mission to the space station is on hold after a failed launch of cargo in August. 
The station will become vacant temporarily at the end of November if Nasa cannot launch a new crew by then.
Source: BBC News 
Tags: latest, news, top, us, usa


← Texas wildfire crews gain ground
US envoy on Cuba prisoner mission →







No comments yet.
 

Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.




Name  (Required) 



Mail (will not be published)  (Required) 



Website
















CAPTCHA Code *


















Popular Latest Comments Tags 




 Euro zone pledges new steps on Greece, but no action
July 12, 2011



 Judge blocks Alabama immigration law to buy time
August 29, 2011



 Florida couple on trial after pet python kills child
July 11, 2011



 Wisconsin voters go to polls Tuesday in first recall election
July 18, 2011



 Cisco to cut workforce by 15 percent, sell factory to Hon Hai
July 19, 2011





 Walter De Gregorio appointed as new Director of Communications & Public Affairs
September 14, 2011



 Cuba blames failed Richardson trip on his actions
September 14, 2011



 U.S. delays sensitive topics in Trans-Pacific talks
September 14, 2011



 Joplin tornado death toll rises to 162
September 14, 2011



 Casey Anthony dad says Caylee died of drug overdose
September 14, 2011






Brittanicus: ILLEGAL ALIENS CAN RUN, BUT THEY CANNOT HIDE! 
 
O...




Brittanicus:  
 
Rep. Smith said Congress has two options to st...




kukkumol: Never loose conifidence, were confidence wake up y...




Montana: You know what this current crowd of GOP liars want...




Bo Toichi: Barbara Liston learn how to write an article. ...




10
30
amazon
apple
bribery
business
Chuck Blazer
day
entertainment
facebook
facts
fascinating
fifa
Film
france
health
Jack Warner
latest
lawsuit
less
ltest
mac app
MARKETING
mark zuckerberg
media
memorial
minutes
movie
muppets
news
Obama
paul-ceglia
politics
president
smal
sport
sports
startups
the-fuzzy-pack
top
trailer
us
usa
video
world 


 Twitter Stream

Follow @newsglobaltv on Twitter










© 2011 News Global TV. All Rights Reserved.


 Powered by News Global TV. Developed by  Pros Global 













