Reading Your Dog’s Body Language |


  


Eukanuba Bloggers


DonnaResearch and Development
JenniferClinical Trials Manager
JeniferEditor/Eukanuba Community Manager
VickyExternal Relations
BeckyProducts Researcher
BevP&G Pet Care Community Manager



|
About the Blog











  



7 Sep 2011
Adult Dogs
Training


 About the Author

Jenifer, RVT
 



Reading Your Dog’s Body Language



By Stacy Braslau-Schneck
As you train and bond with your dog, one of the most important things you should understand is when she’s uncomfortable with the situation she’s in. Many people — even experienced dog owners — are not good at reading subtle signs of discomfort. They think their dog is fine with what’s happening when, in fact, the dog is sometimes enduring the interaction under duress and protest. But you can learn what various body signals mean, and reading your dog’s body language can help you guard him from the things that cause him distress.
Read the Signs
If your dog is happy, content and comfortable, you’ll usually notice these signs:

He looks soft, with a loose and wiggly body, warm eyes, and a gently wagging tail or even a “wagging body”
His eyes are squinty and almond-shaped, with no whites showing
Usually she opens her mouth loosely, but the corners aren’t pulled back
Her ears are neutral or up. A dog showing mild or comfortable curiosity perks his ears forward and might slow down other movements

Understand What Is Normal for Your Dog
It’s important to keep each dog’s normal expression into account, as dogs have different neutral positions for tails, ears, brow wrinkles, etc. A Border Collie or Greyhound in a calm, neutral mood will hold her tail a lot lower than a Husky or Akita, and as these dogs raise or lower their tails they might not even come close to the other breed’s neutral.
When a dog holds his tail higher than normal and his ears are forward or up, it indicates confidence and interest. Tails and ears held lower than normal indicates uncertainty, fear, or nervousness.

Recognize Distress
If your dog is nervous, uncomfortable, stressed or distressed, you’ll often see these signs:

As a first step, he’ll often look away from something that bothers him, as if he’s trying to ignore it
His body is stiffer and stiller
His eyes look rounded, with the whites showing. The eyes may appear hard or cold (some people report, “He gets that look in his eyes”)
She closes her mouth
She pins back or lowers her ears
She might wag her tail, but it’s stiffer (and sometimes held higher or lower than the comfortable neutral position). A wagging tail does not always mean a happy dog. If your dog is wagging her tail but the rest of her body is stiff, this is probably not a happy wag

If you see your dog go still and close his mouth, turn to focus on whatever might be disturbing her. If she goes from soft almond-shaped eyes to harder rounded eyes (sometimes with whites showing), it’s a sign she’s not comfortable with the situation. It’s not a cause to panic, it’s just information: Your dog is saying “I don’t like this” or “This makes me uncomfortable” or “When you do that, I feel uncomfortable.” Make note of what’s going on and change it; redirect the dog to move farther away or stop any unwanted interactions (with you, other people or other dogs).
Reading your dog’s body language can greatly help you understand how she’s feeling, so you can keep her as comfortable and safe as possible.
This article originally appeared on www.exceptionalcanine.com, an independent editorial source.





Share a comment on your experience or questions

 Name 
 Email 



























View Categories Breeds

Nutrition

Products

Stories

Training


  


Archives 


View older entries


 


 
Get Email Updates


G-Lock opt-in manager for send email newsletters   



Other ways to stay involved
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
 



Related Links
American Kennel Club (AKC)
Canine Companions for Independence (CCI)
Eukanuba
Eukanuba Sport
Guiding Eyes for the Blind
IAMS
Morris Animal Foundation
Puppy Information







 


 



P&G Pet Care •
            Privacy Statement •
			Terms & Conditions •		
			P&G Links

Copyright Eukanuba ©2010 Procter & Gamble Pet Care • All rights reserved worldwide.


