The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran    Tehrān :  Iran
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By HumTum            14 0      
Views: 220
         Press TV said on Wednesday that two Americans were arrestedtwo years ago while hiking in Iran will be issued. Shane Bauer andJosh Fattal in Iran sentenced to eight years in prison last month. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the U.S. media on Tuesday (13 September) that it will be released "in a couple of days," he said shortly before a human gesture that he did travel tothe United Nations. Bauer said that the judiciary on Wednesdayand released on bail pending Fattal said. Two for the U.S. attorney said Tuesday the U.S. $ 500,000 (USD)and will be released on bail. Pair in July 2009 near the Iranian border with Iraq was arrested,where he said that the tourists hiking in the mountains as a thirdAmerican, Sarah Shourd were with. Washington has denied he was a spy. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said she was inspired by Ahmadinejad's remarkswere.        1 of 17        
Iran has decided to postpone judicial decision of releasing two US citizens.
     
HumTum is based in Sargodha, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (46.0%) Pakistan (13.7%) Portugal (9.7%) Canada (5.6%) 14 other countries (18.5%)           READ MORE: Bauer, President, IST, U.S, Men, Iranian   More News From: Tehrān :  Iran      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 17            Reply  Posted By       safdarjaved
| about 24 hours ago
  
Thanks for good sharing rated up
             Reply  Posted By       KhAmmarAhmed1
| about 23 hours ago
  
thanks for sharing must be rated up
             Reply  Posted By       TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
  
Very impressive interpretation of story... rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       HumTum
| about 21 hours ago
  
Thanks all friends for lovely comment on my post
             Reply  Posted By       YawarNaqvi
| about 21 hours ago
  
very nice report.thnx for sharing,rated up
             Reply  Posted By       shiraxinco
| about 21 hours ago
  
justice should be done whether in favor or against US
             Reply  Posted By       HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
  
Thanks all friends for lovely comment on my post
             Reply  Posted By       shiri
| about 20 hours ago
  
thanks for sharing this information.rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       FauziaSultana
| about 17 hours ago
  
Thanks for the information,humtum.It is hoped the two are released so they can return home to their loved ones.Rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       mus1423
| about 16 hours ago
  
thanks for sharing.....!!!!!!must be rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 16 hours ago
  
Thanks for this update rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 16 hours ago
  
Well Managed And Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please Comment on my News.
             Reply  Posted By       faraway
| about 14 hours ago
  
Good report....rates up
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 8 hours ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news. Anyone for the song Sooner Or Later to be played?
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing good report. Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       crown62
| about 2 hours ago
  
thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       HumTum
| 23 minutes ago
  
Thanks all friends for lovely comment on my post
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Iran Allows Bail for Detained U.S. Hikers  
International Business Times
 Get summaries of the top business news from a global perspective Sample Last month, Iran's Revolutionary Court sentenced Bauer and Fattal to eight years in prison for alleged espionage. The two were with a female American, Sarah Shourd, when they...    Clinton: US hopes for quick release of hikers  
Associated Press
 The United States is hopeful for the quick release of two remaining detained American hikers in Iran, after Iran's president pledged to release them, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Tuesday. Clinton said the U.S. was "encouraged" by...    Clinton: US Hopes For Quick Release Of Hikers  
KTUV
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton says the United States is hopeful for the quick release of two remaining detained American hikers in Iran, after Iran's president pledged to pardon them. Clinton said Tuesday the U.S. was "encouraged" by the...    US hikers' release not imminent, says Iranian official  
The Guardian
 AFP/Getty Images Two US nationals arrested while hiking in Iran and convicted of spying will not be released imminently as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had announced, a judiciary official has said. "The two Americans are going to stay in prison for a bit...    Lawyer: Iran sets bail for two jailed Americans  
Contra Costa Times
 Last month, an Iranian court sentenced Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, both 29 and UC Berkeley graduates, to three years each for illegal entry into Iran and five years each for spying for the United States. They appealed the verdicts and on Tuesday the...    Iran to free 2 Americans  
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
 Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday that he intends to release two Americans who have been jailed on charges of espionage for two years and grant them a "unilateral pardon." "I am helping to arrange for their release in a couple of...   More Related Stories     Images    >         The Americans hikers will not ...    The Americans hikers will not ... Image Source: allvoices Iran has decided to postpone judicial decision of releasing two US citizens....        US hikers Shane Bauer (L), ...    US hikers Shane Bauer (L), ... Image Source: www.afp.com US hikers Shane Bauer (L), Sarah Shourd (C) and Josh Fattal in 2009        Bauer and Fattal were arrested ...    Bauer and Fattal were arrested ... Image Source: www.afp.com Bauer and Fattal were arrested on the unmarked border between Iran and ...        The two US hikers were ...    The two US hikers were ... Image Source: www.afp.com The two US hikers were arrested near the mountainous Iraq-Iran border in ...        The two US hikers were both ...    The two US hikers were both ... Image Source: www.afp.com The two US hikers were both sentenced to eight years in jail on charges of ...        The US hikers say they ...    The US hikers say they ... Image Source: www.afp.com The US hikers say they accidentally strayed into Iran from Iraq across an ...      More Related Images    More From Tehrān          U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction        Washington fears that Iran will develop technologies related to military        Iran vows to fight Kurdish separatists        PM GILLANI returnend to pakistan ans said that pakistan/Iran agreed to increase Yrade up to $10billion in comming year.          New depth in Pak-Iran ties        Good news for US hikers imprisoned in Iran        Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Two murderers were hanged public in Iran.          Iran to release American accused of spying       Pak-Iran have agreed on speeding up the work progress on Gas pipe line and 1000 mega watt electricity plans        joint airline of pak & iran        Iran: U.S.hikers to be released in two days on $ 500 000 bail each         Iran bans half-naked men, love triangles on TV                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10333776          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 23       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 9       Images: 18       Comments: 17    17       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10333776), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10333776 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10333776 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10333776-the-americans-hikers-will-not-be-releasediran.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         