 January 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Progressive Hoping To Plant One Million Trees
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 30 under Conservation, Eco Business, Eco-friendly
  Progressive Insurance is on track to plant one million new trees in state and national forests across the country by going paperless – thanks to customers who have chosen correspondence from the insurance giant in the form of email rather than paper mail. The company says that in 2008, customers enrolled in the paperless program [...]


Comments Off



Obama’s Plan for Millions of Electric Vehicles
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 30 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly News, Pollution, Transportation
  At his first White House press conference on Monday, President Obama said, “The days of Washington dragging its heels are over,” and ordered an immediate review of the Bush administration’s refusal to give California authority to enforce tough new emission and fuel efficiency standards on gas and diesel powered automobiles. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger [...]


Comments Off



Cashmere + Bamboo = Camboo!
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 29 under Eco Business, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly, Organic
  Pur Brands has recently developed a line of clothing which combines the luxury of cashmere with bamboo.  The ecologically and environmentally friendly, innovative (and more than likely) luxurious fabric is called Camboo (how clever!) and it seems to be a perfect fit for those who are eco-conscious but still love a little luxury, too. Who says you [...]


Comments Off



Western Digital Launches Industry’s First 2 TB Hard Drives
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 29 under Eco Business, Eco Gadgets
  Western Digital (WD) recently announced the first 2 terabyte (TB) hard drive – the world’s highest capacity drive and the latest addition to WD’s Caviar Green hard drive family. The new 3.5-inch platform is based on WD’s 500 GB/platter technology with 32 MB cache, producing drives with capacities of up to 2 TB. WD [...]


Comments Off



RecycleBank: One “Bank” That Pays You Back
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 28 under Eco Business, Recycling
  Have you ever heard of RecycleBank?  If not, RecycleBank is a leading green rewards and loyalty program that motivates people to recycle. RecycleBank motivates households and communities to recycle by rewarding them for the amount they’ve recycled at home. RecycleBank measures the amount of materials and then converts it into RecycleBank Points that can be [...]


1 Comment



Grow Some Green Of Your Own!
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 28 under Conservation, Eco-friendly, Organic
  Have you always wanted to plant a vegetable garden but didn’t quite know how to do it?  Maybe you don’t think your thumb is green enough to pull it off? Well, now may be the time to truly think about giving it a try, especially in these tough economic times. During WWI and WWII, [...]


3 Comments



President Obama Calls for Tighter Auto Regulations
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 27 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Transportation
  After only a few days in the Oval Office, President Obama is pushing for cleaner-running automobiles – a clear signal that he intends to regulate greenhouse gases. In a White House ceremony yesterday, President Obama ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to reconsider granting California a waiver allowing it to set an auto emissions standard, setting the [...]


Comments Off



Kellogg Tests New Packaging
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 27 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly
  Yesterday in Detroit, the Kellogg Company began a six month test of what it hopes will be a more consumer-friendly, space-saving box for its cereal brands. The Kellogg Company is testing these new boxes with participating retailers in the Detroit area to gain valuable consumer and retailer insights which could eventually lead to the [...]


Comments Off



Paris Hilton Gets Earth Friendly at Sundance
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 26 under Eco Business, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly
  Socialite and party hopper Paris Hilton made her way to the Sundance Film Festival where she attended the Interface Charity Foundation Dinner, held at the Green Lodge and sponsored by Earth Friendly Products (www.ecos.com).  Earth friendly products is a great line of eco-friendly cleaning products for household and commercial use.  Earth Friendly Products offers [...]


Comments Off



Green Earth Technologies’ Biodegradable Motor Oil Proves Impressive
POSTED BY Tina on Jan 26 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Transportation
  Recently, Green Earth Technologies announced their G-OIL G-1 Racing Oil was a huge success during tests held at the Daytona “Fresh from Florida” races in the Kinetic Motorsports and Kinetic Sunbelt Engines’ BMW M3 GS car. In testing, G-OIL aided in reducing oil temperature approximately 5 to 10 percent over the oil previously used that [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


richter scale
climate change
Recycling
global warning
carbon footprint
earthquake
saving energy
barack obama
global warming
lifestyle
clothes
green
hurricane irene
christmas
mother earth
Eco-friendly
recycled materials
tropical storm lee
national hurricane center
ecofriendly
organic cotton
epicenter
money
prnewswire
consumers
eco
environment
pr newswire
earth
reuters
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




