One in six Americans living below poverty line                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              One in six Americans living below poverty line    Albuquerque :  NM :  USA
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By Surya Gaire            13 0      
Views: 130
          The American Census Bureau said in report that one in six Americans are now living below poverty line. It estimates that around 47 million Americans are living under poverty line today.  The government defines the poverty line as income of USD 22,314 a year for a family of four and USD 11,139 for individual. This year data shows around 7 million more than the previous year recorded data.  Announcement made by the Federal Government this week says that the number of poor in the United States grow to a record number of 46.2 million last year, in the circumstance in which the US economy is making labors to comeback after the downturn.  The number of Americans listed as poor in 2010 is the biggest number in the last 52 years and the poverty rate also hit a record number. This year poverty proportion is 15.1% and in the year 2009, it was 14.3%. In 2010 it was raised to 46.2 million.  The report named 'Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2010’, shows the following findings.         1 of 1        
The American Census Bureau said in report that one in six Americans are now living below poverty line.
    
Surya Gaire is based in Kathmandu, Kathmandu, Nepal,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (69.3%) Pakistan (12.0%) Portugal (7.2%) Nepal (2.4%) 9 other countries (6.6%)           READ MORE: USA, Below Poverty Line, America, americans living, health insurance, Census Bureau, poverty rate, poor, NBS, poverty line, u s, American   More News From: Albuquerque :  NM :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 13            Reply  Posted By       HumTum
| about 19 hours ago
  
Thanks for good sharing rated up
             Reply  Posted By       KhAmmarAhmed1
| about 19 hours ago
  
Really great job keep it up rated upand please also comment on my report
             Reply  Posted By       FauziaSultana
| about 17 hours ago
  
It is indeed sad that usually the black Americans that are living below the poverty line.However,the government is trying to solve their problem.Organisations like 'Helping hands' is foremost in providing support in cash and kind to those in distress.Thanks for the report.Rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       Danish Malik
| about 16 hours ago
  
Really An Interesting Topic to write rated up do comment on mine as well :)
             Reply  Posted By       Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Surya Gaire.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 15 hours ago
  
Nicely written and presented So rated up. please also comment on my news.
             Reply  Posted By       chungtucuong
| about 12 hours ago
  
Thanks for an interesting news rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
  
...good job surya... nice news,,, keep it up! rate u up!
             Reply  Posted By       saleh1966
| about 6 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing news..Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
| about 6 hours ago
  
ouw...didn't know about this b4, thanks for sharingrated up!
             Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 5 hours ago
  
Well Written and Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please visit my section
             Reply  Posted By       Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
| about 5 hours ago
  
Thanks for an informative report. Rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Thanks for an informative news. Rated up.
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          The poverty rate in the United States to its highest level since 1993 By: rsa76      WASHINGTON - The poverty rate in the United States is at its highest level since 1993, announced Tuesday the Census Bureau followed the publication of a series of gloomy figures showing that the median incomes households decreased and the poverty rate has increased.According to the office in 2010, real median income of households in the United ...  1 day ago     America recorded the highest poverty level By: mohamedabdelfattah       
the number of Americans living below the poverty line 46 million people late last year, its highest level, bringing the U.S. poverty rate for the third year in a row, recording 15.1%.  The annual report issued by the Census Bureau that the number of poor in the United States in 2010 was the largest since the Census Bureau began to ...  1 day ago     Why the high rate of poverty in the USA? By: prabirghose      
The cat is out of the bag – USA, the
most powerful nation, has an exceedingly high rate of poverty. Incidentally,
any family of four is considered to be below the poverty level in the US if its
annual income is less than $22,314. The number of people living below the
poverty line was over 43.2 million – as per the last ...  1 day ago     The number of poor people in America to record highs By: taophuyen       The number of Americans living in poverty rose to 46.2 million in 2010, according to the annual report of the American Statistical Bureau. This is the highest number since the Bureau of Statistics began collecting data in 1959. In terms of percentages, figures in 2010 show that poverty in America is 15.1%, up from 14.3% in 2009.&...  1 day ago     People are poor, getting poorer, and are largely being ignored by ... By: RobertTilford01      Every once in a while you run across a note worthy speech in the Congressional Record. Congressman Butterfield, Representative of North Carolina gave one recently which I wanted to report because it got next to no press coverage in the main stream media. To help inform people where the major entertainment based media won't, Allvoices strives to ...  1 day ago     About 46 million Americans live in poverty By: kingston23      Official figures published in the U.S., the largest economy in the world, show that average household incomes fell last year, more Americans than ever are in poverty. The Office of the U.S. Census indicates that the typical household income fell by more than 2%. Statistics also show that 46 million Americans lived in poverty last year, almost one ...  1 day ago     Poverty rate in U.S. rises to 15.1 per cent in 2010 By: northsunm32       
 More people in America fell below the poverty line last year, according to new census data released Tuesday.The U.S. poverty rate rose to 15.1% in 2010, This is the highest level since 1993. In 2009, 14.3% of people in America were living in poverty. A[pproximately, 46.2 million people are now considered in need.
The Office of ...  1 day ago     Record 46.2 million people living in poverty in the U.S. By: abdelfattah      Record 46.2 million people living in poverty in the U.S. The number of people living below the poverty line in the United States increased to 15.1% in 2010, reaching a record 46.2 million people, according to Census data released on Tuesday. This contingent is the largest in 52 years, since the data began to be collected. The rate of increase in ...  1 day ago     US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for safety nets By: itobin53       
September 13, 2011
Republicans are laser-focused on budget cuts, including those designed to be safety nets for the poor and unemployed.
"Republican US Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday that he favored cuts to popular safety net programs but opposed tax hikes on the rich as part of a plan to rein in gal  1 day ago     US: 2.6 million people below the poverty line By: naseemtanoli      2.6 million people slipped below the poverty line in 2010, census officials said, making 46.2 million people in poverty in the United States, the highest number in the 52 years the Census Bureau has been tracking it, said Trudi Renwick, chief of the Poverty Statistic Branch at the Census Bureau. That represented 15.1 percent of the country.
The ...  1 day ago     Almost one in six Americans now live in poverty, Census Bureau By: CharleneSmith      
by Charlene Smith
Almost one in six Americans now lives in poverty, according
to the latest Census Bureau report. It notes that the poverty rate spiked to
15.1 percent in 2010, or about 46.2 million Americans (of a population of 310
million).
This marks an increase of 2.6 million over 2009 and the
fourth consecutive ...  1 day ago     Poor Americans living in Abject Poverty!  By: RobertTilford01      "Poverty" is the state of one who lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money. Absolute poverty or destitution refers to being unable to afford basic human needs, which commonly includes clean and fresh water, nutrition, health care, education, clothing and shelter", according to wikipedia. Based on that definition 46- 50 million ...  2 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     One in six Americans living BELOW poverty line  
India Abroad
 Regional coordinator Charles Evans (4th L) picks up children from school to take them to an after-school program at South Los Angeles Learning Center in Los Angeles. Photographs: Lucy Nicholson/Reuters       Next One in six Americans living below...    Report: CA's Poverty Rate Rises Again  
KTTV
 A new report shows a record number of Americans are now living below the poverty line... In California the poverty rate has risen for the fourth year in a row. According to Census data released on Tuesday, about 6 million Californians had incomes...    U.S. Census Reports Reveals One in Six Americans Are Poor, One in Five ...  
Democracy Now
 Census Reports Reveals One in Six Americans Are Poor, One in Five Children Live in Poverty A new U.S. Census Bureau report reveals the number of people living in poverty last year surged to 46.2 million 1 in 6 Americans, the highest number since the...    US poverty rate hits record high  
Al Jazeera English
 19 The US poverty rate hit its highest level since 1993 last year, with a record 46 million people living below the American poverty line, according to census data. A government report released on Tuesday said the poverty rate rose for a third...    17.4 percent of Kentuckians in poverty; 17.5 percent have no health ...  
Lexington Herald-Leader
 Kentuckians in poverty; 17.5 percent have no health insurance vhoneycutt@herald-leader.com Posted: 6:16pm on Sep 13, 2011 An estimated 17.4 percent of people in Kentucky were living in poverty in 2009 and 2010 and 17.5 percent had no health insurance,...    Poverty continues to rip away at Delaware, rest of the nation  
The News Journal
 The nation's poverty rate spiked to 15.1 percent in 2010, the highest level since 1993, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday, providing vivid new evidence about the country's inability to escape the lingering effects of the recession. Delaware's...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Poverty USA    Poverty USA Image Source: allvoices The American Census Bureau said in report that one in six Americans are now ...      More Related Images    More From Albuquerque          Anti-Immigrant Governor Susana Martinez Reveals Her Illegal Roots        New Mexico: Governor says grandparents came without documents         ‘The Center’ - a ghost town for the sake of science         Copper Mining Equipment Plant Sale in Pakistan          Exclusive: Tom Hiddleston Talks The Avengers at D23; Says ‘Loki Goes Toe to Toe With Every Superhero’        Gemini-Scout Mine Rescue Robot by US researchers        Six-year-old rescued from suspected kidnapper 'scared' but well       Product review: TrulyHuge.com – Herbal Fat Melter         Product review: YouBars.com – YouShakes, customized protein shakes       Product review: MRM - L-Glutamine 325       Product review: Amazinggrass.com – Green SuperFood energy bars        Product review: Netrition.com - High Fiber Hot Cereal         Product review: Netrition.com - Sugar-Free Nut and Flax Granola                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10336319          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 17       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 7       Comments: 13    13       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10336319), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10336319 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10336319 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “One in six Americans living below poverty line” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10336319-one-in-six-americans-living-below-poverty-line.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         