 December 2008 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Ice Melt Solves with Green Grades
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 29 under Uncategorized
Walking on the cold streets may be a problem but the real problem starts when you want to get rid of the ice that has accumulated right beneath you. Salt is a good alternative but just make sure it does not come into contact with the green grass beneath. Rock salt has elements that can [...]


Comments Off



Surf Excel Quick Wash Soon to be Demanded WorldWide
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 27 under Uncategorized
Laundry and washing clothes is a routine practice that anyone would do these days. However, emphasis on how to really wash clothes the eco-friendly way is in the air, especially for homes that want to save a lot to conserve water and other resources like detergents from overuse. Apparently, this was taken into consideration by [...]


1 Comment



Clocks Operating on Citrus-Acid Power
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 25 under Uncategorized
Clocks have come in all shapes, sizes and technology and this is a new one as far as alternative energy is concerned. Check out this citrus-powered clock that makes use of the citrus levels of lemons or oranges via the copper and zinc of the clock. It is a great way to embark on the [...]


Comments Off



Lipodiesel Extracted from Humans as Fuel?
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 24 under Uncategorized
Most people would not care right now about looking at alternative fuel, considering the continuous drop of oil prices which have fallen to below $41 per barrel. We have heard of the various alternatives, biodiesel and fossil fuel and it seems that a surgeon has discovered something which none of us have heard and it [...]


Comments Off



Solar Powered LCD Monitor from LG Electronics
POSTED BY Tina on Dec 23 under Solar Power
Watch out LCD fanatics, there is a new LCD monitor in town and you can bank on solar power to help power it up. This is sure to help solve those rising energy bills from the usual energy consuming computer and thanks to the aggressive efforts of LG Electronics, you can now get these new [...]


1 Comment



Energy Efficient Remote Controls Released
POSTED BY Tina on Dec 20 under Eco-friendly
We have our share of various remote controls in the home and one thing we hate about them is how often you have to change the batteries. Some may take a month to a year but what if you had a remote that could practically be used longer using a single battery? The RF remote [...]


Comments Off



Solar Desk Lamps from Sony
POSTED BY Tina on Dec 14 under Solar Power
Interior decorating can be a hassle and it includes choosing the right lighting and fixtures. People nowadays would take into consideration the energy consumption as well and while they are at it, using other forms of gaining energy such as solar energy is normally included in the selection process. Sony has that covered. Aside from [...]


1 Comment



Snowmobikes to Power Times Square on New Year’s Eve
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 11 under Uncategorized
Call it a brainchild by Hollywood legend Liza Minelli but the whole thing does seem to be enticing. To welcome 2009, a vast lighting display is customary but this time around Times Square has an alternative source of energy coming from pedal power. And guess who will be leading it all? Celebrities and personalities led [...]


Comments Off



Car Manufacturers Turn to Alternative Materials for Better Fuel Consumption
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 10 under Uncategorized
Fuel consumption has always been an issue that most car owners have to deal with and while many have shifted towards smaller and compact cars, looking into the new approach and technology that current car manufacturers today like Audi and BMW are undertaking may not deprive aspiring car owners the comfort of these famous car [...]


Comments Off



Solar Car Kit for Busy Drivers
POSTED BY Rokai on Dec 4 under Uncategorized
The Anycome Solar Car Kit is certainly to get much attention as the growing ban on driving while using your mobile phone is being enforced. With this new phone charger and practically hands-free kit, you can send and receive calls while driving and not get into trouble with the law. So with the Christmas season [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


carbon footprint
richter scale
ecofriendly
consumers
reuters
prnewswire
pr newswire
global warming
hurricane irene
epicenter
barack obama
Recycling
earth
green
lifestyle
recycled materials
tropical storm lee
eco
earthquake
money
organic cotton
environment
christmas
clothes
mother earth
climate change
saving energy
Eco-friendly
global warning
national hurricane center
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




