Brock Lesnar vs. Alistair Overeem: Why It Will Be an Epic Letdown | Info for Students




Info for Students


Info for Students




 




 





 Recent Posts 
Solyndra: Blame It On Bush, Say Obama Officials
‘Mover and shaker’ – The Pueblo Chieftain: Local
Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation
Enough of this green energy fairy tale!
Rare blue whale sighted on Maine whale watching tour
LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian Sneak a Date Night at Fashion Week
Solyndra be darned, Dept. of Energy awards $145M in solar grants – Boston Business Journal
South Florida Classical Review  » Blog Archive   » Seraphic Fire’s Brahms debuts at No. 5 on iTunes
Trying Not to Lose Sleep or Jokes Over a Baby
Vita Food Products Recalls Sliced Smoked Salmon
Why You Should Wash A Melon Before Chowing Down
NFL-Indy out to shed ‘Naptown’ image with Super Bowl
Ball Four in Beijing
Doctors at Le Bonheur separate conjoined twins
The Stage / Reviews / Siamese Twins

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsamp
barack obama
cnn
crowd
daily mail
dallas cowboys
direction south
earth
e mail
espn
facebook
flickr
followers
franchise
game
games
getty images
google
hollywood
investors
ipad
iphone
job
lady gaga
launch
match
mdash
money
nasdaq
nbsp
nnamdi asomugha
no doubt
nyse
parents
photos
quot
relationships
release source
reuters
rsquo
shia labeouf
target
twitter
weather
wind direction
 



 

Brock Lesnar vs. Alistair Overeem: Why It Will Be an Epic Letdown



 
From the instant that it was announced, Brock Lesnar versus Alistair Overeem became the most anticipated fight of the year. Unfortunately, those who eagerly await this fight will be extremely disappointed; Lesnar vs. Overeem will be one of the biggest let downs in MMA history.A lot of fans are expecting an epic duel between the two largest titans in the heavyweight division, Lesnar and Overeem, but the closest the fight will get to epic is epically disappointingOvereem is a K-1 kickboxing champion and, as such, is the most highly credentialed striker in the UFC heavyweight division.Lesnar had trouble with the stand-up abilities of current UFC heavyweight champion Cain Velasquez, whose skills are considerable but not on the level of Overeem's. If Lesnar turtled and ran from Velasquez, what will he do when hit by a striker many levels over the current champ?Overeem doubters would say that his hands didn't look that great against Fabricio Werdum back in June. Fair enough but that simply gives Overeem more of a reason to train harder, to win back support of the MMA community and show that he is the superior striker in MMA at heavyweight.The school of "Overrated-reem" would also bring up Brock Lesnar's wrestling advantage. While Lesnar is no doubt a more decorated wrestler, those accolades were from over a decade ago.Since then, Lesnar has had trouble taking down opponents who are, on paper, inferior wrestlers. Shane Carwin was only a NCAA Division-II wrestler but he easily shrugged off Lesnar's takedowns until he gassed himself out (by beating Lesnar to a pulp).Simply put, Lesnar's wrestling is overrated more than Overeem himself (who, I'll admit, is a bit overrated ).Even if Lesnar's wrestling prevails over Overeem's takedown defense, the fight will still not please fans. Lesnar has a rudimentary submission game and Overeem competed in and won the European qualifiers for the prestigious ADCC submission grappling tournament.Overeem may not be able to submit Lesnar, but he has the strength and skills to neutralize what Lesnar can do from the top, making it a virtual "lay and pray" fest.Thus, any feasible outcome in a fight between Lesnar and Overeem disappoints the fans. The fight will either end too quickly in a one sided TKO or it will be a long "lay and pray" fight that will anger the fans.Thus, the fight which many think will be legendary will just be a quick first round TKO that left fans wanting more. Most recent updates: Brock Lesnar vs. Alistair Overeem: Who Does Vegas Like More? Brock Lesnar vs. Alistair Overeem: Bigger Then Cain Velasquez vs. JDS? View all updates

 












            © 2011 
                Info for Students            







