 » Anniversary Post: ‘Big Government’ Rises Again - Big Government





















Home
Exclusives
Categories
Contributors












Anniversary Post: ‘Big Government’ Rises Again
by 
                
			  	Mike Flynn			  	




n7h6ycxmg5
[Ed Note: This is the first post to run at BigGovernment. It was published two-years ago today. It still seems relevant.]
In 1995, President Bill Clinton stood before the nation and proclaimed, “The era of big government is over.” The following year, the federal budget deficit stood at 1.4% of GDP. Thirteen years later, in 2008, the deficit had doubled, to just over 3% of GDP. This year, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the federal budget deficit will equal 11.4% of GDP.
As George Will would say, “Well.”

This is the real source of our “summer of discontent.” Yes, millions of Americans spent the month of August holding Tea Parties, attending town halls, organizing, marching and protesting against ObamaCare, i.e. Congressional and Administration proposals to reconstruct the entire health care sector. But to suggest that health care alone is at the root of this backlash is to miss the forest for the trees. To paraphrase Democrat strategist James Carville, “It’s the big government, stupid.”
Since last September when the financial markets stumbled, we’ve seen a Wall Street bailout, government takeovers of AIG, Citigroup, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, GM, Chrysler, and numerous banks. The Federal Reserve has opened its discount window to almost all-comers and has taken the unprecedented step of aggressively buying up the federal government’s own debt. Congress rushed through a “stimulus to nowhere,” moved closer to a “cap-and-trade” remake of the energy sector and openly talked about higher taxes and more regulation.
White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel famously said that, “You never want a serious crisis to go to waste.” Ronald Reagan said, “Government isn’t the solution to our problem. Government is the problem.” The administration has turned this observation upside down, proclaiming that Big Government will lead us to a better world. In August, we heard America singing, “Enough!”
The mainstream media and politicos from both parties were caught flat-footed by the push-back from average citizens. Each news-cycle brought a new theory for the protests: “astroturf,” angry “mobs,” distortions and misinformation, kooks and conspiracy nuts, and, inevitably (and perhaps most offensively) racism (MSNBC amazingly even cut the head off a black man holding a gun to make the point that white racist extremism was behind the entirety the protests).  The elites have convinced themselves that, once Congress is safely cocooned on Capitol Hill, and engaged in some Kennedy-esque legislating—a tweak here, a nip-and-tuck there—ObamaCare will be back on track and the Administration can continue its march to reshape America.
The elites are whistling past the graveyard. The ground has shifted. It could just be that deficits above 10% of GDP are the new $4 a gallon gas, i.e. the tipping point that awakens the silent majority and recalibrates political dynamics. Americans are setting aside parochial self-interest and reaching to reclaim the legacy of the Founders.
“That government is best which governs least.” This phrase, attributed to Thomas Jefferson, is our nation’s founding principle. The American colonists did not throw off the mantle of British rule because the King failed to provide health care, individual subsidies or public works projects. They rebelled because he taxed ever greater shares of their earnings and increasingly injected himself into their daily lives. They risked, and in many cases sacrificed, their lives to free themselves and future generations from the whims of rulers.
The founding fathers did not constitute a government to give them things. It’s role was confined to protecting our natural rights. Rights we have inherently, not by grant of government. These rights secured, Americans had the freedom to organize their lives as they saw best. Their energies and imagination unleashed, our predecessors built the most prosperous, secure and peaceful nation in history. It was done in spite of Big Government, not because of it.
Reagan warned that “Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction.” Our generation’s moment of decision is now. How we respond will shape forever the lives of our children and grandchildren.
It is rare that a people rise up, shoulder-to-shoulder, and stand against the dictates of a ruling class. The media and most of the political elites at the federal, state and local levels have told us, “We know better than you.”
In response, countless citizens have mobilized to tell the government, “No!”
To these Americans, we dedicate this site.  Welcome.

 

Email this to a friend | Print |
		Share on Facebook
		| Tweet this
		|  

    	Tags: AIG, American Revolution, banks, Bill Clinton, Boston Tea Party, budget deficit, Chrysler, Citigroup, Congressional Budget Office, energy, Fannie Mae, Federal Reserve, founding fathers, Freddie Mac, gas prices, George Will, GM, Healthcare, James Carville, mainstream media, MSNBC, Obama, Obama administration, ObamaCare, Rahm Emanuel, Ronald Reagan, stimulus, taxes, Tea Parties, Ted Kennedy, The Federal Reserv, Thomas Jefferson, Wall Street		Posted Sep 10th 2009 at 4:26 am in Congress,  Culture,  Economics,  Featured Story,  History,  Justice/Legal,  Media Criticism,  News,  Obama,  Politics | 
				

98282 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fmikeflynn%2F2009%2F09%2F10%2Fbig-government-rises-again%2FAnniversary+Post%3A+%27Big+Government%27+Rises+Again2009-09-10+11%3A26%3A17Mike+Flynnhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.breitbart.com%2F%3Fp%3D98 









98282 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fmikeflynn%2F2009%2F09%2F10%2Fbig-government-rises-again%2FAnniversary+Post%3A+%27Big+Government%27+Rises+Again2009-09-10+11%3A26%3A17Mike+Flynnhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.breitbart.com%2F%3Fp%3D98


Erin - September 10th, 2009 at 1:54 am
Thank you for launching a great new site!!  Love it already and am very excited for upcoming material.  It is very comforting that more and more of us like-minded Americans are coming forth to stand up and be heard however possible and we must keep going forward and stronger!  One of my favorite Reagan quotes is "If we ever forget that we are one nation under God, then we will be a nation gone under."  We must not forget that, and we must not forget the sacrifices people made to make the country what it is today.  We want our country back!




kellen - September 10th, 2009 at 3:28 am
looking forward to another great site by breitbart!




BarbeeG - September 10th, 2009 at 3:32 am
Excellent article.  Congratulations on the new website.  God Bless America!




GJP - September 10th, 2009 at 3:55 am
Thanks… Just what I needed, another great web site to spend even more time online!!!




jaciscully - September 10th, 2009 at 4:32 am
Very exciting! So glad you are here!




Steve - September 10th, 2009 at 4:37 am
Looking forward to more of this site!




Shelli Eaton - September 10th, 2009 at 4:38 am
Congrats on the new site; great article to kick it off and looking forward to more.




Sanmon - September 10th, 2009 at 4:52 am
Ronald Reagan said, “Government isn’t the solution to our problem. Government is the problem.”
Well it looks like we will not let a crisis go to waste. Thanks Andrew and Family for this forum! Lets see what this community can do to work the right issues at the right time and bring this country back from the Progressive onslaught!




Tommy - September 10th, 2009 at 5:13 am
Best news of my day.




Guest - September 10th, 2009 at 5:18 am
Let's go!  Let's post that big story!




Thanks - September 10th, 2009 at 5:32 am
As Glenn Reynolds would say, 'Indeed'.
Now can we get a Czar of the week profile?




KAE - September 10th, 2009 at 5:34 am
Congratulations to the brilliant minds who will expose big government – great site!  Here's to truth, justice and the American way.




Rocketman - September 10th, 2009 at 5:35 am
Roger That…now, let's launch.  As a protege of Drudge,  you've done yourself well  in this medium.  I look forward to your being established as the acme of first-order intelligence for the rest of us in flyover country.  It's amazing how all the "mud" or "dish" inside the beltway stays therein…if only the rest of the country knew…!  We anticipate plenty of red meat for our political arsenal (we'll buy the beer for our horses).




Valentine - September 10th, 2009 at 5:45 am
I love it. Thank you for imparting the truth.




refolino - September 10th, 2009 at 5:58 am
I can hardly wait to see this site take off.  Holding my breath for the Big Story.
Will be telling all of my Conservative (and not so Conservative) friends about this.
Many Blessings on this website.




ericr - September 10th, 2009 at 6:09 am
If you tell a big enough lie, and you tell it often enough, people will believe it? Yeah, but sooner or later, even someone who's been lobotomized in [government] schools will recognize that 2+2 doesn't equal 22, no matter how often Obama says so. Thank God for the Internet, AM radio, and Fox! Our founding fathers knew what they were doing, and as long as we prevent the Left from silencing them, our Revolution has a chance to survive. Thanks, AB!




Kevin - September 9th, 2009 at 11:15 pm
I wish great success upon this Website. I plan to recommend it highly.




1GooDDaDDy - September 10th, 2009 at 7:14 am
I'm hunting trolls…as usual.
Thanks for a new site Andrew for my search. 
I'll fight for our Nation until they throw that last shovel full of dirt on my face. 
Our battle for liberty is… 
Not Over.




Scott - September 10th, 2009 at 7:30 am
Congrats and thank you for launching this site! There are a whole lot of people with a whole lot of concern over what is happening in America. 
Tonight's speech just amazed me. I cannot believe the way that logic and even the laws of economics seem to be suspended in the minds of most liberal advocates. There's a good post along these lines titled "Defy the Laws of Mathematics, Economics and Logic? YES! WE! CAN!" Here's the link: http://firebreathingchristian.wordpress.com/2009/... 
Keep fighting the good fight!




firebreathingchristian - September 10th, 2009 at 7:31 am
Go get 'em, BigGovernment.com!  Woohoo!




Shannon - September 10th, 2009 at 7:32 am
Congratulations on the new site & will look forward to checking in daily!




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 7:56 am
As much as some may wish it be, the battle is definitely not over…not by a long shot.




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 8:38 am
Government dictated "education" is indeed a core problem that must be addressed if there is to be any true hope in ultimately winning the battle against Big Brother.  
Education by the state is education for the state.




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 8:39 am
Amen! 
Bring on the red meat!




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 8:41 am
Yeah, a Czar-o-rama would be a hoot!




kadaka - September 10th, 2009 at 8:42 am
Now I will wonder if this site will have a totally different set of contributors than Big Hollywood, some will move over, alternate which site they post on or if some articles will be on both… 
At least you're using ID here too.  And now I will wonder if that is a good thing. 
Oh well, here's to the shiny new site!  Long may it prosper!




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 8:42 am
No doubt! The "Progressive" movement is on the verge of progressing us right back to the stone age (read: Carter era).




FireBreather - September 10th, 2009 at 8:42 am
Thank God Al Gore invented this Internet thing, right?   




Patrick Chester - September 10th, 2009 at 10:32 am
I'm hunting trolls…as usual.  
Quietly?  




ThinkRight - September 10th, 2009 at 10:37 am
Are we all being reported to white.house,gov for  posting here ?
Best of luck to Andrew and all contributers




ZinOwl - September 10th, 2009 at 10:41 am
Congratulations and Good Luck with your new Blog!!! YAY!!!!!




Heather - September 10th, 2009 at 10:52 am
Thank you for launching this site in honor of the everyday American!! Thank you for giving us a voice!




William Bedloe - September 10th, 2009 at 11:32 am
I'm thrilled to see another big site designed to voice the growing discontent of the American people under the thumb of this regime.  It seems the political fat cats from both sides of the aisle who sit and gorge at the trough of tax revenues and campaign donations have been choking on a few bones lately.  Both are hell bent on taking our money and doing absolutely nothing of value with it, other than fueling their own celebrity lifestyles.  For members of Congress, Public service now means the best tables at the finest dining establishments, as well as hobnobbing with the gliterati and literati of our day.  They still think that a few well chosen campaign words and empty promises will mollify this public.  The truth is that the ministers of our finances have allowed foreign nations and entities free reign to fuel their greed.  Once we controlled our destiny – now, China and Saudi princes seem in control.  My hope is that this site will continue to unlease the animal from its cage and that the animal will claw and scratch to reclaim our liberty which was lost through our own complacency.  Politicians will never be trusted again – those days are dead and gone forever.  God Bless America!!!




Tennessee_Jed - September 10th, 2009 at 11:59 am
I anxiously await more from this new site. Best of luck; may you experience the success of BH.




RightOffCenter - September 10th, 2009 at 12:11 pm
We could always use more well directed sites promoting American ideas.  And considering the rate at which President Obama and Congressional Democrats challenge those ideas, I think this site is long overdue. 
Breitbart, Flynn, best of luck.  I look forward to making BigGovernment.com a regular stop online.




Mary - September 10th, 2009 at 12:23 pm
Thank  you so much for a site that speaks LOGIC and COMMON SENSE!! We have lost the practicality of our forefathers and in order to "get back to where we once belonged" we NEED this kind of forum to connect without biased opinions or government intervention.  THANK YOU!!! THANK YOU!!!!!




Gerard Knorr - September 10th, 2009 at 12:46 pm
What generation are you, Mr. Flynn?




StanH - September 10th, 2009 at 12:47 pm
Yet another venue to express conservative ideals of freedom, and self reliance. No more will free Americans cede the town square to the miscreants of society. Thanks Andrew!




BG - September 10th, 2009 at 6:38 am
Thank God for people who will not only question but act!  I knew Acorn was unethical but …….but encourages sexual slavery!  Our government has been giving them MILLIONS!  Our president has been deeply involved with them as a community organizer and as a supporter!  Impeach Obama now!




ndulik - September 10th, 2009 at 6:38 am
You go Andrew!




pattiann - September 10th, 2009 at 1:42 pm
biggovernment.com is now posted in my badass list.  BOOM!




k8blujay - September 10th, 2009 at 2:12 pm
I concur with the Congrats and thanks for posting this site… 
Now if only we can get the message out there to revert our country back to the way it should be… A constitutional Republic that leaves people the crud alone.




JR_Head - September 10th, 2009 at 2:15 pm
Congratulations on the new site.  Glad to be aboard!




Sylvia - September 10th, 2009 at 6:23 am
Thank you, and please continue to investigate ACORN. I believe it's just the tip of the iceburg!! I would like some investigation into their coercive tactics used to acquire loans they have no intention of repaying. In Midland, TX ACORN has come into town, required a loan under minority status with legal threats against the bank for refusal, then leave town with further minority status threats if the bank tries to track them down to get their money back.




lindjr - September 10th, 2009 at 2:26 pm
Great site! Thank you. Please keep up the good work. We need your help.




Patricianne - September 10th, 2009 at 2:29 pm
So glad this site is here…BRavo!  Will email friends, family and neighbors…God help our nation..we need more of you…I live in fear  of our future with this administration…going straight to solicalism..and worse..sometimes I think we have found the anitChrist…not saying it is Obama…but perhaps someone high up in our gov  leading the way to our Country's future ..not as the strong nation I was born into..but as a weakened socialist broke nation ..God help us if the American people as a whole do not wake up and save our Nation and our childrens future…I studied Socialized health care..it does not work..I dont care what other nations have…we WERE the strongest and most generous and proudest nation..(not them) but we are going down hill rapidly…I just pray that God gives the strength to those in politics to lead our country back to where it belongs, keep this new administration from ruining it totally and breaking it financially even more than it has already. I agree we want our country back..my father fought for this country, my uncles, my brothers…and it is sad  tha what they fought for ..and were so proud to do so..is almost just a passaing memory. Freedom….!!  freedom to choose!  Work ethics!




drizz - September 10th, 2009 at 2:35 pm
This site is "for the birds!"  it sucks… i watch cnn for fair an balanced news, fox lies like just now sayin this was a independent site. i will never get these 5 min back in my life. Thanks fox news for lying yet again 
GO OBAMA!!!!!!!




Gene - September 10th, 2009 at 2:36 pm
How come the Acorn video will not play?  I even went to youtube.com and put the title in and it could not be found.  Has it been taken off of youtube.com?




Mary - September 10th, 2009 at 2:40 pm
I was hoping that your site would be the place that we could post incidences of government waste, and they would be looked into. Couldn't find it on your site-where can someone do that? My friend just got back from Yuma, AZ where we have to de-salinate the Colorado River before it goes into Mexico. He was given a tour by the custodian, (my friend was there to work on the air conditioning system) and he said you have never seen such waste of taxpayer dollars. A big, mostly empty building, new cars sitting around in the basement. Employees, who-he was told-don't really do much of anything-but they go to a lot of meetings about "diversity". Brand new computers-just sitting around. not being used. All to clean up the water, which ends up being just as salty 5 miles down-river from running through Mexico. It's talked about in Cadillac Desert, and this has been going on for years.




lindjr - September 10th, 2009 at 2:44 pm
Denials of the truth is for lib! Can't take it? Get out of the kitchen.




lindjr - September 10th, 2009 at 2:46 pm
what can you expect from lib comments. This.




D.Matucci - September 10th, 2009 at 2:59 pm
There is no doubt that governement has become too big and too expensive not to mention arrogant. They know
what's best, like keeping us in constant wars, killing our economy and now trying to co-opt  and destroy our
constitution and the form of governemnt set up by our founding fathers. Yes, we have a marxist  for president
and a congress that has forgotten who they work for.




Mark_S - September 10th, 2009 at 3:02 pm
Sweet!!  New site to keep me busy at work during the downtime  




Lolo2 - September 10th, 2009 at 3:04 pm
Fantastic! Breitbart and Company have done it again!!! On the flip side those GDP numbers made my scalp ripple.




Maureen - September 10th, 2009 at 3:08 pm
Great site! I find it amusing that the liberals have protested all Republican presidents, and were so incredibly obnoxious towards Bush, yet conservatives, esp fiscal ones,are now finally speaking their mind in a loud way, orgazinizing protests, these site etc and we get slammed? Tit for tat guys….we're the same it's just that our agenda is completely different, we have to deal with it when our guys are in office you deal now. Reminder to all…
Please participate in the March on Washington THIS Saturday Sept 12th. I'll be there with my children, and other family members…along with hundreds of thousands of others.




GET THE WORD OUT - September 10th, 2009 at 8:10 am
need a "CONTACT US" button so we can get people on the air talking about all of this!




NJIndependent - September 10th, 2009 at 3:15 pm
Congrats on the launch of this exciting site!  I look forward to visiting this site often.  As a person who has lived in NJ for most of my life, I have experienced first hand what the "progressive movement" has done to my state.  The last thing we need are for these type of "big government", "nanny state" ideals and policies to be implemented at the federal level!  A number of years ago now, when the Hannity and Colmes Show allowed folks to post messages on either one of their "profiles", I posted the following on Alan Colmes' section which resulted in numerous negative responses from those on the left, "Liberal, Big Government Policies Are The Biggest Threat To Individual Rights And Liberties".  I stand behind that statement now more than ever!




Yossarian - September 10th, 2009 at 8:15 am
Moron.




Steve - September 10th, 2009 at 8:22 am
Good undercover work…you should fix spelling error at the end of video…RECEIVES, not  RECIEVES.




trut - September 10th, 2009 at 8:28 am
By this time the animals are no longer in their care. I know for a fact rescues namely the north shore animal league place adds in Midwest papers for free to near free dogs. Which they later claim they rescued from Puppy Mills. They also buy from auctions, and any other source they can get their hands on the precious purebred puppy bootie.
They only buy cheap and defected animals which places a market on them . This causes unscrupulous breeders to continue breeding defected animals to fill the rescue market. Without these sources buying these defected animals these people would not produce them.
 Breeders with the mentality to knowingly sell to a rescue knowing what they stand for have no soul, and would never have a ethics to produce viable healthy pets.
Because of the rescues marketing skills backed by people with no front knowledge of the real situation. They are putting  clean well run establishments out of business with their adopt don't shop propaganda marketing ploy.




trut - September 10th, 2009 at 8:29 am
What acorn did is horrible, and is a crime against humanity. They should be closed down, jailed, and never allowed to see the light of day.  
 I see so much of the Animal rights activist in these ACORN workers. With their greedy evil self assuredness. As if they know they are untouchable and they can do anything they see fit regardless of who they harm. Please someone do an investigation of the animal rights conspiracy.
 I do believe the animal rights conspiracy is a training ground to breed even worse leaches of society. Once they learn they can succeed through lying and destroying innocent people they will not stop at animal rights activism . They will use that skill to destroy any other aspect of the worlds society that they choose.




trut - September 10th, 2009 at 8:30 am
Another issue to look into which is backed by some of the government and most of Hollywood is the Animal Rights activist.
 They are committing crimes against humanity and the constitution. In many cases  bias non profits are even given side arms and are permitted to perform illegal search and seazures with out due process. Under the color of law.
Many times who they target are not committing crimes of any kind. Their animals are taken and resold at rescues who keep all the review collected from the ceased animals. They can also go as far is slapping on additional expenses to the dog owner with ridiculous inflated housing fees for the animals they steal.
Then the rescues further beg for more money from the public claiming they rescued these animals.




Jake_Was_Here - September 10th, 2009 at 4:54 pm
Well it looks like we will not let a crisis go to waste. 
Whaddayaknow, Saul Alinsky was right.




Jake_Was_Here - September 10th, 2009 at 4:54 pm
Well it looks like we will not let a crisis go to waste. 
Whaddayaknow, Saul Alinsky was right. Funny how things work out.




Jake_Was_Here - September 10th, 2009 at 4:54 pm
One thing that could make my week: Big Government gets Instalanched.




dcalleykat - September 10th, 2009 at 5:31 pm
Thank ya thank ya thank ya….




#1 Pat - September 10th, 2009 at 5:34 pm
WELCOME, with a big bang! Keep it up Andrew……




CrisD - September 10th, 2009 at 5:35 pm
Go Breitbart!




Dave Roth - September 10th, 2009 at 5:38 pm
Here's the new t-shirt (perhaps Tea-Shirt?) A big picture of Obama with the phrase (LAND OF THE FREEBIE, HOME OF THE KNAVE)




Allen - September 10th, 2009 at 5:41 pm
Great Site about time, thanks.
We need to start a movment in this country for TERM LIMITS with limits.
The following should be pushed.
1) MAX, 10 years in any form of political office, except running for the presidency.
2) NO benifits when your term is up, nothing.no pension,insurance,nothing.
3) All money raised during the campaining process not spent goes to pay off the deficite
Please add to this and let's try and get a pettion started.




John - September 10th, 2009 at 5:56 pm
I heard about this new site on the Rusty Humphries show.  Thank you for putting this together and the site is nice.  It's very important that more and more people get on board and help wake up America.  Take care  
I do wish though, you would have your own private signup, I am not interested in signing up for a smorgasboard style login system that knows and follows us around.




CrisD - September 10th, 2009 at 6:08 pm
This board is for soaring Eagles.




maryM - September 10th, 2009 at 6:12 pm
The fat lady is singing. Do you hear her? She is bellowing down with traditional media.




Mflynn1776 - September 10th, 2009 at 6:19 pm
I'm not a boomer. And, not really Gen X. I'm in the generational no-man's land. I like it here.




dixie rose - September 10th, 2009 at 6:30 pm
Thank you so much for what your doing. We are desparate for reporters to tell the TRUTH about what's happening to our country, not just kiss Obama's you know what. I look forward to a lot more on your great site!




Ted - September 10th, 2009 at 6:30 pm
Actually, it's just not the growth of the debt in terms of GDP – the other piece of the puzzle is the future anticipated growth of GDP which would mitigate the debt to GDP ratio. One could argue that the lack of capital, due to debt will constrain growth, but I would retort that the competitve framework in the world has dramatically shifted. Other countries no longer have the intellectual, manufacturing and cultural restrictions which once separated them from the US. It's really a period of deflation for the the US – government must manage this deflationary pressure. By making this an argument about debt is short-sighted at best.




WyoRich - September 10th, 2009 at 6:37 pm
Excellent. I want to add my voice in congratulating you on your new site. To paraphrase the First Lady – "For the first time (in a long time), I am proud of my country." People have awoken, and are preparing for a new day. Remember Jimmy Carter begat Ronald Reagan. Together we can beat back the nit wits in DC, and especially the "Community Activist in Chief" and all his radical czars.




Cowboy Logic - September 10th, 2009 at 7:24 pm
Congratulations on the new site. Kudos to Brietbart and Company….




Mary_Anna - September 10th, 2009 at 7:26 pm
Thank you for shedding light on the filth that has accumulated in our out-of-control government. Bravo for Breitbart and BigGovernment!!!




Cowboy Logic - September 10th, 2009 at 7:30 pm
"Those who make peaceful revolution impossible, will make violent revolution enevitable"…….~John F. Kennedy~




ydnartitcomb - September 10th, 2009 at 7:35 pm
Congrats on the new site I will look forward to the news from here




txnavymom - September 10th, 2009 at 7:57 pm
love the new website, and congratulations for a job well done.
Let's keep up the good fight and pray every day.




CJrun - September 10th, 2009 at 8:03 pm
I would like to suggest a new Category: perhaps Energy and Environment.  This is an area, perhaps one of the most significant areas, where Big Government does and will intrude.




J sub D - September 10th, 2009 at 8:30 pm
Some yahoo named Nick Gillespie alerted me to your site.  Good luck with this endeavor.  I'll be stopping by on an irregular basis.




GOBOMBO - September 10th, 2009 at 8:42 pm
AMAZING – ALINSKY UNDONE!!!




Leadfingers - September 10th, 2009 at 8:54 pm
The Declaration of Independence says:  
"That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, — That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government" 
From the consent OF THE GOVERNED. Our "leaders" need to read these documents slowly and let them sink in. Government/governance of the people, BY THE PEOPLE and FOR THE PEOPLE. That means the people are to govern themselves according to what the people think is best, not our so called representatives. I'm sick of our officials taking power unto themselves that wasn't specifically denied them in the constitution. We, the citizens are the source of their power and influence. Our sweat, our tears, our blood. If they wish to continue to treat us like cattle then it will soon be time for our own running of the bulls in downtown DC. 
"But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security."




Cowboy Logic - September 10th, 2009 at 9:00 pm
Leadfingers, and the very last line says: " And for the support of this declaration, with a firm Reliance on the Protection of divine Providence,» we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our Fortunes, & our sacred Honor." 
Perhaps it is time for all good men to stand up and be counted……….




Cowboy Logic - September 10th, 2009 at 2:06 pm
“Fifty-six men placed their names beneath that pledge. Fifty-six men knew when they signed,that they were risking everything. They knew if they won this fight, the best they could expect would be years of hardship in a struggling nation. If they lost, they’d face a hangman’s rope.” 
We are in a fight to save our Nation….




way2convey - September 10th, 2009 at 9:20 pm
Excellent start and thank you for the dedication.




renoman - September 10th, 2009 at 9:37 pm
Like one commenter said, another great news site to read as if I don't have enough to read already…lol   I'm thinking you are going to be as good or better than Drudge and the blue dress!!!  Welcome Sir love your spunk!




Carol - September 10th, 2009 at 9:59 pm
For the first time in a while, I'm encouraged by seeing some in the younger generation produce genuine investigative journalism.  The type of journalism that used to help Citizens fulfill their obligation to keep watch over their rights and served as a defense against any organization that tries to break the law or take advantage of our individual rights.  Sadly, too many in the media have given up the greater good of prusuing a goal of justice,  in exchange for personal gain. Your great work and effort provides the light of justice upon what others would keep in the dark.




Larry - September 10th, 2009 at 10:30 pm
God bless you for having the guts to do what mainstream journalist should be doing.




Peter J Valentin - September 10th, 2009 at 10:30 pm
Yes, the liberals and their statist roots have grown deep into the very foundation of this country, and this….is just the beginning. Give them an inch, and they'll take a mile times a trillion(healthcare) if they aren't held in check. They must be stopped, exposed, and thrown out in next year's(2010)election. This website will only help advance that cause. God Bless America




bobzmoose - September 10th, 2009 at 10:46 pm
I thought this blog was called "Big Government", not "ACORN Totally Sucks!" It's not that ACORN doesn't suck, but I would like to see other subject matter…




Joanne - September 10th, 2009 at 11:07 pm
The movement is growing to take back the United States of America.  Thank you for this voice!!!!!!




dustyheels - September 11th, 2009 at 12:02 am
Great site.  Keep up the good work.  Look forward to more information about things that we suspected were happening with big bro and all of the affiliated cronies.




ForrestGump2 - September 11th, 2009 at 12:14 am
POSTERS BEWARE! Liberals are giving thumbs down on every comment. I'm giving thumbs up to help. The liberals will deliberately mess anything up. Go back and give a thumbs up.          ______




ForrestGump2 - September 11th, 2009 at 12:15 am
Great site, Great start up with a bang. Let's Impeach Obama Hussein for high crimes!




Imrighter - September 11th, 2009 at 12:17 am
Crack!   Smash!   Fizzzzzzz…. 
That's a champagne bottle breaking over the prow of the Battleship BigGovernment.com. 
Happy hunting for the big government targets,  there are plenty to choose from. 
I'll be checking back on your progress will ill disguised glee.




Patriot58 - September 11th, 2009 at 12:19 am
Congress has grown too large and too powerful, all because they have the ability to trade taxpayer money  for favors.  While I think there are several ways we could reign them in (repeal the 14th, 16th, 17th, and 26th ammendments for starters ), let's start by setting their salary equal to the median salary of all adult Americans.  Public service is supposed to be "public service," not a high-paying job.


Leave a Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.









 Click Here For Complete PIGFORD Coverage
Featured Story


After Turner Earthquake in Weiner District, Democrats' Civil War Against Obama Begins
by 
	    	
				  	Andrew Breitbart



History will never be able to tell us who made the fatal error in New York's 9th district - Barack Obama, or Anthony Weiner. Just as Weiner kept on making critical errors every step of the way as his personal scandal unfolded earlier this year, President Obama has done everything...
Read more... 
More Featured Stories...

 
 

Follow Us on Twitter


Subscribe via RSS


Got a Tip?Contact us









Live Talk on Twitter 




Categories 
2012 Budget

2012 Election

2nd amendment

AARP

ACORN

Big Labor

Census

Cheat Sheet

Coffee and Markets

Congress

Culture

Defense

Earmarks

Economics

Education

energy

entitlements

Environment

Exclusives

Fair Tax

Featured Story

Federal Spending

Financial Services

Flat Tax

Healthcare

History

Immigration

Journolist

Justice/Legal

Local Government

Media Criticism

Media Matters

Midterm Elections

News

Obama

Open Threads

pigford

Political Humor

Politics

Pork Report

race

Regulation

Special

State Government

State Politics

Supreme Court

Tax Reform

taxes

Tea Party

Technology

Uncategorized

unemployment


Blogroll

ABCNews
Ace Of Spades HQ
Agence France Press
Althouse
Amato for Liberty
American Thinker
Andrew Sullivan
Ann Coulter
Associated Press
Atlas Shrugs
Ben Shapiro
Big Hollywood
Bill O’Reilly
Black & Right
Blackfive
BlogsLucianneLoves.com
Bloomberg
Bob McCarty
Boston Globe
Breitbart.com
Breitbart.tv
C-SPAN
Camille Paglia
Charles Krauthammer
Chicago Tribune
Christian Science Monitor
Christopher Hitchens
Claremont Institute
Commentary
Daily Gut
Dana Loesch
DC Patriot
Dennis Miller Radio
Dennis Prager
Der Spiegel
Drudge Report
Economist
Ed Driscoll
Financial Times
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Founding Bloggers
Fox Nation
Fox News
Freakonomics Blog
Free Republic
Gateway Pundit
GayPatriot
George Will
Glenn Beck
Grand Old Partisan
Hot Air
Huffington Post
Hugh Hewitt
Human Events
Instapundit
Investors Business Daily
Iowahawk
James Hudnall
Jawa Report
Jerusalem Post
John Gibson
John Nolte
John Tierney
Judicial Watch Blog “Corruption Chronicles”
Kyle Olson
Larry Elder
Larry Kudlow
Lars Larson
Laura Ingraham
Law Hawk
Los Angeles Times
Lucianne.com
Mancow
Manhattan Institute
Marginal Revolution
Mark Levin
Mark Steyn
Matt Patterson
Media Research Center
Mediaite
Melanie Morgan
Michael Barone
Michael Savage
Michael Yon
Mickey Kaus
Mike Flynn
Move America Forward
MSNBC
National Review
National Review’s The Corner
Neal Boortz
New Republic
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Times
Newport Beach Now
NewsBusters
Newsweek
Pajamas Media
Parcbench
Pat Dollard
Patterico’s Pontifications
PoliGazette
Politico
Power Line
PR Newswire
Pravda
Protein Wisdom
Quincy News
Real Clear Markets
Real Clear Politics
Reason
Reason Hit and Run
RedState
Rep. McCotter YouTube Channel
Reuters
Ricochet
Roger L. Simon
Roger Stone
Roll Call
Rolling Stone
Rush Limbaugh
Rusty Humphries
Ryan P. Dixon
Salon
Sean Hannity
Silicon Alley Insider
Slate
Smoking Gun
South Park Episodes
Tammy Bruce
The Brody File
The Daily Beast
The Daily Caller
The Enterprise Report
The Enterprise Report
The Hill
The New Ledger
Thomas Sowell
Time
Times U.K.
Townhall.com
U.K. Daily Mail
U.K. Guardian
U.K. Telegraph
U.S. National Debt
U.S. News
USA Today
Vanity Fair
VodkaPundit
Volokh Conspiracy
Wall Street Journal
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
Weekly Standard
Yid With Lid


 








Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy







