Texas wildfire destroyed almost 1,600 homes - World - CBC News






Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to Texas wildfire destroyed almost 1,600 homes
Skip to supplementary story content
Skip to related news content
Skip to CBC accessibility page




 







CBC Global Header Navigation


CBC.ca

News
news drop down menu


Sports
sports drop down menu


Radio
radio drop down menu


TV
tv drop down menu


My Region drop down menu
 


More drop down menu
 


Watch 
Watch drop down menu


Listen
Listen drop down menu









Search CBC.ca

Submit Search


Sign Up
Log In


 







CBC News World

Major StoriesIn The News

Toronto Film Festival
High-profile abductions
Jackie Kennedy tapes
NDP leadership race


CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

World
Photo Galleries




Texas wildfire destroyed almost 1,600 homes
17 people still unaccounted for


The Associated Press

Posted:

Sep 11, 2011   5:03 PM ET



Last Updated: 

Sep 11, 2011   7:15 PM ET



 
Accessibility Links



Related Story Content

Story Sharing Tools



Share with Add This
Print this story
E-mail this story







Related


Related Links

VIDEO: Texas wildfires








Accessibility Links


Beginning of Story Content
The number of homes destroyed by a Texas wildfire has risen to 1,554 and is expected to further increase as officials enter more areas where the blaze has been extinguished, officials said Sunday.
Seventeen people remain unaccounted for.
Bastrop County officials joined by Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett sought to provide new information to hundreds of residents evacuated from their homes a week ago when blustering wind whipped up by tropical storm Lee swept across parched, drought-stricken Texas, helping to spark more than 190 wildfires statewide. The worst of the fires has consumed more than 13,000 hectares near Bastrop and about 50 kilometres southeast of Austin.A plane from the Texas Forest Service drops flame retardant over a fire in the woods near Diana, Texas, as the state suffers through one of its worst wildfire outbreaks ever. Sarah A. Miller/The Tyler Morning Telegraph/APWhile sharing the bad news that the tally of destroyed homes will increase, officials also told some 100 residents who gathered at a news conference on Sunday that people would begin going back into the scorched areas on Monday. A detailed plan will allow residents to slowly enter the evacuated areas over the coming week as firefighters and emergency responders ensure the land has properly cooled, hotspots are extinguished and the blaze is contained.
Tensions and frustrations boiled over at a similar gathering on Saturday when residents demanded to be allowed to return to their neighborhoods to see what remains of their homes and attempt to salvage a few belongings. Many people were given only minutes to evacuate as the raging blaze surrounded homes and neighborhoods.
Some had time to only gather a few important belongings. Others left with only the clothes on their back.Missing people not necessarily in dangerStill, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said the 17 people unaccounted for may simply be out of town.
"They could have been on vacation," he said.
The federal government on Friday declared Texas a disaster area, paving the way for individuals to get financial aid. Doggett said the Federal Emergency Management Agency will incur 75 percent of the costs of fighting the fires, and families will be eligible for up to $30,000 US to pay for expenses not covered by insurance policies, such as hotel bills, temporary housing and even construction costs.
"The $30,000 can only go so far toward the expenses that some of you have," Doggett said. "But I think it can be a lot of assistance."
On Monday, schools will open for the first time since the Bastrop blaze erupted. So many people are living in the town's Super 8, Best Western and Holiday Inn that school buses will stop at all three.
County emergency management director Mike Fisher said the Bastrop blaze is now 50 per cent contained.
North of Houston, meanwhile, firefighters say a tri-county blaze that has consumed more than 8,000 hectares and destroyed nearly 60 homes is also half contained.  
© The Associated Press, 2011
Accessibility Links

Story Social Media

Story Tools


Report Typo
Send Feedback









Print this story
E-mail this story





Related News Content

Stay Connected with CBC News

Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


Big Box Advertisement







Top News Headlines




Swissair crash may not have been an accident: ex-RCMP  

An investigator looking into the crash of Swissair Flight 111 near Peggys Cove, N.S., says he was prevented by senior RCMP and aviation safety officials from pursuing his theory that an incendiary device might have been the cause.  more »




Swiss bank reports $2B loss to rogue trader 

Police in London's financial district have arrested a 31-year-old man in connection with a massive loss reported by Swiss bank UBS. more »
Canada seeks Buy American exemption   

Canada is seeking an exemption from the new Buy American provisions in U.S. President Barack Obama's proposed jobs act, weeks before the exemption for the previous stimulus is set to expire. more »
VIDEO: TIFF laces up the best in costume design  

Canadian costume designers have left their mark on many fantasy, science fiction and horror films of the last decade.  more »
Randall Hopley to undergo psych evaluation  

A B.C. judge has ordered Randall Peter Hopley, accused of abducting three-year-old Kienan Hebert, to undergo a psychiatric assessment to determine if he is fit to stand trial.     more »

More Headlines »




Most Recent


Watch
Listen





Show previous slide





Show next slide




Show previous slide





Show next slide





Latest World News Headlines




Cameron and Sarkozy visit Libya

British Prime Minister David Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy arrived in Tripoli on Thursday — the first heads of government to visit Libya since revolutionary forces seized the capital, a major endorsement for the North African nation's new rulers.    more »




Canada seeks Buy American exemption   

Canada is seeking an exemption from the new Buy American provisions in U.S. President Barack Obama's proposed jobs act, weeks before the exemption for the previous stimulus is set to expire. more »
Swiss bank reports $2B loss to rogue trader 

Police in London's financial district have arrested a 31-year-old man in connection with a massive loss reported by Swiss bank UBS. more »
Red Cross says 13 mass graves found in Libya 

The International Committee of the Red Cross says at least 13 mass graves have been found in Libya over the past three weeks.   more »
Hungary metal firm fined over 'red sludge'  

Hungarian officials say the metals company whose broken reservoir flooded several towns with toxic red sludge in October, killing 10 people, has been fined roughly $643 million Cdn for environmental damages.   more »

More Headlines »




Dispatches »

Asian carp approach Great Lakes Sep. 13, 2011  1:27 PM Rick MacInnes-Rae went to Chicago to see how the most dangerous invasive aquatic species since the zebra mussel is eating its way north towards the Great Lakes -- and meet the front line fighters trying to stop it.





Connect Newsroom Blog
Hopley in Court, Economy Woes & Inside an Iranian Prison Sep. 14, 2011  6:27 PM Inside an Iranian prison. As two Americans wait for their freedom we'll talk to someone who knows what they're going through.


Google Ads











Show previous slide

Don't Miss



GREENPEACE
Turning media spectacle into action
Organization draws attention to almost every environmental issue conceivable




photos
Greenpeace: 40 years of activism
Seminal moments in the history of the environmental protest group




Joe Schlesinger
Slovakia's turnaround and European bailouts
Slovaks learning what it takes to be part of European community




photos
Jacqueline Kennedy: In her own words
Newly released audiotapes offer insight into first lady's life




photos
9/11 Memorial opens
The former site of the twin towers re-opens as 9/11 memorial plaza




photos
Kenyan pipline explosion
Deadly fuel explosion rips through a Kenyan slum




PHOTO GALLERY
U.S. remembers 9/11
U.S. remembers 9/11




Osama bin Laden
Go inside the operation to kill the al-Qaeda leader
A Fifth Estate multimedia examination of the top-secret raid in Pakistan




JAPAN
Six months later, radiation still a major worry
Craig Dale writes about the country's nuclear anxiety




RICHARD HANDLER
9/11 memorials break down our emotional defenses
Like the attacks themselves, commemorations were rich in symbolism




CHART
Unemployment rates in the U.S., 2001-2011 





10 questions
Test your knowledge of this week's top stories




Show next slide




CBC Global Footer Navigation


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Kids' CBC Wonder World
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


CBC Member Centre
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Jobs
Visit the Canadian Broadcasting Centre
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts


Independent Producers
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Tapes, Transcripts and Image Assets
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2011

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca











