Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm ~ LiveNews











Home































































Recent Posts


Loading...













































Wednesday, September 7, 2011




Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm




9/07/2011 01:43:00 AM

live news

No comments



One of the most destructive  wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming  winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any  control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now  littered with hundreds of charred homes.
Raging  with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more  than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around  Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will  begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed  two people and forced thousands to evacuate.Crews  finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm  Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased  humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report  some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John  Nichols said."Tonight should be  a good night, tomorrow should be a good day — we hope," Nichols said  late Tuesday. "The reason why it hasn't been able to be contained is the  wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the  first day we had very light wind."The blaze is the most  catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past  week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire  outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000  homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to  the limit.
In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements'  two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash.  A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about  20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames.
"We  lost everything," said Clements, who with his family took a picture of  themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and  blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand.""This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old said.
Texas  Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to  South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a  blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later  deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York  following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the  aftermath of Hurricane Katrina."Pretty powerful visuals of  individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The  magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."
The  conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the  wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers  and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from  Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.White  House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved  seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About  1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away  as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the  federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons  of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed  largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells  the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most  devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze  that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At  least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres on Tuesday, including an  8,000-acre blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County,  next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a  7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about  40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two  dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.In  at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street  where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal  Service delivered mail to burned homes where only mailboxes were left  standing.John Chapman's home on  about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the  vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or  under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a  Shelby Cobra.More...




Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz














0
commentaires:
        






Post a Comment



















RSS Subscription!


Follow me!

















Popular Posts




All foreigners aboard seized Gaza flotilla yacht to leave Israel by end of day
     Israeli military takes over Gaza-bound French ship  AMY TEIBEL Jerusalem Israeli naval commandos on Tuesday seized control of a French ...





Around the horn: Alex Rodriguez will have knee surgery
A-Rod has slight tear in knee, could miss a month NEW YORK (AP)  — New York Yankees  third baseman Alex Rodriguez   has a slight tear in his...





Cadel Evans wins Tour fourth stage
Tour de France 2011, stage four: Cadel Evans edges Alberto Contador in sprint photo finish  There are yellow jerseys at stake in the Tour de...
















Archives






▼ 

2011



▼ 

September

Gov't recalls dehumidifiers again after more fires...
Lucky and Good: Rick Perry's Lone Star Rise to Pow...
NATO commander says 27 dead in Kabul attack
Warren launches US Senate campaign with Mass. tour...
Car bomb kills at least 15 in southern Iraq
Moody's downgrades SocGen, Credit Agricole
Diplomatic flurry ahead of Palestinian UN bid
Republican wins in New York Democratic stronghold
Greek PM to hold crisis talks with Merkel, Sarkozy...
US gov't prepares to release BP oil spill report
Special election a measure of Obama's strength
Poll: Americans feel safe, but Congress shouldn't
Small cities struggle to pay for 9/11 memorials
Obama picks more females, minorities for judges
Nation's food anti-terror plans costly, unwieldy
Obama to promote jobs plan in Boehner's home state...
Analysis: GOP foes seek cracks in Perry's record
Leila Lopes of Angola is crowned Miss Universe
Michael Jordan is fined 100 large for his thoughts...
At least 75 Kenyans dead after pipeline explosion
Huckabee criticizes Perry’s Social Security talk, ...
Obama would hike taxes to pay for his jobs bill
Wall St recovers late from euro zone battering
Sept. 11 marked with reading of nearly 3,000 names...
Obamas place wreathe at Flight 93 memorial
Memories of Sept. 11 echo at rebuilt Pentagon
Obama: U.S. stronger 10 years after September 11 a...
Half a trillion dollars of broken Afghan dreams
Sokurov's 'Faust' wins top Golden Lion at Venice
Twin NASA craft launched to study insides of moon
Chief of Libya's ex-rebels arrives in capital
Courage of Flight 93 victims lauded at dedication
Tanzania ship sinks, nearly 200 bodies recovered
9/11, minute by minute: Chaos and 1 man's escape
AP sources: No sign of US entry for terror plot
Amid mud, security Flight 93 dedication begins
Lee's remnants soak the South, may flood the East
Bombing outside Indian court kills 10
3 Guard members killed in Nevada IHOP rampage
Twin suicide bombing in Pakistan kills 23 people
GOP debate features first appearance for Perry
Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm
U.S. civilian engineer found dead in Kabul
Libya rebels: Talks resume over pro-Gadhafi town
W. Bank's Zoellick says double-dip recession unlik...
Asian stocks slide again amid euro zone worries
Libyan army convoy in Niger may be Gaddafi deal
Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas
Violence amid revelry at NY West Indian Day Parade...
Asia stocks dragged down by selloff in Europe
Obama says GOP must back US first, create jobs
Pakistan detains top al-Qaida suspect
Storm Lee threatens Southeast with heavy rains
In home of Arab Spring, a desire for more
Protesters scuffle as Mubarak trial resumes in Egy...
Gaddafi-held desert town defies Libya's new rulers...
Isner, Young lead American surge at US Open
Lewis gone, but telethon brings in more than '10
Small plane crash sparks rapid brush fire in Calif...
Tough economic climate as Obama seeks 2nd term
Gadhafi leaned on Arab allies to stay in power
Obama to spend Labor Day at Detroit AFL-CIO rally
A weakened Lee still poses flood threat in South
Dismal jobs data shakes world markets
Rebel reinforcements arrive at Gadhafi stronghold
Italy minister says no pressure on ECB over bonds
Tropical Storm Lee soaks New Orleans
Biggest rally in Israel's history presses PM
Libyans say closing in on Gaddafi bastions
Libya rebels poised to attack Gadhafi stronghold
US flood aid shipment arrives in North Korea
Documents show ties between Libyan spy head, CIA
Strauss-Kahn returns home to France
AP IMPACT: 35,000 worldwide convicted for terror
Tropical Storm Lee drifts just off Louisiana
'Married With Children' stars reunite
DA to seek new trial in Calif. gay teen killing
Alabama coast braces for heavy rain from Tropical ...
Job growth stalls, fuels recession fears
U.S. regulator sues major banks over subprime bond...
'Dancing' star steps out sans makeup








          ► 
        


August







          ► 
        


July







          ► 
        


June























 


Copyright © 2011 LiveNews







