 November 2008 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Save Yourself with Eco-Dry Cleaning
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 30 under Uncategorized
One thing about special clothes is that they need special laundry. Such is the aim and specialty of most laundry shops as they offer dry cleaning other than the normal laundry for people who don’t have time for it. But the fact remains that you may be inviting health issues like cancer and infertility issues [...]


1 Comment



Consumers waiting for Eco-Friendly Cigarettes to Arrive LEGALLY
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 29 under Uncategorized
Smokers all over the world are bound to want to try out this new buzz of eco-friendly cigarettes. While the proper modes of distribution is still in question, there is indeed some of them on the way. But the question is, how can they legalize its entry into local ports without getting caught by the [...]


Comments Off



Check out the Eco-Friendly 360 Paper Bottle
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 28 under Uncategorized
Today, we are still desperately seeking alternative packaging to the traditional plastic bottles to hold our drinks. We have seen tetra packs and some bottles that use alternative resources. However, this new brand packaging concept that is sure to be a hit worldwide soon is bound to place the era of product packaging to another [...]


Comments Off



Flushable Eco-friendly Doggy Bags
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 27 under Uncategorized
For dog owners, many would agree that the dirty part of taking care of the dog would be his dog poop or dog waste. Now this is only normal but as far as getting rid of it is another concern. We just sweep them away or if they are in the house and get it [...]


Comments Off



Bruce Willis Sues Green Rubber Global
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 22 under Uncategorized
Actor Bruce Willis has reportedly sued a Malaysian company, Green Rubber Global for failing to return $900,000 of his initial investment to the said company. Seeking a return of the money was decided by Willis after production was put on hold due to the continuing faltering economy that is hitting all nations today. According to [...]


Comments Off



Try Laundry Alternatives through the GreenWash Balls
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 20 under Uncategorized
Times are hard so it is best to find alternative solutions towards the normal daily spendings we have to satisfy that includes our laundry. We may be advised to save on water cost but the real problem is also the detergents and cleaning materials which can be health hazards other than being additional burdens to [...]


Comments Off



Get an Eco-friendly Winter Blanket This Christmas
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 13 under Uncategorized
The holidays are coming and in some parts of the world, the climate change may be colder so it is best to be ready the heating systems like electric blankets. Dressing up with the usual heavy clothing is one solution but you cannot really wear that much especially when you are at home. When bedtime [...]


1 Comment



WalMart Announces 29 Eco-Friendly Products
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 6 under Uncategorized
Consumers will always be looking at the eco-friendly products available in the market. While they solicit proper direction and advice from friends and word of mouth, actually buying them is another problem. Today, most companies are attaching the eco-friendly or green tag to their products to get attention, but as far as actually being green [...]


2 Comments



McDonalds Introduces New Eco-Packaging
POSTED BY Rokai on Nov 3 under Uncategorized
If you happen to go in to the nearest McDonald’s store and order your favorite sandwich or meal, don’t be surprised if you no longer see the traditional boxes or styros holding your meal. McDonalds has reportedly shifted its packaging in its nine largest markets is now made from renewable materials. Seven of its nine [...]


2 Comments









Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


Recycling
pr newswire
environment
lifestyle
ecofriendly
organic cotton
earth
eco
earthquake
mother earth
barack obama
national hurricane center
global warming
Eco-friendly
clothes
global warning
prnewswire
epicenter
green
tropical storm lee
carbon footprint
saving energy
richter scale
christmas
reuters
money
consumers
recycled materials
hurricane irene
climate change
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




