News/Talk 660 K-SKY: Wednesday Afternoon Headlines 9/7/11






skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar


































News Home
KSKY Home
Listen to KSKY
Traffic
SkyWatch Weather
Program Guide
RSS Feed











About K-SKY





News/Talk 660 K-SKY


Dallas/Ft. Worth
News/Talk 660 KSKY is the one radio station in the Dallas/Ft. Worth Metroplex talking about the issues that matter most to you — politics, pop culture, the war on terror, education, immigration, and much more.

View my complete profile

























Wednesday, September 7, 2011





Wednesday Afternoon Headlines 9/7/11





Thousands of residents who live near a fierce Central Texas wildfire won't be back in their homes anytime soon. Officials won't let residents return until the area near Austin is considered safe. Heavy air tankers and helicopters are dropping water on a 34-thousand-acre fire in Bastrop, Texas that has destroyed nearly 800 homes and left two residents dead. 

Former Dallas Stars defenseman Karlis Skrastins is dead after a plane crash in Russia. Skrastins was on a small plane with the Russian hockey team Lokomotiv when it went down shortly after take off near Yaroslavl . Stars GM Joe Nieuwendyk says his thoughts and prayers are with the 37-year-old's family, including his wife and daughters. Skrastins spent the last two seasons with the Stars, after previously playing with Nashville, Colorado and Florida. 

The TSA is investigating after two men were suddenly yanked off a flight at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. American Airlines Flight 1316 was supposed to leave for Washington DC just before noon today but was canceled. The passengers were eventually put on other flights to DC. 

Eight Republicans who want to win the Oval Office will square off tonight for a televised debate in California. Eight GOP presidential candidates are scheduled to participate in the debate, including Texas Governor Rick Perry, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Texas Congressman Ron Paul. 

Part of President Obama's forthcoming jobs plan might have the support of a key Republican. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor says he may go along with the President's plan to extend the payroll tax holiday. Cantor said, "It is something I've supported in the past, and will be part of discussions ongoing." President Obama is expected to reveal his jobs plan in a speech before a joint session of Congress tomorrow. 

Stocks are posting gains after three straight days of losses. Investors are optimistic about a German court's ruling that the country can participate in a bailout of Greece. The ruling could help ease the euro zone debt crisis. The Dow rose more than 270 points. The S&P 500 gained more than 30 points. The Nasdaq was 75 points higher. Oil prices rose nearly four-percent.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY






















0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)








News/Talk 660 K-SKY















K-SKY News Search


Loading...













K-SKY News Archive






▼ 

2011
(10)


September
(10)
























 






News/Talk 660 K-SKY | 6400 Belt Line Road, Suite 110 Irving, Texas 75063  | (214) 561-9660





