 » Cantor Tees Up Energy, Jobs and ‘Green’ Fight with Obama - Big Government





















Home
Exclusives
Categories
Contributors












Cantor Tees Up Energy, Jobs and ‘Green’ Fight with Obama
by 
                
			  	Christopher C. Horner			  	





A lead story in Wednesday’s trade press publication E&E Daily was “Energy, fighting EPA at the core of GOP jobs agenda”. This is true, but also reveals what may be the greatest gap between Obamanomics and an approach to governance that most Republicans claim to support:

Obama treats the energy sector like a centrally planned jobs program, putting the boot on the neck of the stuff that works while ‘creating’ politically desired but economically unsustainable positions making politically desired but economically undesirable products. Republicans argue that if wind- and solar-powered electricity, pioneered in the 1890s, work then they will work but in the meantime creating jobs in the energy sector means getting your boot off the neck of the stuff that works.
Obama and his team have long argued that their costly regulations will actually create jobs. Of course, every program, regulation and even hurricane “creates jobs”, just not on net. The administration either doesn’t get ‘net’, or thinks you will be persuaded by ‘the seen’ and imagine there is no unseen.

EPA administrator Lisa Jackson embarked upon a campaign to advance these absurd arguments in February, arguing that, e.g., if she adopts a rule requiring you to do something costly or even prematurely destroy capital, why, you’ll have to hire someone to do it!
The WSJ accurately characterized this philosophy: “In other words, the government should harm an industry and force it to ruin working assets so maybe other people can clean up the mess.”
Obama administration “green jobs” emissary Jackson also said these will require many more new environmental regulators. Yes, she said that, risible dogma that was repeated by administration apologists as recently as this week on NPR’s Diane Rehm Show. So they aren’t giving up on it.
Except… On the Friday before this past long holiday weekend, President Obama somewhat buried a rational decision if a decision, like Thursday’s speech announcing Son of Stimulus, rooted entirely in his own political needs.

He overruled his EPA and suspended pending, very costly if purely discretionary new rules on ground level ozone that would have placed 85 percent of the country in “non-attainment” with the Clean Air Act (CAA), including the electorally critical heartland, meaning most new economic activity requiring a permit from EPA would be unable to attain such permits.
Delaware Sen. Tom Carper (D) put on the Orwell in speaking to E&E about the rule, saying “It’s not inexpensive for industry,” which is code for the economy. EPA’s own analysis estimated that it would have cost up to $90 billion a year. Again, it was also purely discretionary.
In suspending that rule — after 20 months of cost to taxpayers, producers and the economy in responding to its proposal and delaying projects as a result — Obama inescapably tossed aside his own absurd stance that costly rules create jobs. If it were true, how could he possibly abandon the rule?
Obama simply determined he needed a political talking point to respond to Republican charges that he is inflexibly cramming down green-demanded rules at the expense of jobs.
He will raise his eyebrows in that ‘watch what the rubes will fall for’ expression he cannot seem to shake even now that he is President of the United States, and note that, why, in September I suspended a major EPA rule, proving you’re wrong.
Unspoken, except by the well-versed Republican, will be two things. First, Obama’s own argument for doing so — now is not the time so he will do it in 2013 — was that he wants the economy to recover before resuming killing it.
Second, this was just one of seven EPA rules dominating House Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s list of “Top 10 Job-Destroying Regulations“. These rules are collectively known in DC as “the train wreck”. His rules still threaten rolling blackouts, for example (and worse, in the event a recovery ever takes root).
This was the one rule Obama could most politically afford to dump — though the greens didn’t get the memo, yet– because although like all of his rules this was discretionary, the relevant CAA provision requires a review anyway in 2013. That is, assuming he gets re-elected, all he did was slightly delay the crackdown.
Indeed, a headline in E&E Daily right below this was “Obama to hold the line on other U.S. EPA rules — Senate Dems”. Obama’s move was pure politics, a mere survival instinct seeking to preserve his larger Power Grab, but embodying the difference in philosophies.
Republican members of Congress and, particularly, presidential candidates ought take this issue to the voters now, and the eventual nominee should stay the course. Green demagoguery is less powerful now, and Obama’s agenda less defensible, than ever.

 

Email this to a friend | Print |
		Share on Facebook
		| Tweet this
		|  

    	Tags: Barack Obama, business cost, clean air act, Coal, diane rehm, E&E, EPA, Eric Cantor, green energy, green jobs, job loss, jobs, Lisa Jackson, Regulation, smog, tom carper		Posted Sep 7th 2011 at 11:59 am in Environment,  News,  Obama,  Politics,  Regulation,  energy | 
				

32693264 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fchorner%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fcantor-tees-up-energy-jobs-and-green-fight-with-obama%2FCantor+Tees+Up+Energy%2C+Jobs+and+%27Green%27+Fight+with+Obama2011-09-07+18%3A59%3A03Christopher+C.+Hornerhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326932 









32693264 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2Fchorner%2F2011%2F09%2F07%2Fcantor-tees-up-energy-jobs-and-green-fight-with-obama%2FCantor+Tees+Up+Energy%2C+Jobs+and+%27Green%27+Fight+with+Obama2011-09-07+18%3A59%3A03Christopher+C.+Hornerhttp%3A%2F%2Fbiggovernment.com%2F%3Fp%3D326932


OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:14 pm
She is an obummer political appointee. That should about explain everything.




FlexoRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:15 pm
It makes sense that an administration that believes creating a crisis so you can take liberties you other wise would not have to fix it would also think that by destroying capital some would need to be hired to manage the damage.
Kind of like the lunacy of thought that says if a little is good then allot must be much better.
That is not only the thought pattern of the current administration but also of at least 1/3rd of the American populous.
What are we sons of bitches to do about that?




Banana Charger - September 7th, 2011 at 12:24 pm
The EPA must be held accountable, they should not be allowed to issue mandates that harm our economy for questionable gain. We need to elect someone in '12 that can bring these non-elected "Rulers" to heel.




RickOden - September 7th, 2011 at 12:25 pm
Sadly this is not Republicans vs Democrats, it's clearly right vs left or more obvious logic vs emotions. Remember (R)Fred Upton helped cause the florescent light hell we will soon experience while this 2008 pigressive green agenda does nothing but help Chinese manufacturing.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:27 pm
When BO quits trying to destroy the oil and coal industry and has his cronies at the NLRB stop hassling Boeing, I will begin to listen. BO is trying through EPA regulations, since cap and trade didn't pass congress, to force energy prices up to make solar and wind seem more economically feasible. The big SNAFU is that wind and solar equipment would have to be purchased from China since it is the more advanced nation in this tech. Oops, more debt and borrowing. However, when the wind doesn't blow wind machines don't function, thus no electricity. When the sun doesn't shine due to clouds, night, snow, rain, etc, solar doesn't provide electricity either.  
Bo is doing nothing more than trying appease his greenie supporter base and his cronies who were slated to make millions, if not billions, by means of his bald faced shenanigans. He also is pandering to them for the simple reason that he needs the funding and voter support from the bunny and tree huggers, and his cronies in the 2012 election cycle.




adamkon1104 - September 7th, 2011 at 12:30 pm
How can these Democrats be so ignorant? 
They claim to be for the little guy but they continue to destroy jobs and drive up energy costs. 
I used to think they were naive but now I'm convinced that they're evil.




Thomas_Talionis - September 7th, 2011 at 12:34 pm
I was at a Q & A with RFK Jr. a while back for his documentary "The Last Mountain."  It was about coal mining.  He of course advocates "green" energy.  But I think he slipped up and revealed how much money he stands to make in this "green" economy. 
He is part of a massive PRIVATE investment fund that will profit immensely from alternate forms of energy.  He and his ilk are using DC and fear tactics to gain public support for their private profits.




OldmanRick - September 7th, 2011 at 12:40 pm
Congress has the constitutional obligation to write law. However, some years back, our unesteemed congress through pure laziness abrogated much of this responsibility to various agencies. It will take a new president and a bill denying regulatory authority and returning it to congress to stop the folks at the EPA, FCC, USDA, etc. The majority of fed agencies should have oversight authority only. Any complaints and actions should be handled through the congressional legislative process.  
It's a wonder the congress has any approval rating at all.




ret_cpo - September 7th, 2011 at 12:41 pm
I live in a beautiful rural area of western North Carolina. I am seeing lots of solar panel clusters appear on acres land around here. I am sure this has to do with the green stimulus money. I don't know how many jobs they created. I don't know any people around here that got a job putting them up. Companies either lease or buy the land and put them up and sell the power to the local eletrical company. We get our power from an Electrical Membership Corporation. The TVA generates most of the power around here through hydroelectric power plants. 
I wonder how many of these solar panel clusters it would take to generate all the power that was already being generated here. 
I also wonder what will happed if we encounter a large hail storm.




Joseph_of_Steel - September 7th, 2011 at 12:49 pm
Once again.  
This administration and the 'economists' that cheer it ignore the most important aspect of economics:  
VALUE!!  
Why do Ivy League trained economists pretend that economics is about pollution or the environment? Economics is about VALUE.  
It's fine to make an argument that we need to address pollution and environmental concerns.  
But that argument SHOULD NOT BE MADE BY ECONOMIST.S….and it should NOT BE TALKED ABOUT AS PART OF A JOBS CREATION PLAN.  
If green energy is not a source of value….then it does not and can not provide growth.  
And, if it does not provide growth…..it does not provide jobs. Net or otherwise.  
We need to take that 'net' and catch Obama in it.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:53 pm
This administration wants the energy sector under govt control no matter the cost to the economy, the citizenry or the workforce. No one needs to be puzzled about methodology, outcome, theory, why's or wherefores. They have but one goal and that is centralized govt. You cannot view the actions of this administration through the lens of a free society, that is not who they are.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 12:55 pm
Slipped up?  He's a Leftist.  He was bragging.  These charlatans need to lose all their financial assets on this junk.




Thomas_Talionis - September 7th, 2011 at 1:04 pm
I say "slipped up" because he gives this whole speech about dire consequences and all that fear mongering and then he basically says that it's ok as long as they buy carbon credits.  From him.  The problem is that leftists are blinded by their devotion to their Environmental religion.   
RFK belongs to "Vantage Point" venture capital and Gore is the proprietor of Generation Investment Management.




Raysistsumbeech - September 7th, 2011 at 1:12 pm
Yeah, I knew you were being sarcastic.  I just get so disgusted with the modern version of the snake oil salesman.




MonoPed - September 7th, 2011 at 1:19 pm
How much longer must we put up with these idiots, hell bent on destroying us from within?




gb8898 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:32 pm
Obama and his group of "experts" believe the economy consists of a pool of money, and it's the government's job to shuffle the money around strategically to direct all activity toward a desired outcome that is beneficial for everyone.  
The Soviets had a similar idea, and it will work as well for us as it did for them.




k962 - September 7th, 2011 at 1:34 pm
When you control energy, the media, large corporations there is nothing else to call it but Socialism!




billyrayband - September 7th, 2011 at 1:36 pm
The EPA and Obama must be neutralized.   
They both kill productive jobs that drive a strong economy and replace them with government jobs that only strangle the economy. 
This results in rising energy prices (Obamas objective)  that hit the poorest the hardest.




GaltFan - September 7th, 2011 at 1:53 pm
Edited in the interest that you may read it:  

“Every dictator is a mystic, and every mystic is a potential dictator. A mystic craves obedience from men, not their agreement.  …His lust is to command, not to convince…  …What he seeks is power over reality and over men’s means of perceiving it – their mind – the power to interpose his will between existence and consciousness, as if, by agreeing to fake the reality he orders them to fake, men would, in fact, create it."
 
How many trillions of dollars has this scam prevented from going toward a productive use? How many lives have been damaged or destroyed on the basis of a myth?   
Shameful…




HuskersLoveBo - September 7th, 2011 at 1:53 pm
I see. So when the Dow goes up 275 points on the basis of Obama's jobs plan, Eric Cantor better be ducking for cover. Oh, I forgot, Obama is a "socialist".




Tyrant - September 7th, 2011 at 2:10 pm
Solar or wind will never be anything but niche, and will never produce more than a small fraction of what we use. 
But I think solar power could have a use, maybe on warehouse or shopping mall roofs in So Cal or Arizona. At least when the solar panels are running at full capacity on bright hot days, energy demand is at it's highest because of A/C demand. During those near brown out times is also the best time to resell electricity back on the grid.




AverageJoeTexas - September 7th, 2011 at 2:40 pm
The joke will be on him, this green energy agenda is not going to take off, people can't afford to buy it.  Unless…. the US taxpayers do then it can go sit in a warehouse and gather dust because people can't afford to install it.  Unless… the taxpayers do.  The success there is astounding, we spent $2,000,000 to add insulation to 10 house (I am being generous I believe it was only 5).  The government is corrupt, the unions are corrupt and the green projects are ALL corrupt.




joejoebinks123 - September 7th, 2011 at 2:42 pm
Man thats why the stock market went up on a plan yet to be released wow..Hell this is his what 100th job plan..man the DOW should be at a million points based on your logic




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 2:43 pm
The Clean Energy Scam By MICHAEL GRUNWALD Thursday, Mar. 27, 2008
http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,... 
"It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one." George Washington




RecklessProcess - September 7th, 2011 at 3:02 pm
You have been watching too much Dexter: you can't really skin people. That is gross.




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 4:05 pm
Many tea party republicans in congress are filthy rich business owners who used the tea party to get elected so they can destroy the economy to keep wages low and attack regulations that safeguard Americas from excesses of industrial pollutants to increase profits. President Obama is the first president that is standing up to them to improve the quality of life of ordinary Americans. He is the only one in Washington doing his job.




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 4:12 pm
Unfortunately you are not talking that advice.




joejoebinks123 - September 7th, 2011 at 4:19 pm
Yeah Barry and Nancy are not rich right….Troll




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 4:28 pm
Top Ten Wealthiest Members of Congress by Kristin Brown | August 31, 2010  
1. Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.): $188.6 million 
2. Rep. Darrel Issa (R-Calif.): $160.1 million 
3. Rep. Jane Harman (D-Calif.): $152.3 million 
4. Sen. Jay Rockefeller ( D-W.Va.): $83.7 million 
5. Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Texas): $73.8 million 
6. Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.); $70.2 million 
7. Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.): $56.5 million 
8. Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.): $53.5 million 
9. Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.): $49.7 million 
10. Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.): $46.1 million 
Read more: http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2010/08/31/top-...




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 4:38 pm
You "forgot quite a few on the list" exposing yourself as having 0 accountability. Just one example: McCaul reported a net worth of at least $287 million, by far the most of any lawmaker. Fox News is a talk show host station and has 0 accountability. So what is your point?




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 4:44 pm
Cutting congressional salary would be a good place to start "offsetting". Funny Congress always "forgets" to do their part in any kind of shared sacrifice, and yet they spend more government money for their own personal gain than any other group in the country. Automatic cost of living raises and automatic pay raises, free medical coverage at a private top rated navy hospital right in the capitol and free federal medical insurance, a fully funded office in Washington and a fully funded office in their home states, free military air flights and free funding for first class domestic flights, image funding that often exceeds the costs of entire elections, the price of that funding has skyrocketed recently, they don't do their job and as a result we are pay more to improve their image, a private capitol police force and security service protection, on and on and on and on. It must be nice having unlimited tax dollars available and being able to vote yourself pay and benefit raises and anything else you want. The real kicker is congress is so dysfunctional we could set up a volunteer program, vote on issues, and get more things resolved faster and more efficiently than congress can. They will come up with some big song and dance, and will somehow sleaze out of cutting  government waste where waste is, in the US Congress.




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 4:46 pm
Google it I did!  You might want to look into the mirror and you can strike that iconic pose of your dear leader when you speak. I recommend using the title of the list in a search engine of your choice, and then you will see. It must be hard being wrong all the time.




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 4:52 pm
Attacking the president is your answer, no credibility there. Why do republicans think people care that they are republicans. The president was elected overwhelmingly by the majority of Americans. You losers can't get over it. Tea party crash has assured the president reelection. Get over it, losers are losers.




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 4:56 pm
Well, you are quite the social butterfly.




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 5:03 pm
Did you use the "title of the list in a search engine" to come up with that spiffy comeback. I bet we all could come up with all kinds of spiffy comebacks by using the "title of the list in a search engine".




Washington76 - September 7th, 2011 at 5:11 pm
Obama: ‘If They Bring a Knife to the Fight, We Bring a Gun’




anneshelby - September 7th, 2011 at 5:27 pm
Going to a town hall meeting to attack people in wheel chairs, again?  Wow, you tea party fanatics are some rough and tumble Jenny Craigers. Better bring an automatic weapon. I hear grandma has been working out.




cb750 - September 7th, 2011 at 7:33 pm
…and …and they killed all the kittens and bathe in orphans tears and remove the last 10 pages from used books in book stores. and and and




cb750 - September 7th, 2011 at 7:34 pm
Why does progressivism always use force to accomplish its goals. Can you name one progressive idea that is voluntary?




cb750 - September 7th, 2011 at 7:37 pm
Wow! You're actually suggesting a volunteer method (which is agorism BTW). That's incredible. 
BTW the only people who can vote in a volunteer system are the people voluntarily voting on the use of their own property.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 8:22 am
We are the real middle, and working tax paying class that keeps this country moving and producing. And you? What do you do? Need some cheese to go with your wining? I recommend a tissue for your issue. 
If they bring a union, we bring a nation.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 8:43 am
Sure, if you insist. Offset criminal activity with prison. The whole world knows Tea Party deliberately crashed world markets and yet the criminals walk free. Cantor then takes a tax payer vacation to Israel. Now he is using aid to disaster victims as a sounding board for fanatic ideological.Viva La American Revolution. Tea party and the republicans who fear them have got to go. Resign now! Before we drag you out of your fancy office, and toss you into prison.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 8:45 am
No wonder you poor things can't win elections. Limited mental capacity.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 8:52 am
That is like the pot calling the kettle cast iron. SERF!




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 9:32 am
Oh darling. Did I post something to upset you.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 9:37 am
Not at all!




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 9:45 am
Now be a good little boy.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 9:56 am
Dittos!




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 10:06 am
Now dear. Run out side. Dig a whole. And crawl into it. Tea party is dead. Bury your self before you start stinking up the place.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 10:21 am
"If the freedom of speech is taken away then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the slaughter."
George Washington




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 10:53 am
Dead man talking. George Washington did not oppose relief to aid victims, Cantor did.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 11:00 am
Washington did not oppose relief to aid victims. This is true, because government did not provide it his days. It was about self reliance and neighbor helping neighbor without government intrusion. The same thing the majority want today.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 11:20 am
The gov government has helped people in need since it's inception and will continue to do so as long as it exists regardless of fanatic ideology. You have no credibility. Your party has no political clout. Even republicans are distancing themselves from the toxic tea party.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 11:29 am
That is funny. Every time I go to a rally, or a town hall or a school board meeting I see us growing and growing with new members every time. You should go to one. Then you will be able to see the truth. I suggest you start drinking tea and put down the koolaid.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 12:04 pm
You can rally all you like. Tea party has no political clout. People are sick of loud mouthed fanatics dictating their will on the people through force, threats, and other hostile acts. Tea party has become the Ralph Nader of the republican party.




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 12:25 pm
Every thing you cited is exactly what Obama and his union crime incorporated are doing. Hope in one hand, and poop in the other, and smell the truth.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 12:29 pm
you s hit out your mouth and talk out y uor ass




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 12:33 pm
A true lady would not speak like this. I would expect this from a sailor. No intention to offend sailors.




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 12:36 pm
http://teapartyzombiesmustdie.com/
Don't get tea bagged!




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 12:37 pm
Check out the tea party must die video game. It is free. http://teapartyzombiesmustdie.com/




Washington76 - September 8th, 2011 at 12:59 pm
Mourning in America
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_YXqf_6ug54




joejoebinks123 - September 8th, 2011 at 3:56 pm
wonder if the left would scream civility if it featured some of their commies …..yeap me thinks so




anneshelby - September 8th, 2011 at 5:13 pm
No, just tea party crash will be enough to get fanatics in the republican party booted out of office.




Kanisha - September 11th, 2011 at 9:36 am
The big SNAFU is that wind and solar equipment would have to be purchased from China since it is the more advanced nation in this tech. Oops, more debt and borrowing. However, when the wind doesn't blow wind machines don't function, thus no electricity. When the sun doesn't shine due to clouds, night, snow, rain, etc, solar doesn't provide electricity either. homeprojects


Leave a Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.









 Click Here For Complete PIGFORD Coverage
Featured Story


After Turner Earthquake in Weiner District, Democrats' Civil War Against Obama Begins
by 
	    	
				  	Andrew Breitbart



History will never be able to tell us who made the fatal error in New York's 9th district - Barack Obama, or Anthony Weiner. Just as Weiner kept on making critical errors every step of the way as his personal scandal unfolded earlier this year, President Obama has done everything...
Read more... 
More Featured Stories...

 
 

Follow Us on Twitter


Subscribe via RSS


Got a Tip?Contact us









Live Talk on Twitter 




Categories 
2012 Budget

2012 Election

2nd amendment

AARP

ACORN

Big Labor

Census

Cheat Sheet

Coffee and Markets

Congress

Culture

Defense

Earmarks

Economics

Education

energy

entitlements

Environment

Exclusives

Fair Tax

Featured Story

Federal Spending

Financial Services

Flat Tax

Healthcare

History

Immigration

Journolist

Justice/Legal

Local Government

Media Criticism

Media Matters

Midterm Elections

News

Obama

Open Threads

pigford

Political Humor

Politics

Pork Report

race

Regulation

Special

State Government

State Politics

Supreme Court

Tax Reform

taxes

Tea Party

Technology

Uncategorized

unemployment


Blogroll

ABCNews
Ace Of Spades HQ
Agence France Press
Althouse
Amato for Liberty
American Thinker
Andrew Sullivan
Ann Coulter
Associated Press
Atlas Shrugs
Ben Shapiro
Big Hollywood
Bill O’Reilly
Black & Right
Blackfive
BlogsLucianneLoves.com
Bloomberg
Bob McCarty
Boston Globe
Breitbart.com
Breitbart.tv
C-SPAN
Camille Paglia
Charles Krauthammer
Chicago Tribune
Christian Science Monitor
Christopher Hitchens
Claremont Institute
Commentary
Daily Gut
Dana Loesch
DC Patriot
Dennis Miller Radio
Dennis Prager
Der Spiegel
Drudge Report
Economist
Ed Driscoll
Financial Times
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Founding Bloggers
Fox Nation
Fox News
Freakonomics Blog
Free Republic
Gateway Pundit
GayPatriot
George Will
Glenn Beck
Grand Old Partisan
Hot Air
Huffington Post
Hugh Hewitt
Human Events
Instapundit
Investors Business Daily
Iowahawk
James Hudnall
Jawa Report
Jerusalem Post
John Gibson
John Nolte
John Tierney
Judicial Watch Blog “Corruption Chronicles”
Kyle Olson
Larry Elder
Larry Kudlow
Lars Larson
Laura Ingraham
Law Hawk
Los Angeles Times
Lucianne.com
Mancow
Manhattan Institute
Marginal Revolution
Mark Levin
Mark Steyn
Matt Patterson
Media Research Center
Mediaite
Melanie Morgan
Michael Barone
Michael Savage
Michael Yon
Mickey Kaus
Mike Flynn
Move America Forward
MSNBC
National Review
National Review’s The Corner
Neal Boortz
New Republic
New York Magazine
New York Post
New York Times
Newport Beach Now
NewsBusters
Newsweek
Pajamas Media
Parcbench
Pat Dollard
Patterico’s Pontifications
PoliGazette
Politico
Power Line
PR Newswire
Pravda
Protein Wisdom
Quincy News
Real Clear Markets
Real Clear Politics
Reason
Reason Hit and Run
RedState
Rep. McCotter YouTube Channel
Reuters
Ricochet
Roger L. Simon
Roger Stone
Roll Call
Rolling Stone
Rush Limbaugh
Rusty Humphries
Ryan P. Dixon
Salon
Sean Hannity
Silicon Alley Insider
Slate
Smoking Gun
South Park Episodes
Tammy Bruce
The Brody File
The Daily Beast
The Daily Caller
The Enterprise Report
The Enterprise Report
The Hill
The New Ledger
Thomas Sowell
Time
Times U.K.
Townhall.com
U.K. Daily Mail
U.K. Guardian
U.K. Telegraph
U.S. National Debt
U.S. News
USA Today
Vanity Fair
VodkaPundit
Volokh Conspiracy
Wall Street Journal
Washington Examiner
Washington Post
Washington Times
Weekly Standard
Yid With Lid


 








Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy







