A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!!                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!!    London :  United Kingdom
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By nthabeleng            14 0      
Views: 113
         With the introduction of phones and computers many people became so fond of text messaging that some can even do it with their eyes closed. You walk down the street and you notice people busy texting on their phones. Sometimes people even do it when they are attending boring meetings or workshops and even dates, it is one of those things that have become so inherent in us that we can not imagine how life was before. I mean can you remember your first text, who it was from of even what it said? Well i don’t and i do not think it’s important to.  This is not the case with Tracy Moberly, a 47-year-old woman from London who has engaged in the quest to keep all her text messages from as back as 1999 except for the very first one that she accidentally deleted. She has transferred around 100,000 messages into 30 journals over the years when she ran out of storage which she obviously did thinking of the storage of phones from around a decade ago. Some may call this an obsession while some may think its intriguing but either way this woman has enjoyed this project which she has recently turned into a book titled “TEXT ME”. If it’s an obsession you might agree with me that she did something positive with it and if you admire her you might want to copy what she did and keep a record of all your text messages. 'People are so honest in texts - I love that I can document everyday conversations and they will last forever,' said Ms Moberly. She also indicated that all her friends envy her, i wonder whether they envy her for writing the book or for keeping the messages because i am definitely sure there are texts i don’t wish i had kept.story courtesy of daily mail        1 of 11        
Tracy Moberly, documented he 100,000 text nessages in a book
     
nthabeleng is based in Maseru, Maseru, Lesotho,
and is a Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (36.1%) Portugal (14.5%) Lesotho (13.3%) Egypt (4.8%) 15 other countries (25.3%)           READ MORE: 100, 00 messages, Tracy Moberly, text messages   More News From: London :  United Kingdom      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 14            Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
| about 22 hours ago
  
---->Thanks for sharing this report ---> rated up^
             Reply  Posted By       TajdarHaider
| about 21 hours ago
  
Very impressive interpretation of story... rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Ruby1204
| about 19 hours ago
  
It was an interesting report. Thanks for sharing. Rates up
             Reply  Posted By       Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
  
Every one has their own quirks. rate up
             Reply  Reply By       nthabeleng
| about 5 hours ago
  
you can say that again, Orakul and if hers is the lipstick so be it. guys thanks for all your comments.
             Reply  Posted By       faraway
| about 15 hours ago
  
Good report....rates up
             Reply  Posted By       saleh1966
| about 6 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing news..Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
| about 5 hours ago
  
Thanks for an interesting report. Rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 5 hours ago
  
Well Written and Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please visit my section
             Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
| about 4 hours ago
  
thanks for nice compiled report, rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 4 hours ago
  
Thanks for an interesting report.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Good, impressive report. Thank for sharing you,! Rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       crown62
| about 1 hour ago
  
nthabeleng,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       AnamikaS
| 28 minutes ago
  
That is really some record! Report rated up and liked!
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     'I'm a text maniac': Woman keeps every one of 100,000 messages she's ...  
Mail Online UK
 Woman keeps every one of 100,000 messages she's received (except for one...) Last updated at 2:27 PM on 13th September 2011 It's good to talk: Tracey Moberly has not deleted a single text message since 1999 A woman obsessed with texting has kept...       Blogs    >    Looks Matter When It Comes to Online Dating | The Minaret  
theminaretonline.com
 Within five hours of putting these two profiles online, Michelle received seven messages and six “likes” on her page while Alexandra received 20 messages and 21 “likes.” After two days, Michelle's grand total was 17 messages and 14        Images    >         Tracy Moberly    Tracy Moberly Image Source: allvoices Tracy Moberly, documented he 100,000 text nessages in a book        tracy moberly's phones for ...    tracy moberly's phones for ... Image Source: allvoices Phones that Tracy Moberly used to store the messages over the years         A woman texts a message    A woman texts a message Image Source: www.afp.com A woman texts a message        A woman texts a message    A woman texts a message Image Source: www.afp.com A woman texts a message        A woman uses her mobile phone ...    A woman uses her mobile phone ... Image Source: www.afp.com A woman uses her mobile phone to send text message        A woman sends text messages    A woman sends text messages Image Source: www.afp.com A woman sends text messages      More Related Images    More From London          My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions        Land Reform in Britain -Crown Estates (Video)       Scrap food sell by dates? But why wait so late?         A Different Look of Pippa Middleton         Cricketism: ICC also Declares Sachin OUT, finally!       Plug & Play with The SSL Store        TV Choice Awards 2011 Complete Winners         David de Gea to return for Man Utd against Chelsea          NHS hospitals risk £5bn rescue bill        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in your BMW        Britney Spears' Mysterious 'Criminal' Art Hits Net        How Your Site Can Benefit from Web Design Newcastle          Re-Mastered Stones on the Way                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10334149          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 1       Videos: 1       Images: 11       Comments: 14    14       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10334149), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10334149 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10334149 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!!” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10334149-a-woman-obsessed-with-text-messaging-documents-100000-texts-in-a-book.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         