Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in - Sacramento News - Local and Breaking Sacramento News | Sacramento Bee');
    }
-->




























Sign In
Join





Logout





Reader Services


Place a classified ad
Place an obituary
Manage your sacbee.com account
Manage your subscription
Make a payment
BeeBuzzPoints Reader Rewards
Order reprints
Contact us


Stay Connected


Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
e-Edition
e-Edition on iPad
Kindle
Sony eReader
NOOK Version
Help
Archives
Contact us


Site Feedback





				Subscribe to The Bee TODAY
			






Wire National News




News

Business
Local
Education
Crime
Obituaries
Weather
Data Center
Investigations
Nation/World
Popular Topics
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
ROSEVILLE TOYOTA






Capitol & California

Capitol Alert
State Workers
State Politics
State News
Jerry Brown
Marijuana
Budget
Prop 8
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
California Credit Union League






Our Region

Business
Real Estate
City Beat
Transportation
Our Towns
Arrest Logs
Medical
Environment
Religion
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
Roseville Toyota






Sports

Kings/NBA
UFL/Mountain Lions
49ers
Raiders
High Schools
Colleges
A's/Giants
River Cats
Golf
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
JOHN L. SULLIVAN CHEVROLET






Living Here

Moms & Family
Pets
Appetizers
Food & Wine
Home & Garden
Outdoors
Health & Fitness
Books & Media
Fun & Games






Sponsored By
Sutter Health






Entertainment

Events
Movies
Dining
Things to Do
Fun & Games
TV Listings
Travel
Books & Media
Music
Theater & Art
Bee Buzz Points







Opinion

Editorials
The Conversation
Viewpoints
Letters to the Editor
The Swarm
Rex Babin Cartoons
California Forum
Editorial Board





Cars

Bee Auto Ads
Auto Show
Buy/Sell
Research
Shopping Advice
Transportation News
Car Photos/Videos





Jobs

Healthcare/Social Service Careers
Career Fairs and Events
Post a Resume
Who's Hiring
Employer Resources
Search Classifieds





Homes

Classified Rentals
Classified Home Sales
Homefinder.com
Apartments.com
Commercial Real Estate
Community News





Classifieds

In Memoriams
Garage Sale Kit
Legal Notices
Place a classified ad





Deals

Find n Save
Dealsaver
Daily Deal
Local Coupons
Local Ads
Golf Card
Weekly Inserts & Gift Cards


































Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH


 sacbee.com
 Web






Weather | Traffic

57° F












Photos
                








 






Mayra Beltran / AP
Montgomery Fire Firefighter, Reed Griffith crosses the fire south of Todd Mission, Texas in Waller County on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.  (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran) MANDATORY CREDIT 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
A homes destroyed by wildfire is seem among burned trees, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, near Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






LM Otero / AP Photo
Volunteer Emily Drake pull a donkey to load it into a trailer at Ponderosa Paints ranch near Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Some 23 animals had taken refuge at the ranch to ride out the wildfire  and their owners and volunteers spent the afternoon moving them a safer place out of the fire zone. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
Residents look at a map showing the effected area of the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. 






Eric Gay / AP Photo
Loretta Pawlus looks at a list of homes  effected by the the Bastrop wildfires at the convention center, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. Pawlus is missing her two dogs and does not yet know the status of her home. 








More Information



        Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin    



        Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in    



        Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in    



        Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm    


 




 


      ...   -  Top Stories - Wire Nation/World - Wire National News




0 comments


  | Print

Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in


Share






    By CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN
Associated Press

 CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN       Associated Press      
Last modified: 2011-09-08T14:26:11Z
Published: Thursday, Sep.  8, 2011 - 12:20 am


Last Modified: Thursday, Sep.  8, 2011 -  7:26 am





BASTROP, Texas --     Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other."My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now."    

    Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid.Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center.The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week - one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends.Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought.That was the case for Jose "Pepe" Gomez, 57, who had just returned from church to his girlfriend's house Sunday afternoon."We were going to celebrate my girlfriend's grandson's birthday, who is only two ...We were going to have a pool party at her swimming pool, have cake for the kids, then they said 'get out,'" Gomez said. "We got evacuated from three locations on that same day. In less than 12 hours we were evacuated three times.""When you looked up you could see this huge cloud ... we knew it was serious," he said.Gomez said his girlfriend lost everything after having only enough time to grab a little clothing for her kids and a Bible."She was in hysteria when she was told her house was leveled," Gomez said. It was the second home she lost to fire.Brenda Sanders, a 63-year-old hospice nurse whose home had so far survived the blaze, said she had been oblivious to the fire until a sheriff's deputy came to her door. She and her husband had about 20 minutes to gather items. They grabbed the flags that were on their fathers' caskets, some important insurance documents, mementos from her husband's high school and college football career and their cats."It's just been a nightmare," she said. "It's been surreal, the whole experience."Her friend Denise Rodgers, 56, a hospice chaplain, was not so fortunate. Her house in Tahitian Village burned. First, a friend sent her a photo showing her house untouched. "I was thinking I was in the clear." But later she received a shaky video of the flames circling her home and climbing up one side."I could see it coming, you know, over the trees," Rodgers said of her last minutes in the house. "I could see the pink glow so I knew it was close."    
    




Share






About Comments

Reader comments on Sacbee.com are the opinions of the writer, not The Sacramento Bee. If you see an objectionable comment, click the flag icon below it. We will delete comments containing inappropriate links, obscenities, hate speech, and personal attacks. Flagrant or repeat violators will be banned. See more about comments here.


What You Should Know About Comments on Sacbee.com
Sacbee.com is happy to provide a forum for reader interaction, discussion, feedback and reaction to our stories.  However, we reserve the right to delete inappropriate comments or ban users who can't play nice. (See our full terms of service here.)
Here are some rules of the road:
• Keep your comments civil. Don't insult one another or the subjects of our articles.  If you think a comment violates our guidelines click the flag icon to notify the moderators. Responding to the comment will only encourage bad behavior. 
• Don't use profanities, vulgarities or hate speech.  This is a general interest news site.  Sometimes, there are children present. Don't say anything in a way you wouldn't want your own child to hear. 
• Do not  attack other users; focus your comments on issues, not individuals. 
• Stay on topic.  Only post comments relevant to the article at hand.  If you want to discuss an issue with a specific user, click on his profile name and send him a direct message. 
• Do not copy and paste outside material into the comment box. 
• Don't repeat the same comment over and over.  We heard you the first time. 
• Do not use the commenting system for advertising. That's spam and it isn't allowed. 
• Don't use all capital letters.  That's akin to yelling and not appreciated by the audience. 
• Don't flag other users' comments just because you don't agree with their point of view.  Please only flag comments that violate these guidelines. 
You should also know that The Sacramento Bee does not screen comments before they are posted.  You are more likely to see inappropriate comments before our staff does, so we ask that you click the flag icon to submit those comments for moderator review.  You also may notify us via email at feedback@sacbee.com.  Note the headline on which the comment is made and tell us the profile name of the user who made the comment. Remember, comment moderation is subjective.  You may find some material objectionable that we won't and vice versa.
If you submit a comment, the user name of your account will appear along with it.  Users cannot remove their own comments once they have submitted them.










































Most Viewed
Blog Posts



49ers notes: Crabtree keeps things in low gear
Harbaugh likes it when 49ers QB is on the move
NASA Lands in Colorado With International Space Station Events
Alex Smith shows poise, promise in 49ers opener
Strong earthquake hits northeast Japan, no tsunami
Field Poll: Californians sour on Obama




Home Front: That's a wrap...
Sacto 9-1-1: Suspect in fatal south Sacramento shooting arrested in Iowa
Capitol Alert: Jerry Brown accuses GOP of unconstitutional delegation of power
The State Worker: Column Extra: Memo puts CalPERS' staff disclosure errors in context
The Swarm: Johnson, Cohn agree on redistricting, sort of   
Sierra Summit: The spills we ignore














Quick Job Search







Enter Keyword(s):



Enter a City:





Select a State:

All United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



Select a Category:

All Job Categories
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive1
Banking1
Biotech1
Broadcast - Journalism1
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse






Advanced Job Search |
Search by Category











Sacramento Bee Jobs »





» See More Top Jobs















Buy









Used Cars

Dealer and private-party ads













Make:


===============


Model:


===============


Price Range:


$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$5,000$6,000$7,000$8,000$9,000$10,000
$11,000$12,000$13,000$14,000$15,000$16,000$17,000$18,000$19,000$20,000
$21,000$22,000$23,000$24,000$25,000
$30,000$35,000$40,000$45,000
$50,000$75,000$99,000

  to   

No Max
$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$5,000$6,000$7,000$8,000$9,000$10,000
$11,000$12,000$13,000$14,000$15,000$16,000$17,000$18,000$19,000$20,000
$21,000$22,000$23,000$24,000$25,000
$30,000$35,000$40,000
$45,000$50,000$75,000$99,000
$99,000+


Search within:


102030405075100250500All

 miles of ZIP 


Search used

 
			Advanced Search
 | 
1982 & Older













Get the Deal!


Local Deals






                Find more great deals!
findnsave.sacbee.com































Contact Us

Site Feedback
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Bee Jobs



Share Content

Share your pictures
Share your videos
News tips



Advertise With Us

Place a real estate or rental ad
Place an online ad
Place a newspaper ad



Online Extras

Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Maps & Directions






Copyright © The Sacramento Bee
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About our ads
Copyright
About The Sacramento Bee
About the McClatchy Company




































