Texas Wildfire Destroys 1,000-plus Homes - HispanicBusiness.com
















HispanicBusiness
Thursday, September 15, 2011







































Home
News

Headlines
Business
Noticias
A&E
Politics
Media
Education
Hispanic PR Wire
Elections


Rankings

Headlines
HB500
Diver.Elite
Influentials
Top Schools
Fastest Growing
WOY


Entrepreneur
Auto

Reviews
Cutting Edge
Industry News
Advice
Buy
Research
Accessorize
Service


Finance

Headlines
Homeowner
Retirement
College


Technology

Headlines
Business Tech
Hispanic Tech
Personal Tech
Reviews
Dot.com


Community

Forum
LiveChat
Events Calendar


Research
Events

EOY
WOY
Events Calendar


Career
Marketplace
Magazine






Most Popular Stories





Solyndra's Bankruptcy Puts Department of Energy In the Hot Seat


Gold Prices Slide


Lady Gaga, Bono to Perform at Bill Clinton Foundation Anniversary Concert


Reese Witherspoon Sporting Black Eye


Cisco Lowers Forecast


HHS Plan Aims To Recoup Medicaid Payments


Google's Apps Infiltrate Mobile Devices


Broadcom To Buy Santa Clara's NetLogic for $3.7 Billion


Palin's Shrewd White House Strategy: Populism 101


Shakira Nominated for 3 Latin Grammys


More Headlines...






News-To-Go


Newsletters and Email Alerts
RSS Feeds 







Advertisement


















Advertisement




















News Column












Story Tools











						del.icio.us
					






						Digg It!
					







						E-Mail to a Friend
					






						Printable Version
					






									Discuss on Forum
								






							Comments
						















Texas Wildfire Destroys 1,000-plus Homes









														Sep. 7, 2011 
													













Related Stories






Frac Tech Plans IPO, Seeks To Raise $1.15 Billion
Palin's Shrewd White House Strategy: Populism 101
Crude Oil Backpedals to Under $90
10 Community Colleges Vie for $1 Million Aspen Institute Prize
Broadcom To Buy Santa Clara's NetLogic for $3.7 Billion
Perry's Stumbles Raise Doubts as Romney Stays on Message















Advertisement













Fire officials said the largest fire racing through drought-stricken central Texas was about 30 percent contained as of Wednesday morning. 
  Officials said two people died while two fires still burn on either side of the city of Bastrop in Bastrop County, KXAN-TV, Austin, reported. The overall death toll from the outbreak of fires now is four, officials said. 
  Officials said the biggest fire, just east of Bastrop, has consumed 38,089 acres and destroyed 576 homes. 
  "We feel like perhaps today, perhaps today that we'll have the perimeter secure where the fire will not get larger," Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher told radio station KUT in Austin. 
  The smaller fire west of Bastrop, about 20 percent contained, burned through about 800 acres and destroyed 28 homes, fire officials said. About 150 homes are threatened, and 200 people have been evacuated. 
  The Texas Forest Service said on its Web site Wednesday it responded to 19 new fires covering 1,490 acres, including new large fires in Red River and Rusk counties. The service said it has responded to 172 fires affecting 135,051 acres during the past seven days. 
  About 1,023 homes have been destroyed during the last three days, the Texas Forest Service said. 
  "I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous," Gov. Rick Perry said. 
  A number of aircraft have been mobilized to assist with the heavy fire activity, the forest service said, including six heavy airtankers, three 1,500-gallon scoopers, 15 single-engine airtankers, 12 helicopters, and 12 aerial supervision aircraft. A 12,000-gallon DC-10 airtanker will be activated Friday. 
  The crew of the International Space Station captured video of the wildfires burning in Texas, KUT said. 
  "It is a sad sight with all the fires burning in Texas right now," flight engineer Mike Fossum said. "See one major one, and three smaller ones." 
  Fire officials said they suspect a fire that destroyed dozens of homes in Leander and forced hundreds of people to evacuate was deliberately set, KXAN-TV, Austin, reported. Officials said they were looking for four teens -- two girls and two boys -- in connection with the fire, which was about 75 percent contained Tuesday afternoon. 
  Arson is also suspected in a fire that started Tuesday afternoon in North Austin. 
  White House spokesman Jay Carney said Tuesday the Obama administration approved seven federal grants at the request of Perry -- who stopped campaigning for the GOP presidential nomination Monday to deal with the raging wildfires. Perry was to return to the trail Wednesday when Republican hopefuls gather in Southern California for another nationally televised debate. 
  "We will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires continue," Carney said. 
  Major homeowners insurance companies declared the Texas fires a catastrophe and sent specialized claims workers and equipment to help customers through the process.
																		











Source: Copyright United Press International 2011









Comments









																		Be the first to post a comment on this article.
																	





















Story Tools











						del.icio.us
					






						Digg It!
					







						E-Mail to a Friend
					






						Printable Version
					






									Discuss on Forum
								






							Comments
						



























Advertisement




























Advertisement


























Contact Us
About US
Advertise
Site Map
Privacy
Clients/Partners

© 2011 Hispanic Business Inc. All Rights Reserved.









