Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen    Say'ūn :  Yemen
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By TajdarHaider            3 0      
Views: 370
         Saudi Arabia has reportedly dispatched a convoy of armored vehicles and military assistance to Yemen to help Sana'a crack down on the popular revolution.Sources affiliated with the Yemeni opposition were cited by the independent pan-Arab daily Al-Quds Al-Arabi as saying, “A motorcade of Saudi armored vehicles and military aid entered the Yemeni soil to help the forces of the regime of [Yemen's] Ali Abdullah Saleh,”. The sources said it was the second time Riyadh was sending such vehicles to Yemen since the start of the revolution, which has been demanding an end to corruption and unemployment as well as Saleh's ouster. Riyadh has a history of aiding Sana'a in carrying out a deadly suppressive campaign against Yemen's north-based Shia population, known as the Houthis. In March, the kingdom deployed forces to Bahrain to abet the Bahraini regime's crackdown against a similar anti-government popular uprising.         1 of 26        
Anti-government demonstration in Yemen (file photo). Saudi Arabia has reportedly dispatched armored vehicles to Yemen to help Sana'a crush the protests.
     
TajdarHaider is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is a Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (59.3%) Canada (10.0%) United Kingdom (5.3%) Portugal (3.5%) 18 other countries (18.6%)           READ MORE: saudi real face, saudia hits, mad government of saudia, Arab, forces, Crackdown, Yemeni, armored vehicles, saudi armored, Yemen   More News From: Say'ūn :  Yemen      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 5 hours ago
  
Informative and Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please visit my section
             Reply  Posted By       mus1423
| about 3 hours ago
  
very well reporting.....!!!!!rated up
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Yemeni airstrikes kill 10 people By: YawarNaqvi      Military airstrikes on anti-regime tribesmen in the southern parts of Yemen have killed ten people,The air attack in Arhab is the latest by
the regime forces targeting tribal people that support protesters, who
on Tuesday once again took to the streets across the country to demand
the resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
The tribesmen ...  1 day ago     Syrian Expats Demonstrate In Saudi Arabia As Syrian Regime Forces ... By: saleh1966      Khaleej Times newspaper reported that Dozens of Syrians living in Saudi Arabia demonstrated in Jeddah city on Thursday against the Damascus authorities crackdown on anti-government protests.
Saudi Police did not intervene even though demonstrations are banned in the Saudi kingdom.
Syrian expatriates held similar demonstrations last month in both ...  6 days ago     Yemen protesters ready to take up arms By: TajdarHaider      Yemeni revolutionaries are increasingly expressing willingness to take up arms, if necessary, to halt the unrelenting crackdown on peaceful protesters by Ali Abdullah Saleh's regime.
Al-Ahmar emphasized that the armed forces loyal to the revolution would respond to Saleh's attempts to ignite a civil war just like the way revolutionaries in Libya ...  14 days ago     Yemenis continue anti-regime protests By: TajdarHaider      
Yemeni anti-government demonstrators continue protests across the country to achieve what they describe as the goals of their revolution.
The protesters staged demonstrations in the capital Sana'a on Wednesday while a funeral procession was held for Yemen's Chairman of the Shura Council Abdulaziz Abdulghani, a Press TV correspondent reported.&...  21 days ago     Yemeni Prime Minister returns to Yemen from Riyadh By: mohamedabdelfattah       
 A government source said Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Mujawar will return to Yemen later on Tuesday from Saudi Arabia where he was treated after being shot in an assassination attempt on President Ali Abdullah Saleh in June.  Major will be the first major political injured in the assassination attempt and return to Yemen after ...  23 days ago     President Saleh promised to return soon in Yemen  By: faraway      President of Yemen Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is in Saudi Arabia since he was injured in the attack on his palace two months ago, promised to return home soon."See you in our capital, Sanaa," he said from Riyadh, during a televised speech broadcast live to his supporters and members of tribes that are still faithful gathered in Sana'a.In announcing ...  29 days ago     Syria recalls envoys to 3 Arab states By: ahmedbilal4u      
Syria has recalled its
ambassadors to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain, days after the
US-sponsored Arab states pulled their envoys out of Damascus to protest
what they described as "unacceptable violence against Syrian
protesters.''
Syria's Foreign Ministry has decided to recall its ambassadors from
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and ...  about 1 month ago     Saudis recall ambassador from Syria By: ahmedbilal4u      
The Saudi regime has
recalled its ambassador from Syria under the pretext of protesting
'intolerable violence' in the country, amid its own brutal military
meddling in neighboring Bahrain.
King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who has deployed armored forces to
troubled Bahrain to support a persisting brutal crackdown on peaceful
...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Clashes in Southern Yemen Underscore Nation’s Turmoil  
Newyork Times
 Loud explosions and exchanges of gunfire were also heard late Wednesday in Sana, the capital, in the neighborhood where the leader of the main tribe opposing Yemen's president lives...Three explosions were also reported near police stations and an...    Yemeni troops fire on anti-regime demonstration  
NOW Lebanon
 Yemeni troops opened fire Thursday on thousands of people demonstrating in Taez for Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down, wounding at least 10 people, the protesters said. The live bullets were fired into the crowd by members of the elite...    Blasts target security offices in south Yemen  
Al Jazeera English
 53 Two large blasts, around ten minutes apart, have struck the intelligence headquarters and a police base in Yemen's southern port city of Aden. A local security official said Thursday's blasts were likely caused by explosive devices that did not...    US committed to Gulf security, Burns says in Saudi  
NOW Lebanon
 US Deputy Secretary of State William Burns affirmed Washington's commitment to security in the Gulf during a visit to Saudi Arabia on Wednesday, a statement said. Burns "reaffirmed to Saudi leaders the United States' firm and enduring commitment to...    United Nations Accuses Yemen of Using Deadly Force in Protests  
The New York Times
 The report, published by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, urged immediate international action to alleviate a humanitarian crisis and prevent the country from falling into further chaos. A delegation sent by the office visited...    Blasts rock Yemen cities  
United Press International
 Explosions and gunfire were reported in Yemen's capital and elsewhere in the politically restive Middle Eastern country, officials said. An Interior Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the Chinese news agency Xinhua mortar...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Saudi armored vehicles enter ...    Saudi armored vehicles enter ... Image Source: allvoices Anti-government demonstration in Yemen (file photo). Saudi Arabia has ...        Anti-government protesters ...    Anti-government protesters ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Anti-government protesters carry Yemen's national flag during a ...        Supporters of Yemen's ...    Supporters of Yemen's ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Supporters of Yemen's President Ali Abdullah Saleh sit in front of a poster ...        A supporter of Yemen's ...    A supporter of Yemen's ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A supporter of Yemen's President Ali Abdullah Saleh holds a poster of Saleh ...        Police vehicles patrol a ...    Police vehicles patrol a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Police vehicles patrol a street during a demonstration demanding the ouster ...        Yemen's President Ali Abdullah ...    Yemen's President Ali Abdullah ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Yemen's President Ali Abdullah Saleh tours a hospital in Riyadh      More Related Images    More From Say'ūn          Yemen protests and battles with supporters of the Red        UN calls China to stop attacks on civilians        Al Qaeda still control Zanzibar        Yemen accuses UN of using excessive force against protesters          Yemeni forces attack defected troops        Yemeni military source announce the death of two soldiers in Zanzibar and the sound of shells in Sanaa        Navy rescue a French EU from pirates         "The Council" pledged to step up the Yemen revolution          Yemen: France not heard from the crew of a sailboat        A Million Protesters Demand Ouster Of Yemen Leader        Salah's Party looking for a mechanism of power transfer        Yemen: Ruling party proposes amendments to plan for Pres. Saleh to step down          "Breaking News" Yemen to amend power transfer deal                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10338029          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 8       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 26       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10338029), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10338029 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10338029 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10338029-saudi-armored-vehicles-enter-yemen.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         