Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - Beaumont Enterprise










(skip this header)



 











Subscribe to the Enterprise
Customer Care Center
Advertise with us
Our partner sites









Register
Sign In







Weather
Traffic
e-Edition







Thursday, September 15, 2011
 
















beaumont enterprise

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







NewsEntertainLifeSportsBizObitsOpinionPhotoVideoBlogs 

eEditionAutosClassifiedJobsHomes 


Index





Crime
Education
Government
Science & Health
Transportation
Weather
Databases
Communities
Louisiana
Texas
Nation
World






















« Back to Article








Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home

ANDREW DeMILLO, Associated Press

                                                                                Updated 10:35 a.m., Sunday, September 11, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







			In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains of her friend's home that was destroyed by wildfires, in Bastrop, Texas. Scorching temperatures, strong winds and dry vegetation are turning Texas wildfires into fast and furious dangers that hop from place to place within hours, even minutes, and give residents little time to flee. Now it’s likely to get worse.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains...






			Volunteer fireman Ryan Mills douses hot spots with water on a wildfire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011. Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the forest service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.
							Photo: LM Otero
										/ AP
								Volunteer fireman Ryan Mills douses hot spots with water on a...






			A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif.,...






			Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., team cleans up a hot spot after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011. Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in...






			A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011 after the destructive wildfire.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif.,...






			A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the burning remnants of a barn destroyed in a wildfire which broke out Friday, Sept. 9, 2011, west of Lilbert, Texas, in a wooded area north of Farm Road 343. Officials had not determined if the fire was an off-shoot of the larger Angelina River Bottom Fire, which burned more than 6,500 acres in Nacogdoches and Cherokee counties in Texas before being brought under control.  MANDATORY CREDIT
							Photo: The Daily Sentinel, Andrew D. Brosig
										/ AP
								A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the...


















































 













Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 














Texas









 Inmate's lawyers ask Perry to halt Texas execution



 







Sports









 Lamar football, basketball to play doubleheader Nov. 19



 







Nation









 Ill. high court to hear police torture arguments


 Inmate's lawyers ask Perry to halt Texas execution



 



Page 1 of 1


BASTROP, Texas (AP) — After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze.But Gaydos — who has been living at a hotel with his wife, two children and father since fleeing the fires nearly a week ago — still can't return to his neighborhood to see what is left of his home.Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home.Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to know when they could return to their homes — or what remains of them — in the Bastrop area, located about 30 miles east of Austin.Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said officials hope to get other residents back as soon as possible, but he didn't know how long that would take."This is day seven, tensions are high," McDonald said.Texas is in the midst of one of its worst wildfire outbreaks in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.A 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties about 40 miles northwest of Houston has burned for several days, destroying about 60 homes and forcing some people to evacuate. The forest service has said about half the fire was behind containment lines and no towns or cities were threatened. Most homes in the area are scattered in the forest, ranchland and in small subdivision clusters.In Bastrop, officials said Saturday the fire was about 50 percent contained after almost a week of burning. Though residents were anxious to get to their neighborhoods, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said authorities need to be certain they are safe before residents would be allowed back. Residents from one 700-acre area that includes about two dozen homes were allowed to return home Saturday, but other areas remained evacuated as crews worked to put out potentially dangerous hotspots."Everybody hang in there and we'll get you back home as soon as possible," Pickering said.Fire crews continued battling hot spots on Saturday, but didn't expect major wind gusts through the night.But authorities also cautioned that the toll from the fires could get worse. McDonald said he expected the number of homes destroyed by the fire to increase from the current 1,400 tally as more assessments are completed. A spokesman for the team of state, local and federal agencies also said the number was expected to rise."We haven't even hit our toughest area," McDonald said Saturday afternoon, adding that teams haven't had a chance to go in and "count those houses or get a tally because of the amount of heat that's in the area."In the meantime, residents are staying wherever they can — makeshift shelters at churches, friends' and relatives' homes, even cars in nearby parking lots."There are some who are actually picking out apartments," said Sean McGahan, pastor of New Beginnings Church in Bastrop. "If you haven't already started, you're probably behind the curve."Next week, Gaydos and his family will move into a mobile home in Bastrop while they decide whether to rebuild. Before finding out Saturday on a fire department website that his home had been destroyed, Gaydos spent much of the past week so worried about his home that he couldn't sleep."You wake up in the middle of the night and you can't go back to sleep," Gaydos said. "I've been going to work early just because I'm already up."Gov. Rick Perry's office said families whose homes have been destroyed will receive seven-day hotel vouchers from a nonprofit organization as well as assistance from the state.The vouchers were welcome relief for Russell Horn, who said the $104 nightly hotel bill for him, his wife and two boys had become too costly. The 32-year-old electrician said their home had been destroyed by the fire and he had only been able to get out wearing an undershirt and shorts."There aren't too many places you can go just wearing that," Horn said.On Friday, White House officials announced that President Barack Obama had signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas. The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.Perry unexpectedly canceled plans Saturday to visit areas hit by the Bastrop wildfire and hold a news conference because of "logistical issues" with him arriving on time, but he was in Austin and keeping in regular contact with officials on the wildfires, his spokeswoman said.___Andrew DeMillo can be reached at www.twitter.com/ademillo







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home
Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home.

Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to...


























Photo galleries










 Revisiting Hurricane Ike


 These actors started when they were kids


 High school football games - Week 2



 
 











Latest SE Texas news














			
	Toon Time 9-15-11





			
	Firefighters work to put out blaze in Orange





			
	Port Acres women gets 20 years in drunk driving case





			
	Beaumont firefighters recognized for saving 5-year-old girl





			
	Police investigate Jasper church break-in







 







From our homepage










Seth Wenig / AP
Breaking records
A woman from Las Vegas breaks into the Guinness Book of World Records by neglecting the nail clippers.




    									Video of the record-breaking talons
    				



 





TAMMY MCKINLEY / Beaumont
The jury is in
A Port Acres woman is sentenced 20 years for intoxication manslaughter.


 






Were you SEEN?
Check out the good looking people our photographer caught at the Ubi Caritas Date Auction.


 

 




Local advertising by PaperG

















Classifieds
Get your FREE online classified ad




Cars





Get a new set of wheels
• Place an Ad
• Search for a car
• Kelley Blue Book tools





Homes




Find the home of your dreams
Search Real Estate listings
• Sell your home
• Find an apartment





Jobs

 

Start a new career
Find Southeast Texas jobs, plus:
• Get tips on your job hunt strategy
• Post your resume

















Beaumont Enterprise

Home
News
Entertainment
Life
Sports
High School Sports
Business
Opinions
Photos
Video




Obits
Blogs
The Bayou
Weather
Databases
Crime Maps
Outdoors
Seen
Movies
TV
Lottery numbers




Calendar
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscopes
Games
In the Works
Communities
Texas
Nation
World
Archives



Marketplace

Autos
Find Beaumont jobs
Homes
Classifieds
Business Directory
Coupons
Place an ad
Ad rates
Flyerboard
Become a distributor



Home Delivery

Subscribe
Vacation holds
Report problem

Services
Customer Care
Contact Us
Online registration
Submit news
Site Index



Other Editions

eEdition
Mobile site
RSS feeds

Partner Sites
VIP Magazine
BE Healthy
Hardin County News
Jasper Newsboy
Lakecaster






© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    


























