Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 Witnesses Recanting Testimony                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 Witnesses Recanting Testimony    Savannah :  GA :  USA
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By Veronica Roberts              13 0      
Views: 350
         9.14.11, Savannah, Georgia]------42 year old Troy Davis is scheduled to die in 7 days, September 21 to be exact. He has sat in prison, including on death row for 22 years, convicted of killing Savannah, Georgia police officer Mark McPhail in 1989. A terrible tragedy occurred that night and an officer's life was cut short violently. The guilty party/parties should be punished and as some would say "if you do the crime, you have to do the time," but in this case there are reportedly deep "reasonable doubt." Our law says that a defendant has to be found guilty "beyond reasonable doubt" which hasn't been proven here. Davis was convicted on the testimony of 9 witnesses for there were reportedly no physical evidence. To date, 7 of the 9 witnesses have recanted their story. Over those long 22 years, starting as a young 19 year old teenager, many have fought to get the verdict overturned or at least a new trial . All appeals failed. Moreover, new witnesses have come forward and identified another person as the killer. Incidentally, Davis has always maintained his innocence, claiming it was a case of mistaken identity. So doesn't this make the verdict of absolute guilt more one of 'reasonable doubt?' In 2009, The Supreme Court had ordered an evidentiary hearing but the conviction was upheld. Davis has run out of appeals and The state of Georgia refuses to give a stay of execution and order a new trial in light of these new developments. He has had 3 execution dates so far. The first was scheduled for July 17, 2007. Several prominent world heads appealed on his behalf, including Pope Benedict XV1, Archbishop and Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu, singer Harry BelafonteHarry Belafonte, President Jimmy CarterJimmy Carter among others. He was granted a stay of execution. Davis had 2 other executions dates in July and October of 2008. Several appeals helped buy Davis some more time. The latestl efforts to get a stay of execution have also failed. The NAACP wrote, "Guilt beyond a reasonable doubt--It's the foundation of our justice system, built to serve and protect the wrongly accused. But in the case of Troy Davis, it's a principle that has been defied, ignored and trampled on." A week from today, on Monday, September 19th, Troy has his final hearing in front of the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles. They have the power to halt the scheduled execution and commute Troy's sentence, permanently preventing what could be a wrongful execution. Do you think Troy Davis deserves clemency? If so click the link below to send a letter to the Board. http://action.naacp.org/write-the-board        1 of 6              Troy Davis on death row for 22 yrs, scheduled to be executed in 7 days          
Veronica Roberts is based in New York City, New York, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (69.3%) Portugal (6.6%) Canada (2.7%) France (2.3%) 24 other countries (16.7%)           READ MORE: Georgia Board of Pardons, Troy Davis, reasonable doubt, death row, Davis   More News From: Savannah :  GA :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 14            Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
| about 21 hours ago
  
Well written, well done job rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       nthabeleng
| about 20 hours ago
  
it will be sad if he is really innocent, which he might be. can you think of the many people that been wrongly prosececuted and the rightful criminals discovered after their execution, its an unfortunate thing. rated up for this incredible reporting
             Reply  Posted By       Dava Castillo
| about 20 hours ago
  
Thanks for the report Veronica.I signed the letter. I have signed other petitions in the past for him. He is a prime example of why I am against the death penalty.
             Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
| about 19 hours ago
  
That’s the good writing, Keep it up, rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Cathy Taibbi
| about 19 hours ago
  
I've also signed the petition now and in the past, and have been following this case. Thanks for keeping this in front of the public eye, Veronica.
             Reply  Reply By       Veronica Roberts 
| about 16 hours ago
  
Thanks for the support Cathy---hope it helps in some way.
             Reply  Reply By       Veronica Roberts 
| about 16 hours ago
  
Thanks for the support Cathy---hope it helps in some way.
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 16 hours ago
  
Thanks for this update rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       Darlena Bonds
| about 12 hours ago
  
This is so sad! I read and wrote about Troy's case when I first started contributing on Examiner.com Where is the justice? Is it simply because his crime involved a officer? Thanks Veronica.
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 8 hours ago
  
It would be a grave injustice if Troy Davis is executed. I have signed the petition asking the powers that be to spare Troy his life.
             Reply  Posted By       PhreedomPhan
| about 7 hours ago
  
Under the Code of Hammurabi, the seven people who gave false testimony would be "put to death." The same would be true of any prosecutor who suppressed evidence in a capital case. Don't know if that's the case here.
             Reply  Posted By       Stephanie Ealy
| about 4 hours ago
  
Thanks Veronica for shining a light on this very dark situation. Prayers for Troys release and I sent the letter.
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing good report. Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       jinkinpark
| about 1 hour ago
  
great report.Very informative.rated up.
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Columbus NAACP chapter plans rally to try to halt Georgia death row inmate ...  
Ledger-Enquirer
 Friday urging clemency for Troy Anthony Davis, the condemned prisoner set to die by lethal injection next week for the 1989 killing of a Savannah, Ga., police officer. The group has joined a growing chorus of supporters seeking to halt the execution,...    Troy Davis and the Politics of Death  
Truthdig
 In the most recent Republican presidential debate in Tampa, Fla., when CNN's Wolf Blitzer asked, hypothetically, if a man who chose to carry no medical insurance, then was stricken with a grave illness, should be left to die, cheers of Yeah! filled...    Troy Davis: Death Row Inmate, Too Much Doubt  
Salem News
 Thursday September 15, 2011 Search About Salem-News.com is the premiere Independent Online Newsgroup in the United States...The case against him consisted entirely of witness testimony which contained inconsistencies even at the time of the trial.    Let’s not execute a man based on dubious evidence  
The Progressive
 Subscribers can log in and access digital editions and our archive...The 42-year-old African-American man on death row is Troy Anthony Davis...Archbishop Desmond Tutu is against the sentence being carried out. Former President Jimmy Carter is against...    On the Radar: Clemency sought, Marine honored, congressmen to be sworn in  
CNN Blog
 Amnesty International on Thursday will deliver petitions with thousands of signatures seeking clemency for convicted killer Troy Davis to the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles. Davis, 42, is set to be executed on September 21 for the murder an off-...    Texas Gov. Rick Perry is asked to halt execution  
Los Angeles Times
 Savage, Washington Bureau Reporting from Washington Texas Gov. Rick Perry is being asked to stop Thursday's scheduled execution of an African American murderer who was sentenced to die after jurors were told that blacks are more likely to pose a...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Death row inmate Troy Davis    Death row inmate Troy Davis Image Source: www.afp.com Death row inmate Troy Davis        Death row inmate Troy Davis    Death row inmate Troy Davis Image Source: www.afp.com Death row inmate Troy Davis        Troy Davis    Troy Davis Image Source: www.afp.com Troy Davis        Troy Davis was convicted for ...    Troy Davis was convicted for ... Image Source: www.afp.com Troy Davis was convicted for the murder of police officer Mark Allen ...        The US Supreme Court rejected ...    The US Supreme Court rejected ... Image Source: www.afp.com The US Supreme Court rejected a final appeal request from death row inmate ...      More Related Images    More From Savannah          Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 Witnesses Recanting Testimony        Order signed in September the execution of Troy Davis       Beautiful Actresses In The World        Justice Or Lynching? Georgia Man Scheduled To Be Executed Even When 7 Of 9 Witnesses Recanted Testimony          GM Mosquitoes       Cat In The Hat        Lindsay Lohan father blames himself for her downfall        Breaking news          Watch Hellcats Season 1 Episode 11 Think Twice Before You Go Zshare, Wisevid, vidxden, Megavideo,Online, Full Episodes       Best Cyber Monday Deals 2010        Cyber Monday Deals 2010: A great way to save yourself from the Black Friday hassle        Traditional Southern Thanksgiving menus and simple recipes                    Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10334661      Related People              Jimmy Carter         Harry Belafonte          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 7       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 6       Comments: 14    14       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10334661), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10334661 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10334661 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 Witnesses Recanting Testimony” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10334661-death-row-inmate-troy-davis-scheduled-to-die-in-7-days-despite-7-of-9-witnesses-recanting-testimony.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        