Rick Perry & Mitt Romney Spar At Republican Debate « CBS Dallas / Fort Worth






65°
H: 83° L: 65°
Current Forecast »

View Traffic Report










Home
News

Latest News
Local
Consumer News
Politics
Business
Health
Tech
Entertainment
Texas
National
World


Sports

The Fan Shows
Cowboys
Rangers
Mavericks
Stars
NASCAR
College Sports
High School Sports
Pro Golf
Mancave Daily

Fantasy Girls




Health
Watch + Listen

Video
CBS 11 News

Arts
Texans With Character
Meet The Boss
DFW’s Top Docs


TXA 21 News
KRLD NewsRadio 1080

CEO Spotlight
Charley Jones
This Week In Medicine
The Greener Side
Other Side Of The News
Cowboys Report


105.3 The Fan

Shan & RJ
Josh & Elf
Richie & Greggo
Gavin Dawson
Arnie Spanier


Our Sister Stations

103.7 Lite FM
Mega 107.5 FM
98.7 KLUV
100.3 Jack FM




Best Of

Best Of Home
Arts & Culture
Shopping & Style
Food & Drink
Nightlife & Music
Family & Pets
Travel & Outdoors


Weather

Weather
Weather Maps
Storm Team Blog
Weather
Dallas / Fort Worth Weather
Dallas / Fort Worth Weather Maps
Local Reporting Stations
Severe Weather Warnings
Marine Report
Oops… There Is An Error


Traffic
Get Answers
Directory
Deals
 



 

News



Perry & Romney Spar At Republican Debate
September 8, 2011 8:02 AM

Share this
 8 comments 



Filed under
Local, News, Politics 

Related tags
2012, Barack Obama, debate, Elections, Mitt Romney, Presidential Race, Republicans, Rick Perry 

Galleries
Texas Guys
Texas Gals
Super Bowl Celebs
Virtual Rockers
Following R2-D2 



Republican presidential candidate Texas Gov. Rick Perry speaks during the Ronald Reagan Centennial GOP Presidential Primary Debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on September 7, 2011 in Simi Valley, California. (credit: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images)
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) - Quick to tangle, Republican presidential rivals Rick Perry and Mitt Romney sparred vigorously over job creation and Social Security Wednesday night in a feisty campaign debate that marked a contentious new turn in the race to pick a 2012 challenger to President Barack Obama.
Far more than in earlier GOP debates this summer, the candidates mixed it up in their first faceoff since Perry entered the race and almost instantly overtook Romney as front-runner in opinion polls. Those two — as well as other contenders on stage — sniped at one another, contradicted allegations and interrupted media questioners to demand opportunities to take each other on.
“Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster than you did, Mitt,” Perry jabbed in the debate’s opening moments, referring to one of Romney’s Democratic predecessors as governor of Massachusetts.
“As a matter of fact, George Bush and his predecessors created jobs at a faster rate than you did,” Romney shot back at Perry, the 10-year incumbent Texas governor.
The debate was the first of three in as many weeks, at a time when the economy is struggling, unemployment is seemingly stuck at 9.1 percent and Obama’s popularity is sinking in the polls — all events that could make the GOP nomination worth more than it appeared only a few months ago.
Perry and Romney stood next to each other on the debate stage at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, a setting that invoked the memory of the conservative Republican who swept to two terms as president. And for much of the evening, the two men were at the center of the action, largely reducing their rivals to the roles of spectators looking for a way into the action.
Former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman sided with Perry when he turned to Romney and said, “47th just isn’t going to cut it, my friend,” a reference to the rank Massachusetts had among the 50 states in creating jobs during Romney’s term.
But he also sought to rebut Perry’s claim to be chief executive of the country’s top job-producing state.
“I hate to rain on the parade of the great Lone Star State governor, but as governor of Utah, we were the No. 1 job creator during my years in service,” Huntsman said.
Businessman Herman Cain, Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, Texas Rep. Ron Paul, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania shared the stage for the debate hosted by MSNBC and Politico.
Not surprisingly, the GOP contenders had little good to say about Obama, either his record on creating jobs or the health care law they have vowed to repeal if they win the White House. Perry was an exception, volunteering his praise for the presidential order that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden in a U.S. military raid in Pakistan. He also said he was happy the U.S. prison at Guantanamo has been kept open.
On another foreign policy issue, Bachmann criticized Obama’s decision to join an international military campaign in Libya.
Bachman also said she would provide the “strong, bold leader in the presidency who will lead” the effort to repeal the health care law passed at Obama’s behest. “None of us should ever think that the repeal bill will just come to our desk,” she said in a pledge that drew applause from the audience.
Gingrich resisted an effort to draw him into conflict with other Republicans on stage. “I’m frankly not interested in your efforts to get Republicans fighting each other,” he said, sparking an even louder round of applause. He said all Republicans should “defeat efforts by the news media” to spark an internal struggle when the real objective is to defeat Obama in 2012.
But moments later, Cain said that after trying to defeat Democratic efforts to create national health care, “I’m running against Romneycare,” the legislation that passed requiring residents of Massachusetts to purchase coverage.


Social Security produced more sparks, when Perry said the program was a “Ponzi scheme” and added it was a lie to tell young workers they will ever receive the benefits they have been promised.
Romney quickly referred to Perry’s book, “Fed Up,” in which the Texas governor said that by any measure the program was a failure. Perry also said states should be able to opt out of the program,’ Romney added.
Perry was unrepentant — “You cannot keep the status quo in place and call it anything other than a Ponzi scheme,” he said.
The Texas governor also made it clear he doesn’t intend to take advice from Karl Rove, the former Bush political adviser who recently said some of Perry’s rhetoric has been too provocative for a general election.
“Karl has been over the top for a long time now,” he said.
Backstage, Romney and Perry exchanged small talk, but when they were introduced on stage, they stood stiffly side by side.
Romney, slightly taller and just an arm’s length away for the debate, frequently turned his body toward Perry when the Texas governor spoke, watching him intently.
When Romney talked about rebuilding the Massachusetts economy, Perry looked toward the audience with a broadly arched eyebrow.
Despite their clashes, Romney defended Perry from criticism from other contenders who said he had infringed on parents’ rights when he tried to require young girls to be vaccinated for sexually transmitted diseases and some cancers. Romney said he had disagreed with Perry’s methods but that the Texas governor’s heart was in the right place — then sought to move the conversation away from social issues and back to job creation.
The event was Perry’s first opportunity to share a debate stage with his rivals since he joined the race last month and shot to the top of the public opinion polls. He displaced Romney as front-runner and stepped on the momentum that Bachmann had generated with her victory in a straw poll in Ames, Iowa, earlier in the summer.
A governor for more than a decade, he seemed at ease on stage in his campaign debut and moved quickly to assert his claim to having the best record of all on stage in creating jobs.
“We created 1 million jobs in the state of Texas at the same time the United States lost 2 million,” he said, adding that the issue for the nation this election season is “who on this stage can get America working. Because we know for a fact that the resident of the White House cannot.”
Romney threw the first jab of the evening, saying that being a career politician is a “fine profession” but not the same as having worked in the business world, as he did.
That was a reference to Perry, who moved quickly to counter.
He said Romney had indeed done well creating jobs in the business world, but “when he moved that experience to government, he had one of the lowest job creation rates in the country. … As a matter of fact, we created more jobs in the last three months in Texas than he created in four years in Massachusetts.”
Romney didn’t exactly challenge that claim, but instead said Texas has no income tax, has a right-to-work law that makes it hard for unions to organize, plentiful oil and gas reserves and a Republican legislature. Massachusetts has none of those things, and he said he had turned the state’s economy around.
(© Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)
 




Share this
 8 comments 





8 Comments

Pingback: Perry & Romney Spar At Republican Debate — Me and the Chicks




						C Bauer
																	
These idiots are crowing about their job creation records in their own STATES.  State versus national job creation are two different animals.  You have state tax laws, business incentives, and specific geographical advantages one state has that the other does not.  Can these clowns go after the current bozo in office and highlight what he’s doing wrong?  Jack@sses – all of them – both parties.

						September 8, 2011 at 8:41 am						| Reply | 
			Report comment 





						NiteNurse
																	
Perry better get better prepared for his debates with the BIG BOYS because state level debates are nothing like the presidental ones. These boys don’t mess around they will come at him with guns blazing and if he doesn’t get better prepared he’ll look like a big dummy.

						September 8, 2011 at 8:44 am						| Reply | 
			Report comment 





						Ms. M
																	
What a joke! Was anyone listening to this garbage? That’s all it is, garbage. Perry and Romney sounded like two little, spoiled-brat boys checking out who’s wee-wee was bigger. We need to stop the division of our country and instead of taking sides, start looking at the candidates themselves and see what their record is and what they have accomplished.

						September 8, 2011 at 8:54 am						| Reply | 
			Report comment 



Pingback: Perry & Romney Spar At Republican Debate « Fort Worth News Feeds




						sadiedog
																	
i believe that people who are constantly putting people down are people that are people that have insecurity of there own . i would vote for a person that comes out and says i want to be your president . i am not perfect and i make mistakes but i will do the right thing for the country. i see the presidential candidates as children that are fighting over toy’s in a sand box .

						September 8, 2011 at 11:55 am						| Reply | 
			Report comment 





						Yeehaw
																	
The one thing I loved about the debate is that all of them are for getting the monkey that’s residing in the whitehouse out! Yeeehaw!

						September 8, 2011 at 1:42 pm						| Reply | 
			Report comment 




						NiteNurse
																	
If they don’t kill each other in the process. They are treating each other like sharks in the water who smell fresh blood and go into a frenzy biting at everything without thinking about who they are trying to kill.

						September 8, 2011 at 3:46 pm						| Reply | 
			Report comment 










Leave A Comment Below Cancel reply



 

 Name
 Email









 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 





Listen Live!
 

  
 Should 'Ugliness' Be Legally Protected?More Videos
 




   
				Plan Your Tailgate Here			 


   
				DFW Cooling Centers			 


   
				Back To School			 


   
				USA’s Best Coasters			 





News

Local
Business
Consumer
Politics
Entertainment
Get Healthy Texas
Tech
Weather
Traffic


Sports

Cowboys
Rangers
Mavericks
Stars
NASCAR
College Sports
High School Sports
Other Sports
Fan Shop


Best Of DFW

Shopping
Theater & Arts
Venues
Events
Offers


Watch + Listen

CBS 11 Video
TXA 21 Video
The Fan Shows
Charley Jones
The Greener Side
Our Sister Stations


Contact Us

CBS 11
TXA 21
KRLD
105.3 The Fan




DFW Business Listings

#
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Search Listings




  

CBS DFW On Facebook
CBS DFW On Twitter
CBS DFW RSS Feed










©2011 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.



Privacy Policy Updated 8/26/2011
Terms of Use Updated 8/26/2011
EEO Reports
About Us
 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 























AutosYour HomeLocal Events 
More
ChannelsAutosYour HomeLocal EventsBuy Team GearDaily Deals$199 for a 4-Night Stay at the New Rosen Inn in Orlando for 2 Adults and up to 2 Kids ($460 value)EventsAddison Oktoberfest 2011 











Watch Video
Listen Live! 























Select a Live Stream



													News, Sports and Talk Radio											






Click to listen to KRLD





Click to listen to 105.3 The Fan






													Music Radio
											






Click to listen to KVIL-FM





Click to listen to KMVK-FM





Click to listen to KLUV-FM





Click to listen to KJKK-FM






Click to listen to Last.fm





Click to listen to radio.com





Click to listen to MP3.com








  

  













