

The Twilight Awards





























skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



































Home
News & Events

Fandom Calendar
Contests News
Awards News
Fandom Events
Moved Fics
Pulled Fics


Reviews & Recs

Guest Reviews
Twi-Lite Reviews
Under the Radar
Weekly Fic Picks
What the Writers are Reading


Features

Spotlight Interviews
The Published Fandom
TwiFic Bites Teasers
WCs


Fanfic Library

Fandom Faves
Finished Fics
Must Read Fics
One-Shots


About Us

About the Site
Our Staff
Notable Mentions
Affiliates & Partners
FAQs


Forms

Submit a Contest
Submit an Awards Round
Submit a Fandom Event
Submit a Change
Submit a Teaser
Send in your Under the Radar Fic
Add Your Fic to Our Tweets
Be a Guest Reviewer
Become an Affiliate
Join Our Staff


Contact

















Need a beta?













TwiFic Bites

      



Click
HERE to submit your teaser.











Facebook Fic Rec

The Long Walk Home
by Lulabelle98
*Selected from our "Got a fic to pimp?" Facebook discussion


Join Our WCs

Need a little motivation to finish your next chapter?  Join our WC Leaders in weekly WC sessions!
With JennDur (Skype): Mon Sept 12, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With KitsuShel (Skype): Wed Sept 14, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With JennDur (Skype): Thur Sept 15, 9pm EST/6pm PST
For details, email:


Subscribe

Enter your email address to get all the latest in fandom news, reviews, and more delivered daily to your inbox!











Vote for Us!













Our Partners

 











All Fandom Events



25 Days of Christmas


Back to School Fundraiser


Banner Giveaway


Fandom Against Domestic Violence


Fandom Against Famine


Fandom Cookbook


Fandom Cookie Jar


Fandom Fealty Fundraiser


Fandom Fic Art Week


Fandom Fights Hunger


Fandom Fights the Tsunamis


Fandom Fights Wildfires


Fandom for Cancer


Fandom for Leukemia and Lymphoma


Fandom for Preemies


Fandom for Sexual Assault Awareness


Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief


Fandom Gives Back


Fandom Gives Back Spotlight


Fandoms Fight the Floods


Finding Your Voice


Foxy Fics


Support Stacie


TT25


Twific Meet-Up


Twilight Counsel


Twilight Fanfiction New Years Challenge


VampSlash Halloween Fest

















Like what we do?A couple of clicks is all it takes to vote for us!Seriously, we're silly little gluttons for fandom love ;)
  
















Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief


Posted by ysar on 9/11/2011




Aweek ago I posted a plea for help in assisting the many victims of the Texas wildfire outbreak.  Since then I've spoken with so many in our fandom whose friends or family have lost homes in the fires, or who have had to pack what they could and run as the fires approached their own neighborhoods.  Thousands of homes have been destroyed, hundreds of thousands of acres have been burned, and so many people have lost everything. And the fires are still burning.

With the support of so many other Texans in our fandom, Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief has been launched.  In appreciation of any donation of at least $5 to any organization providing care and assistance to the thousands who've been displaced, a compilation of stories from a growing number of talented, generous authors will be given.  The compilation will also be sent to all participating authors and those who create banners for these stories.

Every dollar makes a difference, and so very many families desperately need the help.  Please consider contributing a story or donating to one of the many relief agencies that are helping the Texas wildfire victims start over and rebuild.






0
comments

















Labels:
Fandom Causes,
Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief,
news















PLEASE HELP: Texas Fires Out of Control


Posted by ysar on 9/05/2011





The Austin Skyline on Sept 5th
UPDATE:  An area the size of Connecticut has now burned in Central Texas this season. The largest fire is still 0% contained and several more are barely under control.  


1700+ homes lost in just a few days.


4 dead, including 18 month old child.


U. S. lost 7 million acres to wildfires in 2011 -- half of that is in Texas alone.


My family lost two houses, and the fire came close enough to my home to burn down parts of the fence.

You can help by writing/donating as part of
Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief!


This is a few miles from my house.
09/06/2011:  My state is burning.  Areas of Austin, Bastrop, and San Antonio have been evacuated. Efforts are being concentrated on the most populated areas, leaving many smaller communities to fend for themselves.  To put it in perspective...  
The little community where I grew up spent last night trying to protect their homes from a ten-mile-wide fire -- with only two small, used firetrucks. That has now passed them, but a thousand acres here were burned and some homes were lost.  This is a tiny community filled with older citizens on limited incomes, and another massive fire is headed straight for them. 

Major highways are closed because the smoke is too thick to see to drive.  Hundreds of homes have been lost, entire communities have been evacuated, and sooooo much help is desperately needed.



Fire threatening the community where I grew up - 0% contained and growing!


Fire in my parents' neighborhood - only 50% contained.


West Austin







0
comments
































2012 Twilight Fanfic Meet-Up


Posted by punkfarie on 9/05/2011





2012 Twilight Fanfic Meet-Up

It all started on Twitter, like many things do. A few of people were chatting about how fun it had been to meet Twific friends at the San Diego Comic Con and how great it would be to have a gathering specifically for the Twific Fandom.

A little over a month later the minds behind the Meet-Up now have a date and location. Now, they just need you. That’s right, YOU. This isn’t about Twilight or even fan fic specifically. The Twific Fandom Meet Up is about meeting friends, and making new ones. We read, review and pimp each other’s fic. We chat on Twitter and emails all the time, but now we have an opportunity to finally meet in person.

 Imagine you with all your fandom people in a room together doing what we always do; talking about fic, cracking jokes, but this time you can do that in person (and with alcohol, if you want). All you have to do to make this real is to SIGN UP and get your friends to sign up too. Come play in Las Vegas. They promise you won’t regret it. 

Remember, what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas.

;)
 
~Jeanne (einfach_mich)

Stay up to date on all the Meet-Up info by follow along on twitter - @TwificMeetup For any addition questions, please check out the FAQ Page on the blog or email Twific Meet-Up - twificmeetup@gmail.com.








0
comments

















Labels:
Fandom Events,
Twific Meet-Up















Author Spotlight Interview: Lulabelle98


Posted by Kelly on 8/25/2011



I haven't done an author interview in a long time, but I had to come out of retirement to interview the author of one of my favorite fics! Lulabelle98 writes The Long Way Home. Its an angsty period fic about love and loss. Find out in this interview what gave her the idea for this storyline and how much research she has to do to get the time period just right.

kelly: First of all, how did you happen upon the fanfiction world?

lulabelle98: Roughly over a year ago, a friend on twitter tweeted a blog post of theirs which listed their favourite fics. I had no clue there were people out there writing about the Twilight characters. I asked her which I should start with, as the idea of fanfiction was really intriguing to me. So, I guess it's all down to twitter!

kelly: Which story did you start with?

lulabelle98: I honestly don't remember the title, which is a shame because I loved it. Bella became pregnant after a one night stand with her boss (I think). The one I started after that was MOTU.

kelly: MOTU is definitely a cult classic. Do you have favorite authors that you just read everything they post and what are some of your favs?

lulabelle98: I do have a couple. TKegl wrote my favourite fic ever, Beyond Time. It seemed like a good idea to go through her other fics too. Also, xrxdanixrx. I really enjoyed My Perfect Mr Imperfect, and I eagerly await her weekly updates for Washed Up. I read most fics published by Savage7289 as well. Another favourite author of mine is Dooba, who writes Torn. As a psychology student, I found the concept of a mute Bella who had suffered in her past very interesting. Oh, one last one! DreamOfTheEndless. I beta her fic Beautiful Sorrow. I am so lucky she chose me. I love it.











0
comments

















Labels:
lulabelle98,
Spotlight Interview









The VampSlash Halloween Fest


Posted by punkfarie on 8/21/2011







The Vampslash Halloween Fest is not a contest. The Hosts just want your words. Whether it’s a drabble, a flash fic, a one shot, or an entire novel, they want your Halloween themed stories. Grab a prompt, make a request, or use that plot bunny that’s been bugging you, and write something for the Halloween Fest! 




VampSlash (including femmeslash) and general vampfic. That means canon or AU fics only, no AH. If there is a romantic or sexual plot or subplot, it must be slash. 



 Just for fun, they Hosts are gonna keep the authors secret. So don’t give it away. After the reveal, tell whoever you like, post wherever you like, and send them the link so they can whack it on your story.

Submissions will be accepting from October 17th to the 30th. All stories will be posted on the Blog on October 31st. Authors will be revealed on November 14th. 







0
comments

















Labels:
Fandom Events,
VampSlash Halloween Fest









Author Spotlight Interview: jendonna


Posted by ajr818 on 8/14/2011




Interview by ajr818
I had the extraordinary honor of interviewing the writing team of jennde and belladonna1472—jendonna! Their story, Dear Mr. Masen, currently has over 10,000 reviews on Fanfiction and is rapidly growing! Read on to see how DMM first came about and how they handle the writing process with two authors!

ajr818: First of all, thank you so much for doing this with me! I am such a huge fan of Dear Mr. Masen and the both of you.

jennde: Thanks for having us.

belladonna1472: Thank you so much for approaching us!

ajr818: So, how did you each first come across Twilight?

jennde: My sister was visiting with her family for Christmas 2008 and accidentally left Twilight behind when she went home. I was bored one night and read it on a whim. I had actually never heard of the books before. My husband, the pop culture expert, told me there were three more, so I went and bought them the next day. I subsequently returned them, but that’s another story.

belladonna1472: Ah, might have to thank American Airlines for this one (I wouldn’t thank them for anything else, but I digress). I arrived too early for a (delayed) flight out of Boston. So I went to the bookshop in the terminal, and the fabulously gay salesperson said I had to read Twilight because it was “so bad, it’s good.” I was like “yeah, I don’t know ... sounds kiddy and stupid.” He basically didn’t let me leave until I bought it, telling me the basic premise and the huge following the books had. So I bought it. $11 wasn’t going to kill me. However, he did try to convince me to add a fold-out poster of the movie to my purchase ... that’s where I drew the line.

ajr818: How did you guys first get involved in the fandom, and do you remember what the first fic you read was?

jennde: As you can probably tell from my return of the books, I found them ... unsatisfying. My husband was working nights and I was bored one night ... the rest is history. I read and abandoned a ton of fic before I read Innocent, Vigilant, Ordinary, which I think is extraordinary, though it remains unfinished. If not for that story I probably would have flounced.

belladonna1472: I went looking for fic after reading the travesty that is Breaking Dawn. But I wasn’t sure how to search for good fic. I kinda stared at Google as if I expected it to read my mind. You know, like it was some sort of Edward-Google composite. Anyway, since it wasn’t telepathic, it just spit out some popular stories, all of which were AH. So the first fic I ever read was Wide Awake. And then I began to understand FFn and Twilighted a bit more.

Who am I kidding? No one understands FFn. FFn doesn’t understand itself, hence all the problems. Get a psychiatrist. *mumbles to self*

ajr818: When it comes to reading fics, do you guys have a preference of genre you like to read? Canon, non-canon, slash, AH, etc? Or any you can’t handle reading?

jennde: I prefer E/B, AH, but I’ve been trying to broaden my horizons lately. I even wrote a FGB piece that had some non-canon elements. I never thought I could write Edward in bed with Angela, but it was surprisingly easy. Mostly I just prefer a story that’s well-written and that has a compelling storyline.

belladonna1472: I prefer AH, to be honest. That being said, I’ve loved reading a number of AU fics too. Anyway, I think the main thing I like is an interesting storyline. So while E/B is my preference, I don’t mind reading non-canon pairings. I’ve also been a judge for a slash contest. It’s great to see writers mixing it up and finding a different take on things.

Honestly, I don’t get much time to read. But when I do, I don’t want to spend my time reading something that’s been done to death (no mortality/vampire pun intended.) So I guess I look for a fresh concept and great writing.

ajr818: So, is your fic writing a secret in RL, or is there anyone in RL that knows you write fic?










0
comments

















Labels:
jendonna,
Spotlight Interview









Author Spotlight Interview: bratty-vamp


Posted by maxipoo1024 on 7/28/2011







Interview by maxipoo1024

Some of us are new in the fandom, while others have been here from the beginning. Whether you're new or old, you must have heard of bratty-vamp. Several of bratty-vamp's stories are loved and legendary. "The Best Man" was one of the first AH stories I ever read. "In Vain" was the type of story where I sat watching my inbox for updates. Four Summers was a short story that made my heart leap and my eyes water. Unfortunately, as of a few days ago, Bratty-Vamp left the Twifandom to pursue other interests. By a stroke of luck, I was able to pin her down for an interview just before her unexpected departure. 

Maxipoo1024: How did you first come across the Twilight Saga? 

Bratty-Vamp:  I heard about Twilight (the book) on the news, getting big with a young audience.  I wanted to check it out for myself, and so I did.  I was hooked immediately, and went out to buy New Moon right away.  (It was already out.)  I had to wait for Eclipse and then Breaking Dawn.

Maxipoo1024: Do you prefer the books over the movies or vice versa?  

Bratty-Vamp: I like them both for different reasons. 

Maxipoo1024: What was it about Stephanie Meyer's characters that made you want to write about them?

Bratty-Vamp: I dunno!  I like the whole forbidden/fated love thing.  Vampires are sexy.  

Maxipoo1024: Do you think the love story in Twilight is realistic or do you think it all happened way too fast?











4
comments

















Labels:
bratty-vamp,
Spotlight Interview










Older Posts




















































Fic of the Day

Sugar Daddy Neededby Jess2002*brought to you by The Writer's Coffee Shop



Weekly Wolf Fic

The Neighbor: Anytime Any Place by ArtsBeatsLifeon FF.net or JBNP
*brought to you by JacobBlack-n-Pack



What great fics are you missing?


Loading...












Recently Completed!


Loading...












Recent Fic Updates!


Loading...












Our Followers
















Show Some Love!

Click here for all our buttons!



























 



TwilightAwards is a fansite run by women who are so obsessed with the books that we've resorted to fanfiction. If you wanna know more about what we do and all the money we're not pocketing, click HERE.  TwilightAwards is in no way affiliated with Stephenie Meyer, Summit Entertainment, Little Brown Publishing, or anyone who has claim to authentic Twilight thingamabobs. Site Administrators, owners, and staff are not responsible for the accuracy of dates/events listed on TwilightAwards.com, nor are we responsible for content of linked sites. All publicly recognizable characters, settings, etc. are the property of their respective owners. No copyright infringement is intended.
TheTwilightAwards website and original content © 2008-2011 ysarWordPress Theme Design by New WP Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha | Modified by ysar











