 August 2008 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Natural Fibres Trump All
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 29 under Uncategorized
In a very interesting recent post from TreeHugger.com, it was made aware to the larger environmental community that the natural fibres used by Kevin Kinney solve a number of the different problems that we have today. The first problem is one of the outdoor clothing that is sold in stores today. The clothing tends to [...]


1 Comment



The Biggest Eco-Unfriendly Sources
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 27 under Uncategorized
If you really want to be eco-friendly, you have to treat the endeavour like fighting a vicious enemy. The enemy that you are going to be fighting is emissions and the goal that you ultimately have is to reduce your carbon footprint. The lower the footprint is, the better your eco-friendly lifestyle happens to be. [...]


Comments Off



Covering up Your Carbon Footprints Today
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 25 under Uncategorized
If you really want to be eco-friendly, you have to treat the endeavour like fighting a vicious enemy. The enemy that you are going to be fighting will be carbon emissions and the goal that you ultimately have is to reduce your carbon footprint. The lower the footprint is, the better your eco-friendly lifestyle will [...]


Comments Off



Spoon Me an Eco-Friendly Yogurt
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 24 under Uncategorized
Spoon Me Yogurt Business Franchise If you want to try out something different, check out this new franchise that is specializing in frozen treats like yogurt. If you are that hungry, you may even want to try out their utensils and trash bags which are edible since they originate from corn derivatives. “Yeah, you could [...]


Comments Off



Annihilate Mildew with the Electrolux Enviro Steam Gun Z355A
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 22 under Uncategorized
Lock and load those dreaded grease and mildew stains the eco-friendly way with the Electrolux Enviro Steam Gun Z355A. Imagine a cleaning solution without the use of bleaches or harmful toxins? Your never will be cleaner and healthier to live in with this offering from Electrolux and it only costs £39.99! You don’t get anything [...]


Comments Off



Recycled Trash Bags
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 22 under Uncategorized
There are 436 different facilities located within the United States that are responsible for the production of plastics and other materials that are derived from crude petroleum. These facilities not only send millions of bad emissions into the air, but they also create billions of pounds of waste on an annual basis. While these all [...]


Comments Off



KBB Green for the Eco-Friendly Driver
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 20 under Uncategorized
If you are interested in increasing the number of eco-friendly products that you use in day-to-day life, information will be your best ally. It is impossible for people to maintain their eco-friendly lifestyles without knowing which products will help them and which product will hinder them. Eco-friendly companies are in business to make money just [...]


Comments Off



Cotton Lightweight Shopping Bag
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 17 under Uncategorized
When it comes right down to it, plastic bags are awful. While plastic is fantastic in many areas of our life, the person that came up with plastic bags really was not thinking that far ahead. They do massive damage to the environment when discarded and they can easily break with heavy items within them, [...]


Comments Off



The Soap Works Pet Shampoo
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 15 under Uncategorized
The Soap Works is just one of many companies continually working on creating products that are completely safe to the environment. It is a company that has built up a relatively good reputation as a creator of environmentally friendly products and it is partially because of products like their pet shampoo that they have been [...]


Comments Off



Pheromone-Based Moth Traps
POSTED BY Rokai on Aug 13 under Uncategorized
When you take a look at the various insecticides and pesticides of the world, two disturbing facts crop up. One is that the vast majority of the ones that are most effective are actually petrochemical products and this in turn means that every time you use one you increase the addictive hold that oil has [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


mother earth
reuters
christmas
green
money
organic cotton
Recycling
pr newswire
hurricane irene
global warming
eco
richter scale
climate change
global warning
Eco-friendly
earth
environment
ecofriendly
recycled materials
clothes
epicenter
carbon footprint
saving energy
lifestyle
earthquake
tropical storm lee
prnewswire
barack obama
consumers
national hurricane center
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




