5.8 magnitude earthquake shakes DC | Get the Buzzzz around







 






 

Latest News

The Lion King to return, but this time in 3D
Drake Drops "Club Paradise," "Free Spirit" And Waka Flocka Remix
Christina Applegate in 'Up All Night': How 'real' is new NBC comedy?
Urlacher's Mother Dies
Free-agency decisions face A's, who lose 4-1
SinglesCruise.com Promotes Halloween Cruise
Cantaloupes Recalled in Deadly Listeria Outbreak
Cuts hit Gurkhas unfairly, says ex-Army chief
'Free Agents' Series Premiere Review & Discussion
America's Got Talent: So who won this thing?



Search Terms

911
nfl
9 11
espn
hurricane irene
september 11
world trade center
hurricane irene path
ground zero
college football
earthquake
ncaa football
twin towers
new england patriots
espn college football
jets
weather
wtc
us open
cnn

Archives

September 2011
August 2011













5.8 magnitude earthquake shakes DC



An apparent earthquake rocks Washington, D.C. area. Fox news reports that several public buildings, including the Capitol, have been evacuated. I didn't even know there are earthquake fault lines in the D.C. area.
A Parks Police helicopter inspects the Washington Monument shortly after an earthquake struck Washington, DC August 23, 2011. One of the strongest earthquakes to strike the US east coast in decades rattled offices Tuesday in downtown Washington and
2:26pm: Bret Baier outside the Fox News DC bureau on Capitol Hill: “We felt it for 25-30 seconds. The floor shaking beneath us. And then everyone — the alarm went off and everyone went down the stairs.
At approximately 1:51 p.m. EST on Tuesday an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.9 rocked the state of Virginia and most of the East coast.
An earthquake centered nine miles south of Mineral, Va., struck the East Coast at 1:51 pm, according to the US Geological Survey. The USGS initially recorded the quake at 5.8 magnitude but later upgraded it to a 5.8. Workers leave a building at 15 and











Similar Posts!Earthquake plays havoc with East Coast cell networksCraig Ferguson reacts to CBS powder scareEarthquake closes iconic Washington monuments — for nowRare Earthquake Hits Virginia, Rattles US East CoastPat Summitt determined to face down Alzheimer's challenge 




Tags: dc, dc earthquake, dc earthquake 2011, dc news, earthquake, wavy 










Copyright © 2010 · Get the Buzzzz around theme by Alvaro Ramirez R



