How to make candied apples for Halloween                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              How to make candied apples for Halloween    Kathmandu :  Nepal
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By Surya Gaire            11 0      
Views: 145
          Candy apples are a classic treat enjoyed in autumn, especially around Halloween. Gooey-sweet outside and crisp-tart inside, caramel and candy apples tastes of everything autumn. This is not a tough work. Simply make traditional candy apples and decorate them so that they are fitting for Halloween. Candied are really perfect to serve your guests on Halloween. Here is the process to make favorite candied apples for Halloween.  Required Items: 1 cup butter  2 cups packed brown sugar 1 cup light corn syrup  1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk  2 teaspoons vanilla  8-10 wooden sticks  8-10 medium tart apples Instructions:  1.Over medium-high heat, stir together the butter, sugar, corn syrup, and condensed milk in a heavy sauce pan.  2.Boil for 30 to 40 minutes, or until syrup reaches 248 degrees (firm ball stage) on a candy thermometer.  3.Place your candy thermometer into the saucepan, being sure that the end does not touch the side or bottom of the pan.   4.Remove the sugar mixture from the heat when the thermometer reads 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Stir in the orange food coloring.  5.Stir in vanilla extract.  6.Dip each apple into the caramel mixture, swirling to coat.  7.Pull the apple out of the sugar mixture and hold it above the pan for a few seconds allowing any excess to drip off.   8.Set apples on wax paper to cool completely before serving.  9.While caramel is still warm and soft, decorate as desired.  10.Let cool to set. Your candied apples are ready to serve.         1 of 13        
Halloween Caramel Apple Recipe
     
Surya Gaire is based in Kathmandu, Kathmandu, Nepal,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (67.5%) Portugal (9.8%) France (4.1%) Germany (3.3%) 13 other countries (12.2%)           READ MORE: candied apples, candied apples for Halloween, recipe, Tips, Halloween, candy apples   More News From: Kathmandu :  Nepal      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 11            Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 22 hours ago
  
Thanks for the share rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
| about 21 hours ago
  
Well written, well done job rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       nthabeleng
| about 20 hours ago
  
thankds for the recipe buddy, rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Sophia000
| about 20 hours ago
  
well writen comprehensive, well researche report. rated up
             Reply  Posted By       Asim Mukhtar
| about 19 hours ago
  
Well comprehensive report i appreciate your work.
             Reply  Posted By       Ruby1204
| about 19 hours ago
  
It was an interesting report. Thanks for sharing. Rates up
             Reply  Posted By       Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Surya Gaire.Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       saleh1966
| about 6 hours ago
  
Thanks for sharing news..Rated up
             Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
| about 6 hours ago
  
good job surya... nice recipe .... keep it up! rate u up!
             Reply  Posted By       atifji75
| about 5 hours ago
  
Informative and Nice Presentation. Rated Up.Please visit my section
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Good, impressive report. Thank for sharing you,! Rated up!
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Vail Simply Seasonal column: Creme brulee, cheesecake squares and more  
Vail Daily News
 Creme brulee 12 vanilla bean 2 cups heavy cream 4 egg yolks Pinch of salt 14 cup granulated sugar 8 to 12 teaspoons superfine sugar Place rack in center of oven, and preheat to 300...Using a paring knife, split vanilla bean down the middle and scrape...       Images    >         Caramel Apple    Caramel Apple Image Source: allvoices Halloween Caramel Apple Recipe         Halloween Day - we made ...    Halloween Day - we made ... Image Source: farm5.static.flickr... Halloween Day - we made candied apples        Candied apples at the Candy ...    Candied apples at the Candy ... Image Source: farm4.static.flickr... Candied apples at the Candy Palace        poison dipped candy apples    poison dipped candy apples Image Source: farm5.static.flickr... poison dipped candy apples        Reuben + caramel apples 036    Reuben + caramel apples 036 Image Source: farm4.static.flickr... Reuben + caramel apples 036        Caramel Coconut and Caramel ...    Caramel Coconut and Caramel ... Image Source: farm1.static.flickr... Caramel Coconut and Caramel Coconut Nuts and Chocolate Candy Apples      More Related Images    More From Kathmandu         Fourth SAARC Business Leaders Conclave in KTM from Sept 20        Child rights situation better but not enough       Go on a Wild West Ride        Eight deliveries and still childless           Anit-somking law up in smoke        Religious festival Indrajatra begin in kathmandu        Child marriage still pervasive        Nepal Annapurna Base Camp Trekking          PM poorer than his daughter        Govt vows to immediate return of seized property       Grandparents hacked to death        Mouse grounds plane at Kathmandu           Nepal airlines cancel flights to Bangkok because of the discovery of a rat                         Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10334649          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 16       Comments: 11    11       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10334649), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10334649 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10334649 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “How to make candied apples for Halloween” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10334649-how-to-make-candied-apples-for-halloween.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         