News/Talk 660 K-SKY






skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar


































News Home
KSKY Home
Listen to KSKY
Traffic
SkyWatch Weather
Program Guide
RSS Feed











About K-SKY





News/Talk 660 K-SKY


Dallas/Ft. Worth
News/Talk 660 KSKY is the one radio station in the Dallas/Ft. Worth Metroplex talking about the issues that matter most to you — politics, pop culture, the war on terror, education, immigration, and much more.

View my complete profile

























Wednesday, September 14, 2011





Wednesday Afternoon Headlines 9/14/11





Texas high school students didn't do well on the SAT. The Texas Education Agency says the class of 2011 averaged 502, a five point drop from last year. Writing scores were down to 465 and reading to 479. But the TEA says more students are taking the SAT, which shows more students are planning for college. ACT scores, however, have improved. 

The Dallas City Council isn't happy with the date Mayor Mike Rawlings wants to talk redistricting. During today's council meeting, the mayor announced a special meeting September 24th. But at least four city council members say they have other engagements. Rawlings says the meeting is important because the public can weigh in on the proposed district lines. The Council votes on the map next month. 

Stocks post big gains at the closing bell today. Markets are reacting positively to news France and Germany will support cash-strapped Greece. The Dow closed up 141 points to 11-247. The S&P 500 rose 16 points to 11-88. The Nasdaq gained 40 points to 25-73.

Republicans are celebrating an upset victory after winning the Congressional seat formerly held by New York Congressman Anthony Weiner. GOP Congressman-elect Bob Turner cites President Obama's "treatment of Israel" and his inability to return the country to prosperity as big factors in his win. 

U.S. demand for gasoline is at an eight-year low. High prices are being cited for the decrease in demand over the normally busy summer driving season. The Energy Information Administration finds consumers pumped an average of just over nine million barrels of gas per day from the beginning of June to the first of this month. 

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is among passengers using inflatable slides in a plane evacuation at Dulles International Airport. The United flight bound for San Francisco was getting ready to take off when smoke was spotted coming from an engine. 

The Dallas Stars could be in bankruptcy court by today or tomorrow. Vancouver businessman Tom Gaglardi has made an offer to lenders on buying the team, but the bankruptcy procedures will allow them to see if anyone else has a higher bid. A new owner could be in place in the next two months.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY























Tuesday, September 13, 2011





Tuesday Afternoon Headlines 9/13/11





It's a new record in the Metroplex for triple digit temperatures. Dallas hit 100 degrees right around 12:30 today, making it the 70th day this year temperatures have been at least 100 degrees. That breaks the previous record set in 1980. The good news is the temperature should be in the low 90s by the weekend. 

Fort Worth based American Airlines is looking to cut flights during part of the week. Speaking at an investor conference in New York today, treasurer Beverly Goulet says American will reduce 13-percent of its flights on Saturdays and five-percent of its flights on Tuesdays. Goulet also says the Fort Worth-based carrier won't file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy but still need to improve profitability. 

The Parkland Hospital board is meeting again this afternoon on the job status of CEO Dr. Ron Anderson. Anderson will be removed as CEO at the end of this year and board members are hoping he'll take a new position. "The Dallas Morning News" reports Anderson told employees yesterday the hospital will stay open and treat patients. 

Two American hikers accused of spying will reportedly be released this week. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told NBC News Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal will be released "in two days." Iran reportedly has set bail of 500-thousand-dollars for each of the men. The two 29-year-old men have maintained they did not know they had crossed into Iran. 

President Obama is on the road telling Americans why Congress needs to pass his American Jobs Act now. At a high school in Columbus, Ohio, the President said the U.S. needs more good-paying jobs that can provide families with economic security. He said jobs can be created quickly by putting people to work rebuilding the nation's roads, bridges, airports and schools. Obama sent his roughly 450-billion-dollar bill to Congress this week and key Republicans are shooting holes in it. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said Obama aims to pay for his plan with permanent tax hikes. 

Stocks are closing for a second day in a row. Investors snapped up shares that have taken a beating in recent weeks. The Dow closed up 45 points to 11-106. The S&P 500 rose eleven points to 11-73. The Nasdaq gained 37 points to 25-32. 

Former Florida State head football coach Bobby Bowden says he was treated for prostate cancer while still coaching in 2007. The 81-year-old Bowden has confirmed reports he kept his medical condition a secret to avoid losing football recruits for the Seminoles. Bowden said he's coming forward now to urge men over the age of 40 to get checked during Prostate Awareness Month.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY

























Tuesday Morning Headlines 9/13/11





Today will be a record-setting day at the National Weather Service offices in Fort Worth where they are predicting a high of 106 degrees. And as soon as we touch 100, sometime in the early afternoon, we'll have a new North Texas record for triple-digit days. Monday's high of 103 made for the 69th triple-digit day of the year, tying the sizzling summer of 1980. Today should be the record-setting 70th day and forecasters are expecting yet another 100-degree day tomorrow. After that, though, things cool off for the weekend with highs in the mid-80s to low 90s from Thursday through Sunday. 

Frisco high school teachers have five more students per class this Fall due to budget cuts enacted when the Texas legislature cut state funding over the summer. Now to prevent further belt-tightening, the school board has OK'd a three-cent increase in the district's property tax rate. With an average home in Frisco worth about 260-thousand dollars these days, that'll work out to an extra six dollars a month. 

Less than six months after an in-flight Southwest Airlines jet ripped open like a tin can, the FAA has proposed a million-dollar fine for the contractor Southwest hired to run tests and conduct inspections of its fuselages. The FAA claims a Seattle area firm neglected to perform the work needed to prevent or detect metal fatigue in the skins of Southwest's fleet. In April, a Southwest flight, with more than 100 people aboard, made an emergency landing in Yuma, Arizona, when a big hole opened in the roof of that Boeing 737. That jet, it should be noted, was not one of the aircraft referred to in the FAA complaint against the maintenance company. 

The Taliban is reportedly claiming responsibility for a series of attacks near the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. Witnesses and diplomats say insurgents have been attacking with suicide bombers, gunfire and rocket-propelled grenades. There is one unconfirmed report of fighting inside the perimeter of the U.S. Embassy compound. 

Republican White House hopeful Herman Cain says the U.S. economy is "on life support" and needs bold solutions. Cain made the remark during last night's GOP presidential debate. Meanwhile, Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann said repealing healthcare reform will help boost the economy. 

President Obama heads to Ohio today as part of a tour promoting his new jobs bill. The President sent the roughly 450-billion-dollar bill to Congress yesterday, saying there should be no politics, games or delays. Obama added, quote, "Let's get something done; let's put this country back to work." Congressional Republicans say they will continue to oppose any new spending or tax hikes. 

Central Texas residents displaced by the massive Bastrop County wildfire are expected to return home by Thursday. Hundreds of residents were finally allowed back into their neighborhoods for the first time on Sunday. Many are returning to homes that are either heavily damaged or completely destroyed.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY























Monday, September 12, 2011





Afternoon Headlines





The state of Texas is set to execute death row inmate Steven Michael Woods tomorrow night for a 2001 murder in The Colony.  Woods is accused of shooting Ronald Whitehead and Bethena Brosz in the head and slashing their throats.  Co-defendant Marcus Rhodes received life in prison for his role in the murders.  If his execution is carried out, Woods would be the tenth person executed in Texas this year and the first of four scheduled this month. 

Bank of America is making dramatic job cuts.  The bank says it will slash 30-thousand positions over the next few years.  The bank says it's part of a reorganization plan that started in early 2010.  BofA leadership says it's hoped many of the cuts will be done through attrition and elimination of unfilled jobs.

Voters will have another chance to see Republican presidential candidates debate tonight.  The televised event will be held in Tampa, Florida.  In a debate last week, verbal jabs between Texas Governor Rick Perry and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney made headlines.  Perry and Romney exchanged sharp words over whose record on job creation was better. 


Stocks are posting gains at the end of an up-and-down trading day.  The market rallied in late trading on a report China is in talks with Italy to purchase Italy's bonds.  Concerns about the euro zone debt crisis are growing.  The Dow ended up 69 points to 11-061.  The S&P 500 rose eight points to 11-62.  The Nasdaq gained 27 points to 24-95. 




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY

























Monday morning headlines





Today is setting up to be a record-tying day for hot weather. The National Weather Service has been revising its forecasts through the weekend and meteorologists now believe today's high will reach 100 degrees at DFW Airport. If that happens, it will make today the 69th triple-digit day of the year, tying the record set in the jumbo 1980 heat wave. And, we'll probably break the record tomorrow. It's looking like Tuesday's high could reach 105 or better. 


Saturday was no day off for city and school leaders in Fort Worth, Dallas and Arlington. All three school districts counted up the number of students who have not yet shown up for school. Nearly 300 Fort Worth public school students either have not shown up at all or have skipped too many days. Arlington came up with 600 names. Dallas found six-thousand. So, the three mayors joined school administrators and volunteers in making the rounds, knocking on doors and meeting the students and their parents. The school districts are getting a little nervous because, in Texas, students who don't show by the last Friday in September are counted as dropouts. That, in turn, counts against the districts in their state accountability rankings. 

Seventeen people are not accounted for as the big Bastrop fire enters its second week. The Texas Forest Service says the fire has blackened more than 53 square miles in Bastrop County, about 30 miles southeast of Austin. More than 15-hundred homes have been destroyed. Bastrop County's Sheriff confirms that 17 people have not been heard from but says they may turn out to be okay. He says they could be on vacation or otherwise out of touch. Today, fire commanders have a re-entry plan ready to allow registered residents to go in and check on their property. The fire is now considered 50 percent contained.

The 9-11 memorial in New York City opens to the public today, one day after 9-11 families first got a look at the tribute to their lost loved ones. Mayor Michael Bloomberg will be on hand for today's opening with 9-11 family members. The memorial is free to the public, but you must reserve tickets before entering.


President Obama is expected to send his 447-billion-dollar jobs bill to Congress today. He's set to announce the delivery in a Rose Garden ceremony, surrounded by teachers, firefighters, police officers, construction workers, small business owners and veterans. Next week Obama will release a detailed deficit-reduction plan he says will cover the cost of the jobs bill.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY























Friday, September 9, 2011





Friday Afternoon Headlines 9/9/11





A credible terrorist threat against New York City and Washington, DC may be connected to al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri. U.S. officials are discussing a possible link. Zawahri became the head of the terrorist organization following the killing of Osama bin Laden in May. 

New York's governor is speaking out about possible terror threats as the anniversary of the 9-11 attacks approaches. Andrew Cuomo said, quote, "we will not allow the terrorists to dampen our spirits." He says New Yorkers should feel confident that everything necessary is being done to keep New York City secure. 

Crews are in the air and on the ground to fight wildfires in Texas. State forest service officials responded to 19 new fires yesterday and nearly 200 hundred over the past seven days. Firefighters are getting help from a big airtanker today that is dropping thousands of gallons of fire retardant per pass on the more than 34-thousand acre Bastrop County Complex fire. 

The lights are back on for many of those hit by yesterday's massive power outage in the west. Five-million customers in California, Arizona and Mexico lost power yesterday. The outage was apparently the result of human error. The blackout also caused a traffic snarl on Southern California freeways. 

The death toll stands at five from flooding in the eastern U.S. The floods are a result of heavy rain from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. High water levels have forced more than 130-thousand people to flee their homes, with homes and businesses from Maryland to New England under water.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY

























Friday Morning Headlines 9/9/11





New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg says extra security measures are in place in advance of the tenth anniversary of the 9-11 attacks. Bloomberg made the comment after authorities said yesterday that a "specific, credible" threat was made against the city and Washington, DC. The FBI is not saying who or what is behind the threat. 

House Majority Leader Eric Cantor says President Obama's job speech to Congress last night covered some middle ground. The Virginia Republican specifically pointed out they're on the same page when it comes to small business tax relief. However, he's still worried about Congress going on a spending binge.

 A Fort Worth police officer, who in February fatally shot an unarmed suspect, will not face charges in connection with the shooting. A police investigation found that officer J. Romer followed the law when he shot Charal Thomas, a 32-year-old black man, during a traffic stop. The suspect trapped the officer's arm in the window of his sport utility vehicle and then tried to drive off before he was shot. Minority leaders in Fort Worth are calling for the Fort Worth police chief to step down and for a Justice Department investigation. 

Dallas ISD trustees are considering laying off over 200 contract employees later this month. Because of staffing changes resulting from deep budget cuts, 217 DISD employees with contracts could be laid off as soon as September 22nd if a proposal is approved. The employees have been working as substitute teachers around the district the first few weeks of school. Trustee Carla Ranger says she worries about the district not honoring contracts. A representative from the teacher's group Alliance AFT agrees with Ranger's assessment. 

It will now be easier for commuters in Dallas to tell when their train or bus is coming. Dallas Area Rapid Transit has unveiled a new program that allows riders to text a five-digit ID code, unique to each train or bus stop, and the word "DART" to 41-411 and receive scheduling information. Currently only one-thousand of the 12-thousand DART stops have the ID code, but DART says more codes will become available in the coming months. 

Floods in the eastern U.S. turn fatal after the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee soak the region. Three deaths occurred in Pennsylvania and two in Virginia, including a 12-year-old boy who was swept away by a flash flood. High water levels have forced more than 130-thousand people to flee their homes in three states. In New Jersey, a mudslide wiped out two homes in Warren County last night. Three other homes are at risk.




Reported by
News/Talk 660 K-SKY


























Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)








News/Talk 660 K-SKY















K-SKY News Search


Loading...













K-SKY News Archive






▼ 

2011
(10)


September
(10)
























 






News/Talk 660 K-SKY | 6400 Belt Line Road, Suite 110 Irving, Texas 75063  | (214) 561-9660





