Moved Fics: Where your favorites have gone ~ The Twilight Awards

















skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar



































Home
News & Events

Fandom Calendar
Contests News
Awards News
Fandom Events
Moved Fics
Pulled Fics


Reviews & Recs

Guest Reviews
Twi-Lite Reviews
Under the Radar
Weekly Fic Picks
What the Writers are Reading


Features

Spotlight Interviews
The Published Fandom
TwiFic Bites Teasers
WCs


Fanfic Library

Fandom Faves
Finished Fics
Must Read Fics
One-Shots


About Us

About the Site
Our Staff
Notable Mentions
Affiliates & Partners
FAQs


Forms

Submit a Contest
Submit an Awards Round
Submit a Fandom Event
Submit a Change
Submit a Teaser
Send in your Under the Radar Fic
Add Your Fic to Our Tweets
Be a Guest Reviewer
Become an Affiliate
Join Our Staff


Contact

















Need a beta?













TwiFic Bites

      



Click
HERE to submit your teaser.











Facebook Fic Rec

The Long Walk Home
by Lulabelle98
*Selected from our "Got a fic to pimp?" Facebook discussion


Join Our WCs

Need a little motivation to finish your next chapter?  Join our WC Leaders in weekly WC sessions!
With JennDur (Skype): Mon Sept 12, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With KitsuShel (Skype): Wed Sept 14, 9pm EST/6pm PST
With JennDur (Skype): Thur Sept 15, 9pm EST/6pm PST
For details, email:


Subscribe

Enter your email address to get all the latest in fandom news, reviews, and more delivered daily to your inbox!











Vote for Us!













Our Partners

 











All Fandom Events



25 Days of Christmas


Back to School Fundraiser


Banner Giveaway


Fandom Against Domestic Violence


Fandom Against Famine


Fandom Cookbook


Fandom Cookie Jar


Fandom Fealty Fundraiser


Fandom Fic Art Week


Fandom Fights Hunger


Fandom Fights the Tsunamis


Fandom Fights Wildfires


Fandom for Cancer


Fandom for Leukemia and Lymphoma


Fandom for Preemies


Fandom for Sexual Assault Awareness


Fandom for Texas Wildfire Relief


Fandom Gives Back


Fandom Gives Back Spotlight


Fandoms Fight the Floods


Finding Your Voice


Foxy Fics


Support Stacie


TT25


Twific Meet-Up


Twilight Counsel


Twilight Fanfiction New Years Challenge


VampSlash Halloween Fest

















Like what we do?A couple of clicks is all it takes to vote for us!Seriously, we're silly little gluttons for fandom love ;)
  
















Moved Fics: Where your favorites have gone


Posted by ysar on 2/09/2010



Fics that have been moved to another site:(links go directly to the fic or the author's profile/page)

Abduction by peachylicious is now on Live Journal
Age of Consent by littlesecret84 is now posted at ADifferentForest
All Grown Up by Saewod is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under her new penname Vi_ZoMi 
All I Want for Christmas by naelany is now on Twilighted 
Apples & Oranges by Angry Badger Girl (aka McVampy): removed from all fanfiction sites and posted only on her friends only LiveJournal page.
The Arms of Darkness by Hopeforastalemate is now posted on TWCSLibrary. 
Art After 5 by sleepyvalentina is now posted on her website.  
At the Deep End by naelany is now at Twilighted.
Be Careful What You Wish For by Whitlock-Masen is available at Twilighted.
Beautiful, Dirty, Rich by Kiki Blue: removed from FFn, can now be found at Twilighted  & TWCSLibrary. 
A Beautiful Disaster by Daria Chenowith is posted at her website and on TWCSLibrary.
Behind Enemy Lines by Namariel (aka SilverSeaGull) is now posted on Fanfiction.net
The Best Revenge is Good Sex by AgoodWITCH is now posted at TWCSLibrary.  
Beyond Twilight by OliviaMK218 can now be found on Twilighted.
Big Daddy by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
Blackbird Fly by mistresselektra is now on TWCSLibrary.
Breaking by Hopeforastalemate can now be found at TWCSLibrary. 
Buried Among the Begonias by DurtyNelly can now be found at TWCSLibrary 
Causality by GinnyW31is now posted on A Different Forest.
Chances by AmoreBella88 is now on Twilighted.
Claws by Dariachenowith by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
Clipped Wings & Inked Armor by hunterhunting was removed from FFn.  It can now be found at Twilighted.
Coming to Terms can be downloaded in PDF form at Rapidshare 
Contractually Bound by GinnyW31 is now posted at A Different Forest.
Could Be Worse, Right? by Savage7289 is now posted on Blogger. 
Crush ‘n’ Push by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
The Cube by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
Dance with Me by AgoodWITCH is now posted at TWCSLibrary. 
A Dark New World by MidnightKat is now at TWCSLibrary.
The Devil's Toy by rparkerp can now be found on LiveJournal. 
Doctor's Visit by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
The Dominant by tara sue me: being edited to a lower rating on FFn, unedited version can be found on Twilighted.
Dreams and Nightmare by Jaspers Black Rose is posted on Twilighted.
Drift by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
Duck You Gently by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
Emancipation Proclamation has been moved to it's own site on Blogger. 
Escorting Bella by pooks79 is available on JBNP. 
The Family You Make by AgoodWITCH is now posted on TWCSLibrary. 
FEEL by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net  
Femme Docs & Kevlar Knights (uncensored version) by A Cullen Wannabe is available on TWCSLibrary.
Fighting for Love by LexyW is now at TWCSLibrary. 
Finding the Way Back by sweetishbubble is now on Twilighted.
First Edition by lambcullen can now be found on Twilighted. 
Fold Your Wings by Jadalulu has been moved to Blogger. 
Fragile by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
Frenemies by AngryBadgerGirl (aka McVampy) has been made available for download by the author HERE.
Gravity by RacketGhost (aka NightShade) is now available on Twilighted
Great Vexations by Angstgoddess003 has been removed from FFn, now available on LiveJournal. 
GRIND by DurtyNelly can now be found at TWCSLibrary  
Heartbreak Remedy by DariaChenowith is available on her website. 
Heaven and Hell by Jaspers Black Rose is now posted on TWCSLibrary.
Hide and Seek  by naelany is now at Twilighted. 
Holding Back the Years AgoodWITCH is now posted at TWCSLibrary. 

I Love You Like Sid and Nancy by DurtyNelly can now be found at TWCSLibrary. 
It's The Little Things That Kill by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website./
An Imperfect Love by Mistyhaze420 is now posted at RogueFanFic.
Just Between Friends by robbsweetangel can now be found on Twilighted.
LEARN by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net
Lessons Learned by Mistyhaze420 is now posted on RogueFanFic
Live Like No Tomorrow by naelany is now at Twilighted. 
The Live-In Position by Saewod is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under her new penname Vi_ZoMi
The Lost Boys by hwimsey  is now on Twilighted. 
Love at 1st Bite by AgoodWITCH is now posted on TWCSLibrary.  
Love Never Dies by jjuliebee is now on Live Journal.
Love You Like An Arsonist by Laughs Like The Sun is now posted under the author's new profile on FFn. 
Marked by Whitlock-Masen is available at Twilighted. 
Master of the Universe by Snowqueens Icedragon is now on Twilighted. 
Meant To Be by jjuliebee is now posted on Twilighted. 
The Memory Will Never Die by mistresselektra is now at TWCSLibrary.  
A Modern Arrangement by Saewod is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under her new penname Vi_ZoMi
My Mother’s Boyfriend by peachylicious has been reposted on FF.net 
My Whole Existence is Flawed by americnxidiot is posted on the author's website.
Never Sleep in a Strange Man's Bed by WndrngY is now posted at Twilighted.
Nilla Days and Bound Nights by his_tweet: now at TWCSLibrary and Blogger. 
Once Upon a Vampire by Jaspers Black Rose is now at TWCSLibrary 
Opener vs Headliner by Saewod is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under the new title Fallen Star and her new penname Vi_ZoMi
The Pact by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
Paintballin by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
The Perfect Wife by rmcrms5: removed from FFn, can now be found at TWCSLibrary. 
Personality by angelanharvey3's is now located on TWCSLibrary and the author's blog 
Prayer of the Damned is now posted on A Different Forest.
Programming by 1breezybri is now posted on Twilighted and TWCSLibrary.
Red. Red. Black. by Saewod is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under her new penname Vi_ZoMi 
The Scarlet and the Gold by Hopeforastalemate is now on TWCSLibrary.  
School of seduction by chelletwi83 is now on TWCSLibrary.
Seven Days by brettmackenzies lady was plagiarized from the original story on Literotica.
Sex Every Day Keeps the Doctor Away by smmiskimen in its unedited form is at TWCSLibrary. 
Shadow Guardians by vjgm, qjmom and shabbyapple: currently being reposted at Twilighted. 
Shattered Glass by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
Shop Girl by ninapolitan  is still available at Twilighted. 
Soar by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
Someone Like You by robbsweetangel is now on Twilighted. 
The Submissive by tara sue me is now on Twilighted
There Fell a Stillness by HappyInLove is being reposted on Fanfiction.net.
Tides by lambcullen is now posted on Twilighted.
Tilt by lambcullen is now posted on Twilighted.
Tilt by SDFreeze is now posted on a new profile at Fanfiction.net 
The Training by tara sue me is now on Twilighted.
The Training School Saga by TheSpoiltOne & Footroza is now on TWCSLibrary. 
Twice as Long as Yesterday by hopeful wager is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under the penname Killian McRae 
Ultio by Mac214& 22blue can be found on 22blue's profile at Fanfiction.net
What Happens In Vegas by Saewood is now posted at Textnovel as original fiction under the new title Vegas Follows You Home and her new penname Vi_ZoMi
What You Thought You Knew by hmonster4 is now in the Storytelling section on A Different Forest. 
Wild & Free by Dariachenowith is now posted on the author's website.
The Workshop: A Tale of Edible Delights by danieller123 is now posted on Blogger.
You Get Me Closer to God by americnxidiot is now on her LiveJournal page. 
For fics that have been pulled altogether and not reposted elsewhere, please visit our "Pulled Fics" list. 
FYI:
Much of this list was provided by our readers.  If you know that a fic is posted somewhere else now or has disappeared altogether, let us know by leaving a comment!
If it's not on this list or in the comments, we just haven't heard about it yet.   
























Labels:
news








35
comments:
        






comeseekme
said...


I seriously want to shed a tear for that list of dead fics.




February 13, 2010 11:17 AM












boston-bound63
said...


I'm so upset that Wreckage is retired/dead/mia!!! It was honestly in my top 3 favorites! :'(




February 13, 2010 9:29 PM












Anonymous
said...


I mourn severely several of those fics, I'm just glad I actually got to read them before they vanished into the ether.RIP Boycotts and Barflies.




February 14, 2010 9:24 AM












mehek18
said...


i cant believe welcome to drama academy is dead! i mean what! that was the first story i read in fanfiction! :(




February 14, 2010 2:42 PM












Nikki
said...


So sad to see so many of these fics gone. Some I read, and would have read again. Some were on my to read list, and never had a chance ;_;




February 15, 2010 12:22 AM












andreabl4
said...


Cant believe it. So many times I went through my faves searching for the stories and couldn't find them. The stories I cried over when I realized they were dead were Behind enemy lines, Everything written by McVampy and ooohlalaaa, and freshmeat.  I went crazy for a while when I couldn't find DurtyNelly's stories for a while.




February 15, 2010 3:21 PM












unspecified90
said...


Does someone knows if Beautiful Figment will post somewhere else? Or the stories are completely pulled? :( I'll miss What I Failed to Realize!




February 15, 2010 8:10 PM












erika
said...


I've been looking for the fic Seven Days and can't seem to find it anywhere. Does anyone know what happened to it?




February 15, 2010 8:14 PM












meisun
said...


Thanks so much for gathering this information, sad though it may be. I appreciate your efforts.




February 15, 2010 8:14 PM












MildredDempsey
said...


Seven Days turned out to be plagiarized. It's an original fic that was taken and *just* the names changed to make it a Twi Fic. The original has several more chapters than the Twi one did. If you search for Solar and Seven Days you can find itr. This link might work - http://www.literotica.com/stories/showstory.php?id=391897




February 15, 2010 10:47 PM












Anonymous
said...


I am gutted I never got to finish Poughkeepsie and all of ooohlalaa's were on my to re-read again soon list :(




February 16, 2010 7:31 PM












itsmeabbie
said...


I'm gonna cry, seriously!  How will we know if their stories become something we can actually purchase? Because I have always felt like I owed so much to a lot of these stories.  They have been there for me when I was lost and all alone and to not have access to them is down right heart breaking.  I read my "Twilight" books like 6 freakin' times and I still from time to time go back and read my favie parts.  algonquinrt, who wrote Mr. Horrible was kind enough to share that with me in a PDF file but I seriously feel like I should have paid her something, even though she gave it freely. :(Boycotts and Barflies! and not to mention all of oohlalaaa's stuff *sniff*




February 17, 2010 12:39 AM












Anonymous
said...


re: seven days - was untouched plag. also? The one where he was the Navy seal? that was posted by same author on FF.net




February 17, 2010 7:15 PM












Erika
said...


@  MildredDempsey i found it thanks to your linki thought the person had taken it down because of the LU boy was I wrong




February 18, 2010 5:58 PM












Anonymous
said...


does anyone know if ohlalaa and mrstheking will post their stories again? thanks




February 19, 2010 8:04 PM












Anonymous
said...


Does anyone know where 7days by brettmackenzies lady went?




February 20, 2010 10:58 AM












Anonymous
said...


RIP Bloodline I really gonna miss that story it was so good all of OhhlaLaa stuff was amazing i hope she finds a new site to post her stories on




February 25, 2010 3:08 PM












lisa89
said...


Haha, oh my God, I didn't realize anyone had noticed I'd pulled Appassionata.




February 26, 2010 3:58 AM












Anonymous
said...


what about laugh like the sun's story?will she be posting it again?




March 2, 2010 8:43 PM












~*savanablue*~
said...


I'm so upset about Saewod's stories. I am heartbroken that she removed them. She can't be found anywhere, even her blog has been removed :( It's unfortunate that activities of some ruin it for everyone. I was mid way through Poughkeepsie then poof gone. I hope that these stories will find their way to another site. All of these authors are awesome and it's a shame that it came to this.




March 4, 2010 10:04 AM












Jen Shults
said...


:( That list of vanished fics makes me sad. So many outstanding stories there. Best of luck to the authors if they are working them toward original fics... I hope to stumble across one on the best sellers list someday. :D




March 8, 2010 12:52 PM












justine-lark
said...


Gravity by Nightshade is on Twilighted.  Is that the same as Gravity by RacketGhost?




March 10, 2010 9:54 AM












Anonymous
said...


I know that many of you are upset over this entire ordeal but myself, I am relieved. Most of these stories were taking from other stories that should have been noticed as well. You can't tell me that you only read smut but I have noticed that many really great ff out there do not get the attention they deserve because of these stories. However, I do realize that many of you enjoy these ff's. I just believe that these types of ff's should be separated from the rest. One because of the younger generation. They cannot go onto those sites looking for the normal rated ones without running into these ff's, which leaves and creates problems. So I am happy that they will be finding a new home somewhere else. My daughter would love to read stories on ff.net but I couldn't allow her too because of these. You cannot find some of these stories on here anywhere else so she has been forbidden to go to this site. When I know that they have removed all of the smut then she will finally be able to go there, so for that I am happy. I do not mean any disrespect towards any of the readers or the authors of these smut stories. I just wanted to let many of you know that not all of us out there in twiland are as upset over this for good reason.




March 10, 2010 1:17 PM












Anonymous
said...


Stitches and Scars by Bittenev is no longer on her FF.net profile.  Anyone knows something about it ?




March 25, 2010 1:13 PM












NZTwilighter
said...


I'm not really sure why, but this is the third time I've come back to these two lists and just... looked.I really did cry, esp re: Oohlalaaa and Saewod.  Some I already knew about, some I thought, 'wtf?' because it had been so long since an update I didn't even realise it was missing from my alerts (as many of you will understand, that list is HUGE!).I fully respect these authors wishes (list # 2!) and understand there are countless reasons why one feels either obliged, forced or just motivated by personal reasons, to take down their own fics - I'm still grieving, though.I think I just want to say to these brilliant, talented, clever, creative people that if or when you decide to come back to the fandom and/or re-post your works you will be welcomed with relieved, desperate, open arms!!!For those whose reasons are personal, I hope you are all taking care of yourselves, living happy and healthy, or at least striving to.




March 26, 2010 3:57 AM












Bia Reis
said...


God this thing with fanfiction.net it's really bothering me cause for me they're the best site to read fics and now with this shit happening all the good fics are going to others site and you have to creat a bunch of new profiles and that just sucks!  And oh my, so many fics that I read when I first found out about fics are 'dead', that's just sad...




April 23, 2010 9:08 PM












helese001
said...


Does anyone know where A Matter of Convenience went?




May 31, 2010 9:57 PM












Jilly
said...


Thank Goodness you this site, I HATE FF.net with a passion and was pissed when they started pulling the GOOD stories. So much for Freedom of Speech! Yay, now if I ever have any free time, I can catch up on my favorite pulled FanFics!! :)




July 23, 2010 6:43 PM












Lorabell
said...


Still no "The Office"? Anyone? #SadPanda




November 3, 2010 2:33 AM












shruti
said...


hey anyone know where The lost boys by hwimsey is....cant find it in twilighted as well.....miss that story




December 18, 2010 11:19 AM












emerald eyes
said...


Saewood!!I can't believe that I found her stories again.I was afraid that they were lost forever!!As twice as long as yesterday....I sent the link to some of my friends screaming with happiness. lol




December 29, 2010 8:03 PM












tsquared2012
said...


finding bella by ekimmuh has been taken down :(




March 9, 2011 12:37 AM












Miya
said...


Lost and Found (Bella/Jasper AH) by fiberkitty is on her author website as a free download.  http://www.miyakressin.com




March 18, 2011 1:04 PM












trillian796
said...


Isabella after Dark is now over on LiveJournalby olivia1218 - you have to request a friend  add and beadded to read it




April 7, 2011 6:57 PM












Meg
said...


The University of Edward Masen by SebastienRobichaud is gone!  I only had a couple chapters left to read.  So disappointed.




May 16, 2011 11:43 PM












Post a Comment
IMPORTANT!!!!We love all your comments; however, we will not respond to questions asked in comments. If you have a question for us, please click on "Contact Us" in the menu bar to find our email.





















Newer Post


Older Post

Home



















































Fic of the Day

Sugar Daddy Neededby Jess2002*brought to you by The Writer's Coffee Shop



Weekly Wolf Fic

The Neighbor: Anytime Any Place by ArtsBeatsLifeon FF.net or JBNP
*brought to you by JacobBlack-n-Pack



What great fics are you missing?


Loading...












Recently Completed!


Loading...












Recent Fic Updates!


Loading...












Our Followers
















Show Some Love!

Click here for all our buttons!



























 



TwilightAwards is a fansite run by women who are so obsessed with the books that we've resorted to fanfiction. If you wanna know more about what we do and all the money we're not pocketing, click HERE.  TwilightAwards is in no way affiliated with Stephenie Meyer, Summit Entertainment, Little Brown Publishing, or anyone who has claim to authentic Twilight thingamabobs. Site Administrators, owners, and staff are not responsible for the accuracy of dates/events listed on TwilightAwards.com, nor are we responsible for content of linked sites. All publicly recognizable characters, settings, etc. are the property of their respective owners. No copyright infringement is intended.
TheTwilightAwards website and original content © 2008-2011 ysarWordPress Theme Design by New WP Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha | Modified by ysar











