 July 2008 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Earth Friendly Stain & Odour Remover
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 31 under Eco-friendly
There are many products we use on a daily basis that are not particularly sound when it comes to the environment. One of those product groups is the group of stain removers, most of which contain chemicals that are harmful to the environment if they get out into the open. With the Earth Friendly Stain [...]


Comments Off



The Solar Rider
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 30 under Alternative Energy, Solar Power
Are you a person with an outdoor lifestyle that often enjoys going on trips like camping, biking, hiking, boating and anything else that might place you in closer contact with Mother Nature? Well, if you are that type of person, then you might have noticed that your electronic gadgets seem to not share your tastes [...]


Comments Off



Freeplay LED Lantern
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 28 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly
If you are looking for a product that really shows the power of renewable energy and its technological associates, the Freeplay LED Lantern might definitely be it. While everyone needs lighting of this kind with them on camping trips for late night trips to the loo as well as leisure activities like reading at night, [...]


Comments Off



Freeplay Companion Radio & Flashlight
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 25 under Uncategorized
Environmentally friendly living is not necessarily living that is different from the standard you are used to. That is the falsehood that gets parroted around a lot and it is products like this that show that environmentally friendly living does not require that much change. This handy device is just $40 and allows you to [...]


Comments Off



Eco-friendly Deliveries Are Better
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 21 under Eco-Friendly Careers
It’s a combination of doing something good for the environment and likewise addressing the growing inflation in our country today. For groceries or even food deliveries, establishments can do well by making use of bicycles or natural means of serving customers and worrying less of fuel costs and adding to the pollution woes we find [...]


Comments Off



Japan Introduces Water-Fueled Car
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 18 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly Vehicles, Transportation
Oil prices are jumping and so with fuel and gasoline. While many are considering the hybrid cars, Japan has recently unleashed a car that operates on water. While many are hesitant for the switch to the electric car for various reasons such as mileage and comfort, perhaps you don’t need to give up your car [...]


1 Comment



Cyclists Can Go Uphill Easily with Hybrid Bike
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 14 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly, Transportation
Bikes have always been known to provide good exercise and a model way of modern transportation. But for the avid cyclist, there are paths such as steep uphill climbs that can be totally hard to conquer through plain pedaling. All that should be resolved thanks to the Panasonic Vivi RX-10S. Whenever riders find it difficult [...]


Comments Off



Worst Cars that Aggravate Pollution
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 12 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Vehicles
The gases emitted by most cars today has been an identified mark in the world of growing concern for greenhouse gas. While we can do the preventive maintenance needed such as regular change oils and tune-ups, it remains that most cars these days have to be singled out. There are cars that simply contribute largely [...]


Comments Off



Check out this Portable Washing Machine
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 10 under Appliances, Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
Our laundry is an important chore to do daily and chances are we would schedule a proper time and schedule when to do them. Traditional washing machines are known to consume a lot of electricity but the thing is, we need the clothing and apparels to be able to go out in the world and [...]


Comments Off



Filipino Fashion Dresses Seeks to Serve European Union
POSTED BY Rokai on Jul 9 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
In an effort to contribute towards the evolution of the eco-friendly awareness the world is pretty much occupied right now, the Philippines is now on the verge of joining the abundant number of players going eco-friendly using its natural resources in the mold of pineapple clothing that are expected to sell at about $1,000 to [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


Eco-friendly
national hurricane center
mother earth
richter scale
environment
money
earthquake
saving energy
barack obama
pr newswire
global warming
christmas
clothes
carbon footprint
organic cotton
tropical storm lee
lifestyle
global warning
earth
Recycling
prnewswire
epicenter
green
consumers
reuters
climate change
recycled materials
ecofriendly
hurricane irene
eco
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




