Cattle Outlook: July beef exports 33 percent higher than a year ago  | CowboyByte






CowboyByte






Skip to content
Home
About
Patriot Depot
 






← 9-11 Terror Warning
Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees →










Cattle Outlook: July beef exports 33 percent higher than a year ago


Posted on September 9, 2011 by Cowboy Byte 







Beef exports during July totaled 272 million pounds, up 33.3% compared to a year ago and quite likely the largest monthly beef exports ever. It is the largest in my data series which begins in January 1989. For the third month this year, Canada was the largest foreign buyer of U.S. beef. July U.S. beef imports were down 16.9% compared to a year ago. The first month since August 2003, U.S. beef exports to Canada during July were larger than beef imports from Canada.
During the first 7 months of 2011, U.S. beef exports were up 26.8% and beef imports were down 16.6% compared to a year ago. During January-July, we exported 10.6% of U.S. beef production and imported an amount equal to 8.3% of production.




















							Continue Reading on www.cattlenetwork.com




						This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged beef exports, canada. Bookmark the permalink.						



← 9-11 Terror Warning
Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees →


5 Responses to Cattle Outlook: July beef exports 33 percent higher than a year ago




 charleydan says: 

			September 10, 2011 at 11:55 am 
When exports are below 10%.  It really does not leverage growth or substantial support for beef. 
Most likely caused by the dollar being lower and beef being down with sell offs. Does not help the rancher/farmer much at all. 
Sales up because supply is greater then demand. Equals lower prices and harder times for producer.


Reply 





 Que Dub says: 

			September 10, 2011 at 2:34 pm 
WHY IN THE H3LL DO THESE RESTRAUNTS & STORES BUY FOREIGN MEAT !!!!
I guess cheaper!!! More profit!!!


Reply 





 Linda Brady Traynham says: 

			September 10, 2011 at 5:13 pm 
Dear Que Dub:
Are you new here or just not a rancher?  Sales are up because we’re having the worst drought since before 1906.  Sure, beef is “cheap” NOW.  Because we’re hemorrhaging money.  Day in and day out it costs me $4/1000 pounds plus labor to feed every head I’ve got.  I’ve been feeding constantly for over a year, and if we don’t have good fall and spring rains…
Herds are at below 50 year lows in the USA, Australia, and Argentina.  Beef is “cheap” because it is “plentiful” because each sale represents a loss but stops the arterial bleeding.  Again, I recommend my article archived at http://www.themeshreport.com entitled something like “You Can’t Eat What We Didn’t Raise.”  (If you published over 500 articles a year you probably couldn’t remember the names, either.)  Every cow that goes to restaurants, overseas, or MacDonald’s is one more that will not calve ever again.  If we started NOW eating only infertile cows and extra males we couldn’t replenish the herds in under five or six years–if ranchers could afford to feed what they have.  There is going to be far less beef which will cost far more for a very long time to come.  My small herd of Angus is Monarch quality, meaning I raise herd sires and foundation dams, not beef.  My bigger herd is Black Dexters, which I raise for survivalists, meaning I need to keep more males.  Most of us who can are hanging on to our best stock, already have gotten rid of what we could bear to sell.  Enjoy what beef you can get while it is there.
LBT,
Bar TS


Reply 





 buck naked says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 12:52 pm 
what is really strange to me is the fact that the USA can send foreign aid to muslim countries that hate us BUT can’t help OUR OWN????  Feed American’s first is my thought but I’m pretty simple I guess. Stop shipping food to the saudis and tell them to eat their OIL! This “we must maintain the whole world or they won’t like us” is pure B.S. .  If elected President I will stop all foreign aid and support all American’s, build a SECURE border system with troops now in South Korea and Iraq and policing the WHOLE frickin world that wants DEATH to AMERICA.. obummer said there is 1 million road jobs waiting on his jobs bill, well, he didn’t tell us that there is a hoard of illegals, approx 30 million coming since his back door amnesty.  we’re in deep doo-doo folks!!  oh yeah, vote for me in 2012– Buck Naked for President, I can screw you over as well as this 1/2 and 1/2 asshole but I might see that you have food!! not 100% sure on this 1 yet!


Reply 





 Que Dub says: 

			September 11, 2011 at 2:29 pm 
AND STOP all that $500 BILLION /yr. to the 20 million illegals in the USA !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! That includes illegal muslims, too !!!!















Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 







Search for:



 



Join Our Mailing List







Email: 














For Email Marketing you can trust


 
  Recent Posts 
Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio Grande
New liability law, DNR program combine to help landowners experiencing deer damage
Montana cattle herd quarantined over disease
Concealed Carry Reciprocity Advocates Could Get Major Win With New House Bill
Colorado Cantaloupes Prompt Warning After Multi-State Listeria Outbreak

Recent CommentsNoah on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeAliveStillKickin on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeJanice Fortin on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeJ.M.R. on New liability law, DNR program combine to help landowners experiencing deer damageJohn Goult on Border Patrol finds weapons, rocket launcher near Rio GrandeArchives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011

Categories 
Uncategorized


Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Other Sites

1599 Geneva Bible
2012 Dream Ticket
American Vision
Christian Reader Store
Conservative Byte
Creation Revolution
Front Porch Politics
Godfather Politics
iPatriot
Patriot Depot
Patriot Update
Pit Grit
Tolle Lege Press
Vicki Goes to Washington
Vision to America
Zionica









					CowboyByte				



					Proudly powered by WordPress.				




