 Massive Texas wildfire destroys hundreds of homes | McClatchy 

































Home

Latest Stories
Texas' voter ID law faces federal scrutiny Is Fla. Sen. Rubio on GOP contenders' VP shortlists? Florida law restricting doctors' gun talk blocks by federal judge



Sept. 11 anniversary


Blogs

» Mexico Unmasked
» China Rises
» Inside South America
» Planet Washington
» Suits & Sentences



Politics

Latest Political Stories
Texas' voter ID law faces federal scrutiny Is Fla. Sen. Rubio on GOP contenders' VP shortlists? Florida law restricting doctors' gun talk blocks by federal judge Poll: Romney leads Perry in California Obama approval rating plummets in California, poll finds
» More Politics headlines



Opinion

Latest Opinion
Commentary: Tea Party Zombies Must Die 'game' goes too far Commentary: Google is buying Motorola for a reason Commentary: Starbucks CEO wants politicians to wake up and smell the coffee Commentary: Are GOP candidates giving up on Hispanic votes? Commentary: Blaming Israel is the scoundrel's refuge
» More Opinion headlines



World

Latest World Stories
Colombia's ex-spy chief sentenced to prison for paramilitary ties A familiar face emerges to lead Libya's new army Palestinian anger rising against U.S. over U.N. resolution Kabul attackers toted juice, weapons from Pakistan In Mexico's Baja, worry that a 'new Cancun' may harm reef
» More World headlines



Nation

Latest National Stories
Judge orders striking Tacoma teachers to return to classroom Joe Galloway, two Army veterans win 2011 Doughboy Awards in Columbus, Ga. California's poverty rate highest in over a decade Baby boomers face full nests Tacoma teachers hit the picket lines; no classes again Wednesday
» More Nation headlines



Economy

Latest Economy Stories
Cocaine is no longer drug of choice in Miami Gas prices might keep falling Ponzi scheme? Tax rich? Social Security's white hot again D.C. pols turn to old familiar standby: 'Waste, fraud and abuse' California's poverty rate highest in over a decade
» More Economy headlines



Environment

Latest Environment Stories
Florida prosthetist helped to give dolphin a new tail GOP wants to give Congress veto on national monuments Lawmakers dueling over proposed Alaska gold mine FBI comes knocking after federally backed Solyndra fails U.S. and Europe to fight pirates who steal fish on the high seas
» More Environment headlines



Video

Cartoons

Photos

Contact Us
 























Posted on Monday, September  5, 2011

Modified Tuesday, September  6, 2011









email
|
print
|





tool name
close


            tool goes here
        


Massive Texas wildfire destroys hundreds of homes 





A golf course near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas, is surrounded by burned-out homes and scorched grass and trees. |  			MCT





Sign up for email newsletters now!Sign up for email newsletters now!
Never miss a McClatchy story











Register 
Log in

logout 
member center





Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Add us to your iPhone or G1









More on this Story

Story | Cooler air making it harder to fight wildfires in Texas
Story | Climate changes predict more frequent fires in Yellowstone
Story | Budget cuts mean fewer firefighter to fight California wildfires
Story | Wildfire season gets even worse in Texas
Story | FEMA defends response on Texas wildfires
Story | Wildfire endangers Florida panthers in Big Cypress National Preserve
Story | Rain's reprieve allows closer look at Texas wildfires' devastation
Story | Some Texas homeowners get first glimpse of wildfire destruction
On the Web | More McClatchy stories from around the nation




By Dave Montgomery  | Fort Worth Star-Telegram Dave Montgomery       Fort Worth Star-Telegram      

			                    BASTROP, Texas — Firefighters from across the state swarmed into Central Texas on Labor Day to combat devastating wildfires that have left hundreds homeless and prompted Gov. Rick Perry to abruptly return from a scheduled East Coast political appearance.            

			                    Almost 600 homes have been destroyed in a massive Bastrop County fire that has raged since Sunday, according to Texas Forest Service figures released Tuesday morning. Just over 50 miles to the northwest, fires forced the evacuation of residents from an affluent subdivision near Lake Travis in the Austin Hill Country."We've got a long way to go to get this thing contained," Perry said at a news conference at the Bastrop Convention Center after touring the fire zone with U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin. Perry, the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, flew back to Texas after bowing out of a presidential forum in South Carolina.            


Perry's decision to temporarily leave the campaign trail underscored the devastation of wildfires that have scorched drought-ridden Texas from Possum Kingdom Lake in Palo Pinto County to a swath of Central Texas not far from the state's capital.More than 700 homes in the state have been destroyed by wildfires in the past two days and firefighters have responded to 181 fires that have charred 118,413 acres in Texas, the forest service reported.Fueled by gusting winds -- some stemming from Tropical Storm Lee -- and drought conditions, the fire in Bastrop County stretched across more than 25,000 acres just a few miles outside town and sent a towering cloud of gray smoke arching across the horizon. Up to 5,000 residents from largely rural neighborhoods were evacuated, but no fatalities or injuries were reported."It was a surreal experience," Perry said after seeing the fire zone. "I have seen a number of big fires in my life. This one is as mean-looking as I ever seen because it is so close to the city."Perry said he planned to immediately request federal disaster relief for Texas fire victims. The Obama administration turned down an earlier Perry request for wildfire relief, but the Republican governor said he hopes that the new request will be "answered swiftly."Although Bastrop County was the scene of the worst outbreak, fires also destroyed at least 25 homes in the Steiner Ranch subdivision of Travis County, a picturesque Hill Country development, and forced the evacuation of 1,000 homes. About 20 homes were destroyed in a fire that spread across 7,000 acres southeast of Spicewood, officials said.Over the weekend, the Texas Forest Service responded to 63 new fires that have burned 32,936 acres, including new fires in Bastrop, Travis, Henderson, Limestone, Caldwell and Colorado counties, according to the governor's office. The Forest Service was also battling existing wildfires, including major fires in Palo Pinto, Briscoe, Coryell and Montague counties.The fire in Bastrop County, whose origin is unknown, spread to the southwest and eventually merged with another fire. Pine trees that have given the area the nickname the Lost Pines contributed to the fires, their dry needles apparently fueling the flames, officials said.Although the worst devastation has been east of Bastrop, a new threat erupted late Monday morning in the Cedar Creek neighborhood west of town when fire spread through dry brush, forcing the evacuation of dozens of homeowners. Fire officials said the fires were apparently started by a downed power line that touched off a grass fire.Escaping the inferno"I've got to get out of here," said Urban Graf, a 64-year-old retired Marine, as gray smoke wafted across the yard of his four-bedroom, three-bath home. Graf asked a reporter to drive his red 2011 Camaro to safety while he loaded his three dogs and a cat in another vehicle to escape the approaching fire.Graf said he had gone into Bastrop to offer help to others but quickly returned after learning about the new fire in his rural neighborhood. He said he bought the home, now valued at about $300,000, nearly two decades ago. "I guess I'm going to lose it," he said as he prepared to evacuate.Suellen Payne, who lives in a century-old home in Bastrop's downtown historic district, turned her residence into a temporary refuge for more than 15 friends who were forced to abandon their homes when the worst of the fires engulfed the eastern portion of the county over the weekend.One of the guests, Leigh Ann Cloutier, said she hadn't been able to get any information on her home for at least 24 hours but feared the worst.Ernestina and Tony Balderas huddled in a parked van with their eight children after gathering up "a few clothes" and their new computer to escape a fire near their neighborhood.The fires also threatened historic structures in Bastrop State Park, many of which were constructed in the 1930s by the Civilian Conservation Corps, and threatened the endangered Houston toad. Bastrop County's Lost Pines area is home to the largest known population of the small, reclusive amphibians.'Worst thing I've ever seen'Firefighters and emergency rescue teams from across the state poured into the area throughout the day, many of them fresh from battling fires elsewhere in Texas. Capt. Dan White of Dallas/Fort Worth Airport Fire Rescue said his team of about 20 had dealt with wildfires in Palo Pinto County and the Ennis area before arriving in Bastrop County at midday Monday."It's the worst thing I've ever seen," White said.Since the start of wildfire season, local and state crews have responded to more than 20,900 fires that have destroyed more than 1,000 homes and burned 3.6 million acres, the governor's office said.Staff writers Anna M. Tinsley, Alex Branch and Domingo Ramirez Jr. contributed to this report.



    Copyright 2011 Fort Worth Star-Telegram. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.







email
|
print
|








JOIN THE DISCUSSION

We welcome comments. To post one, you must sign in using either your McClatchyDC login or your login for Facebook, Twitter or Disqus. Just click the appropriate box below.
Please keep your comment civil, short and to the point. Obscene, profane, abusive and off topic comments will be deleted. Repeat offenders will be blocked. If you find a comment abusive or inappropriate, please flag it for the moderator by placing your cursor on the comment, then clicking the "flag" link that appears. Thanks for your participation.
















Most Viewed
World
National
Washington
Politics




Most Viewed Last 24 Hours
As Obama pitches jobs bill, voters aren't pressing Congress
Empty village raises concerns about fate of black Libyans
'We're pinned down:' 4 U.S. Marines die in Afghan ambush
Some Chinese named in WikiLeaks cables nervous, but so far unharmed
A familiar face emerges to lead Libya's new army




Recent World Headlines
Colombia's ex-spy chief sentenced to prison for paramilitary ties A familiar face emerges to lead Libya's new army Palestinian anger rising against U.S. over U.N. resolution Kabul attackers toted juice, weapons from Pakistan In Mexico's Baja, worry that a 'new Cancun' may harm reef
» More World headlines




Recent National Headlines
Judge orders striking Tacoma teachers to return to classroom Joe Galloway, two Army veterans win 2011 Doughboy Awards in Columbus, Ga. California's poverty rate highest in over a decade Baby boomers face full nests Tacoma teachers hit the picket lines; no classes again Wednesday
» More Nation headlines




Recent Washington Headlines
D.C. pols turn to old familiar standby: 'Waste, fraud and abuse' Texas Sen. Cornyn to approve Ashton Carter for Pentagon post Navy fights to keep explosives data secret from residents Japanese air traffic controller leaks Obama flight plans The men behind the Constitutional convention in 1787
» More Washington headlines




Recent Politics Headlines
Texas' voter ID law faces federal scrutiny Is Fla. Sen. Rubio on GOP contenders' VP shortlists? Florida law restricting doctors' gun talk blocks by federal judge Poll: Romney leads Perry in California Obama approval rating plummets in California, poll finds
» More Politics headlines








advertisement








Today's Featured Cartoon



» More cartoons






 







advertisement











Terms of Service
|
Privacy Policy
|
About our Ads
|
Copyright
|
McClatchy Washington Bureau
|
McClatchy Newspapers
|
About McClatchy
|
Correspondents
|
Contact the Bureau
|




































