Bastrop Journal: Texas Wildfire Takes Hard Toll on Bastrop | Up2dateNews


About Us   |   Contact Us









 








Home
Anna
Breaking News
World
India
Sports
Hindi
Cities

Delhi-NCR
Mumbai
Kolkata
Chennai
Bangalore
Hyderabad
Ahmedabad
Indore
Pune


 





Bastrop Journal: Texas Wildfire Takes Hard Toll on Bastrop


Tears welled up in her eyes as she turned from the list attached to the windows of the Bastrop convention center. Her husband put his arm around her shoulders. The quilt his mother had made by hand, the Bible that had been in his family for generations, the coconut carved up like an owl that their daughter had given him — they lost all of it.        

“When you see it in writing, it kind of makes it more real,” said Ken Porterfield, 73.        

The scale of the disaster that has devastated this Central Texas town of 7,200 can be measured in absence. Texas Kiln Products, a lumber mill at the edge of Bastrop State Park, is gone, and so are 116 Nugget Lane and 256 Kelley Road and 112 Timberline Lane and 259 Cattlemens Drive and 101 North Mockingbird Lane. “It’s all surreal,” said Deborah Shelton, 63, whose husband and brother-in-law owned Texas Kiln Products, which specialized in native Texas woods. “Everybody’s saying that and it’s true. I feel like I’m watching this on a television show or a movie, because I haven’t actually touched the ground where the ashes are.”        

On Wednesday, firefighters were able to beat back some of the flames of the most destructive wildfire in the history of Texas — a 24-mile-long blaze in Bastrop County that has killed two people, burned 34,356 acres and destroyed 576 homes since it started Sunday afternoon. But for many residents what should been the fourth day of the fire was really the first: County officials released a list of the houses that they have confirmed have been destroyed so far.        

Shortly before 11 a.m. Wednesday, the list — 12 sheets of paper taped into a large rectangle, with 243 addresses total — was posted on the glass entrance of the convention center, which has become an emergency command post. It was like a list of the dead that is often released at the scene of major disasters, except there were addresses and Zip codes instead of names and ages. People stood in front of the sheets of paper throughout the day, recognizing their own and their neighbors’ addresses. The pain was communal.        

“This was our friend across the street,” said Mrs. Porterfield, 71, as she pointed at 109 South Buckhorn Drive, the address above theirs on the list.        

Bastrop is a small-town everytown to the east of Austin with a Best Buy and a Main Street, a place both historic — its timber industry supplied Austin with lumber in the 1840s — as well as scenic. It bills itself as the “Home of the Lost Pines” with its pine-covered hills, large swaths of which are now blackened, and is home to an eclectic mix of ranchers, retirees, white-collar professionals and blue-collar workers. One of the two bodies discovered on Tuesday was identified by the authorities as that of Michael Troy Farr, 48, an electrician for the City of Austin who was found outside his residence in the nearby town of Smithville.        

The fire has touched virtually everyone, and every thing. Public schools have shut their doors for the week. Hundreds of people have been sleeping overnight at emergency shelters, while other evacuees have rooms in local hotels or are staying with friends or relatives. The Hills Prairie Livestock Auction building became a kind of emergency shelter for evacuated horses and cattle. Since the wildfire began, ranchers seeking a safe haven for their animals have housed about 400 cows and 80 horses there.        

Nearly 21,000 fires since last November have destroyed more than 1,500 homes throughout the state, according to the Texas Forest Service. The Bastrop fire has been the worst so far, and as of Wednesday evening, the forest service said, it was still only about 30 percent contained.        

Residents were told it was still too dangerous to check on the condition of their homes, so before the list was posted, many of them had no idea if their houses had survived. Still others remain uncertain because their house was not among the 243 listed. The county’s top elected official, Judge Ronnie McDonald, said he expected the number of destroyed houses to double.        

Emotions have been running high for residents unable to see the damage for themselves and frustrated by a lack of information. One woman was arrested by state troopers for disregarding a barricade to get to her property.        

“It’s a tough time,” Judge McDonald said. “People are either anxious, nervous, upset — all the range of emotions. They lost personal belongings, memories, all those things. The main thing we have to focus on is safety. It’s tough telling someone they can’t get into their house.”        

8 Sep
Reply





Got anything to say? Go ahead and leave a comment!

Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)



Website


XHTML: You can use these tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> 






















 Categories 
Ahmedabad

Bangalore

Breaking News

Business

Chennai

Delhi-NCR

Finance

Hindi News

Hyderabad

India News

Indore

Kolkata

Mumbai

Politics

Pune

Sports

Technology

Travel

USA News

Weather

World News


  Latest News 
Apex court order no reason to celebrate: Bhatt to Modi
Canada shares lessons on booming Native tourism
Airline: Suspicions reported of 2 men, not woman
Delayed MLK dedication could draw smaller crowd
3 Terrorist Groups in Africa Pose Threat to U.S., General Ham Says
Boeing Plant Is Expected to Get Lift From House
Meanwhile, in Massachusetts : Warren Kicks Off Senate Campaign in Massachusetts
Joseph Crowley Singed by Democrats’ Loss of House Seat
With Wins in New York and Nevada, Republicans See a Trend
Some Democrats Are Balking at Obama’s Jobs Bill

  
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


  Top StoriesCabinet nod to 7% hike in dearness allowanceDelhi High Court blast: First breakthrough in probeAl Qaeda leader Zawahiri in Pakistan: PentagonHeavy rain in Delhi, reports of waterlogging'Underwear bomber' shouts 'Osama's alive' in US courtOil firms want Rs 3 hike in petrol prices; decision likely soonBag with lakhs found on train is not mine, says Sandeep Dikshit










			Design & developed By Colnovation 
Disclaimer






