
	Texas Wildfire Relief


SFFM
Home



Your support is critical and urgent – Please help Texas Volunteer Firefighters by making a tax-deductible donation to Texas Wildfire Relief Fund today!









Our Mission
The Texas Wildfire Relief Fund is a non-profit 501 (c)(3) committed to generating awareness and garnering support for Texas volunteer firefighters. We must come together as a state to help provide necessary resources to the firefighters in need and ensure Texas is prepared for future wildfire disaster relief.
The Need
Texas is facing the worst wildfire season in the state's history, and our volunteer fire departments are grossly underfunded.  We need your support in order to provide Texas firefighters with the equipment, water, food, and fuel necessary to continue battling wildfires.
Critical Conditions

A "perfect storm" for wildfires has been created since last summer.

Drenching rains from Hurricane Alex last July led to a particularly lush vegetation growth.
This past winter was uncommonly cold, killing off most of the vegetation and creating ideal fuel for wildfires.
The driest March in state history only compounded the dire situation.


250 out of 254 Texas counties are currently under a burn ban - that's 99% of the state.

Damage

So far 18,776 wildfires have raged across Texas; the largert number in the state's history.
3,621,589 acres have been burned.
4,155 structures and more than 2,000 homes have been destroyed.
Over 1,500 wild and domesticated animals have perished in these fires.
Wildfires have caused more than $78.1 million in agriculture financial losses.

Lives Lost

3 firefighters have died since January 1, 2011.
2 civilian have died.
29 firefighters have been injured.
2 civilians have been injured.

Why Support

45,828 structures have been saved this year by our firefighters.
77% of our fire service is staffed by our volunteer fire departments.
There are approximately 30,000 volunteer firefighters across Texas representing 1,400 volunteer fire departments.
86% of our volunteer firefighters use their personal funds to meet the day-to-day equipment and supply needs of their fire department.
It costs approximately $8,400 to completely outfit one firefighter.

Call to Action
With our continued drought, the need to support our firefighters will only deepen.  Please donate today to help support the firefighters that battle the wildfires threatening the lives and property of the citizens of Texas.
Contact
For more information or if you would like to help, please contact Kelsey Coleman at (512)236-1001 or Kelsey@txwildfirerelief.org.
Texas Wildfire Activity
Google Crisis Response Map

Wildfire Situation Report
Texas Forest Service Incident Management Situation Report
 
Texas Counties Under Burn Ban
The Texas Forest Service Map

 
Resources

National Interagency Fire Center
Texas Forest Service
Texas Interagency Coordination Center

Updated 9/8/11




Yes, I want to support our brave Volunteer Firefighters with a tax-deductible donation!



Donation Amount*- Select Amount - $5,000$2,500$1,000$500$250$100$50$25Other AmountDonation Amount*First Name*Last Name:*Email Address:*TitleCompany / Organization (if applicable)Phone*Street Address*City*State*Zip*

 










Paying By Check?
Please make checks payable to Texas Wildfire Relief Fund and return along with you commitment form (download form) to:
SFFMA
c/o Kelsey Coleman
P.O. Box 12275
Austin, Texas 78711
How To Use PayPal:
If you do not have a Paypal account you may still use a credit card to make an online donation. Simply click the link that says “Continue” in the bottom left of the Paypal screen as shown below.

 
Thank you for your support!
 
Central Texas Wildfires UPDATE
Firefighters wanting to assist with the fire responses should contact their local fire department Chief to assist on statewide deployments. Chiefs only  should then contact the TIFMAS Coordinator with their resources (deployment units only).
Freelancing and self deployments to Texas fires should NOT take place due to accountability and maintaining a span of control of the incidents.
 
Other resources: 
 
Monetary Donations
Donations benefitting volunteer firefighters
Texas Wildfire Relief Fund at http://txwildfirerelief.org/
 
Food Donations 
Capital Area Food Bank, 8201 South Congress, Austin TX 512-282-2111
 
Clothing Donations 
Old Wind’s/Dollar General Store, 210 Main St, Smithville, TX 
Zion Church, (512) 292-6800, 151 Shiloh Road, Bastrop TX 
St. Vincent de Paul South Congress Store, (512) 442-5652, 1327 South Congress Ave, Austin, TX 
St. Vincent de Paul Yager Collection Center, (512) 238-6737, 18 West Yager Ln, Austin, TX 
Upcoming Events
Due to the ongoing firefighting efforts in Central Texas and across the state, the 9/11 Memorial Vigil event scheduled for Sunday, September 11th has been cancelled.  We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.
Press


Actor Kyle Chandler volunteers to help Texas fire departments


Newsmakers: Chandler encourages donations

Kyle Chandler PSA Supports Texas Volunteer Firefighters
Chandler PSAs support Texas volunteer firefighters
Actor Kyle Chandler to Help Raise Funds, Awareness for Texas Volunteer Firefighters as Spokesperson for PSA Campaigns
Letter: Firefighters earn support for all that they do on our behalf
Weather, fires hot topics during summit at ASU
Tip your hat to the fire volunteers
Darren Flowers: New EP and Texas Wildfire Relief
Heroic Firefighters Deserve Our Thanks As They Battle Historic Heat
Wildfire relief fund helping volunteer fire departments
Firefighters need hand amid state’s worst fire season
Texas Wildfire Relief Fund launches
Relief fund to assist volunteer fire departments
YouTube – Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples
YouTube – Wildfire Relief Fund on KEYE Austin
Federal wildfire teams dismantled; Merkel to continue as central command for TFS
Texas Wildfire Relief Fund launches, will help buy protection
Relief on the Way for Texas Firefighters
Relief fund aids fire crews
Wildfires wiped out VFD funding
Fund set up to help volunteer firefighters in Texas
State leaders call on Texans to give back to first responders
Texas Launches Fund for Volunteer Firefighters






	Visit www.sffma.org for more information | 501(c)(3) Tax ID # 74-1884530
	© 2011 State Firemen's & Fire Marshal's Association of Texas

 
