Firefighters gain ground against Bastrop County wildfire
 | abc13.com


























Live legal chat with Richard Alderman today after his segment on Eyewitness News at 6am!







KTRK-TV Houston, TX








News



iWitness
Houston News
Your Community News
Texas News
US World News
Business
Entertainment
Bizarre
Action 13 Consumer
HealthCheck
13 Undercover
Politics
Crime Tracker
Hometown Live
ABC13 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Most Popular
Technology
In Focus
People's Lawyer
In the Classroom
Life's Better Outside






Weather    
         









79°
M/CLOUDY





Weather Home
Live Mega Doppler Radar
Street-Level Weather
Hurricane Central
Weather Blog
MORE TOPICS +


Watches/Warnings
Weather Maps
ABC13 First Alert
National Weather
Weather Photos






Video & Photos



Most Popular Video
Weather Photos
Live Video
Slideshows
Send ABC13 Your Photos
MORE TOPICS +


Video by Category






Use It



Traffic
Your Horoscope
Lottery Results
ABC13 Travel Guide
Live Well Network
ABC Shows
What's on TV
Contests
News Team
Inside ABC13
Jobs at ABC13
MORE TOPICS +


Around Town
My ABC13
Games






Marketplace



Houston Area Jobs
Classifieds
Find Local Businesses
Coupons






























Local
Firefighters gain ground against Bastrop wildfire
Wednesday, September 07, 2011
















 


Related Video
All Live Video :  All Video » 





















 



Firefighters gain ground on Bastrop fire

Images of Bastrop fire devastation

Bastrop Co. fires continue to burn

Bastrop County fire threatens wildlife

Fire in Bastrop County claims two lives

More fires burning near Bastrop

Worst fire in Texas rages in Bastrop County

Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week

Firefighters battling difficult blaze in Bastrop

Fires continue to burn across central Texas

Wildfires burn out of control in central Texas

iWitness: Bastrop fire crosses highway

 
 
Tags:local


Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 

  

BASTROP, TX -- 
Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.	
Related ContentPhotos:  New images of Texas wildfires and destructionStory: Perry calls on elite team to lead wildfire searchStory: Fires continue to burn across the stateStory: Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire containedStory: What to bring in an evacuationStory: Support from Salvation ArmyMore: Track current wildfires in TexasMore: Viewer photos/videos of wildfiresMore: Videos from the firesMore: Red Cross info on how to help those affected by wildfire Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate. The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar. Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before. The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service. One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location. Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies. Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them." Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county. Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires. Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders. However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources. A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire. Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed. At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction. Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place. "It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said. Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday. "I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need." Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough. "The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate." Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring. "Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry. "It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."   ----------------------------------------------  Donations are being accepted at a physical address and by mail:   Rundell Business Park Bastrop (supplies donations) 704 Highway 71 West 512-332-8807 (for more info)  BCMA (monetary donations) P.O. Box 856 Bastrop, TX 78602             


    (Copyright ©2011 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more Local »

Tags:local



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Spring HS students return to school today following fire

12 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Police: Man shot in neck after fighting off robber

14 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Step-daughter to take stand in surgeon assault trial

48 min ago
Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Step-daughter to take stand in surgeon assault trial
48 min ago


AMC 24 in Sugar Land files for alcohol license



New details emerge in 'movie-like' store heist



Cancer victim's friends come to Perry's defense



Three shot during alleged drug deal gone bad



Liberty Co. fire contained; evacuations lifted



Pet monkey that bit game warden fatally shot



UH-Clear Lake police: 'Peeping Tom' suspect arrested



Three suspicious deaths, burned San Antonio house
32 min ago


Police: Human remains found in search for Utah mom



Homeowners sift through remains of their home



Photos: New images of Texas wildfires and destruction



abcnews: Conjoined twins survive 13 hour surgery



Video: Stuck snacker strips off his clothes



MORE:
iWitness | FREE apps | Lottery | Hurricane

 


1.


Casey Curry's Thursday weather forecast


2.


New space launch system unveiled


3.


Dead trees, brush in city parks a fire danger


4.


It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas -...

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 





Kitchen Basics
Grill-Roasted Pork Shoulder
Pizza 101 and more...





'America's Got Talent' winner crowned - What do...
Scarlett Johansson is target of nude photo scandal
'Twilight: Breaking Dawn - Part 1' trailer...


 
 


abc13.com News Links




						
					
						FREE ABC13 iPad app


						
					
						FREE iPhone, Android, Blackberry app


						
					
						Find news in your neighborhood


						
					
						What are people clicking on the most?


						
					
						Send News photos and videos to news@abc13.com

 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


Cancer victim's friends come to Perry's defense

Most Viewed Video


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box

Most Viewed Photos


New images of Texas wildfires and destruction




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc13.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KTRK-TV/DT Houston, TX. All Rights Reserved.

























