Eukanuba, Iams, Natura Donate 30 Tons to Texas Wildfire Pets | DogTipper.com










Thursday, September 15, 2011









DogTipper.com Tips for Dog Lovers, by Dog Lovers










Home
About
Contact
For Bloggers

Free Dog & Cat Stock Photography
Pet Blog Directory


Our Book!
PR Friendly
Press

Press Kit


Rescue!

Dog Breeds
Submit An Adoptable Dog of the Day Photo!


Shop

DogTipper Book Club


TV






Bloggie

For Bloggers



DIY

Dog of Day

Submit Your Dog's Photo



Festivals

Giveaways

News

Celebrity Dog News

Dog Contests

Facebook Friday



Our Reviews

Apparel

Books

Cleaning products

Collars & leashes

Dog Beds

Dog Food

Dog supplies

Dog Toys

For Dog Lovers

Grooming Products

Treats & Chews



Reader Reviews

Recipes

Saving $

Tips

Adopting a dog

Budget Tips

Children & Dogs

Cleaning Tips

Grooming

Health

Holidays & Your Dog

Puppies

Safety

Shelters

Training

Ask the Dog Trainer





Travel













You are here: Home / News / Eukanuba, Iams, Natura Donate 30 Tons to Texas Wildfire Pets
Eukanuba, Iams, Natura Donate 30 Tons to Texas Wildfire Pets


September 10, 2011 by Paris and John    Filed under News


2 Comments



If you're new to DogTipper, you might want to subscribe to our email updates or our RSS feed! And be sure to bark at us on Twitter and Facebook, too...woof, woof!
As you know, this week has been unreal across central Texas, our home. The media isn’t even describing this catastrophe as “wildfires” but “the firestorm.” It’s really hard to watch the news every night without crying as you see the many, many families left homeless (1,400 in one fire alone) and the lost and sometimes injured pets being picked up.
Friday we got some great news that makes us want to cry in a totally different way. Eukanuba, Iams, and Natura are donating 30 tons of pet foods to the Central Texas Wildfire Disaster Aid. The companies have partnered with Waterloo Pet Food Distributors, Premium Pet Products, Carters Pet Depot,  Pet Stop and Tomlinson’s IPS stores to warehouse and distribute the food to animal welfare organizations in the Austin and Houston areas.
In the three years since we started DogTipper, we’ve reported on many disasters and the efforts of the pet lover community in response. This is the first time one has hit our hometown area, and we’ve known what a difference such a donation will make to the people and pets of our area’s communities.
 
You might also like these posts:Facebook Pages Help Reunite Pets Lost in TornadoesFetching Answers: Helping Dogs on Slippery FloorsLimited Dog Food Recall in US 




Tags: disasters, Eukanuba, IAMS, Natura, Texas




Comments
2 Responses to “Eukanuba, Iams, Natura Donate 30 Tons to Texas Wildfire Pets”


1 


della lindquist says: 
September 12, 2011 at 11:56 am
Thank you for your help in Central Texas..please do not forget our friends in need in Waller County  (just northwest of Houston) and Possum Kingdom (above Dallas)  They need help, too…with many animals displaced…please contact needrescue@att.net for more information on these fires….
Thank you!

Reply 



1.1 


della lindquist says: 
September 12, 2011 at 11:57 am
OOps, sounds like you are going to Houston area too, thank you!

Reply 










Bark About What's On Your Mind
Tell us what you're thinking... and if you'd like your photo to show with your comment, fetch a gravatar!

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website









Share Your Facebook Comments






Welcome...Join Our Pack!

Woof! We're Paris  & John, a husband-wife team of professional writers and pet parents to Tiki and Irie. We love sharing dog tips, products, news, photos and more on the 5,000+ pages of DogTipper! Learn more


						Sign up & receive our daily email!






Or subscribe to DogTipper Lite (summary only!)
Or subscribe on your Kindle!
Subscribe to our RSS feed
Follow @dogtipper


Visit Our Sponsors!  



How to advertise here



Enter This Week’s Giveaways! "The Dog Who Saved Halloween" DVD! (3 winners)
Mhu Ghu L.E.D. Leash from HollyWOOF Bag!
Previous winners: enter a photo of your dog & your prize in our new Giveaway Gallery for a chance to win more prizes!
Subscribe to DogTipper.com Giveaways by Email!


 

 What’s New? 
Pet Blog: Doggie Diva Dog Boutique Online Blog
Review: MrChewy.com
Petco National Adoption Reunion, October 8-9, 2011
Pet Blog: Alfie’s World
Philadelphia Phillies Star John Mayberry Jr. Helps Homeless Pets




 




Grab Our Badges! 







More badges! We have "Reviewed In," "As Seen In, "Dog of the Day" badges & more!







 


Meet DogTipper! 
Aug. 25-27, we'll be attending our 3rd BlogPaws!


At BarkWorld Expo, Paris will be speaking on a book publishing panel!


 













August’s Top Referring Pet & Frugal Blogs 
Shortywood.com 
CatTipper 
NY Daily News Pets 
Dog New Headlines 
All Things Dog Blog 
BlogPaws
Better Buddies
FIDO Friendly blog 
Will My Dog Hate Me 
Online Pet Store 








Quick Links Advertising
Disclaimer 
Disclosure 
FAQ 
Giveaway FAQ 
Privacy 
Sponsoring a Giveaway 
For Pet Bloggers
Free ebook 
For your blog
Submit your blog to our Pet Blog Directory






 






 








Copyright 2008-2011 ©   All Rights Reserved by LT Media Group LLC  












 




