hiPinoy | Online Filipino Portal


 



























Home
Philippine Travel Guide
Connect 
Topsites









 


Headline
Dyson intros Hot AM04, aims to change the home heating game (video)
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011


 
	

	Leave it to James Dyson to give your ordinary household appliance a new spin. Tonight in New York City, Mr. Dyson took to the stage in order to properly unveil his latest gizmo — the $399.99 Dyson Hot AM04. As its name suggests, this is the company’s latest fan Air Multiplier, but with a ceramic coal heating element to keep your toes toasty. On those muggy summer days, you’ll be able keeps things breezy similar … Read more »



Featured

4 dead as MILF rebels clash with Kato’s group in Maguindanao
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

Four people were killed Thursday when Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) fighters clashed with the group led by its renegade commander in Maguindanao province in southern Philippines.
 … Read more »



DPWH mulls constructing ‘smart tunnels’ on EDSA
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

MANILA, Philippines – The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)  is mulling the construction of either an elevated highway or smart  tunnels on EDSA to decongest traffic in the … Read more »



Arroyos want more protection for call center agents
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

Former President and incumbent Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and her son, Camarines Sur Rep. Diosdado Arroyo, had filed a bill demanding more protection for the over 400,000 business process outsourcing (BPO) workers … Read more »




Popular

[ABS-CBN] Belmonte eyes shorter debate, quick vote on RH Bill
Filed under: Local News | July 21st, 2011

 
Belmonte eyes shorter debate, quick vote on RH Bill
By RG Cruz, ABS-CBN News
MANILA, Philippines – House Speaker … Read more »



GMA News: Sotto admits exposé a ‘veiled’ attack on RH bill
Filed under: Local News | July 21st, 2011

 Sotto admits exposé a ‘veiled’ attack on RH bill
KIMBERLY JANE TAN, GMA News

Senate Majority Leader Vicente “Tito” … Read more »



IMF latest target in string of cyber attacks
Filed under: Tech News | June 12th, 2011

The International Monetary Fund has been hit by a cyber attack on its computer systems, an IMF spokesman said on Saturday, highlighting a growing rash of network break-ins at high-profile institutions.
 … Read more »




Latest

ASUS Eee Pad Slider arriving at month’s end, starting at $475 (video)
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011

 
	
It’s been more than eight months since the ASUS Eee Pad Slider was born at CES and since then, we’ve seen listings online and heard endless promises that it’s coming “soon.” Today, though, at a media event here in New York City, we managed a prolonged hands-on with the thing — along with assurance that it’ll hit the US before … Read entire article »



LG Marquee for Sprint hands-on (video)
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011

 
	

	Sprint shone some light on the latest mystery handset from LG earlier today — and what a bright light it is indeed. The Marquee’s four-inch NOVA display is one of the brightest on the market — it’s a sort “we can’t technically say it’s the brightest, but it’s certainly up there” situation. Screen aside, this is a slick and skinny … Read entire article »



LG Marquee for Sprint hands-on (video)
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011

 
	

	Sprint shone some light on the latest mystery handset from LG earlier today — and what a bright light it is indeed. The Marquee’s four-inch NOVA display is one of the brightest on the market — it’s a sort “we can’t technically say it’s the brightest, but it’s certainly up there” situation. Screen aside, this is a slick and skinny … Read entire article »



Google expands search result blocking feature
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011

Search giant Google Inc. has expanded its search result blocking feature worldwide, allowing users to block sites from their search results that they may not find useful.
 … Read entire article »



LG Marquee for Sprint hands-on (video)
Filed under: Tech News | September 15th, 2011

 
	

	Sprint shone some light on the latest mystery handset from LG earlier today — and what a bright light it is indeed. The Marquee’s four-inch NOVA display is one of the brightest on the market — it’s a sort “we can’t technically say it’s the brightest, but it’s certainly up there” situation. Screen aside, this is a slick and skinny … Read entire article »



4 dead as MILF rebels clash with Kato’s group in Maguindanao
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

Four people were killed Thursday when Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) fighters clashed with the group led by its renegade commander in Maguindanao province in southern Philippines.
 … Read entire article »



DPWH mulls constructing ‘smart tunnels’ on EDSA
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

MANILA, Philippines – The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)  is mulling the construction of either an elevated highway or smart  tunnels on EDSA to decongest traffic in the thoroughfare.
 … Read entire article »



Arroyos want more protection for call center agents
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

Former President and incumbent Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and her son, Camarines Sur Rep. Diosdado Arroyo, had filed a bill demanding more protection for the over 400,000 business process outsourcing (BPO) workers nationwide.
 … Read entire article »



Microsoft, Yahoo, AOL ink ad plan
Filed under: Local News | September 15th, 2011

Tech site AllThingsD said the three companies will start selling ad inventory on each others’ sites, in a plan they hope will make them more competitive with Google.
 … Read entire article »




Page 1 of 2,51212345»102030...Last »
 




hiPinoy Connect 






 

 
Polls


Who is your favorite k-pop artist?
 Kara
 T-ara
 2PM
 Super Junior
 Big Bang
 SNSD
 F(X)
 2NE1
 Shinee
 FTIsland
 Boyfriend
 Ukiss
 TVXQ
 Beast
 JYJ
 MBLAQ
View Results


 Loading ...
Polls Archive Local NewsPresident Aquino conducts a dialogue with different transport groupsA police scene-of-the-crime-operative (SOCO) inspects the surroundings of the Quezon City Police District Station 5 jailA worker carries a stack of books for salePresident Aquino approach the stage, where a large monitor had his portrait on displayWorkers attending a conference between the church and the labor sector in Cebu City Tech NewsFirefox for Honeycomb nightly builds now available for the brave beta testing fewThunderbolt accessories at IDF 2011: Belkin’s Express dock, Seagate drives and PCIe expansion cardsSphero the smartphone controlled ball gets ready to roll out, we go hands-on (video) World NewsIsrael evacuates embassy in JordanGadhafi’s son finds refuge in luxury villaAt least 19 dead in Iraq car bombing, shootingSources: Iran could release US hikers within daysOil workers survived tropical storm in tiny raft Business newsUS stocks: Push for action in euro zone fuels gainsAdvances, insufficient assets led to LBC bank closure – BSPMetals prices likely to boost PHL mineral output, says DENR chief 

 
 Entertainment NewsWinehouse Foundation launches on late singer’s b-dayGlenn Close pours ‘crazy passion’ in Albert NobbsTiger Blood was ‘silly’: Charlie Sheen Sports NewsPhilippine Malditas return to action in LaosUAAP Final Four startsAdamson eyeing first Finals stint since ‘92Travel  
Anawangin Beach Cove
Anilao Philippines
Baguio City
Banahaw
Banaue Rice Terraces
Batanes Islands
Batangas
Beaches of Glan, Sarangani
Bohol
Boracay
Camiguin Island
Corregidor
Davao City
Enchanted Kingdom
Hidden Valley Spring
Hundred Islands
Iloilo
Intramuros
Laguna Resort
Manila
Misabis Resort, Bicol
Mt. Pinatubo
Palawan
Pansanjan Falls
Puerto Azul
Puerto Galera
Puerto Princesa
Rizal Park
Sagada
Samal Island
San Jose, Tarlac
Siargao Island
Tagaytay
The Old City
Vigan
Villa Escudero, San Pablo City

 Lifestyle‘Shamcey raised the bar’ in Bb. Pilipinas selectionStudy confirms laughter is best medicine4 kinds of ‘lechon,’ other Pampango favorites draw the crowds to this institution 

 Powered by: N-Designs
 
 



 N-DesignsGoogle+ Invitations | Try Google+Wordress, Joomla and other sites were hacked: iFrame Injection Attack50 Free Photography ResourcesExercise Machines that Turn Your Sweat Into ElectricityUse Photoshop to Create a Still-Life Lamp, Nightstand, and Picture Frame‘Coffee Table’ iPad ApplicationsInspiration: Zorik Istominn ArtworksVideo: Adobe After Effects CS5 Sparks Title Sequence TutorialTagsAfghanistan
Araneta Coliseum
Asia
Cebu City
China
CNET
Europe
FCC
France
fresh
Germany
Harry Potter
HP
HTC
Indonesia
Japan
Libya
London
Magba Bandila
Manny Pacquiao
Metro Manila
Moammar Gadhafi
Nagpa Patrol
NASA
NATO
NBA
NCAA
New York
OS
PBA
PC
PEP
Philippines
PHL
PR
President Aquino
Quezon City
Supreme Court
Syria
TV
UAAP
UK
United States
US
USB
Categories 
Business News

Entertainment News

Lifestyle

Local News

Sports News

Tech News

test

World News





© 2011 hiPinoy Portal


hiPinoy PortalLog InSign Up

Visit

Random Member
Random Group











Messages () hiPinoy

Alerts

 – Notifications


		Sorry, there was no activity found. Please try a different filter.        




Friends Online

 – Friends Online

My friends
                            
            No friends are online!
                            
        
        
			













