Banks Throw Tantrum Over Federal Lawsuit, Walk Out Of Foreclosure Fraud Settlement Talks | ThinkProgress











TRENDING:
JobsRick PerryIncomeElection 2012Labor






 


ThinkProgress - Economy

Economy


Economy
Green
Health
Justice
LGBT
Security


Alyssa
Joe Romm
Yglesias






 Social Security Is Keeping 14 Million Seniors Out Of Poverty


 Scott Brown Tries To Claim He's A Wall Street Reformer


 REPORT: As Their States Crumble, GOP Leaders Oppose Infrastructure Spending



NEWS FLASH
Banks Throw Tantrum Over Federal Lawsuit, Walk Out Of Foreclosure Fraud Settlement Talks |   
 Last week, the Federal Housing Finance Agency sued 17 major banks, alleging that the banks committed fraud by misleading investors (including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) during the buildup of the housing bubble. As CAP Senior Fellow Peter Swire noted yesterday, bankers have responded by whining that they shouldn’t have to pay for even provable fraud. And that’s not the only temper tantrum that the banks have thrown. As Time’s Massimo Calabresi reported, the nation’s five biggest mortgage servicers also “cancelled a planned negotiating session with representatives of the 50 State Attorneys General in apparent protest over a federal regulator filing suit against them.” The 50 AG’s have been negotiating with the banks over a settlement stemming from the foreclosure fraud scandal that broke several months ago. (Via Naked Capitalism)

Tags:

BanksForeclosures 

  Previous in TP Economy  Next in TP Economy  
By Pat Garofalo  on Sep 9, 2011 at 5:20 pm













()





By clicking and submitting a comment I acknowledge the ThinkProgress Privacy Policy and agree to the ThinkProgress Terms of Use.  I understand that my comments are also being governed by Facebook's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 




Get ThinkProgress email alerts


 




 






Top Posts on Facebook

With Record Number Of Americans Falling Into Poverty, Rand Paul Says The Poor Are Getting Rich
Cantor Voted For Billions To Rebuild Schools In Iraq, Now Opposes Funding School Construction In America
REPORT: As Their States’ Bridges And Roads Crumble, GOP Leaders Remain Opposed To Infrastructure Investment
GOP Rep. Brooks Claims ‘Evicting All Illegal Aliens’ Would Create ‘Millions Of Jobs For Americans’
While McConnell Opposes Infrastructure Investment, Major Kentucky Bridge Shuts Down Over Safety Concerns


 

Economy Editor's Tweets


» Follow @TPEconomy tweets




Get the daily Progress Report







Got a Hot Tip?
Have a hot news tip? We'd love to hear from you. Use the form below to send us the latest.

Name: 
Email: 
Tip: (required)


 
TP Economy Archives
September 2011


S
M
T
W
T
F
S




« Aug
 
 




    123456789101112131415161718192021222324252627282930  



About Think Progress |
Contact Us |
Donate










 

About Think Progress | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy (off-site) | RSS | Donate | Mobile
© 2005-2011 Center for American Progress Action Fund

 











