Japanese minister leaves over nuclear crisis gaffe


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising








Japanese minister leaves over nuclear crisis gaffe




TOKYO (AP) — Japan’s trade minister resigned Saturday after just eight days in office and apologized repeatedly for calling the evacuated area around a stricken nuclear power plant “a town of death.”

Yoshio Hachiro announced his departure at a news conference late Saturday night and apologized multiple times. People affected by the March 11 disasters, political opponents and even members of the ruling Democrats had strongly criticized his remark.
He told reporters he was just trying to convey the seriousness of the situation when he made the remark Thursday on a visit with other government ministers to the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant.
His departure is a major embarrassment for Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda, who took office and installed a new Cabinet on Sept. 2 amid hopes a new government could better tackle recovery efforts from the disasters.
After the tsunami struck the nuclear plant, three of its six reactors melted down, releasing massive amounts of radiation that have tainted the surrounding environment. About 80,000 people were forced to evacuate and may not be able to return for years because of radiation dangers.
While the earthquake and tsunami left about 21,000 people dead and missing along Japan’s northeast coast, no deaths have been blamed on radiation.
The Democrats’ policy committee chief, Seiji Maehara, told reporters earlier Saturday it will be important for Hachiro “to clearly explain today what his intentions really were,” according to Kyodo.

No related posts.
	Tags: committee chief, eight days, fukushima, government ministers, japanese minister, kyodo, late saturday night, massive amounts, new cabinet, noda, nuclear crisis, nuclear plant, nuclear power plant, policy committee, political opponents, radiation dangers, recovery efforts, seiji maehara, trade minister, yoshio
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 10 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News




Comment























Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


earthquake
barack obama
ecofriendly
climate change
mother earth
prnewswire
saving energy
recycled materials
clothes
global warning
lifestyle
organic cotton
environment
Eco-friendly
christmas
pr newswire
consumers
richter scale
eco
tropical storm lee
green
money
epicenter
global warming
reuters
Recycling
earth
hurricane irene
national hurricane center
carbon footprint
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress






Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




