Texas wildfire partly tamed; up to 22 people unaccounted for  |  News Global TV







News Global TV
World Breaking News, Politics, World News, Exclusives, Interviews





Top Stories
Explore
Timeline
Contact
 
Find Us Online:


  






Business
Entertainment
Health
Mobile
Money
Politics
Social Media
Sport
Startups
Tech
Video
Weather
World
 










About the Post



Author Information
Posted by: NewsGlobal TV
Amerinews TV is part of News Global network focusing on providing quality news, articles, roundups, politics and interviews. News Global posts daily updates in America Breaking News, Politics, World News, Exclusives, Interviews. The News Global network is focused on creating a portal to Professionals in all the fields, granting all access to news worldwide.




Post Information
Posted on: September 11, 2011
Posted in: America
Comments: 115200 Commentshttp%3A%2F%2Famerinews.tv%2Fblog%2F2011%2F09%2F11%2Ftexas-wildfire-partly-tamed-up-to-22-people-unaccounted-for%2FTexas+wildfire+partly+tamed%3B+up+to+22+people+unaccounted+for2011-09-12+01%3A45%3A30http%3A%2F%2Famerinews.tv%2Fblog%2F2011%2F09%2F11%2Ftexas-wildfire-partly-tamed-up-to-22-people-unaccounted-for%2F



Share The Post
Please use the following buttons below to share the post that you are reading with the popular aggregators:


   







Texas wildfire partly tamed; up to 22 people unaccounted for


Tweet
Tweet

By Jim Forsyth

SAN ANTONIO |
Sun Sep 11, 2011 6:27pm EDT


SAN ANTONIO (Reuters) – As many as 22 people who were ordered to evacuate by one of the worst brush fires in Texas history remained unaccounted for on Sunday, authorities said, even as firefighters appeared to be gaining the upper hand over the blaze.

The names of the 22 were posted in the Bastrop Community Center on Sunday alongside the now 49-page-long list of the 1,554 homes that have been destroyed in the so-called Bastrop Complex Fire — the worst, in terms of property loss, in state history. The fire has now consumed 34,000 acres.

Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering cautioned that the list only reflected people whose whereabouts were unknown — and as the day progressed, officials said “some” of the missing had been found.

The others, Pickering said, “have not checked into a shelter. They could be on vacation. They could be with friends. If you know them, please have them contact us so we can be sure they are safe and sound.”

Stepped-up efforts to battle the massive brush fires burning across Texas, including the arrival of 2,000 firefighters and dozens of helicopters and aerial tankers, have helped push back the flames in many places, including Bastrop, authorities said on Sunday.

“Starting Monday morning, more people will be allowed to re-enter their homes or their property,” Pickering said to loud applause on Sunday at the community center, which has become a gathering place for the 5,000 people forced from their homes.

The fire is now more than 50 percent contained and Bill Paxton of the Texas Forest Service said he expects the containment numbers to grow over the coming two days.

“Today has been very productive,” he said. “We are making a lot of progress.”

The winds that whipped up the fires last week have died down, providing a boost to firefighters, Paxton said.

“The forward progression of the Bastrop Complex fire has stopped,” he said. “But now we’re doing house to house firefighting, and the dead grass between these homes continues to provide fuel for these fires.”

Paxton said the other major fire burning in Texas, the Riley Road Fire northwest of Houston, is also 50 percent contained. But he warned that fire, which has destroyed 59 homes, is still aggressively moving toward populated areas.

State emergency officials are now turning their efforts to helping the people affected by the fires, which have destroyed nearly 2,000 homes in Texas just in the past week.

Many people who live in the area affected by the Bastrop fire said they were becoming increasingly frustrated that they are not being allowed back into their homes.

“I know exactly where my street is. I can tell you that my house is gone. OK, move on. But I can’t do that,” said Monica Taylor, who found her address on the list of destroyed homes which is updated daily at the community center.

Governor Rick Perry’s office announced Sunday that $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund is being distributed to people who have lost homes to provide one-week hotel vouchers.

The declaration of Bastrop County as a federal disaster area on Friday will make victims eligible for a wide range of other programs. Perry said the declaration should be extended statewide, pointing out that 140 separate fires have erupted across Texas just in the past seven days, consuming 154,000 acres.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency has extended fire suppression grants, which help local fire departments pay for the costs of fighting the brush fires, to 55 Texas counties.

The root problem is a year-long drought. More than 80 percent of Texas is listed as experiencing “exceptional drought,” the most severe category, in the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s U.S. Drought Monitor.

Paxton said the grass was already dead and trees were dying, describing the moisture content of Texas grass today at what he called an “unheard of” 2 percent.

“We have another day or so to get a handle on these fires, because on Tuesday we’re expecting the winds to pick up,” he said. “What we really need is rain. But right now, there is no relief in sight.”

(Editing by James B. Kelleher and David Bailey)

Source: Reuters: U.S. 
Tags: latest, news, top, us, usa


← Washington state wildfire fight turns toward mop up
Boston police find "suspicious" truck, no threat →







No comments yet.
 

Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.




Name  (Required) 



Mail (will not be published)  (Required) 



Website
















CAPTCHA Code *


















Popular Latest Comments Tags 




 Euro zone pledges new steps on Greece, but no action
July 12, 2011



 Judge blocks Alabama immigration law to buy time
August 29, 2011



 Florida couple on trial after pet python kills child
July 11, 2011



 Wisconsin voters go to polls Tuesday in first recall election
July 18, 2011



 Cisco to cut workforce by 15 percent, sell factory to Hon Hai
July 19, 2011





 Walter De Gregorio appointed as new Director of Communications & Public Affairs
September 14, 2011



 Cuba blames failed Richardson trip on his actions
September 14, 2011



 U.S. delays sensitive topics in Trans-Pacific talks
September 14, 2011



 Joplin tornado death toll rises to 162
September 14, 2011



 Casey Anthony dad says Caylee died of drug overdose
September 14, 2011






Brittanicus: ILLEGAL ALIENS CAN RUN, BUT THEY CANNOT HIDE! 
 
O...




Brittanicus:  
 
Rep. Smith said Congress has two options to st...




kukkumol: Never loose conifidence, were confidence wake up y...




Montana: You know what this current crowd of GOP liars want...




Bo Toichi: Barbara Liston learn how to write an article. ...




10
30
amazon
apple
bribery
business
Chuck Blazer
day
entertainment
facebook
facts
fascinating
fifa
Film
france
health
Jack Warner
latest
lawsuit
less
ltest
mac app
MARKETING
mark zuckerberg
media
memorial
minutes
movie
muppets
news
Obama
paul-ceglia
politics
president
smal
sport
sports
startups
the-fuzzy-pack
top
trailer
us
usa
video
world 


 Twitter Stream

Follow @newsglobaltv on Twitter










© 2011 News Global TV. All Rights Reserved.


 Powered by News Global TV. Developed by  Pros Global 













