House of Japan - Japan News Technology Autos Culture Life Style



































Japan News Auto Technology Culture Travel Cuisine . All you need to know about Japan !












Home   






Auto Moto   






High-Tech   








Electronics   






Robots   






Aeronautics   









News   








Local   






World   









Culture   








Architecture   






Gardens   






Cuisine   






Festivals   






Geisha   






Samurai   






Sumo   






Wedding   









Life Style   








Art   






Fashion   






Movies   






Music   






Sport   






Travel   









Forum   






Contact   


























Game pensioners arcades bonus
Amusement arcades, once the preserve of the younger generation, are looking to pensioners to boost t...
 



Frankfurt 11 2012 Toyota Avensis
The new Toyota Avensis makes its world debut at the 2011 Frankfurt motor show, a substantially revis...
 



Panasonic robot Hawaii triathlon
Panasonic Corp. said Thursday three humanoid robots powered by its Evolta batteries will stage a tri...
 



Toshiba Thrive The Best Tablet
If you were wondering which is the best tablet out there , then the answer you are loooking for is s...
 



Frankfurt 11 Toyota FT-86 II
Originally unveiled at the 2009 Tokyo Motor Show , now we have another great opportunity to see the ...
 



Tokyo Game Show opens
One of the world's largest trade exhibitions for the video game industry opened Thursday in Chiba Pr...
 



Frankfurt 11 2013 Lexus GS 450h
With a five vehicle hybrid line-up, Lexus reinforces its commitment to hybrid technology with the al...
 



Sony new Dash Alarm Clocks
Sony introduced today two new Dash Alarm Clocks models featuring convenient access to news, alarms, ...
 



Lexus LF-Gh New York 2011
The Lexus LF-Gh hybrid concept will make its global debut at the 2011 New York International Auto Sh...
 



Frankfurt 11 Toyota Prius Plugin
Since 1997, Toyota has sold more than 3.3 million full hybrid vehicles worldwide. This represents mo...
 



Nintendo Misty Pink 3DS
Nintendo released a new color 3DS console for every female players out there . With this move , Nint...
 



Frankfurt 11 Suzuki Swift Sport
The sporty, exciting new Swift Sport is the highlight of the Suzuki line up at the 64th Internationa...
 


Previous
Next

























Latest Updates



Game developer Square Enix Co. has announced it will release [ ... ]Read more
Major sports events scheduled in Japan for Sunday, Aug. 21:BASEBALL
Central [ ... ]Read more
Nikon Corporation is pleased to announce the release of the [ ... ]Read more+ VIDEO
Anyone who has struggled in vain to see something on [ ... ]Read more
Sony announced today that its PS3 7.1 headphones will arrrive [ ... ]Read more
Massive volcanic explosions that started 270,000 years ago created Mount [ ... ]Read more











Tokyo










Japan Airlines








Popular




Exam cheat stud. admits [ … ]



Kan hangs by a thread



Toyota enters minicar [ … ]



Mochi Ice Cream Recipe



Kasutera (Castella) Recipe



Shiretoko heritage site



Japanese Real Robot [ … ]



Mineko Iwasaki



Honda Civic 2012 comes in [ … ]



Japan 3D Hologram Concert



Yamaha XJR1300 2011



Sony Vaio VPCZ13Z9E/X



Seiko Watches



Toyota Camry 2011



TEPCO apologizes in [ … ]



Sega Toylet Games



Toyota proposes bike lanes









Who's Online

We have 638 guests online






Todays Poll

What is your favourite car brand ?





Honda




Toyota




Mitsubishi




Mazda




Nissan




Subaru




Infiniti




Acura




Lexus





Results


















Frankfurt 11 2012 Toyota AvensisThe new Toyota Avensis makes its world debut at the 2011 Frankfurt motor show, a substantially revised model that builds on the spaciousness, practicality and fuel efficiency of the current, third-generation [ … ]Read More+ VIDEOFrankfurt 11 Toyota FT-86 IIOriginally unveiled at the 2009 Tokyo Motor Show , now we have another great opportunity to see the Toyota FT-86 II in a new and beautiful form at Frankfurt 2011 Auto Show.
Read MoreFrankfurt 11 2013 Lexus GS 450hWith a five vehicle hybrid line-up, Lexus reinforces its commitment to hybrid technology with the all-new 2013 GS 450h. When it was introduced for the 2007 model year, the GS 450h was the first hybrid-powered [ … ]Read MoreFrankfurt 11 Toyota Prius PluginSince 1997, Toyota has sold more than 3.3 million full hybrid vehicles worldwide. This represents more than 80 per cent of all global hybrid sales, and gives the company an unquestionable lead [ … ]Read MoreFrankfurt 11 Suzuki Swift SportThe sporty, exciting new Swift Sport is the highlight of the Suzuki line up at the 64th International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt.
 The Swift Sport is the performance flagship of [ … ]Read MoreFrankfurt 11 2013 Mazda CX-5Mazda is unveiling the all-new Mazda CX-5 compact crossover SUV at this year’s Frankfurt Motor Show. The CX-5 is the first vehicle of a new Mazda generation that will adopt the full range of Mazda’s breakthrough [ … ]Read MoreUpdate Acura NSX rumorHonda announced in 2008 that a next-generation NSX would arrive with a pavement-punishing V10 nestled under the hood of a far more contemporary shape.
Since then , rumors have persisted that the NSX was still under [ … ]Read MoreFrankfurt 11 2012 Honda InsightThe refreshed Honda Insight is launched at the 2011 Frankfurt Motor show. The Insight is now even more environmentally friendly producing just 96 g/km* of CO2. The Insight also receives a new exterior [ … ]Read More











Game pensioners [ … ]
Panasonic robot [ … ]
Tokyo Game Show [ … ]










Amusement arcades, once the preserve of the younger generation, are looking to pensioners to boost their flagging popularity.
According to the Japan Amusement Industry Association, the spread of game consoles and Japan's aging population have hit arcades hard, with more than one in five arcades closing between 2004 and 2009.
Read More 



Panasonic Corp. said Thursday three humanoid robots powered by its Evolta batteries will stage a triathlon race on a Hawaiian island next month.
In the race which will start on Oct. 24 Japan time, Panasonic aims at enabling the robots to complete the 230-kilometer triathlon within a week from Oct. 24 by repeatedly charging their batteries.
Read More+ VIDEO 



One of the world's largest trade exhibitions for the video game industry opened Thursday in Chiba Prefecture, featuring hands-on demonstrations of a new portable console from Sony Corp. and an increased number of titles for smartphones utilizing social networking.
Read More 





















Taiwan gets [ … ]
N. Korean [ … ]
Rad waste [ … ]










A male and female Japanese crane pair has been donated to Taiwan from a city in Hokkaido, the pair arriving at Taiwan Tuoyuan International Airport on Sept. 14.
Read More 



A bus carrying North Korean defectors enters an immigration facility in Omura, Nagasaki Prefecture, on Sept. 14, 2011.
Read More 



A shipment of high-level radioactive vitrified waste from Britain arrived Thursday morning in Japan for the first time since the March nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, drawing strong protest from local citizens.
Read More 





















Indy Japan has [ … ]
Nashida leaves [ … ]
Cerezo edge CL [ … ]










Japanese driver Takuma Sato believes this weekend's Indy Japan — the last time the IndyCar series will race in his native country — will be more than a farewell race.
Read More 



Nippon Ham Fighters manager Masataka Nashida on Thursday announced his plans to resign at the end of this season.
''I decided at the beginning of the season that this would be my last year,'' Nashida told a press conference before the Fighters' game against the Lotte Marines at Tokyo Dome.
Read More 



A late winner from midfielder Hiroshi Kiyotake gave Cerezo Osaka a 4-3 win over South Korea's Jeonbuk Motors in the first leg of their Asian Champions League quarter final on Wednesday.
Read More 





















Nepal festival [ … ]
A visit to [ … ]
Foreigners at [ … ]










Nepal Festival 2011 will be held in Tokyo’s Yoyogi Park from 10 a.m. until 8 p.m. on Saturday Sept 17 and Sunday Sept 18.
Read More 



Massive volcanic explosions that started 270,000 years ago created Mount Aso, whose top later sank to leave a massive caldera basin that has attracted visitors since the dawn of history to the present day.
Read More 



Given that Spain boasts 43 sites with UNESCO World Heritage Status, second only to Italy's 47, it stands to reason that tourists from that country are very demanding.
Read More 





















Banquet chef [ … ]
Seasoned rice [ … ]
Euglena ramen










What could be more cooling in summer than the sweet flavor of watermelon? Even the sight of one seems to offer just the teeniest hint of relief from the sweltering heat. There is, after all, something so pleasing about the simple shape of this fruit.
Read More 



Japanese cooking expert Tatsuo Saito suggests seasoned rice as a great way to enjoy the fall delicacy of sweet potato.
"The dish tastes good while the sweet potato is still crispy or after it has softened," he says.
Read More 



Life is bound to be a little different if you happen to live near Japan's most prestigious university. Take, for example, ramen noodles.
Most of us like them flavored with soy sauce and a thin slice of naruto fishcake or maybe with miso and a pat of butter.
Read More 
















Soft Teddy Bear RobotA research group at Tokyo Institute of Technology has developed a teddy bear robot with soft arms and legs.
"When children touch robots, as toys they should feel soft to the touch. However, [ … ]Read More+ VIDEOHandroid Robot HandJapan-based company ITK developed the so called 'Handroid' , a new model that seems to be one of the most advanced robot hands in the world .
Read More+ VIDEOZMP RoboCar MEV-CZMP has rolled out yet another robot car: this time, it’s the RoboCar MEV-C, based on COMS, a vehicle Toyota started developing back in 2000. Just as COMS, the MEV-C is a single-person, 4-wheeled electric [ … ]Read MoreRobot creator pushes himselfWith the roar of the motor, the bipedal humanoid robot kneeled and lay on its stomach to transform into a vehicle mode.
With its wheeled shoulders and knees, the robot moved up a slope leading to [ … ]Read More
















Language Selector

           





NHK WORLD TV LIVE






Japan Radio Live






Play Pac Man






Japan Profile






Japan Live Cameras






Latest News



 9 N.Korean ref transf to Nagasaki    Nine North Korean refugees found in a small boat off the coast of Ishikawa Prefecture have been granted special permission to enter Japan.
[ ... ] Read More 


 Frankfurt 11 Suzuki Swift Sport    The sporty, exciting new Swift Sport is the highlight of the Suzuki line up at the 64th International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt.
 The Swift Sport is the performance flagship of [ ... ] Read More 


 Forest fallen leaves found cesium    As much as 50 percent to 90 percent of radioactive cesium on the ground in forested areas as a result of the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant accident is [ ... ] Read More 
























© Copyright 2011 House of Japan  . All Rights Reserved .                                        



