 March 2010 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Cleaning up the dirt
POSTED BY Elaine on Mar 31 under Appliances, Eco-friendly, Recycling
Cleaning around the house can be a very tiresome job. It takes a lot of time and effort to really get in at those hard to reach areas. For many there is not greater cleaning device than the trusty vacuum cleaner. Its strong, sturdy and sucks up all the dirt in a record time so [...]


Comments Off



Crafty Things To Do This Spring Time
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 31 under Eco-Fashion
Instead of buying new dresses or accessories for the spring, why not sift through your old piles of clothes, get crafty and repair or restyle this. You don’t necessarily have to be a master at sewing. You just have to know what look you want to create. Add a few beads here and there to [...]


Comments Off



Starkbucks’ Shared Planet
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 30 under Eco Business
I love Starbucks Coffee and I love it even more when they make it a conscious effort to help the Earth, by encouraging its customers to observe a green lifestyle. The company has recently launched its Shared Planet program, which essentially means that Starbucks is committed to bringing green living practices into actual realities. This [...]


Comments Off



Creative Decorating Ways to Turn an Old Plate into a Wall Decor
POSTED BY Rokai on Mar 30 under Eco-friendly, Recycling
With a little creativity, old plates can be recycled into attractive wall decors by: using a plate hanger, mounting on wall as decor, vandalizing the plates with creative quotes, converting it into a wall clock, transforming broken plates into mosaic crafts, and utilizing as wall border. Old plates don’t have to be thrown away or [...]


17 Comments



Easter tips
POSTED BY Elaine on Mar 29 under Eco Toys, Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
Easter is just around the corner, a time for the Easter bunny to visit kids, a time for families to take pause and remember their beliefs, and simply just a time to gather around as a family. Even though it seems to be all about the chocolate and gifts baskets, that doesn’t mean you cant [...]


Comments Off



Eco Toys on The Rise
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 29 under Eco Toys
Thanks to increased awareness, education and information, green toys are slowly rising in popularity. This is according to a Bloomberg report that says there is a growing market for this product, especially after we’ve heard of so many recalls and warnings on lead-tainted toys for children. Stores such as Walmart, who is very well-known for [...]


Comments Off



Go For A Green Travel Destination
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 29 under Eco-friendly
I’m sure you’re planning your travel plans now that summer is a few months away. Make the most of green-living by looking into green destinations to enjoy a satisfying and fulfilling summer. First, make sure that accommodations support green initiatives. Look for hotels, resorts of camps that meet the green standard guidelines. You can check [...]


Comments Off



Jean Paul Gaultier Partners With Melissa for Eco-Chic Shoe Line
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 26 under Eco-Fashion
Jean Paul Gaultier, a fashion icon, has teamed up with shoe brand, Melissa, to come up with an eco-chic shoe line for the Brazilian footwear. The shoe collection will be launched this spring and will come in lovely spring colors like caramel, tangerine, lime and beige, as well as classic black. The style will carry [...]


Comments Off



Gisele Bundchen Launches Sejaa Eco-Friendly Beauty Line
POSTED BY Lira on Mar 26 under Organic
Supermodel and new mother, Gisele Bundchen, has launched her own cosmetics line last March 15th. The beauty products are all eco-friendly and chemical free. It’s called the “Sejaa Pure Skincare” line. Even the packaging for it is made from recycled materials. The Brazilian born actress is no stranger to using eco-friendly products. She is a [...]


Comments Off



Living green and saving money
POSTED BY Elaine on Mar 25 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Organic, Pollution, Recycling
One of the complains people who make the change to a greener lifestyle complain about is prices. It seems that saving the environment comes with a cost, however that is not always the case, there are a variety of things we can do to save money while living green at the same time. Here are [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


Recycling
environment
consumers
ecofriendly
earthquake
christmas
green
epicenter
pr newswire
richter scale
global warning
mother earth
organic cotton
recycled materials
earth
lifestyle
prnewswire
tropical storm lee
clothes
reuters
carbon footprint
eco
global warming
climate change
national hurricane center
hurricane irene
saving energy
barack obama
Eco-friendly
money
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterwood deckseco calendarPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




