Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Texas drought”
        
                                



Baptists Minister to Those Affected by Texas Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  2:17 AM





In this Sept. 8, 2011 photo, firefighter Jim Rogers, of Harris County, Texas, sits on his bunk after a day of fighting a wildfire near Bastrop, Texas. As the Texas wildfire season drags on, Texas firefighters are feeling the strain. (AP Photo/LM Otero)Dan Franklin couldn't even smell the scent of smoke Friday that entailed the destruction of about 1,500 homes, the burning of about 34,000 acres and the loss of two lives. The volunteer chaplain with the Texas Baptist chaplaincy office nevertheless witnessed the personal toll of the Texas fires in Bastrop County north of Austin.


            Continue reading Baptists Minister to Those Affected by Texas Wildfires .
        





Kids in Fire-Ravaged Texas Town Leave Hotels, Return to School


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  5:31 PM





Wildfire evacuees David Gabrile, left, and his wife, MaryAnn Gabrile, react after learning they will not be allowed to return to their home during meeting at Waller High School for evacuated Waller County residents Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011, in Waller, Texas. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Melissa Phillip)Paying attention in class may never have been so hard for children who started school Monday after the most-destructive wildfire in Texas history left hundreds of their families homeless and many with little more than the clothes on their backs.


            Continue reading Kids in Fire-Ravaged Texas Town Leave Hotels, Return to School.
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:18 PM





Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. (Erech Schlegal/AP Photo)In the last 48 hours, 852 homes have been consumed in the flames of Texas wildfires as dozens of blazes continue to sear the drought-plagued state, according to the Texas Forest Service.


            Continue reading 852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires .
        





Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:39 AM





A fire rages near Highway 71 east of Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011. A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)Shannon Lilie had five minutes to flee her home, but she was frozen.


            Continue reading Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" .
        





More Than 30 Homes Destroyed in Texas Wildfire 


    
                By UCN on September  1, 2011  7:28 AM





The charred burned out home in The Cliffs development is all the remains, Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2011 near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas. (AP Photo/The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Ron Jenkins)Kathy Lanpher was showing a property to a client when she heard the improbable, gut-wrenching news: A wildfire like the one that destroyed her home four months ago was threatening the nearby subdivision where she had relocated.


            Continue reading More Than 30 Homes Destroyed in Texas Wildfire .
        





Prayers Answered: Texas Finally Gets Some Rain 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011  8:21 AM





Xavier Swain, 11, holds his hands in the air during a downpour Thursday in Odessa, Texas. The official rain total from the National Weather Service at nearby Midland International Airport reported .36 inches of rain, the most since September 25, 2010. (Albert Cesare  /  The Odessa American via AP)A little rain still better than none


            Continue reading Prayers Answered: Texas Finally Gets Some Rain .
        





Scientists Say Texas Was Once Joined to Antarctica 


    
                By UCN on August  9, 2011  3:14 PM





The Franklin Mountains in West Texas were once part of Coats Land in Antarctica, according to Staci Loewy, a geochemist at California State University.Texas may be suffering through a 100-plus degree heat wave, but long ago, the weather must have been surprisingly different. 


            Continue reading Scientists Say Texas Was Once Joined to Antarctica .
        





Tropical Storm Don Fizzles 


    
                By UCN on July 30, 2011  2:17 AM





The storm known as Don fizzled to a tropical depression, failing to quench the thirst of parched Texas counties.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Don Fizzles .
        





                                    1
                                










 




New York City Plans Launch of Bicycle-Sharing Program 


NBA Lockout Continues 


Dodgers Owner Reach Temporary Spousal Support Deal 


Djokovic, Nadal Prepare to Lead Countries in Davis Cup 


New Mega-rocket Design Unveiled by NASA 


Study: Rise in Sea Levels to Hit California Beaches Hard 


Crystal Cathedral Bankruptcy Plan Will Proceed 


Some Churches Doing Away With Sunday School to Embrace Family-Integrated Congregations 




 


















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










