UPI NewsTrack TopNews - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







China's arms buildup
•
Expanded sanctions on Syria
•
Milky Way created by cosmic crashes
•
Palin and Glen Rice?








			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ UPI NewsTrack TopNews 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

U.S. News



UPI NewsTrack TopNews

        		Published: Sept. 7, 2011 at 12:05 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Advertisement

Giant Texas wildfire destroys 700 homes
BASTROP, Texas, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Deadly wildfire raged across parts of drought-stricken Texas Wednesday, having scorched nearly 120,000 acres in the last seven days, officials said.
The Texas Forest Service said on its Web site Wednesday at least 700 homes were destroyed in the past 48 hours and that 251 of the 254 Texas counties reported burn bans.
"I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous," Gov. Rick Perry said.
The largest fire, near Austin, burned across 33,000 acres, killed two people and forced at least 5,000 people to flee, CNN reported.
The Bastrop County Complex fire was about 30 percent contained early Wednesday.
"We ain't happy about it, but we're all alive," said Jerry Hooten of Bastrop, who found his home in ashes and now is living at an RV park outside the danger zone. "Things can be replaced."
The two deaths raise the overall toll from the outbreak of fires to four, officials said.
Firefighters working the Bastrop fire focused on trying to save as many structures as possible, KVUE-TV, Austin, said.

Toxic dump site threatened by flooding
BRIDGEWATER, N.J., Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Flooding triggered by Hurricane Irene has created a problem for one of the most toxic chemical dump sites in the United States, officials in New Jersey say.
A 400-acre Superfund site in Bridgewater, N.J. remains under 13 feet of water raising serious safety concerns, The (Newark, N.J.) Star-Ledger reported Wednesday. 
The first indication of a problem surfaced last week when balls of tar were spotted beyond the protective barriers enclosing the site.
The tar balls contain benzene, a highly carcinogenic substance, according to Pfizer, which acquired the site two years ago and has been helping to clean it up.
Pfizer spokesman Rick Chambers said only a small amount was found just beyond the barriers.
The Environmental Protection Agency has tested the water upriver and downriver for benzene and is expected to disclose updated test results within days, EPA spokesman Elias Rodriguez said.
"If you breathe in a little bit of benzene, it's not going to kill you," said Jeff Tittel of the New Jersey Sierra Club. He said the effects are more likely to be indirect, posing a danger to fish and wildlife. 
"The chemicals that get out will accumulate in the fish, and we eat the fish," Tittel said.
The Bridgewater site is the former home of the American Cyanamid Co.

$40M in Social Security paid to deceased
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- An audit of U.S. Social Security Administration records estimates the agency has paid out more than $40 million to people who are deceased.
CNNMoney.com said the Social Security Office of the Inspector General's estimate is based on a sample tested during a 2008 audit.
Family members or funeral directors usually notify the Social Security Administration of a person's date of death and the information is posted onto the agency's Death Master File, which is a database containing 87 million death records, the report said.
Failure to report the death of family member and continuing to receive payments could result in fraud charges.
In thousands of cases, however, the agency received notice of the recipients death and continued to make erroneous payments. The OIG estimates one in every 200 deaths is entered incorrectly in the Death Master File. Nearly 2,000 deceased beneficiaries were found to have received benefits after the agency was notified of their deaths.

Second convoy headed to Niger capital
NIAMEY, Niger, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Moammar Gadhafi's security chief is among several former Libyan officials who have arrived in the capital of Niger, officials in Niamey confirmed.
A second convoy said to be carrying dozens of heavily armed Gadhafi loyalists as well as cash and gold has entered Niger and is headed to the capital, the BBC reported Wednesday.
Niger officials said Gadhafi is not believed to be traveling with the convoy.
The United States has called on Niger to arrest senior pro-Gadhafi figures, the New York Times reported.
"We have strongly urged the Nigeran officials to detain those members of the regime who may be subject to prosecution," State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said.
Nuland said they have also been asked to confiscate any weapons that are found and impound state property of the government of Libya, such as money and jewels.
The whereabouts of Gadhafi remain a mystery.

Ice hockey team members die in plane crash
YAROSLAVL, Russia, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- An airplane carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team crashed during takeoff near Yaroslavl, Russia, Wednesday, killing 36 people, officials said.
The Yak-42 aircraft was flying the team to Minsk, the capital of Belarus, for the start of the new Kontinental Hockey League season, RIA Novosti reported. 
ITAR-Tass reported the plane went down and caught fire shortly after taking off near Yaroslavl, about 160 miles northeast of Moscow. The squad was scheduled to play against Mink HC Dinamo Thursday.
The Yak-42 had 37 people on board, aviation officials said. "Passenger body parts were found in the Volga River, where part of the fuselage fell," a police official told RIA Novosti.
The squad includes players from the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Sweden, ITAR-Tass reported.
The team won the Russian championship in 1997, 2002 and 2003 and placed third in the KHL last year.
Russia's Investigative Committee and the Interstate Aviation Committee both began investigations into the crash. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


Boy investigated for grenade launcher
NOVATO, Calif., Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			Police said they were investigating a 15-year-old California boy after a car he was driving was found to contain a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.
		
China cracks down on 'gutter oil'
Man to be sentenced in sons' disappearance
Search for Utah mom leads to remains
Gunman dies in Ark. courthouse shooting


Entertainment News


Salahi leaves hubby for Journey guitarist
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- 
			"Real Housewives of D.C." cast member Michaele Salahi is in Memphis with Neal Schon, the lead guitarist for Journey, the band's publicist said.
		
Rachel Reilly wins 'Big Brother 13'
Murphy crowned 'Talent' winner
'Big Brother' renewed for 14th season
People in the news




Business News


EADS EFW picks U.S. cargo system
WOOD DALE, Ill., Sept. 15 (UPI) -- 
			EADS EFW of Germany has selected Illinois' AAR to manufacture main deck cargo loading systems for its Airbus A300-600 and A310-300 freighter conversion program.
		
ATI helping with interagency op centers
BAE enters Aussie supply chain agreement
Auto talks inconclusive at deadline
UPI NewsTrack Business


Local News

Top Chef: Just Dessert Recap- Pure Imagination
Campaign to Cut Waste in Action: $2 Billion Saved
Guest Editorial: C-2-B Zone District is Appropriate for the Colonel Brooks' Site
1972 Renovated Techbuilt in Garrett Park $884K
Rex Grossman still thinks the Redskins will win the NFC East






 


UPI News Photos

U.S. Embassy attacked in Kabul



Social Media Scandals



Tea Party Republican Debate



9/11 Memorial opens in New York



Egyptians raid Israeli Embassy in Cairo





Most Popular



1.
Conjoined twins successfully separated


2.
Chocolate bar tops out at 12,000 lbs.


3.
Larger women more apt to have sex on date


4.
Woman refuses abortion for conjoined twins


5.
Man sues White Castle for bigger chairs





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 29
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Scientists tread carefully through a seemingly endless landscape of ice, sea, and meltwater in the Canada Basin of the Arctic on July 22, 2005. The blanket of ice coating Earth's northernmost seas was thin and ragged in July, setting a record low for sea ice extent for the month. Sea ice stretched across only 3.06 million square miles whereas the long-term July average is 3.9 million. Scientist note that this breakup of ice is a result of global warming.  Photo made from the  U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Healy.   UPI/Jeremy Potter/NOAA		













 





Bodies hanging from bridge in Mexico are warning to social media users, "This is going to happen...

Group says mainstream Muslims are violent and Mohammed was a "cult leader". Is the group: a) a Tea...

Hey, let's all play a game of cowboys and decomposing corpses

Drivin' around town blaring music at 9:40 in the morning when your fifteen-year-old self should...

Photoshop Theme: Reinventing the wheel

The pinnacle of things on a stick technology has been reached with the introduction of liquor on...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















