Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes | Info for Students




Info for Students


Info for Students




 




 





 Recent Posts 
Solyndra: Blame It On Bush, Say Obama Officials
‘Mover and shaker’ – The Pueblo Chieftain: Local
Family celebrates anniversary of conjoined twins’ separation
Enough of this green energy fairy tale!
Rare blue whale sighted on Maine whale watching tour
LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian Sneak a Date Night at Fashion Week
Solyndra be darned, Dept. of Energy awards $145M in solar grants – Boston Business Journal
South Florida Classical Review  » Blog Archive   » Seraphic Fire’s Brahms debuts at No. 5 on iTunes
Trying Not to Lose Sleep or Jokes Over a Baby
Vita Food Products Recalls Sliced Smoked Salmon
Why You Should Wash A Melon Before Chowing Down
NFL-Indy out to shed ‘Naptown’ image with Super Bowl
Ball Four in Beijing
Doctors at Le Bonheur separate conjoined twins
The Stage / Reviews / Siamese Twins

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsamp
barack obama
cnn
crowd
daily mail
dallas cowboys
direction south
earth
e mail
espn
facebook
flickr
followers
franchise
game
games
getty images
google
hollywood
investors
ipad
iphone
job
lady gaga
launch
match
mdash
money
nasdaq
nbsp
nnamdi asomugha
no doubt
nyse
parents
photos
quot
relationships
release source
reuters
rsquo
shia labeouf
target
twitter
weather
wind direction
 



 

Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes

Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of awind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched CentralTexas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wakeand causing thousands of people to flee. As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry was faced with thedecision to leave the state and participate in a GOP presidentialdebate or stay home and command operations to fight thedisaster. At least two people have died in the wildfire, which destroyednearly 800 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and aroundthe city of Bastrop, near Austin. The Texas Forest Service said Wednesday that blaze had consumed785 homes, making it the most catastrophic of the fires that haveerupted in the past week across Texas. One of the most devastatingwildfire outbreaks in state history has caused four deaths andpulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit. But Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald also sounded anoptimistic tone, saying firefighters had a "good night" and that nonew structures were lost overnight in the battle to contain the33,000-acre blaze about 25 miles east of Austin. Containmentremained at 30 percent. The forest service said it responded to a total of 19 new firesWednesday totaling 1,490 acres across the state, bringing the countover the past week to more than 170 fires consuming more than130,000 acres. Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to NewYork following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans inthe aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting inBastrop. The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped indebris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also havehuman remains canines that would scent on deceased persons oranimals," McKee said. Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in byTropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over theweekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said thelighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts. "Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry andthe relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to takeadvantage of lower winds," Saginor said. Bastrop residents weren't all appeased by reports that the firehad been somewhat contained. Paul St. Louis, who left behind goats,pigs and roosters when he evacuated his home on Sunday, lashed outat state and local officials and said federal emergency managementofficials should have been brought in sooner. St. Louis said he was frustrated by a lack of information andthat he hadn't seen an updated fire map that would tell him if hishome was still standing. A map posted outside the fire responseheadquarters Wednesday morning was last updated at 2 p.m.Tuesday. "It seems there was no plan to deal with a catastrophe," hesaid. "I have animals to feed. You can't get back there. You'restranded. No one will tell us anything. All they say is `I don'tknow.'" McKee said the task force members would be producing updatedmaps, but that their role had yet to be defined. "The purpose of deploying Texas Task Force 1 is to support thecommunity of Bastrop," he said. "Once we get there today and get into the local area, thenthey'll decide where we can be best used," McKee said. Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolinato deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened areanear Bastrop. The governor has yet to decide whether he will attendthe Republican presidential debate in California Wednesdaynight. The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistancewith the wildfires but complained that red tape was keepingavailable bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's FortHood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own3,700-acre blaze. White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administrationhas approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latestwildfires. About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crewsfrom as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tankerplanes, some from the federal government, and three aircraftcapable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time alsohelped. The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, oneof the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire inBastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in morethan a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in NorthTexas in April. At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, includinga 7,000-acre blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes andthreatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in CaldwellCounty, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' CassCounty, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. About 40 people who fled their homes in a Bastrop neighborhoodwere staying at a community center in the town of Paige. Avolunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleepingoutside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and usingtoiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires. "The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "Wedidn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons.People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response hasbeen unreal." ___ Associated Press writers Michael Graczyk in Houston; JamieStengle, Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon inDallas; Betsy Blaney in Lubbock; Will Weissert in Austin; PaulWeber in San Antonio; and AP photographer Eric Gay in Bastropcontributed to this report.


 












            © 2011 
                Info for Students            







