 February 2009 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Unleashing the Power of the Ocean
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 27 under Alternative Energy, Conservation, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Pollution
  Voith Hydro and RWE Innogy have formed a joint venture, known as  Voith Hydro Ocean Current Technologies and both partners will accelerate the development, manufacture and marketing of ocean current technologies. Voith Hydro has been active for many years in the research and the development of the emissions-free power generation from the oceans. Dr. Hubert [...]


Comments Off



Bees Needs
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 27 under Eco Business, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly
  Over the last three winters, more than one in three honey bee colonies in the United States have mysteriously died and scientists still have not been able to pinpoint the exact reason for the demise. The phenomenon has been dubbed “Colony Collapse Disorder.”  Some reasons scientists say they are struggling to put a cause to [...]


Comments Off



Petra Solar Introduces SunWave Pole-Mounted Solar Systems
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 26 under Alternative Energy, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Solar Power
  Have you seen these?  Petra Solar, Inc., the leading provider of innovative photovoltaic solutions for utilities, just announced the SunWave Solar AC System, which is the only grid interactive pole-mounted solar system for installation on utility and streetlight poles. The SunWave Solar AC Systems mount on utility poles and connect to the grid secondary [...]


Comments Off



Compressible Storage Can Make Homes Better Organized and Clutter Free
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 26 under Eco Business, Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste
  Anything that promises better organization and convenient storage without bulky plastic and waste has to be good – especially when 43 percent of consumers who responded to a recent survey said that the biggest challenge to improving their home’s organization was lack of space.  ITW Space Bag, manufacturer of the original Space Bag vacuum-seal storage bags, [...]


2 Comments



Chicago Plants Seeds of Olympic Hope
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 25 under Conservation, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
  In an effort to snag the hosting duties of the 2016 Olympic Games, Chicago is getting a little greener. So far, the Windy City has 3 million square feet of green rooftops throughout the city, wind, hydro-power and bio-fuels provide one-fifth of its energy, and last year Mayor Richard Daley pledged to slash greenhouse-gas [...]


Comments Off



Volkswagen Zero Emissions Vehicles to Participate in Fuel Cell Demonstrations in Sacramento
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 25 under Alternative Energy, Eco Business, Eco Friendly Events, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Transportation
Volkswagen recently announced that 16 Passat Lingyu prototype vehicles will participate in fleet demonstrations at the California Fuel Cell Partnership in Sacramento, California. Volkswagen worked with scientists to create these fuel cell vehicles which are based on one of China’s best-selling Volkswagen platforms. The Passat Lingyu is capable of traveling at highway speeds up to [...]


2 Comments



How to Buy Green Gifts
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 24 under Eco-friendly, Organic, Recycling
  These days, going green is something we’re all aware of and gift giving is no exception – giving gifts of the green variety is a great opportunity to help others and show how much you care about that someone special in your life, as well as the environment. Here are just a few ideas [...]


Comments Off



Electric Motorcycles Now Eligible for 10% Federal Tax Credit
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 24 under Alternative Energy, Eco Business, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Transportation
  Electric motorcycle manufacturer Zero Motorcycles recently announced the company’s upcoming line of street legal electric motorcycles will be eligible for the 10% Federal tax credit for plug-in vehicles. Neal Saiki, inventor and founder of Zero Motorcycles: “Tax credits for electric motorcycles are not only an effective way to create jobs, but they are also [...]


1 Comment



Going Green in the Home Office
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 23 under Eco Business, Eco-friendly
  We all know that having a home based business can help save money and also help the environment by decreasing carbon emissions from commuting, but there are other things we can do to save even more money and make an even bigger impact on the environment from our home offices.  These days, telecommuting has become [...]


3 Comments



Jackie Christie Will Debut New Eco Friendly Clothing Line
POSTED BY Tina on Feb 23 under Eco Business, Eco-Fashion, Eco-friendly, Eco-Friendly Careers
  NBA star Doug Christie’s wife, Jackie Christie, who is a multi-talented fashion designer, author and model, is set to release her new clothing line, ‘Colored Girl’, on May 9, 2009,  as well as a third book, “Proud to Be a Colored Girl.” Jackie’s line will launch with eco friendly 100% organic cotton t-shirts and accessories, [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


prnewswire
green
global warming
earth
national hurricane center
christmas
Recycling
carbon footprint
earthquake
organic cotton
pr newswire
mother earth
tropical storm lee
clothes
global warning
hurricane irene
richter scale
reuters
saving energy
environment
recycled materials
climate change
ecofriendly
eco
money
lifestyle
epicenter
consumers
Eco-friendly
barack obama
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking watereco calendarchangePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




